The present study examined the role of dopamine and D(1)-and D(2)-like dopamine receptors in ventrolateral orbital cortex (VLO)-evoked anti-hypersensitivity in a rat model of neuropathic pain, as well as the possible underlying mechanisms. Results showed that microinjection of apomorphine [(R(-)-apomorphine hydrochloride)], a non-selective dopamine receptor agonist, into the VLO attenuated spared nerve injury (SNI)-induced mechanical allodynia in a dose-dependent manner. This effect was completely blocked by the D(2)-like dopamine receptor antagonist S(-)-raclopride(+)-tartrate salt (1.5 microg), but was enhanced by the D(1)-like dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 (R(+)-SCH-23390 hydrochloride, 5.0 microg). The attenuating effect of apomorphine on mechanical allodynia was mimicked by application of the D(2)-like dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole [((-)-quinpirole hydrochloride, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 microg)]. In addition, microinjection of larger doses (10 and 20 microg) of SCH23390 into the VLO significantly attenuated allodynia. Furthermore, microinjections of GABA(A) receptor antagonists, bicuculline [(+)-bicuculline,(S), 9(R)] and picrotoxin (200 and 300 ng for both drugs), into the VLO attenuated mechanical allodynia. A small dose of bicuculline or picrotoxin (100 ng) resulted in increased quinpirole (0.5 microg)-induced anti-allodynia. In contrast, GABA(A) receptor agonists, muscimol hydrochloride (250 ng) or THIP [(2,5,6,7-retrahydroisoxazolo(5,4-c)pyridine-3-ol hydrochloride, 1.0 microg)], blocked quinpirole (2.0 microg)-induced attenuation. These results suggest that the dopaminergic system is involved in mediating VLO-induced anti-hypersensitivity, activation of D(2)-like dopamine receptors, and inhibition of D(1)-like receptors resulting in anti-hypersensitivity. In addition, the mechanisms of GABAergic disinhibition might be involved in D(2)-like receptor mediating effects in neuropathic pain.
The globus pallidus sends a significant GABAergic projection to the thalamic reticular nucleus. Because pallidal neurons express D4-dopamine receptors, we have explored their presence on pallidoreticular terminals by studying the effect of dopamine and D4-receptor agonists on the GABAergic transmission in the thalamic reticular nucleus. We made whole-cell recordings of inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in the thalamic reticular neurons. Dopamine consistently reduced the IPSCs. The effect of dopamine was associated with paired-pulse facilitation, indicating a presynaptic location of the receptors. The effect of dopamine was also measured on the mIPSCs, reducing their frequency but not affecting their amplitude, which also suggests a presynaptic site of action. The selective D4-receptor agonist PD 168,077 also reduced the IPSCs, which was also associated with paired-pulse facilitation. In addition, this agonist reduced the frequency of the mIPSCs with no effect on their amplitude. The D4-receptor antagonist L-745,870 totally blocked the effect of the D4-receptor agonist, indicating the specificity of its effect. To verify the location of the receptors on the pallidal terminals, these were eliminated by injecting kainic acid into the globus pallidus. Kainic acid produced a drastic (80%) fall in the globus pallidus neuronal population. In this condition, the effect of the activation of D4 receptors both on the IPSCs and mIPSCs was prevented, thus indicating that the location of the receptors was on the pallidal terminals. Our results demonstrate that dopamine controls the activity of the thalamic reticular neurons by regulating the inhibitory input from the globus pallidus.
If, as is widely believed, schizophrenia is characterized by abnormalities of brain functional connectivity, then it seems reasonable to expect that different subtypes of schizophrenia could be discriminated in the same way. However, evidence for differences in functional connectivity between the subtypes of schizophrenia is largely lacking and, where it exists, it could be accounted for by clinical differences between the patients (e.g. medication) or by the limitations of the measures used. In this study, we measured EEG functional connectivity in unmedicated male patients diagnosed with either positive or negative syndrome schizophrenia and compared them with age and sex matched healthy controls. Using new methodology (Medkour et al., 2009) based on partial coherence, brain connectivity plots were constructed for positive and negative syndrome patients and controls. Reliable differences in the pattern of functional connectivity were found with both syndromes showing not only an absence of some of the connections that were seen in controls but also the presence of connections that the controls did not show. Comparing connectivity graphs using the Hamming distance, the negative-syndrome patients were found to be more distant from the controls than were the positive syndrome patients. Bootstrap distributions of these distances were created which showed a significant difference in the mean distances that was consistent with the observation that negative-syndrome diagnosis is associated with a more severe form of schizophrenia. We conclude that schizophrenia is characterized by widespread changes in functional connectivity with negative syndrome patients showing a more extreme pattern of abnormality than positive syndrome patients.
Glutamate neurotransmission is highly regulated, largely by glutamate transporters. In the spinal cord, the glutamate transporter GLT-1 is primarily responsible for glutamate clearance. Downregulation of GLT-1 can occur in activated astrocytes, and is associated with increased extracellular glutamate and neuroexcitation. Among other conditions, astrocyte activation occurs following repeated opioids and in models of chronic pain. If GLT-1 downregulation occurs in these states, GLT-1 could be a pharmacological target for improving opioid efficacy and controlling chronic pain. The present studies explored whether daily intrathecal treatment of rats with ceftriaxone, a beta-lactam antibiotic that upregulates GLT-1 expression, could prevent development of hyperalgesia and allodynia following repeated morphine, reverse pain arising from central or peripheral neuropathy, and reduce glial activation in these models. Ceftriaxone pre-treatment attenuated the development of hyperalgesia and allodynia in response to repeated morphine, and prevented associated astrocyte activation. In a model of multiple sclerosis (experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis; EAE), ceftriaxone reversed tactile allodynia and halted the progression of motor weakness and paralysis. Similarly, ceftriaxone reversed tactile allodynia induced by chronic constriction nerve injury (CCI). EAE and CCI each significantly reduced the expression of membrane-bound, dimerized GLT-1 protein in lumbar spinal cord, an effect normalized by ceftriaxone. Lastly, ceftriaxone normalized CCI- and EAE-induced astrocyte activation in lumbar spinal cord. Together, these data indicate that increasing spinal GLT-1 expression attenuates opioid-induced paradoxical pain, alleviates neuropathic pain, and suppresses associated glial activation. GLT-1 therefore may be a therapeutic target that could improve available treatment options for patients with chronic pain.
The definite physiological role of the cellular prion protein (PrP(c)) remains elusive. There is ample in vitro and in vivo evidence suggesting a neuroprotective role for PrP(c). On the other hand, several in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated detrimental effects of PrP(c) overexpression through activation of a p53 pathway. Recently, we reported that transient overexpression of PrP(c) in human embryonic kidney 293 cells elicits proteome expression changes which point to deregulation of proteins involved in energy metabolism and cellular homeostasis. Here we report proteome expression changes following stable PrP(c) overexpression in human neuronal SH-SY5Y cells. In total 18 proteins that are involved in diverse biological processes were identified as differentially regulated. The majority of these proteins is involved in cell signaling, cytoskeletal organization and protein folding. Annexin V exhibited a several fold up-regulation following stable PrP(c) overexpression in SH-SY5Y cells. This finding has been reproduced in alternative, mouse N2a and human SK-N-LO neuroblastoma cell lines transiently overexpressing PrP(c). Annexin V plays an important role in maintenance of calcium homeostasis which when disturbed can activate a p53-dependent cell death. Although we did not detect changes in p53 expression between PrP(c) overexpressing SH-SY5Y and control cells, deregulation of several proteins including annexin V, polyglutamine tract-binding protein-1, spermine synthase and transgelin 2 indicates disrupted cellular equilibrium. We conclude that stable PrP(c) overexpression in SH-SY5Y cells is sufficient to perturb cellular balance but insufficient to affect p53 expression.
The habenula complex is implicated in a range of cognitive, emotional and reproductive behaviors, and recently this epithalamic structure was suggested to be a component of the brain's circadian system. Circadian timekeeping is driven in cells by the cyclical activity of core clock genes and proteins such as per2/PER2. There are currently no reports of rhythmic clock gene/protein expression in the habenula and therefore the question of whether this structure has an intrinsic molecular clock remains unresolved. Here, using videomicroscopy imaging and photon-counting of a PER2::luciferase (LUC) fusion protein together with multiunit electrophysiological recordings, we tested the endogenous circadian properties of the mouse habenula in vitro. We show that a circadian oscillator is localized primarily to the medial portion of the lateral habenula. Rhythms in PER2:: LUC bioluminescence here are visualized in single cells and oscillations continue in the presence of the sodium channel blocker, tetrodotoxin, indicating that individual cells have intrinsic timekeeping properties. Ependymal cells lining the dorsal third ventricle also express circadian oscillations of PER2. These findings establish that neurons and non-neuronal cells in the epithalamus express rhythms in cellular and molecular activities, indicating a role for circadian oscillators in the temporal regulation of habenula controlled processes and behavior.
Exposure to cannabis impairs cognitive functions reliant on the circuitry of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and increases the risk of schizophrenia. The actions of cannabis are mediated via the brain cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R), which in rodents is heavily localized to the axon terminals of cortical GABA basket neurons that contain cholecystokinin (CCK). Differences in the laminar distribution of CB1R-immunoreactive (IR) axons have been reported between rodent and monkey neocortex, suggesting that the cell type(s) containing CB1Rs, and the synaptic targets of CB1R-IR axon terminals, may differ across species; however, neither the relationship of CB1Rs to CCK-containing interneurons, nor the postsynaptic targets of CB1R and CCK axon terminals, have been examined in primate DLPFC. Consequently, we compared the distribution patterns of CB1R- and CCK-IR structures, determined the proportions of CB1R and CCK neurons that were dual-labeled, and identified the synaptic types and postsynaptic targets of CB1R- and CCK-IR axon terminals in macaque monkey DLPFC. By light microscopy, CB1R- and CCK-IR axons exhibited a similar laminar distribution, with their greatest densities in layer 4. Dual-label fluorescence experiments demonstrated that 91% of CB1R-IR neurons were immunopositive for CCK, whereas only 51% of CCK-IR neurons were immunopositive for CB1R. By electron microscopy, all synapses formed by CB1R-IR axon terminals were symmetric, whereas CCK-IR axon terminals formed both symmetric (88%) and asymmetric (12%) synapses. The primary postsynaptic target of both CB1R- and CCK-IR axon terminals forming symmetric synapses was dendritic shafts (81-88%), with the remainder targeting cell bodies or dendritic spines. Thus, despite species differences in laminar distribution, CB1Rs are principally localized to CCK basket neuron axons in both rodent neocortex and monkey DLPFC. These axons target the perisomatic region of pyramidal neurons, providing a potential anatomical substrate for the impaired function of the DLPFC associated with cannabis use and schizophrenia.
Tinnitus is an auditory disorder characterized by perception of internally generated phantom auditory sensations without corresponding mechanical stimuli arising from the body or external environment. Current auditory based treatment approaches, sometimes in conjunction with nonauditory based strategies, such as Tinnitus Retraining Therapy and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, have been helpful in mitigating symptoms for the majority of patients. Yet there are over 1 million tinnitus sufferers who still endure troublesome chronic, continuous head noises that are debilitating and interfere with activities of daily living. Here we show that application of deep brain stimulation (DBS) therapy to a locus of caudate neurons (area LC) in the body of the nucleus, a subsite of the striatum that is not part of the classical auditory pathway, can decrease or increase tinnitus loudness perception. The DBS lead traversed through or was adjacent to area LC in six Parkinson's disease and essential tremor subjects with concomitant tinnitus who underwent implantation of the subthalamic or ventral intermediate nucleus. In five subjects where the DBS lead tip traversed area LC, tinnitus loudness in both ears was suppressed to a nadir of level 2 or lower on a 0-10 rating scale. In one subject where the DBS lead was outside area LC, tinnitus was not modulated. In three subjects with preoperative and postoperative audiograms, hearing thresholds were unchanged by area LC stimulation. Neuromodulation of area LC may be interrupting perceptual integration of phantom sensations generated in the central auditory system. This new, basal ganglia based approach to tinnitus modulation warrants further investigation and may be ultimately refined to treat patients with refractory symptoms.
Short-term pharmacological melanocortin activation deters diet-induced obesity (DIO) effectively in rodents. However, whether central pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) gene transfer targeted to the hypothalamus or hindbrain nucleus of the solitary track (NTS) can combat chronic dietary obesity has not been investigated. Four-weeks-old Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a high fat diet for 5 months, and then injected with either the POMC or control vector into the hypothalamus or NTS, and body weight and food intake recorded for 68 days. Insulin sensitivity, glucose metabolism and adrenal indicators of central sympathetic activation were measured, and voluntary wheel running (WR) assessed. Whereas the NTS POMC-treatment decreased cumulative food consumption and caused a sustained weight reduction over 68 days, the hypothalamic POMC-treatment did not alter cumulative food intake and produced weight loss only in the first 25 days. At death, only the NTS-POMC rats had a significant decrease in fat mass. They also displayed enhanced glucose tolerance, lowered fasting insulin and increased QUICK value, and elevated adrenal indicators of central sympathetic activation. Moreover, the NTS-POMC animals exhibited a near 20% increase in distance ran relative to the respective controls, but the ARC-POMC rats did not. In conclusion, POMC gene transfer to the NTS caused modest anorexia, persistent weight loss, improved insulin sensitivity, and increased propensity for WR in DIO rats. These metabolic improvements may involve stimulation of energy expenditure via centrally regulated sympathetic outflow. The similar POMC treatment in the hypothalamus had minimal long-term physiological or metabolic impact. Thus, melanocortin activation in the brainstem NTS region effectively ameliorates chronic dietary obesity whilst that in the hypothalamus fails to do so.


Gelsolin is the most widely expressed member of the actin capping and severing family of proteins. There are two isoforms of gelsolin: isoform 1, a secretory (plasma) protein that is 51 amino acids longer than isoform 2, a cytosolic protein, at the N-terminus; the first 27 amino acids is a signal sequence. Both isoforms are coded by a single gene and differ as a result of alternative initiation site/splicing. The level of gelsolin in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is altered in many diseases including amyloidoses and other neurodegenerative disorders. Although quantitative analysis of gelsolin has been reported, lack of suitable antibodies makes it impossible to differentiate these two isoforms by immunodetection techniques and no other technique is available. Therefore, ambiguity exists whether gelsolin present in circulation is isoform 1 or also isoform 2 released from lysed cells. We report in this communication a mass spectrometric approach to identify isoform 1 of gelsolin immunopurified from human plasma and CSF. Recombinant isoform 1 was used as reference.
During binocular rivalry, perception alternates between dichoptically presented incompatible images. With larger images, such perceptual alternations will typically start locally and then gradually spread across the image, known as traveling waves of perceptual dominance. Several image-features (such as local contrast) are known to determine where in the image a traveling wave originates. Here we investigate whether orientation contrast in the suppressed image affects these spatial origin(s) of perceptual alternations. The results show that the origins are increasingly biased towards locations of increasing orientation contrast in the suppressed image. This increase in bias is related to the efficiency of visual search for the orientation contrast, tested offline: we find large biases towards orientation contrast when visual search for it is efficient, and small biases when search for it is inefficient. Our results imply that rivalry suppression is not homogenous across the suppressed image, but is dependent on local image-features in the suppressed image. The relation between spatial bias and visual search performance suggests that spatial origins of perceptual alternations are biased to salient locations in the suppressed image. Moreover, the finding that saliency affects the spatial origin of a perceptual alternation is in agreement with the idea that saliency is represented at a monocular, unconscious level of visual processing.

Inflammation is involved in the pathology of Parkinson's disease, a disorder characterised by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. This study demonstrates that conditioned medium (CM) from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated rat glial-enriched cortical cultures induced death of embryonic rat dopaminergic neurons in vitro, an effect which was additive to the toxicity of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the CM may mediate this neuronal death. IL-1R1 was found to be expressed on dopaminergic neurons. Blockade of IL-1R1 prevented CM-induced dopaminergic neuronal death. This study suggests that IL-1 in CM from LPS-stimulated glia contributes to dopaminergic neuronal death induced by glia-conditioned medium.
The present study tested whether aging sensitizes hippocampal microglia to a pro-inflammatory challenge ex vivo. Hippocampal microglia from 3 and 24 mo old male F344 x BN F1 rats were exposed to LPS (0, 0.1, 1, 10 and 100 ng/ml) ex vivo. 2 h post-LPS challenge, gene expression of microglial activation markers and cytokines were assessed. 24 mo old animals exhibited a potentiated pro-inflammatory cytokine (IL-1 and IL-6) response to LPS and increased levels of CD11b, Iba-1 and MHCII irrespective of LPS treatment. The present results demonstrate that aging sensitizes hippocampal microglia to pro-inflammatory challenges.


Dopamine release associated with motivational arousal is thought to drive goal-directed learning and consolidation of acquired memories. This dopamine hypothesis of learning and motivation directly suggests that dopamine is necessary for modifications of excitatory synapses in dopamine terminal fields, including the prefrontal cortex (PFC), to &quot;stamp in&quot; posttrial memory traces. It is unknown how such enabling occurs in native circuits tightly controlled by GABAergic inhibitory tone. Here we report that dopamine, via both D1-class receptors (D1Rs) and D2-class receptors (D2Rs), enables the induction of spike timing-dependent long-term potentiation (t-LTP) in layer V PFC pyramidal neurons over a &quot;window&quot; of more than 30 ms that is otherwise closed under intact inhibitory constraint. Dopamine acts at D2Rs in local GABAergic interneurons to suppress inhibitory transmission, gating the induction of t-LTP. Moreover, dopamine activates postsynaptic D1Rs in excitatory synapses to allow t-LTP induction at a substantially extended, normally ineffective, timing interval (+30 ms), thus increasing the associability of prepost coincident stimuli. Although the D2R-mediated disinhibition alone is sufficient to gate t-LTP at a normal timing (+10 ms), t-LTP at +30 ms requires concurrent activation of both D1Rs and D2Rs. Our results illustrate a previously unrecognized circuit-level mechanism by which dopamine receptors in separate microcircuits cooperate to drive Hebbian synaptic plasticity across a significant temporal window under intact inhibition. This mechanism should be important in functioning of interconnected PFC microcircuits, in which D1Rs and D2Rs are not colocalized but their coactivation is necessary.
Psychological factors, including depression and social isolation, are important determinants of cardiovascular health. The current study uses a well-validated mouse model of cardiac arrest/cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CA/CPR) to examine the effect of social environment on several pathophysiological and behavioral responses to cerebral ischemia. Male experimental mice were either housed in pairs with an ovariectomized female or socially isolated for the duration of the experiment. Cardiac arrest increased the mRNA expression of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-, IL-1, and IL-6, as well as the microglia marker MAC-1; expression of each of these factors, except IL-6, was further increased among socially isolated mice. Furthermore, socially isolated animals exposed to the CA/CPR procedure displayed significantly higher levels of neuronal cell death and microglia staining within the hippocampus at 7 d following surgery. Social isolation also exacerbated CA/CPR-induced depressive-like behavior and cardiac autonomic dysregulation. In the absence of ischemic damage, social environment had no significant effect on the expression of neuronal cell death, autonomic cardiac control, or behavior. Together, these data suggest that social factors influence the pathophysiological trajectory following cardiac arrest.
We and others have previously reported that lactoferrin (LF), which acts as both an iron-binding protein and an inflammatory modulator, is strongly up-regulated in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have also studied the expression and localization of LF mRNA in the brain cortices of patients with AD. In this study, we investigated immunohistochemically the localization of LF in the brains of APP-transgenic mice, representing a model of AD. No LF immunoreactivity was detected in the brains of the wild-type mice. In the transgenic AD mice, LF deposition was detected in the brains. Double-immunofluorescence staining with antibodies directed against the amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) and LF localized the LF depositions to amyloid deposits (senile plaques) and regions of amyloid angiopathy. Senile plaque formation precedes LF deposition in AD. In the transgenic mice aged &lt;18 months, most of senile plaques were negative for LF. LF deposits appeared weakly at about 18 months of age in these mice. Both the intensity and number of LF-positive depositions in the transgenic mice increased with age. Double-staining for LF and thioflavin-S revealed that LF accumulated in thioflavin-S-positive, fibrillar-type senile plaques. The up-regulation of LF in the brains of both AD patients and the transgenic mouse model of AD provides evidence of an important role for LF in AD-affected brain tissues.
In this experiment, we examined the extent to which postural control is influenced by visual and cognitive task performance. Fourteen healthy young participants performed a balance task in eyes-open (EO) and delayed visual feedback (DVF) conditions. DVF was presented at delays ranging from 0 to 1200ms in 300ms increments. Cognitive load was implemented by a simple, serial arithmetic task. High and low-pass filtering (f(c)=0.3Hz) distinguished LOW and HIGH frequency components, which were used to compute the variability of Anteroposterior (AP) Center of Pressure (COP) trajectories on fast (&gt;0.3Hz) and slow (&lt;0.3Hz) times cales. Imposed visual delay increased sway variability at both LOW and HIGH components. Cognitive task performance, however, influenced only the variability of fast (HIGH) sway components. Our results support distinct timescale mechanisms for postural control, but also demonstrate that vision predominantly influences low frequency components of postural sway. Moment-to-moment COP fluctuations are dependent on cognitive performance during delayed visual feedback postural control.
The Code Analysis Repository &amp; Modelling for E-Neuroscience (CARMEN) project aims to enable broad sharing of resources, through the provision of a secure, online environment for storage and curation of data, analysis code and experimental protocols, together with the ability to execute data analysis. While the CARMEN system is initially focused on electrophysiology data, it is equally applicable to many domains outside neuroscience. Metadata are essential for a system such as CARMEN that has the potential to store thousands of data collections and analysis codes; without metadata, resource discovery, interpretation, evaluation and re-use would be severely impeded. Therefore, when any resource (data, service or workflow) is added to the system, users must provide adequate descriptions. These descriptions form a metadata repository that is searchable to allow users to find any kind of resource held in the system, assuming that the user has appropriate access rights. This paper discusses and explores the project's approach to implementing such a metadata repository that meets both system requirements and user expectations. Initial approaches were refined after user evaluations, and a more practical approach was followed that better aligned with the aims of the users and the project as a whole.
Our visual experience is initiated when the visual pigment in our retinal photoreceptors absorbs photons of light energy and initiates a cascade of intracellular events that lead to closure of cyclic-nucleotide-gated channels in the cell membrane. The resulting change in membrane potential leads in turn to reductions in the amount of neurotransmitter release from both rod and cone synaptic terminals. To measure how the light-evoked change in photoreceptor membrane potential leads to downstream activity in the retina, scientists have made electrophysiological recordings from retinal slice preparations for decades. In the past these slices have been cut manually with a razor blade on retinal tissue that is attached to filter paper; in recent years another method of slicing has been developed whereby retinal tissue is embedded in low gelling temperature agar and sliced in cool solution with a vibrating microtome. This preparation produces retinal slices with less surface damage and very robust light-evoked responses. Here we document how this procedure can be done under infrared light to avoid bleaching the visual pigment.
Idiopathic epilepsies (IEs) are a group of disorders characterized by recurrent seizures in the absence of detectable brain lesions or metabolic abnormalities. IEs include common disorders with a complex mode of inheritance and rare Mendelian traits suggesting the occurrence of several alleles with variable penetrance. We previously described a large family with a recessive form of idiopathic epilepsy, named familial infantile myoclonic epilepsy (FIME), and mapped the disease locus on chromosome 16p13.3 by linkage analysis. In the present study, we found that two compound heterozygous missense mutations (D147H and A509V) in TBC1D24, a gene of unknown function, are responsible for FIME. In situ hybridization analysis revealed that Tbc1d24 is mainly expressed at the level of the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus. By coimmunoprecipitation assay we found that TBC1D24 binds ARF6, a Ras-related family of small GTPases regulating exo-endocytosis dynamics. The main recognized function of ARF6 in the nervous system is the regulation of dendritic branching, spine formation, and axonal extension. TBC1D24 overexpression resulted in a significant increase in neurite length and arborization and the FIME mutations significantly reverted this phenotype. In this study we identified a gene mutation involved in autosomal-recessive idiopathic epilepsy, unveiled the involvement of ARF6-dependent molecular pathway in brain hyperexcitability and seizures, and confirmed the emerging role of subtle cytoarchitectural alterations in the etiology of this group of common epileptic disorders.
Among the brain structures involved in processing affective stimuli, the roles of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic (DA) innervation are well established. In contrast to our understanding of the reward stimuli, less is known about how strong somatic stimulation is processed within the PFC. Here, we examined the effects of a strong pinch delivered to the rat posterior paw on spontaneous and current-evoked activity of PFC neurons using intracellular recordings in anesthetized rats. Following the paw pinch, pyramidal cells exhibited a significant decrease in spontaneous activity along with a significant increase in the current-evoked firing. The increase in current-evoked firing elicited by the paw pinch was inversely correlated with the baseline firing rate. Systemic administration of a selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist partially blocked the effects elicited by the paw pinch on cortical excitability, whereas systemic administration of a D1 antagonist seems to facilitate paw-mediated increases in evoked firing. These results suggest that strong somatic stimuli decrease spontaneous firing while increasing depolarization-evoked firing in a DA receptor dependent manner. These mechanisms may help in the control of the signal to noise ratio or the salience of information processing in the PFC following strong somatic stimulation.
In the brain, estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) plays important roles in autonomic functions, stress reactivity and learning and memory processes. However, understanding the function of ERbeta has been restricted by the limited availability of specific antisera, by difficulties discriminating the discrete localization of ERbeta-immunoreactivity (ir) at the light microscopic level in many brain regions and the identification of ERbeta-containing neurons in neurophysiological and molecular studies. Here, we demonstrate that a Esr2 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mouse line that expresses ERbeta identified by enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) overcomes these shortcomings. Throughout the brain, ERbeta-EGFP was detected in the nuclei and cytoplasm of cells, the majority of which resembled neurons. EGFP often extended into dendritic processes and could be identified either natively or following intensification of EGFP using immunolabeling. The distribution of ERbeta-EGFP cells in brain closely corresponded to that reported for ERbeta protein and mRNA. In particular, ERbeta-EGFP cells were found in autonomic brain regions (i.e., hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, rostral ventrolateral medulla and nucleus of the solitary tract), in regions associated with anxiety and stress behaviors (i.e., bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, periaqueductal gray, raphe and parabrachial nuclei) and in regions involved in learning and memory processes (i.e., basal forebrain, cerebral cortex and hippocampus). Additionally, dual label light and electron microscopic studies in select brain areas demonstrate that cell containing ERbeta-EGFP colocalize with both nuclear and extranuclear ERbeta-immunoreactivity. These findings support the utility of Esr2 BAC transgenic reporter mice for future studies understanding the role of ERbeta in CNS function.
Ignoring and selecting relevant faces has a strong impact in everyday life. We often perform tasks where faces may be considered irrelevant (e.g. having a drink in a crowded bar) or tasks where we need to filter out all but one face (e.g. searching for a friend in a crowd). The present study was designed to test Biased Competition (BC) as a suitable model for selection in the context of face processing, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Pairs of similar or dissimilar faces were presented simultaneously, and subjects had to attend to one face (target face) or ignore both faces. According to the BC model, faces simultaneously presented compete for representation. Spatial attention biases these competitive interactions towards neural processing of the target face only. We compared fMRI signal changes related to the processing of dissimilar or similar faces in the attend-to-face and ignore-faces task. In the ignore condition we expected that similar faces would compete more than dissimilar faces as similar features (faces) are supposed to be encoded by the same population of neurons resulting in a lower fMRI signal change in face selective areas. The BC model also predicts an enhancement of the fMRI signal change for attend-to-face vs. ignore-faces condition, regardless of the degree of the similarity between the two faces. Both hypotheses were confirmed by the data, indicating BC as a possible selection mechanism within the fusiform face area (FFA) and occipital face area (OFA) for face stimuli.
Adaptive behaviour requires that organisms continuously monitor the environment for potentially significant information and evaluate whether currently unattended stimuli afford a behavioural change. Here we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to assess the neural mechanisms underlying the evaluation of and rapid behavioural adjustments to salient stimuli occurring outside the current focus of (feature) attention. While subjects performed a task-switching paradigm in which they had to respond to either the colour or the shape of visual stimuli, occasionally deviant stimuli were presented that differed from the remaining stimuli with respect to the currently unattended feature. By systematically varying the frequency and the behavioural relevance of these perceptual deviations, we obtained a context-sensitive modulation of neural activity in a frontoparietal network including the posterior orbitofrontal cortex, the anterior cingulate cortex and the temporoparietal junction area, which may underlie a specific role in the adaptive guidance of behaviour in a changing environment. Together these brain regions may ensure that the relevance of a sudden environmental change is rapidly evaluated and implemented in appropriate action selection.
Unraveling the mechanistic details of neurotransmitter exocytosis is arguably among the most important molecular problems in neuroscience today. Investigations at single cells, particularly with electrochemical methods, have given unique chemical and biological insight into this process at the fundamental level. The rapid response time (submillisecond) of microelectrodes makes them well suited for monitoring the dynamic process of exocytosis. We review here recent developments in electrochemical techniques to spatially and simultaneously detect exocytosis across a single cell and to measure the transmitter content of single vesicles removed from cells. The former method is used to demonstrate dynamic heterogeneity in release across a cell, and in the latter work comparison is made between vesicle content and release to conclude that only a fraction of the transmitter is released during full exocytosis.
Electrophysiological dysfunction of Purkinje cells causes cerebellar ataxia. Recent studies indicated that 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) can prevent the attacks in patients with episodic ataxia type 2. However, the cellular mechanism(s) by which 4-AP might be beneficial for the improvement of motor function remain unclear. Here, electrophysiological and behavioural consequences of in vivo co-treatment with 4-AP against 3-acetylpyridine (3-AP)-induced ataxia in rats were assessed. Combined treatment with 4-AP partially improved motor behaviour compared to the ataxic rats. Treatment with 3-AP alone induced plastic alterations in the cells' intrinsic properties, so that the latency of the initial neural spike was significantly increased (Pb 0.001); however, both instantaneous firing frequency and amplitude of calcium spikes were significantly (Pb 0.001) suppressed. 3-AP treatment also resulted in significant decrease in the duration of action potential (Pb 0.05) and the amplitude of afterhyperpolarization ((Pb 0.05) as well as post-stimulus hyperpolarization potentials (Pb 0.001). Purkinje cells in rats co-treated with 4-AP, however, fired predominantly in rhythmic bursts. The mean amplitude of Ca2+ spikes was significantly (Pb 0.001) greater compared to ataxic rats, but similar to control value. As evidenced by a significant decrease (Pb 0.001) in the first spike latency, the cells' intrinsic excitability was also increased. In 4-AP co-treated group, the duration of action potential was also significantly lengthened (Pb 0.001) compared to control and 3-AP group. These results suggest that modulation of intrinsic electrical properties and potentiation of Ca2+ channels function caused by in vivo 4-AP treatment is likely to be partly responsible for its neuroprotective action.
The predominant pathway for phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P(2)) synthesis is thought to be phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate at the 5 position of the inositol ring by type I phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinases (PIPK): PIPKIalpha, PIPKIbeta, and PIPKIgamma. PIPKIgamma has been shown to play a role in PI(4,5)P(2) synthesis in brain, and the absence of PIPKIgamma is incompatible with postnatal life. Conversely, mice lacking PIPKIalpha or PIPKIbeta (isoforms are referred to according to the nomenclature of human PIPKIs) live to adulthood, although functional effects in specific cell types are observed. To determine the contribution of PIPKIalpha and PIPKIbeta to PI(4,5)P(2) synthesis in brain, we investigated the impact of disrupting multiple PIPKI genes. Our results show that a single allele of PIPKIgamma, in the absence of both PIPKIalpha and PIPKIbeta, can support life to adulthood. In addition, PIPKIalpha alone, but not PIPKIbeta alone, can support prenatal development, indicating an essential and partially overlapping function of PIPKIalpha and PIPKIgamma during embryogenesis. This is consistent with early embryonic expression of PIPKIalpha and PIPKIgamma but not of PIPKIbeta. PIPKIbeta expression in brain correlates with neuronal differentiation. The absence of PIPKIbeta does not impact embryonic development in the PIPKIgamma knock-out (KO) background but worsens the early postnatal phenotype of the PIPKIgamma KO (death occurs within minutes rather than hours). Analysis of PIP(2) in brain reveals that only the absence of PIPKIgamma significantly impacts its levels. Collectively, our results provide new evidence for the dominant importance of PIPKIgamma in mammals and imply that PIPKIalpha and PIPKIbeta function in the generation of specific PI(4,5)P(2) pools that, at least in brain, do not have a major impact on overall PI(4,5)P(2) levels.
Ferlins are an ancient family of C2 domain-containing proteins, with emerging roles in vesicular trafficking and human disease. Dysferlin mutations cause inherited muscular dystrophy, and dysferlin also shows abnormal plasma membrane expression in other forms of muscular dystrophy. We establish dysferlin as a short-lived (protein half-life approximately 4-6 h) and transitory transmembrane protein (plasma membrane half-life approximately 3 h), with a propensity for rapid endocytosis when mutated, and an association with a syntaxin-4 endocytic route. Dysferlin plasma membrane expression and endocytic rate is regulated by the C2B-FerI-C2C motif, with a critical role identified for C2C. Disruption of C2C dramatically reduces plasma membrane dysferlin (by 2.5-fold), due largely to accelerated endocytosis (by 2.5-fold). These properties of reduced efficiency of plasma membrane expression due to accelerated endocytosis are also a feature of patient missense mutant L344P (within FerI, adjacent to C2C). Importantly, dysferlin mutants that demonstrate accelerated endocytosis also display increased protein lability via endosomal proteolysis, implicating endosomal-mediated proteolytic degradation as a novel basis for dysferlin-deficiency in patients with single missense mutations. Vesicular labeling studies establish that dysferlin mutants rapidly transit from EEA1-positive early endosomes through to dextran-positive lysosomes, co-labeled by syntaxin-4 at multiple stages of endosomal transit. In summary, our studies define a transient biology for dysferlin, relevant to emerging patient therapeutics targeting dysferlin replacement. We introduce accelerated endosomal-directed degradation as a basis for lability of dysferlin missense mutants in dysferlinopathy, and show that dysferlin and syntaxin-4 similarly transit a common endosomal pathway in skeletal muscle cells.
The inner ear achieves a wide dynamic range of responsiveness by mechanically amplifying weak sounds. The enormous mechanical gain reported for the mammalian cochlea, which exceeds a factor of 4000, poses a challenge for theory. Here we show how such a large gain can result from an interaction between amplification by low-gain hair bundles and a pressure wave: hair bundles can amplify both their displacement per locally applied pressure and the pressure wave itself. A recently proposed ratchet mechanism, in which hair-bundle forces do not feed back on the pressure wave, delineates the two effects. Our analytical calculations with a WKB approximation agree with numerical solutions.
NG2 cells, a fourth type of glial cell in the mammalian CNS, undergo reactive changes in response to a wide variety of brain insults. Recent studies have demonstrated that neuronally expressed acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are implicated in various neurological disorders including brain ischemia and seizures. Acidosis is a common feature of acute neurological conditions. It is postulated that a drop in pH may be the link between the pathological process and activation of NG2 cells. Such postulate immediately prompts the following questions: Do NG2 cells express ASICs? If so, what are their functional properties and subunit composition? Here, using a combination of electrophysiology, Ca2+ imaging and immunocytochemistry, we present evidence to demonstrate that NG2 cells of the rat hippocampus express high density of Ca2+-permeable ASIC1a channels compared with several types of hippocampal neurons. First, nucleated patch recordings from NG2 cells revealed high density of proton-activated currents. The magnitude of proton-activated current was pH dependent, with a pH for half-maximal activation of 6.3. Second, the current-voltage relationship showed a reversal close to the equilibrium potential for Na+. Third, psalmotoxin 1, a blocker specific for the ASIC1a channel, largely inhibited proton-activated currents. Fourth, Ca2+ imaging showed that activation of proton-activated channels led to an increase of [Ca2+]i. Finally, immunocytochemistry showed co-localization of ASIC1a and NG2 proteins in the hippocampus. Thus the acid chemosensor, the ASIC1a channel, may serve for inducing membrane depolarization and Ca2+ influx, thereby playing a crucial role in the NG2 cell response to injury following ischemia.


Medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is known to be involved in relapse after cocaine withdrawal, but the underlying cellular mechanism remains largely unknown. Here, we report that after terminating repeated cocaine exposure in rats, a gradual increase in the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the mPFC facilitates activity-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatorysynapses on layer V pyramidal neurons. This enhanced synaptic plasticity could be attributed to BDNF-induced suppression of GABAergic inhibition in the mPFC by reducing the surface expression of GABA(A) receptors. The BDNF effect was mediated by BDNF-TrkB-phosphatase 2A signaling pathway. Downregulating TrkB expression bilaterally in the mPFC reduced the locomotor hypersensitivity to cocaine 8days after cocaine withdrawal. Thus, elevated BDNF expression after cocaine withdrawal sensitizes the excitatory synapses in the mPFC to undergo activity-induced persistent potentiation that may contribute to cue-induced drug craving and drug-seeking behavior.
In the developing spinal cord, regional and combinatorial activities of Hox transcription factors are critical in controlling motor neuron fates along the rostrocaudal axis, exemplified by the precise pattern of limb innervation by more than fifty Hox-dependent motor pools. The mechanisms by which motor neuron diversity is constrained to limb levels are, however, not well understood. We show that a single Hox gene, Hoxc9, has an essential role in organizing the motor system through global repressive activities. Hoxc9 is required for the generation of thoracic motor columns, and in its absence, neurons acquire the fates of limb-innervating populations. Unexpectedly, multiple Hox genes are derepressed in Hoxc9 mutants, leading to motor pool disorganization andalterations in the connections by thoracic and forelimb-level subtypes. Genome-wide analysis of Hoxc9 binding suggests that this mode of repression is mediated by direct interactions with Hox regulatory elements, independent of chromatin marks typically associated with repressed Hox genes.
The last decade has produced an explosion in neuroscience research examining young children's early processing of language. Noninvasive, safe functional brain measurements have now been proven feasible for use with children starting at birth. The phonetic level of language is especially accessible to experimental studies that document the innate state and the effect of learning on the brain. The neural signatures of learning at the phonetic level can be documented at a remarkably early point in development. Continuity in linguistic development from infants' earliest brain responses to phonetic stimuli is reflected in their language and prereading abilities in the second, third, and fifth year of life, a finding with theoretical and clinical impact. There is evidence that early mastery of the phonetic units of language requires learning in a social context. Neuroscience on early language learning is beginning to reveal the multiple brain systems that underlie the human language faculty.
There is a need for greater synergy between advances in neuroscience and the formulation of innovative policies to improve life outcomes for children experiencing significant adversity. Translational developmental neuroscience can inform new theories of change to catalyze more effective interventions that lead to a more productive and healthier society.
Neuro-Education is a nascent discipline that seeks to blend the collective fields of neuroscience, psychology, cognitive science, and education to create a better understanding of how we learn and how this information can be used to create more effective teaching methods, curricula, and educational policy. Though still in its infancy as a research discipline, this initiative is already opening critical new dialog between teachers, administrators, parents, and brain scientists.
Subjects typically choose to be presented with stimuli that predict the existence of future reinforcements. This so-called 'observing behavior' is evident in many species under various experimental conditions, including if the choice is expensive, or if there is nothing that subjects can do to improve their lot with the information gained. A recent study showed that the activities of putative midbrain dopamine neurons reflect this preference for observation in a way that appears to challenge the common prediction-error interpretation of these neurons. In this paper, we provide an alternative account according to which observing behavior arises from a small, possibly Pavlovian, bias associated with the operation of working memory.
Degradation of white matter fibers can affect the transmission of signals in brain circuits that normally enable integration of highly lateralized visual and motor processes. Here, we used diffusion tensor imaging tractography in combination with functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the specific contributions of interhemispheric and intrahemispheric white matter fibers to functional measures of hemispheric transfer and parallel information processing using bilateral and unilateral left and right visual field stimulation in normal and compromised systems. In healthy adults, a greater degree of bilateral processing advantage with the left (nondominant) hand correlated with higher integrity of callosal fibers connecting occipital cortices, whereas less unilateral processing advantage with the right hand correlated with higher integrity of left-hemispheric posterior cingulate fibers. In contrast, alcoholics who have compromised callosal integrity showed less bilateral processing advantage than controls when responding with the left hand and greater unilateral processing advantage when responding with the right hand. We also found degraded left posterior cingulate and posterior callosal fibers in chronic alcoholics, which is consistent with functional imaging results of less left posterior cingulate and extrastriate cortex activation in alcoholics than controls when processing bilateral compared with unilateral visual field stimulation. Together, our results demonstrated that interhemispheric and intrahemispheric white matter fiber pathways mediate visuomotor integration asymmetrically and that subtle white matter fiber degradation in alcoholism attenuated the normal pattern of hemispheric asymmetry, which may have ramifications for the efficiency of visual information processing and fast response execution.
While it is well established that Semaphorin family proteins function as axon guidance ligands in invertebrates and vertebrates, several recent studies indicate that the Drosophila Semaphorin-1a (Sema1a), a transmembrane Semaphorin, can also function as a receptor during neural development. The regulator of Sema1a reverse signaling, however, remains unknown. In this study, we show that like Sema1a, the well known Semaphorin receptor Plexin A (PlexA), is required for the proper guidance of photoreceptor (R cell) axons in the Drosophila visual system. Loss of PlexA, like loss of semala, disrupted the association of R-cell growth cones in the optic lobe. Conversely, overexpression of PlexA, like overexpression of sema1a, induced the hyperfasciculation of R-cell axons. Unlike Sema1a, however, the cytoplasmic domain of PlexA is dispensable. Epistasis analysis suggests that PlexA functions upstream of semala. And PlexA and sema1a interact genetically with Rho1. We propose that PlexA regulates Semala reverse signaling in the Drosophila visual system.
Deficits in synaptic function, particularly through NMDA receptors (NMDARs), are linked to late-stage cognitive impairments in Alzheimer's disease (AD). At earlier disease stages, however, there is evidence for altered endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium signaling in human cases and in neurons from AD mouse models. Despite the fundamental importance of calcium to synaptic function, neither the extent of ER calcium dysregulation in dendrites nor its interaction with synaptic function in AD pathophysiology is known. Identifying the mechanisms underlying early synaptic calcium dysregulation in AD pathogenesis is likely a key component to understanding, and thereby preventing, the synapse loss and downstream cognitive impairments. Using two-photon calcium imaging, flash photolysis of caged glutamate, and patch-clamp electrophysiology in cortical brain slices, we examined interactions between synaptically and ER-evoked calcium release at glutamatergic synapses in young AD transgenic mice. We found increased ryanodine receptor-evoked calcium signals within dendritic spine heads, dendritic processes, and the soma of pyramidal neurons from 3xTg-AD and TAS/TPM AD mice relative to NonTg controls. In addition, synaptically evoked postsynaptic calcium responses were larger in the AD strains, as were calcium signals generated from NMDAR activation. However, calcium responses triggered by back-propagating action potentials were not different. Concurrent activation of ryanodine receptors (RyRs) with either synaptic or NMDAR stimulation generated a supra-additive calcium response in the AD strains, suggesting an aberrant calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) effect within spines and dendrites. We propose that presenilin-linked disruptions in RyR signaling and subsequent CICR via NMDAR-mediated calcium influx alters synaptic function and serves as an early pathogenic factor in AD.
Chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) is a concomitant of sleep apnea that produces a slowly developing chemosensory-dependent blood pressure elevation ascribed in part to NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity and reduced nitric oxide (NO) signaling in the carotid body. The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is responsive to hypoxic stress and also contains neurons that express NMDA receptors and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). We tested the hypothesis that extended (35 d) CIH results in a decrease in the surface/synaptic availability of the essential NMDA NR1 subunit in nNOS-containing neurons and NMDA-induced NO production in the PVN of mice. As compared with controls, the 35 d CIH-exposed mice showed a significant increase in blood pressure and an increased density of NR1 immunogold particles located in the cytoplasm of nNOS-containing dendrites. Neither of these between-group differences was seen after 14 d, even though there was already a reduction in the NR1 plasmalemmal density at this time point. Patch-clamp recording of PVN neurons in slices showed a significant reduction in NMDA currents after either 14 or 35 d exposure to CIH compared with sham controls. In contrast, NO production, as measured by the NO-sensitive fluorescent dye 4-amino-5-methylamino-2',7'-difluorofluorescein, was suppressed only in the 35 d CIH group. We conclude that CIH produces a reduction in the surface/synaptic targeting of NR1 in nNOS neurons and decreases NMDA receptor-mediated currents in the PVN before the emergence of hypertension, the development of which may be enabled by suppression of NO signaling in this brain region.
Functional expression of the K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 in developing central neurons is crucial for the maturation of Cl(-)-dependent, GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory responses. In pyramidal neurons of the rodent hippocampus, GABAergic postsynaptic responses are typically depolarizing and often excitatory during the first postnatal week. Here, we show that a single neonatal seizure episode induced by kainate injection during postnatal days 5-7 results in a fast increase in the Cl(-) extrusion capacity of rat hippocampal CA1 neurons, with a consequent hyperpolarizing shift of the reversal potential of GABA(A)-mediated currents (E(GABA)). A significant increase in the surface expression of KCC2 as well as the alpha2 subunit of the Na-K-ATPase parallels the seizure-induced increase in the Cl(-) extrusion capacity. Exposing hippocampal slices to kainate resulted in a similar increase in the neuronal Cl(-) extrusion and in the surface expression of KCC2. Both effects were blocked by the kinase inhibitor K252a. Hence, in the neonatal hippocampus the overall KCC2 expression level is high enough to promote a rapid functional activation of K-Cl cotransport and a consequent negative shift in E(GABA) close to the adult level. The activity-dependent regulation of KCC2 function and its effect on GABAergic transmission may represent an intrinsic antiepileptogenic mechanism.
Mutations in ubiquitously expressed metabolic genes often lead to CNS-specific effects, presumably because of the high metabolic demands of neurons. However, mutations in omnipresent metabolic pathways can conceivably also result in cell type-specific effects because of cell-specific requirements for intermediate products. One such example is the zebrafish noir mutant, which we found to be mutated in the pdhb gene, coding for the E1 beta subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. This vision mutant is described as blind and was isolated because of its vision defect-related darker appearance. A detailed morphological, behavioral, and physiological analysis of the phenotype revealed an unexpected specific effect on the retina. Surprisingly, the cholinergic amacrine cells of the inner retina are affected earlier than the photoreceptors. This might be attributable to the inability of these cells to maintain production of their neurotransmitter acetylcholine. This is reflected in an earlier loss of motion vision, followed only later by a general loss of light perception. Since both characteristics of the phenotype are attributable to a loss of acetyl-CoA production by pyruvate dehydrogenase, we used a ketogenic diet to bypass this metabolic block and could indeed partially rescue vision and prolong survival of the larvae. The noir mutant provides a case for a systemic disease with ocular manifestation with a surprising specific effect on the retina given the ubiquitous requirement for the mutated gene.
Contralesional dorsal premotor cortex (cPMd) may support residual motor function following stroke. We performed two complementary experiments to explore how cPMd might perform this role in a group of chronic human stroke patients. First, we used paired-coil transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to establish the physiological influence of cPMd on ipsilesional primary motor cortex (iM1) at rest. We found that this influence became less inhibitory/more facilitatory in patients with greater clinical impairment. Second, we applied TMS over cPMd during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in these patients to examine the causal influence of cPMd TMS on the whole network of surviving cortical motor areas in either hemisphere and whether these influences changed during affected hand movement. We confirmed that hand grip-related activation in cPMd was greater in more impaired patients. Furthermore, the peak ipsilesional sensorimotor cortex activity shifted posteriorly in more impaired patients. Critical new findings were that concurrent TMS-fMRI results correlated with the level of both clinical impairment and neurophysiological impairment (i.e., less inhibitory/more facilitatory cPMd-iM1 measure at rest as assessed with paired-coil TMS). Specifically, greater clinical and neurophysiological impairment was associated with a stronger facilitatory influence of cPMd TMS on blood oxygenation level-dependent signal in posterior parts of ipsilesional sensorimotor cortex during hand grip, corresponding to the posteriorly shifted sensorimotor activity seen in more impaired patients. cPMd TMS was not found to influence activity in other brain regions in either hemisphere. This state-dependent influence on ipsilesional sensorimotor regions may provide a mechanism by which cPMd supports recovered function after stroke.
The antipsychotic treatment of schizophrenia is still marked by poor compliance, and drug discontinuation; the development of more effective and safer drugs still remains a challenge. Sertindole is a second-generation antipsychotic with high affinity for dopamine D(2), serotonin 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2C), and (1)-adrenergic receptors, and low affinity for other receptors. Sertindole undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism by the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 and has an elimination half-life of approximately three days. In controlled clinical trials sertindole was more effective than placebo in reducing positive and negative symptoms, whereas it was as effective as haloperidol and risperidone against the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. The effective dose-range of sertindole is 12-20 mg, administered orally once daily. The most common adverse events are headache, insomnia, rhinitis/nasal congestion, male sexual dysfunction, and moderate weight gain, with few extrapyramidal symptoms and metabolic changes. Sertindole is associated with corrected QT interval prolongation, with subsequent risk of serious arrythmias. Due to cardiovascular safety concerns, sertindole is available as a second-line choice for patients intolerant to at least one other antipsychotic agent. Further clinical studies, mainly direct &quot;head-to-head&quot; comparisons with other second-generation antipsychotic agents, are needed to define the role of sertindole in the treatment of schizophrenia.





Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is the most common autosomal recessive ataxia. Oxidative damage within the mitochondria seems to have a key role in the disease phenotype. Therefore, FRDA treatment options have been mostly directed at antioxidant protection against mitochondrial damage. Available evidence seems to suggest that patients with FRDA should be treated with idebenone, because it is well tolerated and may reduce cardiac hypertrophy and, at higher doses, also improve neurological function, but large controlled clinical trials are still needed. Alternatively, gene-based strategies for the treatment of FRDA may involve the development of small-molecules increasing frataxin gene transcription. Animal and human studies are strongly needed to assess whether any of the potential new treatment strategies, such as iron-chelating therapies or treatment with erythropoietin or histone deacetylase inhibitors and other gene-based strategies, may translate into an effective therapy for this devastating disorder. In this review, we try to provide an answer to some questions related to current and emerging treatment options in the management of FRDA.
Lacosamide is a newly registered antiepileptic drug with dual mechanisms of action. It selectively enhances slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilization of hyperexcitable neuronal membranes and inhibition of repetitive neuronal firing. It also binds to a collapsing-response mediator protein-2, CRMP2. Lacosamide has a favorable pharmacokinetic profile; is rapidly and completely absorbed, has a relatively long elimination half-life of 13 hours which allows twice-daily administration, linear pharmacokinetics, and has low potential for drug interactions and renal elimination. Both oral and intravenous formulations of lacosamide are being developed. In placebo-controlled clinical trials, lacosamide was effective in seizure reduction as adjunctive therapy in patients with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures. Lacosamide was generally well tolerated. The most frequently reported adverse events in placebo-controlled trials were dizziness, headache, nausea, and diplopia. Intravenous lacosamide has a comparably good safety profile.

Both dorsal and ventral cortical visual streams contain neurons sensitive to binocular disparities, but the two streams may underlie different aspects of stereoscopic vision. Here we investigate stereopsis in the neurological patient D.F., whose ventral stream, specifically lateral occipital cortex, has been damaged bilaterally, causing profound visual form agnosia. Despite her severe damage to cortical visual areas, we report that DF's stereo vision is strikingly unimpaired. She is better than many control observers at using binocular disparity to judge whether an isolated object appears near or far, and to resolve ambiguous structure-from-motion. DF is, however, poor at using relative disparity between features at different locations across the visual field. This may stem from a difficulty in identifying the surface boundaries where relative disparity is available. We suggest that the ventral processing stream may play a critical role in enabling healthy observers to extract fine depth information from relative disparities within one surface or between surfaces located in different parts of the visual field.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system (CNS) that represents one of the first causes of neurological disability in young adults. Although the pathogenesis of MS is still unclear, an autoimmune mechanism has been demonstrated. According to this evidence in the last 15 years different treatments acting on the immune system have been developed. Current disease-modifying drugs (DMDs) for MS require regular and frequent parenteral administration and are associated with limited long-term treatment adherence. Moreover the clinical efficacy of these disease-modifying drugs is suboptimal. Thus, there is an important need for the development of new therapeutic strategies. Several oral therapies (fingolimod, fumaric acid, teriflunomide, laquinimod) are in development; Among these cladribine is the only therapy with the potential for short-course dosing. Cladribine is an immunosuppressant that offers sustained regulation of the immune system through a preferential lymphocyte depleting action. Cladribine has a well-characterized and well-known safety profile, derived from more than 15 years of use of the parenteral formulation both in the oncology field and in MS. This paper reviews the new oral emerging treatments and presents the available data about the use of cladribine in MS and the future perspective of its clinical use.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) contains a narrow and deep active site gorge with two sites of ligand binding, an acylation site (or A-site) at the base of the gorge and a peripheral site (or P-site) near the gorge entrance. The P-site contributes to the catalytic efficiency of substrate hydrolysis by transiently binding substrates on their way to the acylation site, where a short-lived acyl enzyme intermediate is produced. Ligands that bind to the A-site invariably inhibit the hydrolysis of all AChE substrates, but ligands that bind to the P-site inhibit the hydrolysis of some substrates but not others. To clarify the basis of this difference, we focus here on second-order rate constants for substrate hydrolysis (k(E)), a parameter that reflects the binding of ligands only to the free form of the enzyme and not to enzyme-substrate intermediates. We first describe an inhibitor competition assay that distinguishes whether a ligand is inhibiting AChE by binding to the A-site or the P-site. We then show that the P-site-specific ligand thioflavin T inhibits the hydrolysis of the rapidly hydrolyzed substrate acetylthiocholine but fails to show any inhibition of the slowly hydrolyzed substrates ATMA (3-(acetamido)-N,N,N-trimethylanilinium) and carbachol. We derive an expression for k(E) that accounts for these observations by recognizing that the rate-limiting steps for these substrates differ. The rate-limiting step for the slow substrates is the general base-catalyzed acylation reaction k(2), a step that is unaffected by bound thioflavin T. In contrast, the rate-limiting step for acetylthiocholine is either substrate association or substrate migration to the A-site, and these steps are blocked by bound thioflavin T.
Aim of present research was to assess, by means of descriptive and multivariate approaches, in Wistar rats tested in hole-board apparatus, whether a microstructure of hole-exploratory behavior may be identified in the behavioral response to anxiety. Two groups of 15 subjects were tested: one received 1 ml of saline IP and one was IP injected with diazepam at 0.5 mg/kg dissolved in 1 ml of saline. Following saline, six not yet reported hole-exploratory components were identified: active-dip, static-dip, rapid-dip, circular-sniff, point-sniff and central-sniff. Diazepam provoked significant changes of their per cent distribution. Results of multivariate analyses revealed a complex microstructure of hole-exploratory elements characterized by behavioral flows between sniffing and dipping patterns. Diazepam significantly modified several patternings, mainly those involving point-sniff and static-dip. Hence, the hypothesis of an important role of such behavioral elements and of their patternings, in anxiety-related hole-exploratory behavior, can be proposed. It is suggested that modifications of point-sniff and static-dip patternings could evidence even subtle changes of animal anxiety condition.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is now emerging as a new option for treating intractable epilepsy. Cumulative studies suggest that the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD) is involved in limbic seizure activity. This study aims to investigate whether DBS of the MD can protect against seizures induced by amygdaloid kindling. We studied the effect of low-frequency stimulation (LFS, 1 Hz) or high-frequency stimulation (HFS, 100 Hz) in the MD on amygdaloid kindling seizures. During the kindling acquisition, DBS in the MD was daily administered immediately after the kindling stimulus or before the kindling stimulus (preemptive DBS). The effects of both post-treatment of DBS and preemptive DBS in the MD on the expression of amygdaloid kindling seizures were evaluated. We found the DBS or preemptive DBS in the MD, either LFS or HFS, did not significantly change the rate of amygdaloid kindling. Similarly, DBS or preemptive DBS in the MD did not significantly change any parameters representing the expression of amygdaloid kindling. Our study suggests that DBS in the MD may have no significant effect on limbic seizures.

SeSAME syndrome is a complex disease characterized by seizures, sensorineural deafness, ataxia, mental retardation and electrolyte imbalance. Mutations in the inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir4.1 (KCNJ10 gene) have been linked to this condition. Kir4.1 channels are weakly rectifying channels expressed in glia, kidney, cochlea and possibly other tissues. We determined the electrophysiological properties of SeSAME mutant channels after expression in transfected mammalian cells. We found that a majority of mutations (R297C, C140R, R199X, T164I) resulted in complete loss of Kir4.1 channel function while two mutations (R65P and A167V) produced partial loss of function. All mutant channels were rescued upon co-transfection of wild-type Kir4.1 but not Kir5.1 channels. Cell-surface biotinylation assays indicate significant plasma membrane expression of all mutant channels with exception of the non-sense mutant R199X. These results indicate the differential loss of Kir channel function among SeSAME syndrome mutations.
Misoprostol, a prostaglandin type E analogue, has been implicated in a number of neurodevelopmental disorders. However, its mode of action in the nervous system is not well understood. Misoprostol acts on the same receptors as prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), a natural lipid-derived compound, which mediates important physiological functions in the nervous system via activation of four EP receptors (EP1-4). In this study we use a ratiometric calcium imaging with fura-2 AM as a calcium indicator to show that misoprostol alters intracellular calcium levels in mouse neuroblastoma (Neuro-2a) cells via similar mechanisms as PGE(2). We demonstrate that the misoprostol-induced increase in calcium is mediated by a protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent mechanism and that the EP4 receptor signaling pathway may play an inhibitory role on calcium regulation. Overall, this study provides further support for the involvement of PGE(2) signaling in calcium homeostasis and suggests its important role in the nervous system.
By combining gene expression profiling with image registration, Tomer et al. (2010) find that the mushroom body of the segmented worm Platynereis dumerilii shares many features with the mammalian cerebral cortex. The authors propose that the mushroom body and cortex evolved from the same structure in the common ancestor of vertebrates and invertebrates.
Cultured ESCs can form different classes of neurons, but whether these neurons can acquire specialized subtype features typical of neurons in vivo remains unclear. We show here that mouse ESCs can be directed to form highly specific motor neuron subtypes in the absence of added factors, through a differentiation program that relies on endogenous Wnts, FGFs, and Hh-mimicking the normal program of motor neuron subtype differentiation. Molecular markers that characterize motor neuron subtypes anticipate the functional properties of these neurons in vivo: ESC-derived motor neurons grafted isochronically into chick spinal cord settle in appropriate columnar domains and select axonal trajectories with a fidelity that matches that of their in vivo generated counterparts. ESC-derived motor neurons can therefore be programmed in a predictive manner to acquire molecular and functional properties that characterize one of the many dozens of specialized motor neuron subtypes that exist in vivo.


Abnormal activation of calpain is implicated in synaptic dysfunction and participates in neuronal death in Alzheimer disease (AD) and other neurological disorders. Pharmacological inhibition of calpain has been shown to improve memory and synaptic transmission in the mouse model of AD. However, the role and mechanism of calpain in AD progression remain elusive. Here we demonstrate a role of calpain in the neuropathology in amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin 1 (PS1) double-transgenic mice, an established mouse model of AD. We found that overexpression of endogenous calpain inhibitor calpastatin (CAST) under the control of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II promoter in APP/PS1 mice caused a remarkable decrease of amyloid plaque burdens and prevented Tau phosphorylation and the loss of synapses. Furthermore, CAST overexpression prevented the decrease in the phosphorylation of the memory-related molecules CREB and ERK in the brain of APP/PS1 mice and improved spatial learning and memory. Interestingly, treatment of cultured primary neurons with amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides caused an increase in the level of beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), the key enzyme responsible for APP processing and Abeta production. This effect was inhibited by CAST overexpression. Consistently, overexpression of calpain in heterologous APP expressing cells up-regulated the level of BACE1 and increased Abeta production. Finally, CAST transgene prevented the increase of BACE1 in APP/PS1 mice. Thus, calpain activation plays an important role in APP processing and plaque formation, probably by regulating the expression of BACE1.
Kv7 channels, especially Kv7.2 (KCNQ2) and Kv7.3 (KCNQ3), are key determinants for membrane excitability in the brain. Some chemical modulators of KCNQ channels are in development for use as anti-epileptic drugs, such as retigabine (D-23129, N-(2-amino-4-(4-fluorobenzylamino)-phenyl)), which was recently approved for clinical use. In addition, several other compounds were also reported to potentiate activity of the Kv7 channels. It is therefore of interest to investigate compound-channel interactions, so that more insights may be gained to aid future development of therapeutics. We have conducted a screen of 20,000 compounds for KCNQ2 potentiators using rubidium flux combined with atomic absorption spectrometry. Here, we report the characterization of a series of new structures that display isoform specificity and induce a marked reduction of deactivation distinct from that of retigabine. Furthermore, KCNQ2(W236L), a previously reported mutation that abolishes sensitivity to retigabine, remains fully sensitive to these compounds. This result, together with mutagenesis and other studies, suggests that the reported compounds confer a unique mode of action and involve new molecular determinants on the channel protein, consistent with the idea of recognizing a new site on channel protein.
A predictive component can contribute to the command signal for smooth pursuit. This is readily demonstrated by the fact that low frequency sinusoidal target motion can be tracked with zero time delay or even with a small lead. The objective of this study was to characterize the predictive contributions to pursuit tracking more precisely by developing analytical models for predictive smooth pursuit. Subjects tracked a small target moving in two dimensions. In the simplest case, the periodic target motion was composed of the sums of two sinusoidal motions (SS), along both the horizontal and the vertical axes. Motions following the same or similar paths, but having a richer spectral composition, were produced by having the target follow the same path but at a constant speed (CS), and by combining the horizontal SS velocity with the vertical CS velocity and vice versa. Several different quantitative models were evaluated. The predictive contribution to the eye tracking command signal could be modeled as a low-pass filtered target acceleration signal with a time delay. This predictive signal, when combined with retinal image velocity at the same time delay, as in classical models for the initiation of pursuit, gave a good fit to the data. The weighting of the predictive acceleration component was different in different experimental conditions, being largest when target motion was simplest, following the SS velocity profiles.
Leptin is well known as an important hormone in the central control of feeding behavior. During development, fetuses and newborns are exposed to leptin and recent evidence has shown that leptin receptors are widespread throughout the developing brain. Accordingly, leptin affects brain development during both pre- and postnatal life. The actions of leptin in the developing brain are generally permanent and range from the establishment of hypothalamic circuits to plasticity in cortical pathways. The cellular events mediated by leptin include the following: neurogenesis, axon growth, and synaptogenesis. Nutritional manipulation of leptin secretion during perinatal life has generated considerable concern, and the developing brain appears to be a particularly sensitive target for these environmental changes.
The Dorsomedial Nucleus of the Hypothalamus (DMH) is known to play important roles in ingestive behavior and body weight homeostasis. The DMH contains neurons expressing Neuropeptide Y (NPY) during specific physiological conditions of hyperphagia and obesity, however, the role of DMH-NPY neurons has yet to be characterized. In contrast to the DMH-NPY neurons, NPY expressing neurons have been best characterized in the Arcuate Nucleus of the Hypothalamus (ARH). The purpose of this study is to characterize the chemical phenotype of DMH-NPY neurons by comparing the gene expression profiles of NPY neurons in the DMH and ARH isolated from postnatal NPY-hrGFP mice by microarray analysis. Twenty genes were differentially expressed in the DMH-NPY neurons compared to the ARH. Among them, there were several transcriptional factors that play important roles in the regulation of energy balance. DMH-NPY neurons expressed Glutamic Acid Decarboxylase (GAD) 65 and 67, suggesting that they may be GABAergic, similar to ARH-NPY neurons. While ARH-NPY neurons expressed leptin receptor (ObRb) and displayed the activation of STAT3 in response to leptin administration, DMH-NPY neurons showed neither. These findings strongly suggest that DMH-NPY neurons could play a distinct role in the control of energy homeostasis and are differentially regulated from ARH-NPY neurons through afferent inputs and transcriptional regulators.
Metabolic homeostasis reflects the complex output of endocrine, autonomic, and behavioral control circuits that extend throughout the central nervous system. Brain regions that control food intake and energy expenditure are privy to continuous visceral sensory feedback signals that presumably modulate appetite, satiety, digestion, and metabolism. Sensory signals from the gastrointestinal tract and associated digestive viscera are delivered to the brain primarily by vagal afferents that terminate centrally within the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract (NST), with signals subsequently relayed to higher brain regions by parallel noradrenergic and peptidergic projection pathways arising within the NST. This article begins with an overview of these ascending pathways identified in adult rats using a standard anterograde tracer microinjected into the caudal visceral sensory region of the NST, and also by immunocytochemical localization of glucagon-like peptide-1. NST projection targets identified by these two approaches are compared to the distribution of neurons that become infected after inoculating the ventral stomach wall with a neurotropic virus that transneuronally infects synaptically-linked chains of neurons in the anterograde (i.e., ascending sensory) direction. Although the focus of this article is the anatomical organization of axonal projections from the caudal visceral NST to the hypothalamus and limbic forebrain, discussion is included regarding the hypothesized role of these projections in modulating behavioral arousal and coordinating endocrine and behavioral (i.e., hypophagic) responses to stress.
A majority of human obesity is inherited as a polygenic trait. Once obesity develops, over 90% of individuals repeatedly regain lost weight after dieting. Only surgical interventions offer long lasting weight loss. Thus, clinical data suggest that some individuals have a predisposition to develop and maintain an elevated body weight set-point once they are provided with sufficient calories to gain weight. This set-point is mediated by an integrated neural network that controls energy homeostasis. Unfortunately, currently available tools for identifying obesity-prone individuals and examining the functioning of these neural systems have insufficient resolution to identify specific neural factors that cause humans to develop and maintain the obese state. However, rodent models of polygenically inherited obesity allow us to investigate the factors that both predispose them to become obese and that prevent or enhance the development of such obesity. Maternal obesity during gestation and lactation in obesity-prone rodents enhances offspring obesity and alters their neural pathways involved in energy homeostasis regulation. Early postnatal exposure of obesity-resistant offspring to the milk of genetically obese dams alters their hypothalamic pathways involved in energy homeostasis causing them to become obese when fed a high fat diet as adults. Finally, short-term exercise begun in the early post-weaning period increases the sensitivity to the anorectic effects of leptin and protects obesity-prone offspring from becoming obese for months exercise cessation. Such studies suggest that early identification of obesity-prone humans and of the factors that can prevent them from becoming obese could provide an effective strategy for preventing the world wide epidemic of obesity.

Accumulation of neurotoxic amyloid-beta is a major hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. Formation of amyloid-beta is catalysed by gamma-secretase, a protease with numerous substrates. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms that confer substrate specificity on this potentially promiscuous enzyme. Knowledge of the mechanisms underlying its selectivity is critical for the development of clinically effective gamma-secretase inhibitors that can reduce amyloid-beta formation without impairing cleavage of other gamma-secretase substrates, especially Notch, which is essential for normal biological functions. Here we report the discovery of a novel gamma-secretase activating protein (GSAP) that drastically and selectively increases amyloid-beta production through a mechanism involving its interactions with both gamma-secretase and its substrate, the amyloid precursor protein carboxy-terminal fragment (APP-CTF). GSAP does not interact with Notch, nor does it affect its cleavage. Recombinant GSAP stimulates amyloid-beta production in vitro. Reducing GSAP concentrations in cell lines decreases amyloid-beta concentrations. Knockdown of GSAP in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease reduces levels of amyloid-beta and plaque development. GSAP represents a type of gamma-secretase regulator that directs enzyme specificity by interacting with a specific substrate. We demonstrate that imatinib, an anticancer drug previously found to inhibit amyloid-beta formation without affecting Notch cleavage, achieves its amyloid-beta-lowering effect by preventing GSAP interaction with the gamma-secretase substrate, APP-CTF. Thus, GSAP can serve as an amyloid-beta-lowering therapeutic target without affecting other key functions of gamma-secretase.
Synaptotagmins are known to mediate diverse forms of Ca2+-triggered exocytosis through their C2 domains, but the principles underlying functional differentiation among them are unclear. Synaptotagmin-1 functions as a Ca2+ sensor in neurotransmitter release at central nervous system synapses, but synaptotagmin-7 does not, and yet both isoforms act as Ca2+ sensors in chromaffin cells. To shed light into this apparent paradox, we have performed rescue experiments in neurons from synaptotagmin-1 knockout mice using a chimera that contains the synaptotagmin-1 sequence with its C2B domain replaced by the synaptotagmin-7 C2B domain (Syt1/7). Rescue was not achieved either with the WT Syt1/7 chimera or with nine mutants where residues that are distinct in synaptotagmin-7 were restored to those present in synaptotagmin-1. To investigate whether these results arise because of unique conformational features of the synaptotagmin-7 C2B domain, we determined its crystal structure at 1.44 A resolution. The synaptotagmin-7 C2B domain structure is very similar to that of the synaptotagmin-1 C2B domain and contains three Ca2+-binding sites. Two of the Ca2+-binding sites of the synaptotagmin-7 C2B domain are also present in the synaptotagmin-1 C2B domain and have analogous ligands to those determined for the latter by NMR spectroscopy, suggesting that a discrepancy observed in a crystal structure of the synaptotagmin-1 C2B domain arose from crystal contacts. Overall, our results suggest that functional differentiation in synaptotagmins arises in part from subtle sequence changes that yield dramatic functional differences.
The use of testis tissue xenografting as a valuable tool to rescue endangered and genetically valuable individuals that die young or otherwise fail to produce sperm has been the subject of much interest. Although the technique has been successfully applied to a wide variety of species, little is known about what determines the outcome. Furthermore, to improve the applicability of xenografting, new methods to preserve and transport testis tissue from valuable animals are emerging. However, one major issue remains: the application of xenografting implies the development of subsequent ART techniques to produce offspring from the recovered material. This paper focuses on these three aspects of testis tissue xenografting as a tool for rescuing endangered and valuable genetic pools.
Peptides perform many roles in cell-cell signaling; examples include neuropeptides, hormones, and growth factors. Although the vast majority of known neuropeptides are produced in the secretory pathway, a number of bioactive peptides are derived from cytosolic proteins. For example, the hemopressins are a family of peptides derived from alpha and beta hemoglobin which bind to the CB1 cannabinoid receptor, functioning as agonists or antagonists/inverse agonists depending on the size of the peptide. However, the finding that peptides derived from cytosolic proteins can affect receptors does not prove that these peptides are true endogenous signaling molecules. In order for the hemopressins and other peptides derived from cytosolic proteins to be considered neuropeptide-like signaling molecules, they must be synthesized in brain, they must be secreted in levels sufficient to produce effects, and either their synthesis or secretion should be regulated. If these criteria are met, we propose the name &quot;non-classical neuropeptide&quot; for this category of cytosolic bioactive peptide. This would be analogous to the non-classical neurotransmitters, such as nitric oxide and anandamide, which are not stored in secretory vesicles and released upon stimulation but are synthesized upon stimulation and constitutively released. We review some examples of cytosolic peptides from various protein precursors, describe potential mechanisms of their biosynthesis and secretion, and discuss the possibility that these peptides are signaling molecules in the brain, focusing on the criteria that these peptides would have to fill in order to be considered non-classical neuropeptides.



When we perceive the external world, our brain has to deal with the incompleteness and uncertainty associated with sensory inputs, memory and prior knowledge. In theoretical neuroscience probabilistic approaches have received a growing interest recently, as they account for the ability to reason with incomplete knowledge and to efficiently describe perceptive and behavioral tasks. How can the probability distributions that need to be estimated in these models be represented and processed in the brain, in particular at the single cell level? We consider the basic function carried out by photoreceptor cells which consists in detecting the presence or absence of light. We give a system-level understanding of the process of phototransduction based on a bayesian formalism: we show that the process of phototransduction is equivalent to a temporal probabilistic inference in a Hidden Markov Model (HMM), for estimating the presence or absence of light. Thus, the biochemical mechanisms of phototransduction underlie the estimation of the current state probability distribution of the presence of light. A classical descriptive model describes the interactions between the different molecular messengers, ions, enzymes and channel proteins occurring within the photoreceptor by a set of nonlinear coupled differential equations. In contrast, the probabilistic HMM model is described by a discrete recurrence equation. It appears that the binary HMM has a general solution in the case of constant input. This allows a detailed analysis of the dynamics of the system. The biochemical system and the HMM behave similarly under steady-state conditions. Consequently a formal equivalence can be found between the biochemical system and the HMM. Numerical simulations further extend the results to the dynamic case and to noisy input. All in all, we have derived a probabilistic model equivalent to a classical descriptive model of phototransduction, which has the additional advantage of assigning a function to phototransduction. The example of phototransduction shows how simple biochemical interactions underlie simple probabilistic inferences.
How can an incomplete and uncertain model of the environment be used to perceive, infer, decide and act efficiently? This is the challenge that both living and artificial cognitive systems have to face. Symbolic logic is, by its nature, unable to deal with this question. The subjectivist approach to probability is an extension to logic that is designed specifically to face this challenge. In this paper, we review a number of frequently encountered cognitive issues and cast them into a common Bayesian formalism. The concepts we review are ambiguities, fusion, multimodality, conflicts, modularity, hierarchies and loops. First, each of these concepts is introduced briefly using some examples from the neuroscience, psychophysics or robotics literature. Then, the concept is formalized using a template Bayesian model. The assumptions and common features of these models, as well as their major differences, are outlined and discussed.


Cluster headache (CH) is among the most painful headache disorders. There is still no unifying pathophysiological hypothesis to explain the trigeminal distribution, the circadian periodicity and the autonomic symptoms of the syndrome. We report the case of a patient with worsening of CH following administration of pramipexole for a restless legs syndrome (RLS). This observation supports the hypothesis that the dopaminergic system may play a role in the genesis or trigger of CH.
Available preventive treatments for primary headaches such as migraines and tension-type headaches have limited efficacy and often disabling side effects (Schoenen 2004, Schoenen 2000). There is thus room for new more effective and better tolerated therapeutic approaches as long as they can be proven superior to placebo. Based on pilot studies and open trials, botulinum toxin (BT) appeared in the headache armamentarium more than a decade ago and it remains widely used in North America since. The initial enthusiasm for BT was not confirmed by subsequent randomized controlled trials reviewed in this article, neither in tension-type headache, nor in episodic migraine and hence BT was considered a &quot;dead end road&quot; by certain headache experts. A promising &quot;path&quot; for BT may, however, exist. In two recent trials (PREEMPT 1 and 2), OnabotulinumtoxinA (Botox) was found effective in chronic migraine. The therapeutic gain over placebo is modest (+/- 11%), but chronic migraine is most disabling, often drug resistant and a serious public health problem, as it affects 1-2% of people in the general population. Because the PREEMPT trials leave unsolved a number of clinically relevant questions, OnabotulinumtoxinA cannot become yet the pre-emptor of CM treatment. Although the path is promising, it seems wise, at this stage, to restrict its use to specialized headache centres where BT can be included in a multidisciplinary approach for chronic headache patients.


The amyloid cascade hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is testable: it implies that interference with Abeta aggregation and plaque formation may be therapeutically useful. Abeta42 immunisation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice prevented plaque formation and caused removal of existing plaques. The first clinical studies of Abeta immunisation in AD patients (AN1792, Elan Pharmaceuticals) were halted when some patients suffered side effects. Since our confirmation that Abeta immunisation can prompt plaque removal in human AD, we have performed a clinical and neuropathological follow up of AD patients in the initial Elan Abeta immunisation trial. In immunised AD patients, we found: a lower Abeta load, with evidence that plaques had been removed; a reduced tau load in neuronal processes, but not in cell bodies; and no evidence of a beneficial effect on synapses. There were pathological &quot;side effects&quot; including: increased microglial activation; increased cerebral amyloid angiopathy; and there is some evidence for increased soluble/oligomeric Abeta. A pathophysiological mechanism involving effects on the cerebral vasculature is proposed for the clinical side effects observed with some active and passive vaccine protocols. Our current knowledge of the effects of Abeta immunotherapy is based on functional information from the early clinical trials and a few post mortem cases. Several further clinical studies are underway using a variety of protocols and important clinical, imaging and neuropathological data will become available in the near future. The information obtained will be important in helping to understand the pathogenesis not only of AD but also of other neurodegenerative disorders associated with protein aggregation.


First Rank Symptoms (FRS) were first defined by Schneider as diagnostic of schizophrenia. Since then, there has been an immense debate on their diagnostic and prognostic utility. This review attempts to understand the concepts of FRS as depicted over the years and the diagnostic and prognostic implications of FRS in mental illnesses including schizophrenia. Review of relevant material showed that there are wide variations in the concepts of FRS which may be classified according to broad and narrow definitions. These variations have also led to the differences in the diagnostic systems currently being used. Although the diagnostic utility of FRS in schizophrenia remains, it is not clearly so with other mental illnesses in which these symptoms may also be observed. In addition there is controversy over the prognostic implications with evidence divided between poor and no influence on outcome.
Loss of synaptic integrity in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) may play an integral role in age-related cognitive decline. Previously, we showed age-related increases in the dendritic marker microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP-2) and the synaptic marker synaptophysin (SYN) in mice. Similarly, apolipoprotein E (apoE), involved in lipid transport and metabolism, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a glia specific marker, increase with age in rodents. In this study, we assessed whether these four proteins show similar age-related changes in a nonhuman primate, the rhesus macaque. Free-floating sections from the PFC and hippocampus from adult, middle-aged, and aged rhesus macaques were immunohistochemically labeled for MAP-2, SYN, apoE, and GFAP. Protein levels were measured as area occupied by fluorescence using confocal microscopy as well as by Western blot. In the PFC and hippocampus of adult and middle-aged animals, the levels of SYN, apoE, and GFAP immunoreactivity were comparable but there was a trend towards higher MAP-2 levels in middle-aged than adult animals. There was significantly less SYN and more MAP-2, apoE, and GFAP immunoreactivity in the PFC and hippocampus of aged animals compared to adult or middle-aged animals. Thus, the age-related changes in MAP-2, apoE, and GFAP levels were similar to those previously observed in rodents. On the other hand, the age-related changes in SYN levels were not, but were similar to those previously observed in the aging human brain. Taken together, these data emphasize the value of the rhesus macaque as a pragmatic translational model for human brain aging.


Depressive symptoms in alcohol-dependent individuals are well-recognized and clinically relevant phenomena. The etiology has not been elucidated although it is clear that the depressive symptoms may be alcohol independent or alcohol induced. To contribute to the understanding of the neurobiology of chronic ethanol use, we investigated the effects of chronic intermittent ethanol vapor exposure on behaviors in the forced swim test (FST) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) levels in specific brain regions. Adult male Wistar rats were subjected to intermittent ethanol vapor (14 h on/10 h off) or air exposure for 2 weeks and were then tested at three time points corresponding to acute withdrawal (8-12 h into withdrawal) and protracted withdrawal (30 and 60 days of withdrawal) in the FST. The behaviors that were measured in the five-min FST consisted of latency to immobility, swim time, immobility time, and climbing time. The FST results showed that the vapor-exposed animals displayed depressive-like behaviors; for instance, decreased latency to immobility in acute withdrawal and decreased latency to immobility, decreased swim time and increased immobility time in protracted withdrawal, with differences between air- and vapor-exposed animals becoming more pronounced over the 60-day withdrawal period. NPY levels in the frontal cortex of the vapor-exposed animals were decreased compared with the control animals, and CRF levels in the amygdala were correlated with increased immobility time. Thus, extended ethanol vapor exposure produced long-lasting changes in FST behavior and NPY levels in the brain.







Children undergoing corrective spine surgery are at risk of serious neurologic injury. Monitoring transcranial electric motor evoked potentials (TCeMEPs) during these procedures may identify and help prevent injury to motor pathways. The difficulty in obtaining consistent motor evoked potential (MEP) responses during pediatric spine surgery can result in part to the suppression of evoked responses caused by volatile inhalational anesthetics, elevated levels of propofol, and/or physiologic variables. Data obtained from 140 pediatric patients who underwent spine surgery with MEP monitoring were retrospectively analyzed and evaluated for age and anesthetic effects on stimulation variables. MEPs acquired under inhalational anesthetic agents required greater stimulation compared to intravenous propofol anesthesia. Additionally, the responses were more variable when inhalational agents were used. These effects were more prominent in younger age patients. The number of alerts of MEP loss or reduction related to anesthetic levels or blood pressure changes was higher under inhalational agents.

The discovery of the genetic factors implicated in the predisposition to complex diseases may greatly profit from genetic studies in isolated populations. In this perspective, we performed a genome-wide scan using 507 microsatellite markers, with an average interval size of 7.6 cM, on a sample of 88 nuclear families with at least two affected sibs with bipolar disorder recruited in the Sardinian population. An initial analysis yielded non-parametric linkage exceeding 3.4 with P-values &lt;0.0003 at two adjacent markers, D1S206 and D1S435 in the 1p22-p21 chromosomal region. Moreover, positive linkage ranging between 2.0 and 3.0 was obtained for other loci in several cases in regions that have already been linked to predisposition to bipolar disorder, such as 5p15.33, 8q24.13, and 11q14.3. A subsequent analysis of the 1p22-p21 region using the same set of families and a dense panel of 20 new microsatellite markers, spaced at 1.2 cM on average, reinforced the finding of suggestive linkage for this region. Interestingly, NPL values above 2.1 and P-values &lt;0.02 were obtained for a cluster of 10 markers comprising D1S435. Thus, this study suggests that the 1p22-p21 region may contain a new locus participating to the genetic susceptibility to bipolar disorder and reproduces positive linkage for several other loci already implicated in this pathology. Since the Sardinian population presents a peculiar genetic homogeneity, these results may pave the way to further studies for replication in this population contributing to the rapid discovery of the genetic factors predisposing to bipolar disorder.

A role for osteopontin (OPN) in promoting disease activity of multiple sclerosis or its animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) has recently been suggested. As the biological activity of OPN is heavily influenced by posttranslational processing, we investigated the capacity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-12 to cleave OPN and determined whether this influenced disease activity. We found that OPN mRNA and protein expression in the spinal cord increased with EAE disease in C57BL/6 mice concurrently with MMP-12 expression. A Western blot of EAE and control spinal cords revealed different OPN-immunoreactive bands, with a pattern that was similar to MMP-12 cleavage of recombinant OPN in vitro. In addition, OPN fragments in the spinal cord of EAE-afflicted mice were reduced in MMP-12(-/-) mice compared with wild-type controls. However, examination of OPN(-/-) mice in short- and long-term experiments revealed no difference in EAE outcomes from wild-type animals. OPN/MMP-12 double null mice were generated, and it was revealed that MMP-12(-/-) mice had a worsening of disease compared with wild-type mice, which returned to wild-type levels in the OPN/MMP-12 double null mice. These results suggest that EAE disease activity may be modulated by the cleavage of OPN by MMP-12.
To evaluate the contribution of neural pathways to the determination of the circadian oscillator phase in peripheral organs, we assessed lateralization of clock gene expression in Syrian hamsters induced to split rhythms of locomotor activity by exposure to constant light. We measured the ratio of haPer1, haPer2, and haBmal1 mRNA on the high vs. low (H/L) side at 3-h intervals prior to the predicted activity onset (pAO). We also calculated expression on the sides ipsilateral vs. contralateral (I/C) to the side of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) expressing higher haPer1. The extent of asymmetry in split hamsters varied between specific genes, phases, and organs. Although the magnitude of asymmetry in peripheral organs was never as great as that in the SCN, we observed significantly greater lateralization of clock gene expression in the adrenal medulla and cortex, lung, and skeletal muscle, but not in liver or kidney, of split hamsters than of unsplit controls. We observed fivefold lateralization of expression of the clock-controlled gene, albumin site D-element binding protein (Dbp), in skeletal muscle (H/L: 10.7 +/- 3.7 at 3 h vs. 2.2 +/- 0.3 at 0 h pAO; P = 0.03). Furthermore, tyrosine hydroxylase expression was asymmetrical in the adrenal medulla of split (H/L: 1.9 +/- 0.5 at 0 h) vs. unsplit hamsters (1.2 +/- 0.04; P &lt; 0.05). Consistent with a model of neurally controlled gene expression, we found significant correlations between the phase angle between morning and evening components (psi(me)) and the level of asymmetry (H/L or I/C). Our results indicate that neural pathways contribute to, but cannot completely account for, SCN regulation of the phase of peripheral oscillators.
Ethylene glycol (EG) exposure is a common model for kidney stones, because animals accumulate calcium oxalate monohydrate (COM) in kidneys. Wistar rats are more sensitive to EG than Fischer 344 (F344) rats, with greater COM deposition in kidneys. The mechanisms by which COM accumulates differently among strains are poorly understood. Urinary proteins inhibit COM adhesion to renal cells, which could alter COM deposition in kidneys. We hypothesize that COM accumulates more in Wistar rat kidneys because of lower levels of inhibitory proteins in urine. Wistar and F344 rats were treated with 0.75% EG in drinking water for 8 wk. Twenty-four-hour urine was collected every 2 wk for analysis of urinary proteins. Similar studies were conducted for 2 wk using 2% hydroxyproline (HP) as an alternative oxalate source. Total urinary protein was higher in F344 than Wistar rats at all times. Tamm-Horsfall protein was not different between strains. Osteopontin (OPN) levels in Wistar urine and kidney tissue were higher and were further increased by EG treatment. This increase in OPN occurred before renal COM accumulation. Untreated F344 rats showed greater CD45 and ED-1 staining in kidneys than untreated Wistars; in contrast, EG treatment increased CD45 and ED-1 staining in Wistars more than in F344 rats, indicating macrophage infiltration. This increase occurred in parallel with the increase in OPN and before COM accumulation. Like EG, HP induced markedly greater oxalate concentrations in the plasma and urine of Wistar rats compared with F344 rats. These results suggest that OPN upregulation and macrophage infiltration do not completely protect against COM accumulation and may be a response to crystal retention. Because the two oxalate precursors, EG and HP, produced similar elevations of oxalate, the strain difference in COM accumulation may result more so from metabolic differences between strains than from differences in urinary proteins or inflammatory responses.


The chick embryo is one of the most traditional models in developing neuroscience and its visual system has been one of the most exhaustively studied. The retina has been used as a model for studying the development of the nervous system. Here, we describe the morphological features that characterize each stage of the retina development and studies of the neurogenesis period of some specific neurochemical subpopulations of retinal cells by using a combination of immunohistochemistry and autoradiography of tritiated-thymidine. It could be concluded that the proliferation period of dopaminergic, GABAergic, cholinoceptive and GABAceptive cells does not follow a common rule of the neurogenesis. In addition, some specific neurochemical cell groups can have a restrict proliferation period when compared to the total cell population.
Cervical lesions compressing the spinal cord pose a significant risk of exacerbating the existing neurological condition during tracheal intubation and subsequent positioning. Awake fibreoptic-assisted intubation is a suitable option in such situations. We describe how the use of dexmedetomidine for sedation during awake fibreoptic intubation also facilitated self-positioning before surgery in a patient with a cervical cord compressive lesion and raised intracranial pressure undergoing excision of a cerebellopontine angle lesion in the lateral position, without any adverse neurological outcome.
The role of G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) in numerous physiological processes that may be disrupted or modified in disease makes them key targets for the development of new therapeutic medicines. A wide variety of resonance energy transfer (RET) techniques such as fluorescence RET and bioluminescence RET have been developed in recent years to detect protein-protein interactions in living cells. Furthermore, these techniques are now being exploited to screen for novel compounds that activate or block GPCRs and to search for new, previously undiscovered signaling pathways activated by well-known pharmacologically classified drugs. The high resolution that can be achieved with these RET methods means that they are well suited to study both intramolecular conformational changes in response to ligand binding at the receptor level and intermolecular interactions involving protein translocation in subcellular compartments resulting from external stimuli. In this review we highlight the latest advances in these technologies to illustrate general principles.

Negative affect in humans and animals is known to cause individuals to interpret ambiguous stimuli pessimistically, a phenomenon termed 'cognitive bias'. Here, we used captive European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) to test the hypothesis that a reduction in environmental conditions, from enriched to non-enriched cages, would engender negative affect, and hence 'pessimistic' biases. We also explored whether individual differences in stereotypic behaviour (repetitive somersaulting) predicted 'pessimism'. Eight birds were trained on a novel conditional discrimination task with differential rewards, in which background shade (light or dark) determined which of two covered dishes contained a food reward. The reward was small when the background was light, but large when the background was dark. We then presented background shades intermediate between those trained to assess the birds' bias to choose the dish associated with the smaller food reward (a 'pessimistic' judgement) when the discriminative stimulus was ambiguous. Contrary to predictions, changes in the level of cage enrichment had no effect on 'pessimism'. However, changes in the latency to choose and probability of expressing a choice suggested that birds learnt rapidly that trials with ambiguous stimuli were unreinforced. Individual differences in performance of stereotypies did predict 'pessimism'. Specifically, birds that somersaulted were more likely to choose the dish associated with the smaller food reward in the presence of the most ambiguous discriminative stimulus. We propose that somersaulting is part of a wider suite of behavioural traits indicative of a stress response to captive conditions that is symptomatic of a negative affective state.
The memory-based recognition of a goal is a capacity well demonstrated in birds, and understanding this ability often involves determining the relative importance of spatial and feature information in representing the properties of a goal. However, surprisingly little avian research has examined goal recognition in a field setting. Here, we demonstrate that homing pigeons can be successfully trained outdoors to fly to and land on a goal platform located in an array of other platforms at a distance on the order of 100 m. They can do so under conditions when the properties of the goal are stable in time as well as when the properties of the goal periodically change; the latter condition indicating that homing pigeons can rapidly adapt their memory representations to take into account changing environmental conditions. When probed for preferential use of either spatial (location) or feature-based (color) information, the pigeons demonstrated an indifferent capacity to use both independent of task demands. The homing pigeon memory systems that support goal recognition appear to be opportunistic with respect to the information exploited, using spatial and feature information equally to guide their behavior. Therefore, and despite strong natural and artificial selection for navigational ability, spatial information is no more important than feature cues in representing a goal location for homing pigeons flying outdoors.
Autism and its highly variable symptomology were the themes of the 23rd Annual International Symposium of the Center for the Study of Gene Structure and Function at Hunter College in New York City, held 15 January 2010. The meeting explored the extensive research on autism from several perspectives-integrating research on genetics, neuroscience, and behavior-from researchers presenting new and innovative approaches to understanding the autism spectrum. Early diagnosis, intervention, and genetics were major themes because they are seen as essential areas in which progress is needed before the rise in numbers of cases of autism throughout the world, which some describe as approaching an epidemic, can be stemmed. Several genetic, neurobiological, and behavioral markers of autism have been identified that may ultimately provide the basis for early identification, and that presently define the key areas requiring intensive intervention.
The adult brain is much more resilient and adaptable than previously believed, and adaptive structural plasticity involves growth and shrinkage of dendritic trees, turnover of synapses, and limited amounts of neurogenesis in the forebrain, especially the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. Stress and sex hormones help to mediate adaptive structural plasticity, which has been extensively investigated in the hippocampus and to a lesser extent in the prefrontal cortex and amygdala, all brain regions that are involved in cognitive and emotional functions. Stress and sex hormones exert their effects on brain structural remodeling through both classical genomic as well as non-genomic mechanisms, and they do so in collaboration with neurotransmitters and other intra- and extracellular mediators. This review will illustrate the actions of estrogen on synapse formation in the hippocampus and the process of stress-induced remodeling of dendrites and synapses in the hippocampus, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex. The influence of early developmental epigenetic events, such as early life stress and brain sexual differentiation, is noted along with the interactions between sex hormones and the effects of stress on the brain. Because hormones influence brain structure and function and because hormone secretion is governed by the brain, applied molecular neuroscience techniques can begin to reveal the role of hormones in brain-related disorders and the treatment of these diseases. A better understanding of hormone-brain interactions should promote more flexible approaches to the treatment of psychiatric disorders, as well as their prevention through both behavioral and pharmaceutical interventions.
JC virus (JCV) DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) provides the laboratory confirmatory diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients whose clinical symptoms and magnetic resonance imaging findings are consistent with PML.The Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Neuroscience (LMMN), National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institutes of Health (NIH), made the confirmatory laboratory diagnosis in 35 multiple sclerosis (MS) patients treated with natalizumab. Thirteen patients had 3 or more CSF samples taken from weeks to months following PML diagnosis. Seven of the 13 patients demonstrated persistence of JCV DNA in the CSF even though all patients experienced immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), 11 patients had plasma exchange, and 2 had immunoabsorption. Specific anti-JCV antibody was measured in plasma/sera samples from 25 of the 35 patients. Most of the samples showed moderate to high or rising antibody levels from the time of PML diagnosis. However, plasma from 1 patient at or near the time of PML diagnosis had a titer considered seronegative and 2 other plasma samples from patients had titers considered at baseline for seropositivity. In several PML cases, viral persistence and neurological deficits have continued for several years, indicating that once initiated, JCV infection may not entirely clear, even with IRIS.



Patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) show structural and functional abnormalities in hippocampus and surrounding mesial temporal structures. Brain signal complexity appears to be a marker of functional integrity or capacity. We examined complexity in 8 patients with intracranial hippocampal electrodes during performance of memory tasks (scene encoding and recognition) known to be sensitive to mesial temporal integrity. Our patients were shown to have right mesial temporal seizure onsets, permitting us to evaluate both epileptogenic (right) and healthy (left) hippocampi. Using multiscale entropy (MSE) as a measure of complexity, we found that iEEG from the epileptogenic hippocampus showed less complexity than iEEG from the healthy hippocampus. This difference was reliable for encoding but not for recognition. Our results indicate that both functional integrity and cognitive demands influence hippocampal signal complexity.
In order to accelerate translational neuroscience with the goal of improving clinical care it has become important to support rapid accumulation and analysis of large, heterogeneous neuroimaging samples and their metadata from both normal control and patient groups. We propose a multi-centre, multinational approach to accelerate the data mining of large samples and facilitate data-led clinical translation of neuroimaging results in stroke. Such data-driven approaches are likely to have an early impact on clinically relevant brain recovery while we simultaneously pursue the much more challenging model-based approaches that depend on a deep understanding of the complex neural circuitry and physiological processes that support brain function and recovery. We present a brief overview of three (potentially converging) approaches to neuroimaging data warehousing and processing that aim to support these diverse methods for facilitating prediction of cognitive and behavioral recovery after stroke, or other types of brain injury or disease.
Neurocomputational models of large-scale brain dynamics utilizing realistic connectivity matrices have advanced our understanding of the operational network principles in the brain. In particular, spontaneous or resting state activity has been studied on various scales of spatial and temporal organization including those that relate to physiological, encephalographic and hemodynamic data. In this article we focus on the brain from the perspective of a dynamic network and discuss the role of its network constituents in shaping brain dynamics. These constituents include the brain's structural connectivity, the population dynamics of its network nodes and the time delays involved in signal transmission. In addition, no discussion of brain dynamics would be complete without considering noise and stochastic effects. In fact, there is mounting evidence that the interaction between noise and dynamics plays an important functional role in shaping key brain processes. In particular, we discuss a unifying theoretical framework that explains how structured spatio-temporal resting state patterns emerge from noise driven explorations of unstable or stable oscillatory states. Embracing this perspective, we explore the consequences of network manipulations to understand some of the brain's dysfunctions, as well as network effects that offer new insights into routes towards therapy, recovery and brain repair. These collective insights will be at the core of a new computational environment, the Virtual Brain, which will allow flexible incorporation of empirical data constraining the brain models to integrate, unify and predict network responses to incipient pathological processes.



Ultrasonic vocalization (USV) in the 50-kHz range occurs in rats immediately upon first-time exposure to cocaine or amphetamine, and rapidly increases with repetitive drug exposure at the same dose. This sensitized positive-affect response to these drugs of abuse is persistent in that the peak level of USVs again appears when the drug is reintroduced after several weeks of drug discontinuation. The present study explored whether with enough experience USVs might be elicited, and gradually escalate, in anticipation of impending drug delivery. Rats were trained to self-administer (SA) cocaine intravenously by lever pressing 5 days per week for 4 weeks. Yoked rats received experimenter-delivered cocaine matching that of SA rats. USVs and locomotor activity were recorded during each 10-min period prior to 60-min drug access sessions. Extinction trials in which drug access was denied were then carried out over an additional 4-week period. After about a week of cocaine experience, both the SA and yoked groups began to progressively increase USVs when placed in an environment that predicted forthcoming drug exposure. Extinction of anticipatory calls and locomotion occurred over days after drug access ended. USVs may be a useful model for specifically investigating the neural basis of drug anticipation and aid in developing and assessing new addiction treatment strategies for reducing craving and relapse.
Recent changes in demographic patterns of drug use have resulted in the increased non-medical use of prescription opiates. These users are younger and more likely to be female, which has the potential for increasing rates of in utero exposure. Therefore, we developed a rat model that simulates a prescription opiate-dependent woman who becomes pregnant. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were treated for 30 days via oral gavage with ascending doses of oxycodone HCl up to a final dose of 15mg/kg/day, which was maintained during breeding and gestation. Controls were treated with water. The adult male offspring of these treated dams were tested on the radial arm maze, the Morris water maze (with a short and a long intertrial interval), and a spatial T-maze. Prenatal oxycodone exposure led to a deficit in the radial arm maze characterized by a greater number of reference memory errors, especially in the beginning of testing. In contrast, in the T-maze, prenatal oxycodone-exposed rats learned the task as well as well as the prenatal water controls. However, they had a modest deficit in retention of the task when assessed 5 days after acquisition training ended. For the Morris water maze, the intertrial interval affected the pattern of learning. While there was no deficit when the training had a short intertrial interval, when there was a long intertrial interval, prenatal oxycodone-exposed rats had poorer acquisition. The spatial learning deficit was characterized by and increased latency to find and a greater distance traveled to the platform in the prenatal oxycodone-exposed rats. These data were corroborated by analysis of the behavioral search strategy, which showed a decreased use of spatial strategies and an increase in non-spatial strategies, especially wall-hugging, in prenatal oxycodone-exposed rats as compared to prenatal water control rats on day 2 of acquisition. These results indicate that prenatal oxycodone exposure consistently impairs learning and memory in a battery of spatial tasks.
This study examined the genetic and environmental architecture underlying aggressive behavior measured by the Life History of Aggression Questionnaire (LHA; Coccaro et al. 1997a). Following preliminary phenotypic factor analysis procedures, multivariate behavioral genetics models were fit to responses from 2,925 adult twins from the PennTwins cohort on five LHA items assessing lifetime frequency of temper tantrums, indirect aggression, verbal aggression, fighting, and physical assault. The best-fitting model was a 2-factor common pathway model, indicating that these five aggressive behaviors are underpinned by two distinct etiological factors with different genetic and nonshared environmental influences. Although there was evidence of significant sex differences, the structure of the two factors appeared to be quite similar in males and females, where General Aggression and Physical Aggression factors emerged. Heritability of these factors ranged from .37 to .57, and nonshared environmental effects ranged from .43 to .63. The results of this study highlight the heterogeneous nature of the aggression construct and the need to consider differences in genetic and environmental influences on individual aggressive behaviors in a multivariate context.
This is a short overview focusing on the biochemical interactions underlying the protective effects of lithium at the neuronal level. These include lithium modulation of autophagy, growth factors, excitotoxicity, and a variety of mechanisms underlying cell death, neurogenesis, and neuronal differentiation. All these effects represent the result of a multifaceted pharmacology, which is becoming more and more complex. Nonetheless, when trying to dissect the various mechanisms of action of lithium, two primary targets emerge: glycogen synthase kinase 3beta and phosphatidylinositol phosphatase. The numerous lithium effects on biochemical systems are placed downstream of these two main mechanisms. At several steps, these mechanisms interconnect to each other, thus making it difficult to keep distinct the biochemical cascades promoted by lithium. In this way, it is not surprising that, despite being described as different phenomena at the behavioral level, molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of lithium on mood, motor activity, and sensitization overlap with those responsible for neuroprotection and neurorestoration. It is likely that the ancestral role of this ion as a modulator of cell survival, cell growth, movement, and mood is the consequence of a few molecular mechanisms operating in different neuronal networks, where a variety of cascade events take place. This review is an attempt to elucidate the primary effects of lithium to interconnect the simpler targets to the most complex pharmacological effects.
The discovery that the addictive drugs impair neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus has prompted the elaboration of new biological hypotheses to explain addiction and drug-induced cognitive dysfunction. Considerable evidence now implicates the process of adult neurogenesis in at least some critical components of hippocampal-dependent memory function. In experimental models, psychomotor stimulant drugs produce alterations in the rate of birth, survival, maturation and functional integration of adult-born hippocampal neurons. Thus some of the deleterious consequences of drug abuse on memory could result from the neurotoxic actions of drugs on adult hippocampal neurogenesis. In this review, we will first summarize preclinical and clinical literature on the disruptive effects of drugs such as cocaine and ecstasy in the areas of learning, memory and attention. We will also summarize data that document the widespread effects of stimulant drugs on progenitor activity and precursor incorporation in the adult dentate gyrus. Finally, we will examine evidence that supports the involvement of hippocampal neurogenesis in specific aspects of learning and memory function and we will consider critically the hypothesis that some of the negative consequences of drug abuse on cognition might be ascribed to deficits in adult hippocampal neurogenesis. Evidence suggests that stimulant abuse impacts negatively on at least four areas of memory/cognitive function that may be influenced by adult hippocampal neurogenesis: contextual memory, spatial memory, working memory and cognitive flexibility.
Well-developed cellular mechanisms exist to preserve glutamate homeostasis and regulate extrasynaptic glutamate levels. Accumulating evidence indicates that disruptions in glutamate homeostasis are associated with addictive disorders. The disruptions in glutamate concentrations observed after prolonged exposure to drugs of abuse are associated with changes in the function and activity of several key components within the homeostatic control mechanism, including the cystine/glutamate exchanger xc(-) and the glial glutamate transporter, EAAT2/GLT-1. Changes in the balance between synaptic and extrasynaptic glutamate levels in turn influence signaling through presynaptic and postsynaptic glutamate receptors, and thus affect synaptic plasticity and circuit-level activity. In this review, we describe the evidence for impaired glutamate homeostasis as a critical mediator of long-term drug-seeking behaviors, how chronic neuroadaptations in xc(-) and the glutamate transporter, GLT-1, mediate a disruption in glutamate homeostasis, and how targeting these components restores glutamate levels and inhibits drug-seeking behaviors.
Vitamin D is becoming increasingly recognized as a nontraditional drug target for different brain pathologies. Although widely known for their role in calcium metabolism, vitamin D and its receptor have been linked to several brain disorders, including cognitive decline, epilepsy, affective disorders, and schizophrenia. Here we discuss mounting evidence, and parallel recent clinical and animal behavioral, genetic and pharmacological data to emphasize the emerging role of the neurosteroid vitamin D system in brain function.
Cerebral lateralization, an evolutionarily ancient and widespread phenomenon among vertebrates, is thought to bestow cognitive advantages. The advantages of lateralization at the individual-level do not necessarily require that the entire population share the same pattern of lateralization. In fact, directional bias in lateralization may lead to behavioural predictability and enhanced predator success or prey evasion. Recent theory has suggested that population-level lateralization may be favored if individuals are better able to perform coordinated behaviours, providing a distinct advantage in cooperative contexts. Here we test whether the highly social, cooperatively breeding cichlid fish Neolamprologus pulcher shows lateralized responses to a social stimulus. We found population-level biases in males; on average male N. pulcher use their right eye/left hemisphere to view their mirror image. Individual females had a preferred hemisphere, but these preferences appeared not to be directionally aligned among females. We discuss these results in the context of coordinated social behaviour and suggest future research directions.
Activation of beta-adrenergic receptors (AR) in adipocytes triggers acute changes in metabolism that can alter patterns of gene expression. This work examined the mechanisms by which activation of hormone sensitive lipase (HSL) induces expression of inflammatory cytokines in adipocytes in vivo and model adipocytes in vitro. beta3-AR activation in mice triggered expression of inflammatory genes CCL2, IL-6, and PAI-1, as well as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress markers GRP78 and CHOP. Pharmacological inhibition of HSL blocked induction of inflammatory genes, but not ER stress markers. Promoting intracellular accumulation of free fatty acids (FFAs) in 3T3-L1 adipocytes increased expression of inflammatory cytokines, whereas inhibiting ceramide synthesis partly blocked PAI-1 expression, but not IL-6. Induction of inflammatory markers in vivo and in vitro was preceded by phosphorylation of p38 and JNK, and inhibition of HSL prevented activation of these kinases. Experiments with pharmacological inhibitors of specific MAP kinases demonstrated the importance of p38 MAPK as a mediator of lipolysis-induced inflammation in vivo and in vitro. Together, these results demonstrate that FFAs liberated by HSL activate p38 and JNK, and p38 mediates pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in adipose tissue.
Based on brain imaging findings, we present a model according to which addiction emerges as an imbalance in the information processing and integration among various brain circuits and functions. The dysfunctions reflect (a) decreased sensitivity of reward circuits, (b) enhanced sensitivity of memory circuits to conditioned expectations to drugs and drug cues, stress reactivity, and (c) negative mood, and a weakened control circuit. Although initial experimentation with a drug of abuse is largely a voluntary behavior, continued drug use can eventually impair neuronal circuits in the brain that are involved in free will, turning drug use into an automatic compulsive behavior. The ability of addictive drugs to co-opt neurotransmitter signals between neurons (including dopamine, glutamate, and GABA) modifies the function of different neuronal circuits, which begin to falter at different stages of an addiction trajectory. Upon exposure to the drug, drug cues or stress this results in unrestrained hyperactivation of the motivation/drive circuit that results in the compulsive drug intake that characterizes addiction.
The natural phytocompound resveratrol has been considered for many years a potential anticancer drug, but recently it has come to the attention of neuroscientist too, as it displays neuroprotective actions and activates the sirtuins' family member SIRT. Sirtuins are enzymes with preferential deacetylase activity. Human sirtuins are coded by seven genes (SIRT). The most investigated sirtuin is SIRT, which is involved in several physiologic and pathologic processes including apoptosis, autophagy, diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disorders, and neurodegeneration. Resveratrol has neuroprotective features both in vitro and in vivo in models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but it has proved to be beneficial also in ischemic stroke, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and epilepsy. Here, we summarize the in vitro and in vivo experimental results highlighting the possible role of resveratrol as neuroprotective biofactor with a particular focus on AD.

Pathological gambling (PG) is an impulse control disorder with suggestive genetic vulnerability component. We evaluated the association of genetic variants in the dopaminergic receptor genes (DRD1-3s) with risk for gambling in healthy subjects using the Canadian Problem Gambling Index (CPGI). Healthy Caucasian subjects who had gambled at least once in their lifetime (n=242) were included in the analysis. Gender was not associated with the CPGI, while younger age was associated with higher CPGI scores. We have found that none of the single polymorphisms investigated on DRD1 and DRD3 were associated with CPGI scores in healthy subjects. However, we observed trends for association on the TaqIA/rs1800497 polymorphism (P=0.10) and the haplotype flanking DRD2 (G/C/A rs11604671/rs4938015/rs2303380; P=0.06). Both trends were associated with lower CPGI score. Our results provide further evidence for the role of dopamine D2-like receptor in addiction susceptibility.
Nanoparticles have an enormous potential for the development of applications in biomedicine such as gene or drug delivery. We developed and characterized NH(2) functionalized CdSe/ZnS quantum dot (QD)-doped SiO(2) nanoparticles (NPs) with both imaging and gene carrier capabilities. We show that QD-doped SiO(2) NPs are internalized by primary cortical neural cells without inducing cell death in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, the ability to bind, transport and release DNA into the cell allows GFP-plasmid transfection of NIH-3T3 and human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell lines. QD-doped SiO(2) NPs properties make them a valuable tool for future nanomedicine application.
A novel imidazobenzazepine template (5a) with potent dual H(1)/5-HT(2A) antagonist activity was identified. Application of a zwitterionic approach to this poorly selective and poorly developable starting point successfully delivered a class of high quality leads, 3-[4-(3-R(1)-2-R-5H-imidazo[1,2-b][2]benzazepin-11-yl)-1-piperazinyl]-2,2-dimethylpropanoic acids (e.g., 9, 19, 20, and 21), characterized by potent and balanced H(1)/5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist activities and good developability profiles.
Novel series of pyrrole-pyrazinone and pyrazole-pyrazinone have been identified as potent and selective Vasopressin(1b) receptor antagonists. Exploration of the substitution pattern around the core of these templates allowed generation of compounds with high inhibitory potency at the Vasopressin(1b) receptor, including examples that showed good selectivity with respect to Vasopressin(1a), Vasopressin(2), and Oxytocin receptor subtypes.
A computational lead-hopping exercise identified compound 4 as a structurally distinct P2X(7) receptor antagonist. Structure-activity relationships (SAR) of a series of pyroglutamic acid amide analogues of 4 were investigated and compound 31 was identified as a potent P2X(7) antagonist with excellent in vivo activity in animal models of pain, and a profile suitable for progression to clinical studies.



Extracts from or derivatives of Phaseolus vulgaris beans reduce body weight and food intake, including highly palatable foods and fluids, in multiple rodent models of overeating and obesity. The present study was designed to assess whether a standardised P. vulgaris dry extract was effective in reducing also the operant self-administration of a chocolate-flavoured beverage. To this end, rats were initially trained to lever-press for a chocolate-flavoured beverage under a fixed ratio 10 schedule of reinforcement in daily 60 min sessions. Once lever-responding reached stable levels, the effect of a P. vulgaris dry extract on the number of lever-responses for the chocolate-flavoured beverage was determined. Pretreatment with 50, 200 and 500 mg (intragastric) P. vulgaris dry extract per kg produced an approximate 15, 35 and 40 % reduction, respectively, in lever-responding for the chocolate-flavoured beverage. These results indicate the capacity of a P. vulgaris preparation to reduce the reinforcing properties of a highly palatable fluid in rats.





Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 'Ecstasy') is a ring-substituted amphetamine and a popular drug of abuse. In addition to ability to induce euphoria, MDMA abuse is associated with a range of acute and long-term hazardous effects. This paper is focused on once such adverse effect: its ability to negatively impact on functioning of the immune system. Research demonstrates that MDMA has immunosuppressive properties, with both innate and adaptive arms of the immune system being affected. The ability of MDMA to suppress innate immunity is indicated by impaired neutrophil phagocytosis and reduced production of dendritic cell/macrophage-derived pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumour necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-12 and IL-15. MDMA also suppresses innate IFN-gamma production, and considering the role of IFN-gamma in priming antigen-presenting cells, it is not surprising that MDMA reduces MHC class II expression on dendritic cells and macrophages, and inhibits co-stimulatory molecule expression. Paradoxically, studies demonstrate that MDMA elicits pro-inflammatory actions in the CNS by activating microglia, the resident innate immune cells in the brain. In terms of adaptive immunity, MDMA reduces circulating lymphocyte numbers, particularly CD4(+) T-cells; suppresses T-cell proliferation; and skews cytokine production in a Th(2) direction. For the most part, the immunosuppressive effects of MDMA cannot be attributed to a direct action of the drug on immune cells, but rather due to the release of endogenous immunomodulatory substances. In this regard, peripheral beta-adrenoceptors and cholinergic receptors have been shown to mediate some immunosuppressive effects of MDMA. Finally, we discuss emerging evidence indicating that MDMA-induced immunosuppression can translate into significant health risks for abusers.


Acquired neuromyotonia encompasses a group of inflammatory disorders characterized by symptoms reflecting peripheral nerve hyperexcitability, which may be clinically confused in the early stages with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Despite a clear peripheral nerve focus, it remains unclear whether the ectopic activity in acquired neuromyotonia receives a central contribution. To clarify whether cortical hyperexcitability contributes to development of clinical features of acquired neuromyotonia, the present study investigated whether threshold tracking transcranial magnetic stimulation could detect cortical hyperexcitability in acquired neuromyotonia, and whether this technique could differentiate acquired neuromyotonia from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Cortical excitability studies were undertaken in 18 patients with acquired neuromyotonia and 104 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, with results compared to 62 normal controls. Short-interval intracortical inhibition in patients with acquired neuromyotonia was significantly different when compared to patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (averaged short interval intracortical inhibition acquired neuromyotonia 11.3 +/- 1.9%; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 2.6 +/- 0.9%, P &lt; 0.001). In addition, the motor evoked potential amplitudes (acquired neuromyotonia 21.0 +/- 3.1%; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 38.1 +/- 2.2%, P &lt; 0.0001), intracortical facilitation (acquired neuromyotonia -0.9 +/- 1.3%; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis -2.3 +/- 0.6%, P &lt; 0.0001), resting motor thresholds (acquired neuromyotonia 62.2 +/- 1.6%; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 57.2 +/- 0.9%, P &lt; 0.05) and cortical silent period durations (acquired neuromyotonia 212.8 +/- 6.9 ms; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 181.1 +/- 4.3 ms, P &lt; 0.0001) were significantly different between patients with acquired neuromyotonia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Threshold tracking transcranial magnetic stimulation established corticomotoneuronal integrity in acquired neuromyotonia, arguing against a contribution of central processes to the development of nerve hyperexcitability in acquired neuromyotonia.
Gene therapy using recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors overexpressing neuropeptide Y in the hippocampus exerts seizure-suppressant effects in rodent epilepsy models and is currently considered for clinical application in patients with intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Seizure suppression by neuropeptide Y in the hippocampus is predominantly mediated by Y2 receptors, which, together with neuropeptide Y, are upregulated after seizures as a compensatory mechanism. To explore whether such upregulation could prevent seizures, we overexpressed Y2 receptors in the hippocampus using recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors. In two temporal lobe epilepsy models, electrical kindling and kainate-induced seizures, vector-based transduction of Y2 receptor complementary DNA in the hippocampus of adult rats exerted seizure-suppressant effects. Simultaneous overexpression of Y2 and neuropeptide Y had a more pronounced seizure-suppressant effect. These results demonstrate that overexpression of Y2 receptors (alone or in combination with neuropeptide Y) could be an alternative strategy for epilepsy treatment.
Congenital amusia is a neurogenetic disorder that affects the processing of musical pitch in speakers of non-tonal languages like English and French. We assessed whether this musical disorder exists among speakers of Mandarin Chinese who use pitch to alter the meaning of words. Using the Montreal Battery of Evaluation of Amusia, we tested 117 healthy young Mandarin speakers with no self-declared musical problems and 22 individuals who reported musical difficulties and scored two standard deviations below the mean obtained by the Mandarin speakers without amusia. These 22 amusic individuals showed a similar pattern of musical impairment as did amusic speakers of non-tonal languages, by exhibiting a more pronounced deficit in melody than in rhythm processing. Furthermore, nearly half the tested amusics had impairments in the discrimination and identification of Mandarin lexical tones. Six showed marked impairments, displaying what could be called lexical tone agnosia, but had normal tone production. Our results show that speakers of tone languages such as Mandarin may experience musical pitch disorder despite early exposure to speech-relevant pitch contrasts. The observed association between the musical disorder and lexical tone difficulty indicates that the pitch disorder as defining congenital amusia is not specific to music or culture but is rather general in nature.
Antibodies that immunoprecipitate (125)I-alpha-dendrotoxin-labelled voltage-gated potassium channels extracted from mammalian brain tissue have been identified in patients with neuromyotonia, Morvan's syndrome, limbic encephalitis and a few cases of adult-onset epilepsy. These conditions often improve following immunomodulatory therapies. However, the proportions of the different syndromes, the numbers with associated tumours and the relationships with potassium channel subunit antibody specificities have been unclear. We documented the clinical phenotype and tumour associations in 96 potassium channel antibody positive patients (titres &gt;400 pM). Five had thymomas and one had an endometrial adenocarcinoma. To define the antibody specificities, we looked for binding of serum antibodies and their effects on potassium channel currents using human embryonic kidney cells expressing the potassium channel subunits. Surprisingly, only three of the patients had antibodies directed against the potassium channel subunits. By contrast, we found antibodies to three proteins that are complexed with (125)I-alpha-dendrotoxin-labelled potassium channels in brain extracts: (i) contactin-associated protein-2 that is localized at the juxtaparanodes in myelinated axons; (ii) leucine-rich, glioma inactivated 1 protein that is most strongly expressed in the hippocampus; and (iii) Tag-1/contactin-2 that associates with contactin-associated protein-2. Antibodies to Kv1 subunits were found in three sera, to contactin-associated protein-2 in 19 sera, to leucine-rich, glioma inactivated 1 protein in 55 sera and to contactin-2 in five sera, four of which were also positive for the other antibodies. The remaining 18 sera were negative for potassium channel subunits and associated proteins by the methods employed. Of the 19 patients with contactin-associated protein-antibody-2, 10 had neuromyotonia or Morvan's syndrome, compared with only 3 of the 55 leucine-rich, glioma inactivated 1 protein-antibody positive patients (P &lt; 0.0001), who predominantly had limbic encephalitis. The responses to immunomodulatory therapies, defined by changes in modified Rankin scores, were good except in the patients with tumours, who all had contactin-associated-2 protein antibodies. This study confirms that the majority of patients with high potassium channel antibodies have limbic encephalitis without tumours. The identification of leucine-rich, glioma inactivated 1 protein and contactin-associated protein-2 as the major targets of potassium channel antibodies, and their associations with different clinical features, begins to explain the diversity of these syndromes; furthermore, detection of contactin-associated protein-2 antibodies should help identify the risk of an underlying tumour and a poor prognosis in future patients.
There is emerging evidence from animal studies for a neuroprotective role of sex steroids in neurodegenerative diseases, but studies in human brain are lacking. We have carried out an extensive study of the neurosteroid biosynthetic pathways in substantia nigra (SN), caudate nucleus (CN) and putamen (PU) of 7 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and 7 matched controls. The mRNA levels of 37 genes including neurosteroid biosynthetic enzymes, hormone receptors and the neurosteroid-modulated gamma-amino-butyric acid -A (GABA-A) receptor subunits were analyzed by quantitative PCR (qPCR). In the SN, we found downregulation of 5alpha-reductase type 1 (5alpha-R1), sulfotransferase 2B1 (SULT2B1) and some GABA-A receptor subunits (alpha4, beta1) while in the CN, upregulation of 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3 (3alpha-HSD3) and alpha4 GABA-A receptor subunit (22-fold) was observed. No significant differences were found in the PU. These data imply an involvement of pregnane steroids and changes in GABAergic neurotransmission in the neurodegenerative process and suggest that neurosteroids may deserve further investigation as potential therapeutic agents in PD.
The processing of human bodies is important in social life and for the recognition of another person's actions, moods, and intentions. Recent neuroimaging studies on mental imagery of human body parts suggest that the left hemisphere is dominant in body processing. However, studies on mental imagery of full human bodies reported stronger right hemisphere or bilateral activations. Here, we measured functional magnetic resonance imaging during mental imagery of bilateral partial (upper) and full bodies. Results show that, independently of whether a full or upper body is processed, the right hemisphere (temporo-parietal cortex, anterior parietal cortex, premotor cortex, bilateral superior parietal cortex) is mainly involved in mental imagery of full or partial human bodies. However, distinct activations were found in extrastriate cortex for partial bodies (right fusiform face area) and full bodies (left extrastriate body area). We propose that a common brain network, mainly on the right side, is involved in the mental imagery of human bodies, while two distinct brain areas in extrastriate cortex code for mental imagery of full and upper bodies.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is traditionally considered an autoimmune inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS) with much knowledge available to support this view. However, this characterization implies that the primary event is an aberrant immune response directed at CNS antigens, promoting inflammation and later driving progressive axo-glial degeneration. Trials with potent anti-inflammatory agents and detailed neuropathological studies raise questions about this sequence of events. This hypothetical paper argues that MS may be primarily a &quot;cytodegenerative&quot; disease, possibly first involving the oligodendrocyte/myelin unit. Liberation of autoantigens secondarily recruits an immune response, the force of which heavily depends on the host's immune predisposition. Thus, the spectrum of MS from highly aggressive Marburg type, to primary progressive disease with little inflammatory burden, is governed by a &quot;convolution&quot; between the underlying cytodegeneration and the host's immune predilection. Clinical heterogeneity may be a reflection of a variable immune response, whereas in reality, the &quot;real MS&quot; may be a homogeneous degenerative process analogous to well known primary neurodegenerative diseases.



Stem cell-based therapies represent a promising therapy for myocardial infarction. Pre-clinical and clinical tests performed in the last 10 years indicate that several types of stem cells and their progenies reduce infarct size and improve cardiac contractile function. The mechanism is dependent on the type of cell and involves a combination of several factors, such as: (i) the formation of new blood vessels, (ii) the release of pro-survival, pro-angiogenic and anti-inflammatory factors (paracrine effect), and (iii) the functional contribution of cardiomyocytes. With the exception of cardiac progenitor cells and pluripotent stem cells (human embryonic stem cells and inducible pluripotent stem cells) that have the unquestioned ability to give rise to cardiomyocytes, the other stem cells, including bone-marrow stem cells and fetal stem cells, have none or very limited capacity to differentiate into contractile cells. For both cases, it is of the utmost importance to develop strategies to promote cell survival and in vivo engraftment as well as to unravel the therapeutic mechanism of stem cells. This review focuses on the recent developments of stem cells and on the use of biomaterials for efficiently stem cell delivery and tracking.
There are several reports of central pontine myelinolysis (CPM) in a setting of malnutrition, alcoholism, and chronic debilitating illness associated with electrolyte abnormalities, especially hyponatremia. The cause of myelinolysis is still under debate, and, although osmotic effects are thought to be responsible in most cases, alternative pathological factors should be considered [King et al.: Am J Med Sci 2010;339:561-567]. We report a case of CPM in a patient with recent chemotherapy for colon cancer without electrolyte unbalance and otherwise unexplained causes. Moreover, the present case is an example of the unusual clinical ataxic variant, followed by complete recovery without any specific treatment. The diagnosis was confirmed by MRI, which showed a characteristic hyperintense signal abnormality in the central part of the pons with an unaffected outer rim. One month later, we observed complete resolution of clinical and radiological symptoms.
The mechanisms underlying neuronal pathology and death in the spinal cord (SC) during inflammation remain elusive. We previously showed the important role of plasma membrane calcium ATPases (PMCAs) in the survival of SC neurons, in vitro. We also postulated that a decrease in PMCA2 expression could cause neuronal death during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis. The current studies were undertaken to define the specific contribution of PMCA2 to degeneration of SC neurons, the effectors downstream to PMCA2 mediating neuronal death and the triggers that reduce PMCA2 expression. We report that knockdown of PMCA2 in SC neurons decreases collapsin response mediator protein 1 (CRMP1) levels. This is followed by cell death. Silencing of CRMP1 expression also leads to neuronal loss. Kainic acid reduces both PMCA2 and CRMP1 levels and induces neuronal death. Administration of an alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA)/kainate receptor antagonist, at onset or peak of EAE, restores the decreased PMCA2 and CRMP1 levels to control values and ameliorates clinical deficits. Thus, our data link the reduction in PMCA2 expression with perturbations in the expression of CRMP1 and the ensuing death of SC neurons. This represents an additional mechanism underlying AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity with relevance to neurodegeneration in EAE.
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) mediates receptor tyrosine kinase and G protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling by phosphorylating phosphoinositides to elicit various biological responses. Galpha(q) has previously been shown to inhibit class IA PI3K by interacting with the p110alpha subunit. However, it is not known if PI3Ks can associate with other Galpha(q) family members such as Galpha(16). Here, we demonstrated that class IA PI3Ks, p85/p110alpha and p85/p110beta, could form stable complexes with wild type Galpha(16) and its constitutively active mutant (Galpha(16)QL) in HEK293 cells. In contrast, no interaction between Galpha(16) and class IB PI3K was observed. The Galpha(16)/p110alpha signaling complex could be detected in hematopoietic cells that endogenously express Galpha(16). Overexpression of class I PI3Ks did not inhibit Galpha(16)QL-induced IP(3) production and, unlike p63RhoGEF, class IA PI3Ks did not attenuate the binding of PLCbeta(2) to Galpha(16)QL. On the contrary, the function of class IA PI3Ks was suppressed by Galpha(16)QL as revealed by diminished production of PIP(3) as well as inhibition of EGF-induced Akt phosphorylation. Taken together, these results suggest that Galpha(16) can bind to class IA PI3Ks and inhibit the PI3K signaling pathway.
Antidepressants are widely used to treat several anxiety disorders, among which generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and panic disorder (PD). Serotonin (5-HT) is believed to play a key role in the mode of action of these agents, a major question being which pathways and receptor subtypes are involved in each type of anxiety disorder. The dual role of 5-HT in defense hypothesis assumes that 5-HT facilitates defensive responses to potential threat, like inhibitory avoidance, related to anxiety, whereas it inhibits defensive responses to proximal danger, like one-way escape, related to panic. The former action would be exerted at the forebrain, chiefly the amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), while the latter would be exerted at the dorsal periaqueductal gray (DPAG) matter of the midbrain. The present review is focused on studies designed to test this hypothesis, performed in animal models of anxiety and panic, as well as in human experimental anxiety tests. The reviewed results suggest that chronic, but not acute, administration of antidepressants suppress panic attacks by increasing the release of 5-HT and enhancing the responsivity of post-synaptic 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in the DPAG. The attenuation of generalized anxiety, also caused by the same drug treatment, would be due to the desensitization of 5-HT2C receptors and, less certainly, to increased stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors in forebrain structures. This action would result in less activation of the amygdala, medial PFC and insula by warning signals, as shown by the reviewed results obtained with functional neuroimaging in healthy volunteers and patients with anxiety disorders.
The chronic variant can be found in 10-20% of all cluster headache patients. While circadian and circannual rhythmicity are characteristic of the episodic variant, little is known on chronobiology in chronic cluster headache. We report a patient with chronic cluster evolved from episodic who recorded a total of 5447 attacks over 10 years. After spectral analysis, cosinor models were calculated within the frequency ranges of 23-25 h (circadian) and 11-13 months (circannual), respectively. Significant results (P &lt; 0.01) were found for 24-h periods, but not for circannual intervals (12 months). However, with regard to circannual periodicity, a semi-circannual rhythm (5-7 months) was suitable for curve fit and yielded significant results in the cosinor analysis at 6 months (P &lt; 0.05). This remarkable long observation period of 10 years shows that, at least for secondary chronic cluster headache which evolved from the episodic form, a typical circadian and circannual rhythmicity comparable to that of episodic cluster headache exists.
The secreted ligand Reelin is thought to regulate the translocation and positioning of prospective layer 6 (L6) neurons into the preplate, a plexus of neurons overlying the ventricular zone. We examined wild type and Reelin-deficient cortices and found that L6 neurons were equivalently positioned beneath the pia during the period of preplate splitting and initial cortical plate (CP) formation. The absence of detectable L6 ectopia in &quot;reeler&quot; cortices at this developmental time point indicates that Reelin-signaling might not regulate L6 neuron migration or gross positioning during preplate splitting. To explore the acute response of L6 neurons to Reelin, subpial injections of Reelin were made into Reelin-deficient explants. Reelin injection caused L6 neurons to orient their nuclei and polarize their Golgi toward the pia while initiating exuberant dendritic (MAP2+) outgrowth within 4 h. This rapid Reelin-dependent neuronal orientation and alignment created CP-like histology without any significant change in the mean position of the population of L6 neurons. Conversely, subplate cells and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan immunoreactivity were found at significantly deeper positions from the pial surface after injection, suggesting that Reelin partially rescues preplate splitting within 4 h. Thus, Reelin has a direct role in promoting rapid morphological differentation and orientation of L6 neurons during preplate splitting.
Neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is the most important cause of brain injury in the newborn. Here we studied structural alterations and functional perturbations of developing large-scale sensorimotor cortical networks in a rat model of moderate HI at postnatal day 3 (P3). At the morphological level, HI led to a disorganized barrel pattern in the somatosensory cortex without detectable histological changes in the motor cortex. Functional effects were addressed by means of epicranial mapping of somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs) during the postischemic recovery period. At P10, SEPs were immature and evoked activity was almost restricted to the somatosensory and motor cortices of the contralateral hemisphere. Peak and topographic analyses of epicranial potentials revealed that responses were profoundly depressed in both sensory and motor areas of HI-lesioned animals. At the end of the postnatal period at P21, responses involved networks in both hemispheres. SEP amplitude was still depressed in the injured sensory region, but it completely recovered in the motor area. These results suggest a process of large-scale network plasticity in sensorimotor circuits after perinatal ischemic injury. The model provides new perspectives for investigating the temporal and spatial characteristics of the recovery process following HI and eventually developing therapeutic interventions.
Findings concerning cognitive impairment in patients with focal cerebellar lesions tend to be inconsistent and usually reflect a mild deficit. Patient variables such as lesion age and the age at lesion onset might affect functional reorganization and contribute to the variability of the findings. To assess this issue, 14 patients with focal vascular cerebellar lesions and 14 matched healthy control subjects performed a verbal working memory and a verbal long-term memory task as well as verbal fluency tasks. Patients showed deficits in working memory and verbal fluency, while recall of complex narrative material was intact. Verbal fluency performance correlated significantly with age in the patient group, with more severe impairments in older patients, suggesting that age at lesion onset is a critical variable for cognitive outcome. In controls, no significant correlations with age were observed. Taken together, our findings support the idea of cerebellar involvement in nonmotor functions and indicate the relevance of interindividual differences in regard to clinical parameters after focal cerebellar damage.
Several studies have contributed to our understanding of astrocytes, especially Bergmann glia, in the cerebellum; but, until recently, none has looked at their function in vivo. Multicell bolus loading of fluorescent calcium indicators in combination with the astrocytic marker SR101 has allowed imaging of up to hundreds of astrocytes at once in the intact cerebellum. In addition, the selective targeting of astrocytes with fluorescent calcium indicator proteins has enabled the study of their function in vivo without the confounding effects of other neuropil signals and with a resolution that surpasses multicell bolus loading and SR101 staining. The two astrocyte types of the cerebellar cortex, Bergmann glia, and velate protoplasmic astrocytes display a diverse signaling repertoire in vivo, which ranges from localized calcium elevations in subcellular processes to waves, triggered by the release of purines and mediated by purinergic receptors that span multiple processes and can involve tens of astrocytes. During locomotor behavior, even larger numbers of astrocytes display calcium increases that are driven by neuronal activity and correlate with global changes in blood flow. In this review, we give an overview of our current understanding of the function of Bergmann glia and velate protoplasmic astrocytes and the promise of the tools used to study their calcium dynamics and function in vivo.
It has been postulated for decades that ion channels serve as receptors for most sour tasting stimuli. Though many candidates exist, definitive evidence linking any particular channel to sour taste perception has been elusive. Several studies have suggested that two members of the polycystic kidney disease-like family may function as components of an ionotropic taste receptor mediating the transduction of acids. However, the precise role of these proteins in sour taste is controversial. In this issue of Chemical Senses, Nelson et al. use behavioral and electrophysiological approaches in gene-targeted mice to show that one of these putative sour taste receptor subunits, Pkd1l3, is unnecessary for normal taste responses to acids. Their results suggest that other mechanisms and/or other candidate receptors must be contributing to the transduction of acids and the subsequent perception of sour taste.

Circadian clocks serve to impose a near-24-h temporal architecture on an organism's physiology, metabolism, and behavior. In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus functions as the master circadian pacemaker. There is growing evidence that immunomodulators, such as cytokines, may impinge on circadian timekeeping. We examined whether there is endogenous expression of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) and its signaling receptor IL-1R1 in the SCN of young and older mice across the diurnal cycle. We found expression of both IL-1 and IL-1R1 in the young SCN, although only IL-1R1 displayed temporal regulation. In the older SCN, levels of IL-1 were expressed at lower levels than in the young SCN, and IL-1R1 did not vary across the 24h. We also report age-related day-night variation of IL-1 and IL-1R1 in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. Further, we examined the effect of peripheral immune challenge on IL-1 and IL-1R1 in the SCN. We found that IL-1 immunoreactivity was not altered 6 or 24h after a septic dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 5 mg/kg), whereas IL-1R1 was significantly up-regulated in the SCN both 6 and 24h after LPS. We also demonstrate cellular activation in the SCN 24h following LPS treatment, as evidenced by increased c-Fos and p65-NF-B (nuclear factor kappa B) expression. Our results indicate that IL-1 and its associated signaling system may play a role in mediating the response of the circadian timing system to immune challenge as well as potentially contributing to the basal functioning of the SCN clock.

To address a lack of anatomical descriptions in the literature regarding the prechiasmatic sulcus, we conducted an anatomical study of this sulcal region and discuss its clinical relevance to cranial base surgery. Our systematic morphometric analysis includes the variable types of chiasmatic sulcus and a classification schema that has surgical implications. We examined the sulcal region in 100 dry skulls; bony relationships measured included the interoptic distance, sulcal length/width, planum sphenoidale length, and sulcal angle. The varied anatomy of the prechiasmatic sulcii was classified as four types in combinations of wide to narrow, steep to flat. Its anterior border is the limbus sphenoidale at the posterior aspect of the planum sphenoidale. The sulcus extends posteriorly to the tuberculum sellae and laterally to the posteromedial aspect of each optic strut. Averages included an interoptic distance (19.3 +/- 2.4 mm), sulcal length (7.45 +/- 1.27 mm), planum sphenoidale length (19 +/- 2.35 mm), and sulcal angle (31 +/- 14.2 degrees). Eighteen percent of skulls had a chiasmatic ridge, a bony projection over the chiasmatic sulcus. The four types of prechiasmatic sulcus in our classification hold potential surgical relevance. Near the chiasmatic ridge, meningiomas may be hidden from the surgeon's view during a subfrontal or pterional approach. Preoperative evaluation by thin-cut CT scans of this region can help detect this ridge.
1. In an isolated right atrial preparation, an increase in right atrial pressure (RAP) produces an increase in atrial rate. This rate response is larger and occurs faster when there is background vagal or muscarinic stimulation. 2. We hypothesized that in the latter situation, an increase in RAP antagonizes the effect of muscarinic stimulation through stretch inactivation of the mechanosensitive muscarinic potassium current I(K,ACh). 3. In two groups of bath-mounted right atria isolated from male Wistar rats (control n = 12; 300 nmol/L tertiapin-Q treated (to block I(K,ACh)) n = 10), we examined the change in atrial rate when RAP was raised from 2 to 8 mmHg; oxotremorine-M (oxo-M; from 10 to 500 nmol/L) was added to incrementally activate muscarinic receptors. 4. In both control and tertiapin-Q-treated groups, oxo-M reduced atrial rate, but its effect was less ( approximately 40-50%) in the latter group (P &lt; 0.001). In control preparations, responses to an increase in RAP became progressively larger and quicker as the concentration of oxo-M was increased, whereas in tertiapin-Q treated preparations oxo-M did not affect either the amplitude or the speed of the response (P &lt; 0.0001 for both). 5. The results support the hypothesis that atrial stretch antagonizes muscarinic slowing by its effect on I(K,ACh). We suggest that through this mechanism, parasympathetic control of heart rate may be modulated continuously by RAP.


Translational toxicology can be defined as the movement of potential antidotes for the treatment of poisonings from basic mechanistic research to the marketplace. Because poisonings are infrequent, the clinical development of antidotes is fraught with trials and tribulations. Academic scientists often conduct basic mechanistic work with antidotes but are infrequently involved in further drug development. This article presents the development of 4-methylpyrazole (4MP) (fomepizole) as an antidote against toxic alcohol poisonings, particularly by methanol and ethylene glycol (EG).


A proper science of consciousness combines all the available evidence - either coming from introspection, behavior, neuroscience or theory - in such a way that a 'best of all worlds' perspective is attained. Introspection shows us that qualia are all about perceptual organization. Neuroscience can then tell us where and when perceptual organization occurs, and whether this is independent of attention, access or report. Access, no matter in what guise it comes, remains ill-suited to explain where, when and how qualia emerge.
Abstract The neuroscience carried out by Lamme and colleagues is fascinating and important. But his case for localised phenomenology rests on a flawed understanding of rival theories and a misguided view of introspective report.
Abstract A satisfying neuroscience of consciousness must account for phenomenological properties in terms of neural properties. While pursuing this project may challenge our intuitions about what we are conscious of, evidence from behavior and introspection should not be discounted. All three lines of evidence need to be integrated in order to naturalize phenomenal experience.
Abstract Recent evidence from event-related brain potentials (ERPs) lends support to two central theses in Lamme's theory. The earliest ERP correlate of visual consciousness appears over posterior visual cortex around 100-200 ms after stimulus onset. Its scalp topography and time window are consistent with recurrent processing in the visual cortex. This electrophysiological correlate of visual consciousness is mostly independent of later ERPs reflecting selective attention and working memory functions. Overall, the ERP evidence supports the view that phenomenal consciousness of a visual stimulus emerges earlier than access consciousness, and that attention and awareness are served by distinct neural processes.
Abstract Victor Lamme proposed that the study of consciousness should not be based on introspection. Nevertheless, Lamme understands consciousness as a subjective phenomenon, and introspection as the way in which we acquire knowledge about consciousness. This makes the task to find introspective-free methods to study consciousness difficult. Lamme attempts to make progress by introducing &quot;neural arguments,&quot; but fails to show how such arguments are independent of introspective methods which seem necessary in order to decide how any neural process relates to mental phenomena. This commentary paper thus aims to show that our understanding of neural correlates is shaped by introspection.
Abstract In his article, Lamme provides a neurotheoretical argument that recurrent processing (RP) produces the phenomenological sensations that form the contents of our conscious experiences. Importantly, he argues that this processing includes local intra-areal (i.e., horizontal connections) as well as local inter-areal feedback (i.e., from higher level sensory areas to lower level ones) interactions that occur within the sensory cortices. This has direct implications for what the contents of these experiences may be and the role that neuroscience can play in identifying them.
Is there consciousness in machines? Or in animals? What happens to consciousness when we are asleep, or in vegetative state? These are just a few examples of the many questions about consciousness that are troubling scientists and laypersons alike. Moreover, these questions share a striking feature: They seem to have been around forever, yet neither science nor philosophy has been able to provide an answer. Why is that? In my view, the main reason is that the study of consciousness is dominated by what we know from introspection and behavior. This has fooled us into thinking that we know what we are conscious of. The scientific equivalent of this is Global Workspace theory. But in fact we don't know what we are conscious of, as I will explain from a simple experiment in visual perception. Once we acknowledge that, it is clear that we need other evidence about the presence or absence of a conscious sensation than introspection or behavior. Assuming the brain has something to do with it, I will demonstrate how arguments from neuroscience, together with theoretical and ontological arguments, can help us resolve what the exact nature of our conscious sensation is. It turns out that we see much more than we think, and that Global Workspace theory is all about access but not about seeing. The exercise is an example of how neuroscience will move us away from psychological intuitions about consciousness, and hence depict a notion of consciousness that may go against our deepest conviction: &quot;My consciousness is mine, and mine alone.&quot; It's not.
The past decade has seen an explosion of interest in the neural mechanisms underlying consciousness. Experimental approaches from cognitive neuroscience that emphasize converging evidence from multiple methodologies have changed our understanding of how conscious mental states are associated with patterns of brain activity. In this special issue of Cognitive Neuroscience, we bring together five new empirical contributions to this literature plus a new theoretical discussion paper and associated peer commentaries.
Axons follow highly stereotyped and reproducible trajectories to their targets. In this review we address the properties of the first pioneer neurons to grow in the developing nervous system and what has been learned over the past several decades about the extracellular and cell surface substrata on which axons grow. We then discuss the types of guidance cues and their receptors that influence axon extension, what determines where cues are expressed, and how axons respond to the cues they encounter in their environment.
The spatial pattern of branches within axonal or dendritic arbors and the relative arrangement of neighboring arbors with respect to one another impact a neuron's potential connectivity. Although arbors can adopt diverse branching patterns to suit their functions, evenly spread branches that avoid clumping or overlap are a common feature of many axonal and dendritic arbors. The degree of overlap between neighboring arbors innervating a surface is also characteristic within particular neuron types. The arbors of some populations of neurons innervate a target with a comprehensive and nonoverlapping &quot;tiled&quot; arrangement, whereas those of others show substantial territory overlap. This review focuses on cellular and molecular studies that have provided insight into the regulation of spatial arrangements of neurite branches within and between arbors. These studies have revealed principles that govern arbor arrangements in dendrites and axons in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Diverse molecular mechanisms controlling the spatial patterning of sister branches and neighboring arbors have begun to be elucidated.
Assessment of cerebral vascular response is important in neuroscience research. Some imaging modalities that are commonly used to detect flow and/or vessel diameter changes in the brain include magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and optical intrinsic signal imaging. Ultrasound has not typically been used to assess neurovascular response but recent advances in the technology have led to the development of micro-ultrasound systems with significant potential for this application. The state of the art in high frequency (15-50 MHz) micro-ultrasound is based on linear arrays specifically designed for small animal imaging. These systems can achieve axial resolution ranging from 30 to 200 microm. They are capable of quantifying brain hemodynamics in terms of red blood cell (RBC) velocity, flow, and vascular density in real time, up to 35 mm below the cortical surface, and can achieve temporal resolution of up to 1000 frames per second. This protocol describes imaging of the rat brain using various ultrasound imaging modes (power Doppler, color Doppler, pulsed-wave Doppler, and nonlinear contrast-enhanced imaging) to assess the state of cerebral microcirculation.
The Golgi apparatus (GA) is an intracellular organelle that plays a central role in lipid and protein posttranslational modification and sorting. In addition, the GA has been also shown to be involved in Ca(2+) signalling, as: (i) it accumulates Ca(2+) within its lumen in an ATP-dependent process catalyzed by two enzymes, the sarco-endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase (SERCA) and the secretory pathway Ca(2+) ATPase1 (SPCA1), and (ii) it releases Ca(2+) during cell stimulation in response to inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor activation. Therefore, on this aspect, the GA appears to behave similarly to the major intracellular Ca(2+) store, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). By using a new FRET-based Ca(2+) probe, specifically targeted to the trans-compartment of the GA, we demonstrate that the organelle is heterogeneous in terms of Ca(2+) handling, the trans-Golgi being insensitive to IP(3) and capable of accumulating Ca(2+) solely through the activity of SPCA1. The SERCA and the IP(3) receptor appear to be restricted to the cis- and intermediate GA compartments. Moreover, selective reduction of Ca(2+) concentration within the trans-Golgi, obtained by reducing the level of SPCA1 by RNAi, results in major alterations of protein trafficking within the secretory pathway and induces the collapse of the entire GA morphology.
Remodeling of synapses is a fundamental mechanism for information storage and processing in the brain. Previous studies showed that the endosomal pathway plays a central role in synapse formation and plasticity. A popular model holds that recycling endosomes in dendrites provide the local intracellular pool of postsynaptic receptors for long-term potentiation (LTP), a widely studied cellular model for learning and memory formation. However, we are far from a complete understanding how endocytic receptor sorting and recycling is organized and coordinated in dendrites. Especially, the molecular mechanisms that couple specific endosomal trafficking routes during LTP are poorly understood. In a recent paper we discovered that the coiled-coil protein GRIP-associated protein-1 (GRASP-1) is a neuron-specific effector of the small GTPase Rab4 and key component of AMPA receptor recycling machinery in dendrites.1 GRASP-1 is essential for maintenance of spine morphology and important for LTP. GRASP-1 connects Rab4 and Rab11 recycling endosomal domains through the interaction with target (t)-SNARE syntaxin 13, which constitutes a new principle for regulating endosomal recycling. Here, we summarize our recently reported observations and further discuss their possible implications.
Neurotransmitter release relies on the fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane of synaptic boutons, which is followed by the recycling of vesicle components and formation of new vesicles. It is not yet clear whether upon fusion the vesicles persist as multimolecular patches in the plasma membrane, or whether they segregate into individual components. Evidence supporting each of these two models has been suggested in recent years. Using diffraction-unlimited imaging (stimulated emission depletion, or STED) of native synaptic vesicle proteins, we have proposed that vesicle proteins remain in clusters on the neuronal surface. These clusters do not appear to intermix. We discuss here these findings in the context of previous studies on synaptic vesicle fusion, and we propose a recycling model which accounts for most of the recent findings on the post-fusion fate of synaptic vesicle components.

The new concept of embodied cognition theories has been enthusiastically studied by the cognitive sciences, by as well as such disparate disciplines as philosophy, anthropology, neuroscience, and robotics. Embodiment theory provides the framework for ongoing discussions on the linkage between &quot;low&quot; cognitive processes as perception and &quot;high&quot; cognition as language processing and comprehension, respectively. This review gives an overview along the lines of argumentation in the ongoing debate on the embodiment of language and employs an ALE meta-analysis to illustrate and weigh previous findings.The collected evidence on the somatotopic activation of motor areas, abstract and concrete word processing, as well as from reported patient and timing studies emphasizes the important role of sensorimotor areas in language processing and supports the hypothesis that the motor system is activated during language comprehension.
Neurological disorders of body representation have for a long time suggested the importance of multisensory processing of bodily signals for self-consciousness. One such group of disorders--illusory own body perceptions affecting the entire body--has been proposed to be especially relevant in this respect, based on neurological data as well as philosophical considerations. This has recently been tested experimentally in healthy subjects showing that integration of multisensory bodily signals from the entire body with respect to the three aspects: self-location, first-person perspective, and self-identification [corrected], is crucial for bodily self-consciousness. Here we present clinical and neuroanatomical data of two neurological patients with paroxysmal disorders of full body representation in whom only one of these aspects, self-identification, was abnormal. We distinguish such disorders of global body representation from related but distinct disorders and discuss their relevance for the neurobiology of bodily self-consciousness.


According to the 'Kennard Principle', there is a negative linear relation between age at brain injury and functional outcome. Other things being equal, the younger the lesioned organism, the better the outcome. But the 'Kennard Principle' is neither Kennard's nor a principle. In her work, Kennard sought to explain the factors that predicted functional outcome (age, to be sure, but also staging, laterality, location, and number of brain lesions, and outcome domain) and the neural mechanisms that altered the lesioned brain's functionality. This paper discusses Kennard's life and years at Yale (1931-1943); considers the genesis and scope of her work on early-onset brain lesions, which represents an empirical and theoretical foundation for current developmental neuropsychology; offers an historical explanation of why the 'Kennard Principle' emerged in the context of early 1970s work on brain plasticity; shows why uncritical belief in the 'Kennard Principle' continues to shape current research and practice; and reviews the continuing importance of her work.
Loss of norepinephrine (NE) releasing neurons, in the locus coeruleus of the brainstem, is well documented to occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, this process does not necessarily result in decreased release of NE, since compensatory mechanisms may produce increased release of this neurotransmitter. Independent of potential loss of locus coeruleus cells, brain NE levels may be elevated in some persons with AD, both before and during disease progression. Here I examine evidence that elevated, endogenous brain NE is an etiological factor in some cases of AD, and not merely an epiphenomenon of the disease. To explore this etiological hypothesis in AD, I examine the following eight lines of evidence: 1) direct evidence of elevated NE or its metabolites in AD; 2) studies of tricyclic antidepressants, which may principally boost NE; 3) studies of clonidine and other alpha2 adrenergic agonist drugs, which may principally lower the concentration of NE; 4) studies of beta adrenoceptor blocking drugs, including propranolol; 5) comorbidity of AD and bipolar disorder, where both disorders may involve elevated NE; 6) comorbidity of AD and hypertension; 7) comorbidity of AD and obesity; and 8) potential interaction between AD and psychological stress, where stressors are known to release NE. These lines of evidence tend to support the elevated NE etiological hypothesis.


We have previously reported that benzohydroxamic acid (BHAM), a potent inhibitor of cyanide (CN)-resistant respiration mediated by alternative oxidase (AOX), induces formation of unique cell masses (i.e., stalk-like cells with a large vacuole and thick cell wall) in starved Dictyostelium cells. Unexpectedly, however, aox-null cells prepared by homologous recombination exhibited normal development under normal culture conditions on agar, indicating that BHAM-induced stalk formation is not solely attributable to inhibition of CN-resistant respiration. This also suggests that a series of pharmacological approaches in the field of life science has serious limitations. Under stress (e.g., in submerged culture), starved aox-null cells exhibited slightly delayed aggregation compared with parental Ax-2 cells; most cells remained as loose aggregates even after prolonged incubation. Also, the developmental defects of aox-null cells became more marked upon incubation for 30 min just after starvation in the presence of  1.75 mmol/L H(2)O(2). This seems to indicate that CN-resistant respiration could mitigate cellular damage through reactive oxygen species (ROS), because AOX has a potential role in reduction of ROS production. Starved aox-null cells did not develop in the presence of 5 mmol/L KCN (which completely inhibited the conventional cytochrome-mediated respiration) and remained as non-aggregated single cells on agar even after prolonged incubation. Somewhat surprisingly, however, parental Ax-2 cells were found to develop normally, forming fruiting bodies even in the presence of 10 mmol/L KCN. Taken together, these results suggest that CN-resistant respiration might compensate for the production of adenosine tri-phosphate via oxidative phosphorylation.

Many studies report chronic deficits in visual processing in children born preterm. We investigated whether functional abnormalities in visual processing exist in children born preterm but without major neuromotor impairment (i.e. cerebral palsy). Twelve such children (&lt; 33 weeks gestation or birthweight &lt; 1000 g) without major neuromotor impairment and 12 born full-term controls were assessed at 8-12 years of age by means of ophthalmological assessment (visual acuity, colour vision, stereopsis, stereoacuity, visual fields, ocular motility, motor fusion), cognitive tests of visual-motor, visual-perceptual and visual-spatial skills and pattern-reversal visual evoked potentials (PR-VEPs). All participants also underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and neuromotor assessments. No significant differences were found between the groups on the ophthalmological, visual cognitive, neurological, neuromotor or MRI measures. The P100 component of the PR-VEP showed a significantly shorter latency in the preterm compared with the full-term participants. Whilst this P100 finding suggests that subtle abnormalities may exist at the neurophysiological level, we conclude that visual dysfunction is not systematically associated with preterm birth in the context of normal neurological status.
Neural tube defects (NTDs) are some of the most common birth defects observed in humans. The incidence of NTDs can be reduced by peri-conceptional folic acid supplementation alone and reduced even further by supplementation with folic acid plus a multivitamin. Here, we present evidence that iron maybe an important nutrient necessary for normal development of the neural tube. Following implantation of the mouse embryo, ferroportin 1 (Fpn1) is essential for the transport of iron from the mother to the fetus and is expressed in the visceral endoderm, yolk sac and placenta. The flatiron (ffe) mutant mouse line harbors a hypomorphic mutation in Fpn1 and we have created an allelic series of Fpn1 mutations that result in graded developmental defects. A null mutation in the Fpn1 gene is embryonic lethal before gastrulation, hypomorphic Fpn1(ffe/ffe) mutants exhibit NTDs consisting of exencephaly, spina bifida and forebrain truncations, while Fpn1(ffe/KI) mutants exhibit even more severe NTDs. We show that Fpn1 is not required in the embryo proper but rather in the extra-embryonic visceral endoderm. Our data indicate that loss of Fpn1 results in abnormal morphogenesis of the anterior visceral endoderm (AVE). Defects in the development of the forebrain in Fpn1 mutants are compounded by defects in multiple signaling centers required for maintenance of the forebrain, including the anterior definitive endoderm (ADE), anterior mesendoderm (AME) and anterior neural ridge (ANR). Finally, we demonstrate that this loss of forebrain maintenance is due in part to the iron deficiency that results from the absence of fully functional Fpn1.
The proper balance between symmetric and asymmetric stem cell division is crucial both to maintain a population of stem cells and to prevent tumorous overgrowth. Neural stem cells in the Drosophila optic lobe originate within a polarised neuroepithelium, where they divide symmetrically. Neuroepithelial cells are transformed into asymmetrically dividing neuroblasts in a precisely regulated fashion. This cell fate transition is highly reminiscent of the switch from neuroepithelial cells to radial glial cells in the developing mammalian cerebral cortex. To identify the molecules that mediate the transition, we microdissected neuroepithelial cells and compared their transcriptional profile with similarly obtained optic lobe neuroblasts. We find genes encoding members of the Notch pathway expressed in neuroepithelial cells. We show that Notch mutant clones are extruded from the neuroepithelium and undergo premature neurogenesis. A wave of proneural gene expression is thought to regulate the timing of the transition from neuroepithelium to neuroblast. We show that the proneural wave transiently suppresses Notch activity in neuroepithelial cells, and that inhibition of Notch triggers the switch from symmetric, proliferative division, to asymmetric, differentiative division.
It is commonly thought that differentiated neurons do not give rise to new cells, severely limiting the potential for regeneration and repair of the mature nervous system. However, we have identified cells in zebrafish larvae that first differentiate into dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons but later acquire a sympathetic neuron phenotype. These transdifferentiating neurons are present in wild-type zebrafish. However, they are increased in number in larvae that have a mutant voltage-gated sodium channel gene, scn8aa. Sodium channel knock-down promotes migration of differentiated sensory neurons away from the ganglia. Once in a new environment, sensory neurons transdifferentiate regardless of sodium channel expression. These findings reveal an unsuspected plasticity in differentiated neurons that points to new strategies for treatment of nervous system disease.
Aristaless-related homeobox gene (ARX) mutation leads to several neurological disorders including X-linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia (XLAG), West syndrome and Partington syndrome, with XLAG being the most severe form. Although some of the brain pathologies of XLAG have already been described, the crucial extra-brain symptoms are severe growth retardation, transient hyperglycemia and intractable diarrhea. Since ARX expresses in the islets of Langerhans during the embryonic stage, these visceral phenotypes may be related to a loss of ARX function, which develops endocrine cells in the pancreas. We investigated the abnormal pancreatic development of XLAG patients with ARX-null mutation. We performed immunohistochemistry of XLAG pancreases, using the antibodies against glucagon, insulin, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide, ghrelin, Brn4, Nkx2.2, Mash1, amylase and pancreatic lipase. As the results, the glucagon- and pancreatic polypeptide-producing cells were found to be completely deficient in the islets of Langerhans. We also discovered marked interstitial fibrosis, small exocrine cells with loss of amylase-producing cells and an enlargement of the central lumen of the glandular acini. These pathological findings indicate that ARX contributes not only to endocrine development, but also to exocrine development of the human pancreas, and its deficiency may lead to the severe phenotypes of XLAG patients.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is considered an autoimmune-mediated demyelinating disease that targets the central nervous system (CNS). Despite considerable research efforts over multiple decades, our understanding of the basic biological processes that are targeted in the disease and the mechanisms of pathogenesis are poorly understood. Consequently, current therapies directed at controlling the progression of the disease are limited in their effectiveness. Historically, the primary focus of MS research has been to define the cellular and molecular basis of the immunological pathogenic mechanisms. Recently, however, it has become clear that long-term functional recovery in MS will require the development of strategies that facilitate myelin repair in lesion areas. The emerging evidence that the adult vertebrate CNS retains the capacity to regenerate neural cells that have been lost to disease or damage has provoked intensive research focused on defining the mechanisms of myelin repair. Unfortunately, the existing animal models of MS are poorly equipped to assess myelin repair, and new validated strategies to identify therapeutics targeted at promoting myelin repair are badly needed. This Commentary will review established murine models of MS, and discuss emerging technologies that promise to provide insights into the mechanisms of myelin repair.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that, for approximately 80% of patients, is fatal within five years of diagnosis. To better understand ALS, animal models have been essential; however, only rodent models of ALS exhibit the major hallmarks of the disease. Here, we report the generation of transgenic zebrafish overexpressing mutant Sod1. The construct used to generate these lines contained the zebrafish sod1 gene and approximately 16 kb of flanking sequences. We generated lines expressing the G93R mutation, as well as lines expressing wild-type Sod1. Focusing on two G93R lines, we found that they displayed the major phenotypes of ALS. Changes at the neuromuscular junction were observed at larval and adult stages. In adulthood the G93R mutants exhibited decreased endurance in a swim tunnel test. An analysis of muscle revealed normal muscle force, however, at the end stage the fish exhibited motoneuron loss, muscle atrophy, paralysis and premature death. These phenotypes were more severe in lines expressing higher levels of mutant Sod1 and were absent in lines overexpressing wild-type Sod1. Thus, we have generated a vertebrate model of ALS to complement existing mammal models.
This study investigated the extent to which hydromorphone (HYD) choice and behavioral economic demand differed during experimental analogs of Unemployment (Drug Only: HYD and no money alternative), Employment (Drug or Money: HYD and $4 alternative), and Punishment (Drug Only+Money Loss: HYD only and $4 subtracted for each HYD choice), in the context of anticipated high vs. low post-session drug availability (HYD 24 mg vs. placebo). Eleven heroin-dependent, buprenorphine-stabilized (8 mg/day) volunteers first sampled two HYD doses (0 and 24 mg IM in randomized, counterbalanced order, labeled Drug A [session 1] and Drug B [session 2]). In each of the final six sessions, volunteers were given access to a 12-trial choice progressive ratio (PR) task and could work to receive HYD unit doses (2mg each); cumulative dose units earned were administered in a bolus injection after the work session. Before the PR task, volunteers were told which HYD dose (Drug A or B) would be available 3h after the PR-contingent injection. Relative to Unemployment (Drug Only), Employment (Drug or Money) and Punishment (Drug Only+Money Loss) each significantly suppressed HYD seeking (e.g., breakpoints). Employment and Punishment also reduced HYD behavioral economic demand, but via different mechanisms: Employment increased HYD price-elasticity, whereas Punishment decreased HYD demand intensity. Adjusting for the initial level difference (i.e., normalized demand), Employment significantly decreased P(max) (i.e., lower &quot;essential value&quot; of HYD) and O(max) (maximum HYD responding) compared to Punishment or Unemployment. These effects were not significantly altered by post-session drug availability.
Sirtuin proteins are an evolutionarily conserved family of NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylases. Originally discovered in yeast as gene-silencing proteins, they subsequently emerged as key regulators of life span in yeast and other lower species. Recent identification and characterization of mammalian Sirtuin homologs have revealed a widespread spectrum of biological activities in gene regulation linked to cell survival, cell apoptosis and metabolism. These findings have stimulated several drug discovery efforts. Here, we review current knowledge of the biological functions and possible pharmacological implications of Sirtuin 1, the most characterized member of the mammalian Sirtuin family, in glucose and fat metabolism.
Hydroxytyrosol (HOTYR) and tyrosol (TYR), main phenolic compounds of olive oil, have been reported to contribute to the prevention of cardiovascular diseases due to their antioxidant activities, e.g., protection of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation. Their bioavailability in humans is poor, and they are found in biological fluids mainly as conjugated metabolites. Low concentrations of free phenols are unlikely to explain the biological activities seen in humans after olive oil intake. In this context, antioxidant activities of conjugated metabolites, in a range of concentrations compatible with their dietary consumption, were evaluated. Concentrations of metabolites and their core compounds were estimated in an intervention study of 11 healthy volunteers whose diet was supplemented with 50 ml of virgin olive oil, using high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry for the simultaneous analysis of 3'-O- and 4'-O-HOTYR-glucuronides and 4'-O-glucuronides of TYR and homovanillyl alcohol in human urine. Glucuronides and core compounds were tested for their chemical (hydrogen donation by 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl free radical test) and in vitro biological (inhibition of Cu-mediated LDL oxidation) antioxidant activities at the concentration ranges observed in human biological fluids (range, 0.01-10 muM) after dietary olive oil consumption. None of the glucuronides displayed significant antioxidant activities at the concentrations tested.
In this report we fabricated laminin (LN) stripes on a background of poly-L-lysine as substrates for the growth of rat hippocampal neurons, and found that a sharp change of the concentration of LN guides the growth of neurites by leading the growth cones in a time- and space-dependent manner. The percentage of neurites that grow along the edge of LN stripes (where there is a sharp change of concentration) decreases as a function of the concentration of LN under a threshold value. The actin cytoskeleton plays an important role in the process of growth cone's response to the sharp change of concentration of LN on micropatterns. We believe that the findings here are useful for not only fundamental studies in neuroscience, but also helpful for the design of devices or chips for nervous prosthesis.


There is now compelling evidence that the ratio of the length of the second digit divided by the length of the fourth digit (2D:4D) is affected by prenatal androgens in humans. This ratio is greater in females than males from fetal life through adulthood, correlates with polymorphism in the androgen receptor gene in men, is feminine in XY androgen insensitivity syndrome, and masculinized in congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Using 2D:4D as a correlate, researchers have found evidence that prenatal androgens affect many sexually differentiated human behaviors, including sexual orientation in women (but not in men), attention deficit disorder, autism, eating disorders, aggression, and risk-taking. In each case, lower 2D:4D, indicative of greater prenatal androgen stimulation, is associated with behavior more commonly displayed by males than females. The correlation between 2D:4D and prenatal androgen stimulation is too imperfect to accurately predict the phenotype of a particular individual, even in terms of sex. However, digit ratio is the best available retrospective marker of average differences in prenatal androgen stimulation between groups of people, and/or correlations of prenatal androgen stimulation with particular behaviors and characteristics within a group. Thus digit ratios offer a valid test of the organizational hypothesis that androgens act early in life to masculinize various human behaviors.

The present study was designed to determine whether low-frequency stimulation (LFS) of the entorhinal cortex(EC) has an anticonvulsive effect, and whether LFS delivered at different times plays different roles. We found that LFS of the EC immediately or 4 s after kindling stimulation had an anticonvulsive effect, and that the latter had a better effect on both kindling and kindled seizures. However, LFS delivered after the cessation of afterdischarge or 10 s after the kindling stimulation, augmented the epileptic activity. So the EC is a potential target for LFS to interfere with epilepsy. Our findings suggest that even in the duration of afterdischarge, there exists a &quot;time window&quot; for LFS treatment, indicating that the time delay of closed-loop stimulation is crucial for LFS treatment.



Although the high risk of cognitive impairments in benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BCECTS) is now well established, there is no clear definition of a uniform neurocognitive profile. This study was based on a neuropsychological model of attention that assessed various components of attention in 21 children with BCECTS and 21 healthy children. All participants were tested with a computerized test battery using the multicomponent model of attention performance. In comparison with healthy participants, the children with BCECTS showed significant impairment in the measure of selectivity and in one measure of intensity of attention (arousal). Our results did not correlate with the electroclinical variables of age at onset of seizures and spike index on sleep EEGs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study in which the multicomponent model of attentional function has been used in children with BCECTS to provide a clearer neuropsychological profile of these patients.
To assess possible alterations in the pharmacokinetics of lamotrigine (LTG) in menopause, we reviewed the database of the drug monitoring service at the Karolinska University Hospital. Dose/plasma concentration (D/C) ratios of LTG in different age groups of women under treatment with LTG were compared with ratios for men. For further comparison, D/C ratios were calculated for men and women treated with carbamazepine (CBZ). D/C ratios were available for 752 men and 1115 women on LTG, and for 3464 men and 3088 women on CBZ. The D/C ratios of CBZ were very similar among men and women in all age groups under study. In contrast, LTG D/C ratios seemed to decline in women 51-55 years of age, and were in this age group significantly lower among women than among men (P&lt;0.05). Our data suggest that there may be a transient decline in clearance of LTG in conjunction with presumed menopause.

Pituitary adenomas account for 10% of intracranial tumors, and they cause the compression of nearby structures and the inappropriate expression of pituitary hormones. Unlike functional pituitary adenomas, nonfunctional (NF) pituitary adenomas account for 30% of pituitary tumors, and are large enough to cause blindness; because they do not cause any clinical hormone hypersecretion, they are difficult to detect at an early stage; and hypopituitarism results. No effective molecular biomarkers or chemical therapy have been approved for the clinical setting. Because an NF pituitary adenoma is highly heterogeneous, differences in the proteins (the proteome) can distinguish among those heterogeneity structures. The components of a proteome dynamically change as an NF adenoma progresses. Changes in protein expression and protein modifications, individually or in combination, might be biomarkers to predict the disease, monitor the tumor progression, and develop an accurate molecular classification for personalized patient treatment. The modalities of proteomic variation might also be useful in the interventional prevention and personalized treatment of patients to halt the occurrence and progression of NF pituitary adenomas.




Gamma protocadherins (Pcdh-s) resemble classical cadherins and have the potential to engage in cell-cell interactions with homophilic properties. Emerging evidence suggests non-conventional roles for some protocadherins in neural development. We sought to determine whether Pcdh- trafficking in neurons is consistent with an intracellular role for these molecules. Here we show that, in contrast to the largely surface localization of classical cadherins, endogenous Pcdh-s are primarily intracellular in rat neurons in vivo and are equally distributed within organelles of subsynaptic dendritic and axonal compartments. A strikingly higher proportion of Pcdh--containing organelles in synaptic compartments was observed at postnatal day 16. To determine the origin of Pcdh--trafficking organelles, we isolated organelles with Pcdh- antibody-coupled magnetic beads from brain organelle suspensions. Vesicles with high levels of COPII and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC) components were isolated with the Pcdh- antibody but not with the classical cadherin antibody. In cultured hippocampal neurons, Pcdh- immunolabeling partially overlapped with calnexin- and COPII-positive puncta in dendrites. Mobile Pcdh--GFP profiles dynamically codistributed with a DsRed construct coupled to ER retention signals by live imaging. Pcdh- expression correlated with accumulations of tubulovesicular and ER-like organelles in dendrites. Our results are consistent with the possibility that Pcdh-s could have a unique function within the secretory pathway in addition to their documented surface roles.
Previous research has shown that the basolateral amygdala (BLA) mediates stimulus-reward learning, including drug-cue associations, whereas the dorsolateral caudate putamen (dlCPu) primarily mediates stimulus-response (habit) learning. Recent evidence has indicated that the dlCPu may be critical in cocaine-seeking following extended self-administration, but it remains unknown whether the dlCPu plays a role in the early formation of drug-cue associations. The current study used a model of Pavlovian learning to compare the roles of the BLA and dlCPu in the consolidation of cocaine-cue associations that maintain cocaine-seeking during cue-induced reinstatement. Male Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered cocaine (0.2 mg/ 50L infusion, i.v.) in the absence of cues for 6 days (2 h/day). Immediately following a single 1-h classical conditioning session in which passive cocaine infusions were paired with a light/tone cue, animals received bilateral infusions of the GABA receptor agonists, baclofen/muscimol (1.0/0.1 mm), or vehicle into the BLA or dlCPu. Following additional cocaine self-administration (5 days) and subsequent extinction (no cocaine or cues, 7 days), the ability of the previously cocaine-paired cues to reinstate cocaine-seeking was assessed. Inactivation of the BLA, but not the dlCPu, immediately following the classical conditioning session impaired the consolidation of cocaine-cue associations as seen by decreased cue-induced reinstatement. These results extend previous findings that the BLA mediates the consolidation of learned associations that drive cocaine-seeking during subsequent reinstatement and indicate that the dlCPu does not play a role during initial stimulus-drug associative learning.
Previous studies have demonstrated that humans are sometimes capable of initiating arm movements towards visual stimuli at extremely short latencies, implying the presence of a short-latency neural pathway linking visual input to limb motor output. However, little is known about the neural mechanisms that underlie such hastened arm responses. One clue may come from recent demonstrations that the appearance of a visual target can elicit a rapid response in neck muscles that is time-locked to target appearance and functionally relevant for orienting gaze (head and eye) towards the target. Because oculomotor structures thought to contribute to 'visual responses' on neck muscles also target some arm muscles via a tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway, we hypothesized that a similar visual response would be present in arm muscles. Our results were consistent with this hypothesis as we observed the presence of rapid arm muscle activity (&lt;100 ms latency) that was time-locked to target appearance and not movement onset. We further found that the visual response in arm muscles: (i) was present only when an immediate reach towards the target was required; (ii) had a magnitude that was predictive of reaction time; (iii) was tuned to target location in a manner appropriate for moving the arm towards the target; and (iv) was more prevalent in shoulder muscles than elbow muscles. These results provide evidence for a rapid neural pathway linking visual input to arm motor output and suggest the presence of a common neural mechanism for hastening eye, head and arm movements.
A major dose-limiting side effect of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) chemotherapies, such as the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), is a small-fiber painful peripheral neuropathy, mediated by its mitochondrial toxicity. Co-morbid conditions may also contribute to this dose-limiting effect of HIV/AIDS treatment. Alcohol abuse, which alone also produces painful neuropathy, is one of the most important co-morbid risk factors for peripheral neuropathy in patients with HIV/AIDS. Despite the prevalence of this problem and its serious impact on the quality of life and continued therapy in HIV/AIDS patients, the mechanisms by which alcohol abuse exacerbates highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)-induced neuropathic pain has not been demonstrated. In this study, performed in rats, we investigated the cellular mechanism by which consumed alcohol impacts antiretroviral-induced neuropathic pain. NRTI 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC; 50 mg/kg) neuropathy was mitochondrial-dependent and PKC-independent, and alcohol-induced painful neuropathy was PKC-dependent and mitochondrial-independent. At low doses, ddC (5 mg/kg) and alcohol (6.5% ethanol diet for 1 week), which alone do not affect nociception, together produce profound mechanical hyperalgesia. This hyperalgesia is mitochondrial-dependent but PKC-independent. These experiments, which provide the first model for studying the impact of co-morbidity in painful neuropathy, support the clinical impression that alcohol consumption enhances HIV/AIDS therapy neuropathy, and provide evidence for a role of mitochondrial mechanisms underlying this interaction.
Although the key neuropathology associated with diencephalic amnesia is lesions to the thalamus and/or mammillary bodies, functional deactivation of the hippocampus and associated cortical regions also appear to contribute to the memory dysfunction. For example, there is loss of forebrain cholinergic neurons and alterations in stimulated acetylcholine (ACh) levels in the hippocampus and cortex in animal models of diencephalic amnesia associated with thiamine deficiency. In the present study, the pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency rat model was used to assess the functional relationships between thalamic pathology, behavioral impairment, ACh efflux and cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus and cortex. In pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency-treated rats, ACh efflux during behavioral testing was blunted to differing degrees in the hippocampus, medial frontal cortex and retrosplenial cortex. In addition, significant reductions in cholinergic fiber densities were observed in each of these regions. However, only hippocampal cholinergic fiber density correlated significantly with ACh efflux in the same region, suggesting that the reduction in cortical ACh efflux in cases of diencephalic amnesia cannot be fully explained by a loss of cholinergic fiber innervation. This notion supports the emerging theory that the functional consequences of the distal effects of lesions go beyond simple deafferentation. Specifically, some frontal cortical regions exhibit hypersensitivity to deafferentation that is only detected during behavioral and/or physiological demand.
When a single neuron is grown on a small island of glial cells, the neuron forms synapses onto itself. The so-called autaptic culture systems have proven extremely valuable in elucidating basic mechanisms of synaptic transmission, as they allow application of technical approaches that cannot be used in slice preparations. However, this method has been almost exclusively used for pyramidal cells and interneurons. In this study, we generated autaptic cultures from granule cells isolated from the dentate gyrus of rodent hippocampi. Our subsequent morphological and functional characterisation of these cells confirms that this culture model is suitable for investigating basic mechanisms of granule cell synaptic transmission. Importantly, the autosynaptic connectivity allows recordings of pure mossy fibre miniature EPSCs, which are not possible in slice preparations. Further, by fast application of hypertonic sucrose solutions it is possible to directly measure the readily releasable pool and to calculate the probability of vesicular release.
A first step towards understanding the operation of a neural network is identification of the populations of neurons that contribute to it. Our aim here is to reassess the basis for subdivision of adult mammalian spinal interneurons that mediate reflex actions from tendon organs (group Ib afferents) and muscle spindle secondary endings (group II afferents) into separate populations. Re-examining the existing experimental data, we find no compelling reasons to consider intermediate zone interneurons with input from group Ib afferents to be distinct from those co-excited by group II afferents. Similar patterns of distributed input have been found in subpopulations that project ipsilaterally, contralaterally or bilaterally, and in both excitatory and inhibitory interneurons; differences in input from group I and II afferents to individual interneurons showed intra- rather than inter-population variation. Patterns of reflex actions evoked from group Ib and II afferents and task-dependent changes in these actions, e.g. during locomotion, may likewise be compatible with mediation by premotor interneurons integrating information from both group I and II afferents. Pathological changes after injuries of the central nervous system in humans and the lineage of different subclasses of embryonic interneurons may therefore be analyzed without need to consider subdivision of adult intermediate zone interneurons into subpopulations with group Ib or group II input. We propose renaming these neurons 'group I/II interneurons'.
Spatial attention mediates the selection of information from different parts of space. When a brief cue is presented shortly before a target [cue to target onset asynchrony (CTOA)] in the same location, behavioral responses are facilitated, a process called attention capture. At longer CTOAs, responses to targets presented in the same location are inhibited; this is called inhibition of return (IOR). In the visual modality, these processes have been demonstrated in both humans and non-human primates, the latter allowing for the study of the underlying neural mechanisms. In audition, the effects of attention have only been shown in humans when the experimental task requires sound localization. Studies in monkeys with the use of similar cues but without a sound localization requirement have produced negative results. We have studied the effects of predictive acoustic cues on the latency of gaze shifts to visual and auditory targets in monkeys experienced in localizing sound sources in the laboratory with the head unrestrained. Both attention capture and IOR were demonstrated with acoustic cues, although with a faster time course than with visual cues. Additionally, the effect was observed across sensory modalities (acoustic cue to visual target), suggesting that the underlying neural mechanisms of these effects may be mediated within the superior colliculus, a center where inputs from both vision and audition converge.
Trophic deprivation-mediated neuronal death is important during development, after acute brain or nerve trauma, and in neurodegeneration. Serum deprivation (SD) approximates trophic deprivation in vitro, and an in vivo model is provided by neuronal death in the mouse dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd) after ablation of the visual cortex (VCA). Oxidant-induced intracellular Zn(2+) release ([Zn(2+) ](i) ) from metallothionein-3 (MT-III), mitochondria or 'protein Zn(2+) ', was implicated in trophic deprivation neurotoxicity. We have previously shown that neurotoxicity of extracellular Zn(2+) required entry, increased [Zn(2+) ](i) , and reduction of NAD(+) and ATP levels causing inhibition of glycolysis and cellular metabolism. Exogenous NAD(+) and sirtuin inhibition attenuated Zn(2+) neurotoxicity. Here we show that: (1) Zn(2+) is released intracellularly after oxidant and SD injuries, and that sensitivity to these injuries is proportional to neuronal Zn(2+) content; (2) NAD(+) loss is involved - restoration of NAD(+) using exogenous NAD(+) , pyruvate or nicotinamide attenuated these injuries, and potentiation of NAD(+) loss potentiated injury; (3) neurons from genetically modified mouse strains which reduce intracellular Zn(2+) content (MT-III knockout), reduce NAD(+) catabolism (PARP-1 knockout) or increase expression of an NAD(+) synthetic enzyme (Wld(s) ) each had attenuated SD and oxidant neurotoxicities; (4) sirtuin inhibitors attenuated and sirtuin activators potentiated these neurotoxicities; (5) visual cortex ablation (VCA) induces Zn(2+) staining and death only in ipsilateral LGNd neurons, and a 1mg/kg Zn(2+) diet attenuated injury; and finally (6) NAD(+) synthesis and levels are involved given that LGNd neuronal death after VCA was dramatically reduced in Wld(s) animals, and by intraperitoneal pyruvate or nicotinamide. Zn(2+) toxicity is involved in serum and trophic deprivation-induced neuronal death.
Noise, ototoxic substances and various genetic factors are common causes of profound hearing loss. Cochlear implants can often restore hearing in these cases, but only if a sufficient number of responsive auditory nerve fibers remain. Over time, these nerve fibers degenerate in the damaged ear, and it is therefore important to establish factors that control neuronal survival and maintain neural excitability. Recent studies show that neuregulins and their receptors are important for survival and proper targeting of neurons in the developing inner ear. A role for neuregulins as maintainers of the neuronal population in the mature inner ear was therefore hypothesized. Here, this hypothesis was directly tested by chronic local application of substances that block neuregulin receptors. Using auditory brainstem response measurements, we demonstrate that such receptor block leads to a progressive hearing impairment that develops over the course of weeks. This impairment occurs despite a normal number of auditory neurons and preserved outer hair cell function. Real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction shows alterations in neurotrophin-3 expression, suggesting that this growth factor participates in regulating cochlear sensitivity. The present work demonstrates the critical importance of neuregulin/erbB signaling in long-term functional regulation in the mature guinea pig hearing organ.
Astrocytes function as spatial K(+) buffers by expressing a rich repertoire of K(+) channels. Earlier studies suggest that acid-sensitive tandem-pore K(+) channels, mainly TWIK-related acid-sensitive K(+) (TASK) channels, mediate part of the passive astroglial membrane conductance. Here, using a combination of electrophysiology and pharmacology, we investigated the presence of TASK-like conductance in hippocampal astrocytes of rat brain slices. Extracellular pH shifts to below 7.4 (or above 7.4) induced a prominent inward (or outward) current in astrocytes in the presence of tetrodotoxin, a Na(+) channel blocker, and 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonate, a co-transporter blocker. The pH-sensitive current was insensitive to quinine, a potent blocker of tandem-pore K(+) channels including TWIK-1 and TREK-1 channels. Voltage-clamp analysis revealed that the pH-sensitive current exhibited weak outward rectification with a reversal potential of -112 mV, close to the Nernst equilibrium potential for K(+) . Furthermore, the current-voltage relationship was well fitted with the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz current equation for the classical open-rectifier 'leak' K(+) channel. The pH-sensitive K(+) current was potentiated by TASK channel modulators such as the volatile anesthetic isoflurane but depressed by the local anesthetic bupivacaine. However, unlike TASK channels, the pH-sensitive current was insensitive to Ba(2+) and quinine. Thus, the molecular identity of the pH-sensitive leak K(+) channel is unlikely to be attributable to TASK channels. Taken together, our results suggest a novel yet unknown leak K(+) channel underlying the pH- and anesthetic-sensitive background conductance in hippocampal astrocytes.
A small fraction of children with febrile seizures appears to develop cognitive impairments. Recent studies in a rat model of hyperthermia-induced febrile seizures indicate that prolonged febrile seizures early in life have long-lasting effects on the hippocampus and induce cognitive deficits. However, data on network plasticity and the nature of cognitive deficits are conflicting. We examined three specific measures of hippocampal plasticity in adult rats with a prior history of experimental febrile seizures: (i) activity-dependent synaptic plasticity (long-term potentiation and depression) by electrophysiological recordings of Schaffer collateral/commissural-evoked field excitatory synaptic potentials in CA1 of acute hippocampal slices; (ii) Morris water maze spatial learning and memory; and (iii) hippocampal mossy fiber plasticity by Timm histochemistry and quantification of terminal sprouting in CA3 and the dentate gyrus. We found enhanced hippocampal CA1 long-term potentiation and reduced long-term depression but normal spatial learning and memory in adult rats that were subjected to experimental febrile seizures on postnatal day 10. Furthermore, rats with experimental febrile seizures showed modest but significant sprouting of mossy fiber collaterals into the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in adulthood. We conclude that enhanced CA1 long-term potentiation and mild mossy fiber sprouting occur after experimental febrile seizures, without affecting spatial learning and memory in the Morris water maze. These long-term functional and structural alterations in hippocampal plasticity are likely to play a role in the enhanced seizure susceptibility in this model of prolonged human febrile seizures but do not correlate with overt cognitive deficits.

The effects of gentle mechanical skin stimulation on reflex discharges in cardiac sympathetic nerve evoked by somatic afferent stimulation were studied in anesthetized rats. Mass discharges were recorded from cardiac sympathetic efferent nerve while somatocardiac sympathetic A- and C-reflexes were elicited by single electrical stimuli to myelinated A- and unmyelinated C-afferent fibers of the tibial nerve. Continuous touch was applied to inner thigh skin with a force of 0.12 N for 10 min periods by a soft elastomer &quot;brush&quot; (1.1cm in diameter with 417 microcones). When touch was applied ipsilateral to the stimulated tibial nerve, the C-reflex was inhibited by up to 40% of its pre-touch amplitude, whereas the A-reflex was unaffected. Inhibition of the C-reflex started during the touch period and lasted for 15 min after cessation of touching. Contralateral touch did not inhibit the C-reflex. The opioid receptor antagonist naloxone attenuated the C-reflex inhibition, but did not abolish it. The C-reflex inhibition was abolished after severing cutaneous nerves innervating inner thigh. We recorded unitary afferent activity from thigh branches of the saphenous nerve and found fibers excited by touch were low-threshold mechanoreceptive Abeta, Adelta and C fibers that have rapidly or slowly adapting properties. In all units tested, average discharge rates during touch period were less than 4 Hz. The results suggest that touch-induced excitation of low threshold cutaneous mechanoreceptive fibers inhibits nociceptive transmission conveyed by C-primary-afferents, via the release of both opioid and non-opioid inhibitory mediators.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the mechanistic role of l-prolyl-l-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) in modulating agonist binding to the dopamine D(2L) receptor. Competition and displacement assays indicate that the photoaffinity-labeling peptidomimetics of PLG, 3(R)-[(4(S)-(4-azido-2-hydroxy-benzoyl) amino-2(S)-pyrrolidinylcarbonyl)amino]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetamide hydrochloride (1a) and 3(R)-[(4(S)-(4-azido-2-hydroxy-5-iodo-benzoyl)amino-2(S)-pyrrolidinylcarbonyl)amino]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetamide hydrochloride (1b) bind at the same site as PLG. Autoradiography was used to establish the covalent binding of [(125)I]-1b to an approximately 51kDa protein in bovine striatal membranes. Western blot analysis with a dopamine D(2L)-specific antibody, in combination with autoradiography, following a two-dimensional gel separation, suggested this approximately 51kDa protein to be the dopamine D(2L) receptor. Further evidence for binding of 1b to dopamine D(2L) was provided by samples immunoprecipitated with the D(2L) antibody. These samples were analyzed by western blotting in parallel with autoradiography of [(125)I]-1b labeled protein. Both methods revealed bands at approximately 51kDa. Furthermore, PLG is shown to compete with 1b for binding to the dopamine D(2L) receptor as determined by autoradiography, as well as competition experiments with PLG and 1a. Collectively, these findings suggest the successful development of a photoaffinity-labeling agent, compound 1b, that has been used to elucidate the interaction of PLG specifically with the dopamine D(2L) receptor.
Bipolar Disorder (BPD) is a complex psychiatric disease with a relevant underlying genetic basis. HTR2A T102C, HTR2C Cys23Ser, SLC6A4 5-HTTLPR and rs25531 polymorphisms were genotyped in 230 BPD patients and inserted as covariates in a mixture regression model of age at onset (AAO). 5-HTTLPR polymorphism associated with early onset component under recessive and additive model. HTR2A T102C, HTR2C Cys23Ser and 5-HTTLPR interaction terms associated with early onset component under dominant, recessive and additive model. These findings suggest a role of genes codifying for elements of the serotonergic system in influencing the AAO in BPD.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by parkinsonism (MSA-P), cerebellar and autonomic deficits. In Parkinson's disease (PD), an impaired modulation of motor cortical mu and beta range oscillations may be related to the pathophysiology of bradykinesia. Event-related desynchronization (ERD) of these oscillations occur for 1-2s preceding a voluntary movement in normal subjects and patients with PD treated with levodopa while only lasting around 0.5s in untreated patients. Motor cortical rhythms were recorded from subdural strip electrodes in three patients with MSA-P while taking their regular dopaminergic medications. Following a ready cue, patients performed an externally cued wrist extension movement to a go cue. In addition, recordings were obtained during imagined wrist extension movements to the same cues and during self-paced wrist extensions. ERD and event-related synchronization were examined in subject-specific frequency bands. All patients showed movement-related ERD in subject-specific frequency bands below ~40Hz in both externally cued and self-paced conditions. Preparatory ERD latency preceding self-cued movement was 900ms in one patient and at or after movement onset in the other two patients. In the externally cued task, a short lasting (&lt;1.3s) ready cue-related ERD that was not sustained to movement onset was observed in two patients. Imagined movements resulted in go cue-related ERD with a smaller magnitude in the same two patients. These results indicate that the modulation of motor cortical oscillations in patients with MSA that are treated with levodopa is similar to that occurring in untreated patients with PD. The findings suggest that cortical activation in patients with MSA is diminished, may be related to pathophysiological changes occurring in the basal ganglia and correlates with the poor clinical response that these patients typically obtain with dopaminergic therapy.
The main aim of the present study was to explore, by means of high-density EEG, the intensity and the temporal pattern of event-related sensory-motor alpha desynchronization (ERD) during the observation of different types of hand motor acts and gestures. In particular, we aimed to investigate whether the sensory-motor ERD would show a specific modulation during the observation of hand behaviors differing for goal-relatedness (hand grasping of an object and meaningless hand movements) and social relevance (communicative hand gestures and grasping within a social context). Time course analysis of alpha suppression showed that all types of hand behaviors were effective in triggering sensory-motor alpha ERD, but to a different degree depending on the category of observed hand motor acts and gestures. Meaningless gestures and hand grasping were the most effective stimuli, resulting in the strongest ERD. The observation of social hand behaviors such as social grasping and communicative gestures, triggered a more dynamic time course of ERD compared to that driven by the observation of simple grasping and meaningless gestures. These findings indicate that the observation of hand motor acts and gestures evoke the activation of a motor resonance mechanism that differs on the basis of the goal-relatedness and the social relevance of the observed hand behavior.
Previously, we reported that glucose-deprived astrocytes are more vulnerable to the cytotoxicity of peroxynitrite, the reaction product of nitric oxide and superoxide anion. The augmented vulnerability of glucose-deprived astrocytes to peroxynitrite cytotoxicity was dependent on their proliferation rate. Inhibition of cell cycle progression has been shown to inhibit the apoptotic cell death occurring in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. In the present study, we demonstrate that the increased death of glucose-deprived astrocytes by peroxynitrte was largely blocked by the cell cycle phase G2/M transition blocker etoposide. However, the cytoprotective effect of etoposide was not associated with its inhibition of cell cycle progression. Instead, etoposide effectively scavenged peroxynitrite. However, etoposide did not scavenge individual nitric oxide and superoxide anion and it did not prevent the hydrogen peroxide-induced cytotoxicity. The present results indicate that etoposide prevents the toxicity of peroxynitrite in astrocytes by directly scavenging peroxynitrite, not by inhibiting cell cycle progression.
Despite extensive gray matter loss following spinal cord injury (SCI), little attention has been given to neuronal replacement strategies and their effects on specific functional circuits in the injured spinal cord. In the present study, we assessed breathing behavior and phrenic nerve electrophysiological activity following transplantation of microdissected dorsal or ventral pieces of rat fetal spinal cord tissue (FSC(D) or FSC(V), respectively) into acute, cervical (C2) spinal hemisections. Transneuronal tracing demonstrated connectivity between donor neurons from both sources and the host phrenic circuitry. Phrenic nerve recordings revealed differential effects of dorsally vs. ventrally derived neural progenitors on ipsilateral phrenic nerve recovery and activity. These initial results suggest that local gray matter repair can influence motoneuron function in targeted circuits following spinal cord injury and that outcomes will be dependent on the properties and phenotypic fates of the donor cells employed.
The mechanism underlying axotomy-induced motoneuron loss is not fully understood, but appears to involve molecular changes within the injured motoneuron and the surrounding local microenvironment (neuropil). The mouse facial nucleus consists of six subnuclei which respond differentially to facial nerve transection at the stylomastoid foramen. The ventromedial (VM) subnucleus maintains virtually full facial motoneuron (FMN) survival following axotomy, whereas the ventrolateral (VL) subnucleus results in significant FMN loss with the same nerve injury. We hypothesized that distinct molecular phenotypes of FMN existed within the two subregions, one responsible for maintaining cell survival and the other promoting cell death. In this study, we used laser microdissection to isolate VM and VL facial subnuclear regions for molecular characterization. We discovered that, regardless of neuronal fate after injury, FMN in either subnuclear region respond vigorously to injury with a characteristic &quot;regenerative&quot; profile and additionally, the surviving VL FMN appear to compensate for the significant FMN loss. In contrast, significant differences in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA in the surrounding neuropil response were found between the two subnuclear regions of the facial nucleus that support a causative role for glial and/or immune-derived molecules in directing the contrasting responses of the FMN to axonal transection.
Sirtuins are NAD-dependent deacetylases that regulate important biologic processes including transcription, cell survival and metabolism. Activation of SIRT1, a mammalian sirtuin, extends longevity and increases neuronal survival. An important substrate of SIRT1 is peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma co-activator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha), a principal regulator of energy metabolism, whose function is significantly impaired in Huntington's disease (HD). We studied the effects of a pharmacological preparation of the SIRT1 activator resveratrol (SRT501-M), in the N171-82Q transgenic mouse model of HD. We analyzed motor performance, survival, central and peripheral pathology and levels of PGC-1alpha expression. Administration of SRT501-M increased expression of PGC-1alpha, as well as its downstream targets, nuclear respiratory factor-1 (NRF-1) and uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) in brown adipose tissue (BAT), but there was no effect on PGC-1alpha, NRF-1 or the mitochondrial transcription factor (Tfam) in the striatum. SRT501-M administration also reduced BAT vacuolation and decreased elevated blood glucose levels. However, there was no significant improvement in weight loss, motor performance, survival and striatal atrophy. Activation of the PGC-1alpha signaling pathway via resveratrol-induced activation of SIRT1, therefore, is an effective therapy in BAT, but not in the central nervous system of HD transgenic mice.
Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta1 is a key player in early brain development, hence, its availability (i.e., synthesis and release) affects neuronogenesis. TGFbeta1 moves proliferating cells out of the cell cycle and promotes their subsequent migration. The present study tested the hypothesis that neural progenitors self-regulate TGFbeta1. B104 neuroblastoma cells which can grow in the absence of serum or growth factors were used in systematic studies of transcription, translation, release, and activation. These studies relied on quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays and real-time polymerase chain reactions. TGFbeta1 positively upregulated its own intracellular expression and promoted increased release of TGFbeta1 from cells. The induction of TGFbeta1 was independent of a change in transcription, but it depended on cycloheximide-inhibited translation. Signaling mediated by downstream Smad2/3 through the TGFbeta receptors and intracellular protein transport were also required for release of TGFbeta1 from B104 cells. Thus, TGFbeta1 production and release were mediated through a feed-forward mechanism and were pivotally regulated at the level of translation. These activities appear to be key for the role of TGFbeta1 in the proliferation and migration of young neurons.
Multiple sclerosis is the most common, non-traumatic, disabling neurological disease of young adults, affecting an estimated two million people worldwide. At onset multiple sclerosis can be categorised clinically into relapsing remitting MS (RRMS - 85-90% of patients) or primary progressive MS (PPMS). Relapses typically present sub-acutely over hours to days with neurological symptoms persisting for days to weeks before they gradually dissipate. At first full recovery is the norm, later patients accumulate deficits and ultimately most convert to a secondary progressive phase (SPMS), characterised by deficits that increase in the absence of further relapses. The clinical picture reflects the complex interplay of focal inflammation, demyelination and axonal degeneration occurring within the central nervous system. Since the introduction of a genuine disease-modifying drug, interferon-beta1b in 1993, there has been a growing interest from academia and pharmaceutical companies alike in multiple sclerosis therapy. In part this effort has focused on investigating the &quot;window of therapeutic opportunity&quot; within the natural history of the disease: it is becoming increasingly clear that immunotherapies are not useful in the secondary phase of the disease but may offer long-term benefit if given early in the relapsing-remitting phase. In part, attention is being paid to the details of dosing and administration of the various licensed therapies, but there is also a significant research effort to explore new ways to treat the disease. In this review, we first sketch the landscape of novel therapies in multiple sclerosis and then discuss in detail approaches which are likely to emerge over the next few years.
Accumulating impairment in patients suffering from multiple sclerosis (MS) is the result of increasing axonal damage and neurodegeneration. Current therapeutic strategies only target the inflammatory side of this disease. Convincing effects of all established treatment options in chronic progressive disease stages are lacking. In recent years much progress has been made unraveling the molecular mechanisms involved in neuronal and axonal loss in this neuroinflammatory disease. Understanding the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in MS and its animal models is essential to select therapeutic targets which are most likely to reduce long-term disabilities in patients. In this article we review the current knowledge of possible strategies for future neuroprotective therapies for MS patients and point out which treatment options are currently being evaluated in clinical trials.
The present study evaluates the toxicity from sub-chronic administration of CoCl(2) (12.5mg cobalt kg(-1) BW for 7 days) to male Sprague-Dawley rats in view of the beneficial effects of CoCl(2) in animals and for developing efficacious therapeutic regimen in humans. 32 rats weighing 200+/-25 g were used for all experiments. Blood was collected for hematological and biochemical analysis and various organs were dissected after perfusion of animals under anesthesia for other analyses. Mean feed consumption and feed conversion efficiency values were comparable across all study groups; however, hematological analysis depicted a significant increase in hemoglobin, hematocrit and RBC in the entire cobalt-supplemented groups, which are a component of its beneficial effect. There was a significant increase in monocytes, granulocytes and WBC after 1 and 24h, which were comparable with control after 7 days. Other biochemical analyses also showed no change with respect to control. Though the metal content increased significantly in liver initially (1 and 24h) after treatment, it was equivalent to control after 7 days. Moreover, histopathological analysis revealed no evidence of changes that could be attributed to cobalt pretreatment. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the present study supports further use of the present dose of CoCl(2), which was found to be nontoxic.


Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death and disability worldwide, yet we do not fully understand their underlying causes to reliably identify and treat, let alone prevent, these diseases. The majority of therapeutic approaches are symptom orientated, and current practice often follows a 'one-fits-all' approach. New strategies are needed, which harness the potential of individualized medicine with its three major pillars: in vitro diagnostics for early identification of individuals at risk and monitoring of drug efficacy; molecular imaging for disease localization and monitoring; and innovative, mechanism-based drugs. One so far untargeted mechanism of cardiovascular disease is oxidative stress, that is, the increased occurrence of reactive oxygen species in the vascular wall that leads to endothelial dysfunction. We outline why previous antioxidant supplements do not work and suggest an alternative approach targeting the enzymatic sources of oxidative stress and using emerging biomarkers of oxidative stress. These and similar approaches may be applied to fewer patients but in a much more individualized, effective and cost-saving manner.
We have evaluated the acetylcholine esterase and malate dehydrogenase activity in the muscle, epinephrine, norepinephrine, insulin and T3 content in the serum of epileptic rats. Acetylcholine esterase and malate dehydrogenase activity increased in the muscle and decreased in the heart of the epileptic rats compared to control. Insulin and T3 content were increased significantly in the serum of the epileptic rats. Our results suggest that repetitive seizures resulted in increased metabolism and excitability in epileptic rats. Bacopa monnieri and Bacoside-A treatment prevents the occurrence of seizures there by reducing the impairment on peripheral nervous system.
Bergamot (Citrus bergamia, Risso) is a fruit most knowledgeable for its essential oil (BEO) used in aromatherapy to minimize symptoms of stress-induced anxiety and mild mood disorders and cancer pain though the rational basis for such applications awaits to be discovered. The behavioural and EEG spectrum power effects of BEO correlate well with its exocytotic and carrier-mediated release of discrete amino acids endowed with neurotransmitter function in the mammalian hippocampus supporting the deduction that BEO is able to interfere with normal and pathological synaptic plasticity. The observed neuroprotection in the course of experimental brain ischemia and pain does support this view. In conclusion, the data yielded so far contribute to our understanding of the mode of action of this phytocomplex on nerve tissue under normal and pathological experimental conditions and provide a rational basis for the practical use of BEO in complementary medicine. The opening of a wide venue for future research and translation into clinical settings is also envisaged.
Nitric oxide (NO) and related reactive nitrogen species (RNS) play a major role in the pathophysiology of stroke and other neurodegenerative diseases. One of the poorly understood consequences of stroke is a long-lasting inhibition of synaptic transmission. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that RNS can produce long-term inhibition of neurotransmitter release via S-nitrosylation of proteins in presynaptic nerve endings. We examined the effects of exogenous sources of RNS on the vesicular and nonvesicular L-[(3)H]glutamate release from rat brain synaptosomes. NO/RNS donors, such as spermine NONOate, MAHMA NONOate, S-nitroso-L-cysteine, and SIN-1, inhibited only the vesicular component of glutamate release with an order of potency that closely matched levels of protein S-nitrosylation. Inhibition of glutamate release persisted for &gt;1h after RNS donor decomposition and washout and strongly correlated with decreases in the intrasynaptosomal ATP levels. Post-NO treatment of synaptosomes with thiol-reducing reagents decreased the total content of S-nitrosylated proteins but had little effect on glutamate release and ATP levels. In contrast, post-NO application of the end-product of glycolysis, pyruvate, partially rescued neurotransmitter release and ATP production. These data suggest that RNS suppress presynaptic metabolism and neurotransmitter release via poorly reversible modifications of glycolytic and mitochondrial enzymes, one of which was identified as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. A similar mechanism may contribute to the long-term suppression of neuronal communication during nitrosative stress in vivo.
Dyspepsia is a highly prevalent condition characterized by symptoms originating in the gastroduodenal region without underlying organic disorder. Treatment modalities include acid-suppressive drugs, gastroprokinetic drugs, Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy, tricyclic antidepressants, and psychological therapies. Irritable bowel syndrome is a multifactorial, lower functional gastrointestinal disorder involving disturbances of the brain-gut axis. The pathophysiology provides the basis for pharmacotherapy: abnormal gastrointestinal motor functions, visceral hypersensitivity, psychosocial factors, intraluminal changes, and mucosal immune activation. Medications targeting chronic constipation or diarrhea may also relieve irritable bowel syndrome. Novel approaches to treatment require approval, and promising agents are guanylate cyclase cagonists, atypical benzodiazepines, antibiotics, immune modulators, and probiotics.

The periodic albino of Xenopus laevis displays a transitory presence of black melanin pigment in the embryo but looses this during tadpole development. This mutation, involving a recessive allele, affects melanogenesis in dermal melanophore pigment cells. It has been suggested that the mutation is intrinsic to the melanophore cell itself or, alternatively, reflects malfunction in the neuroendocrine system that regulates melanophore cell function. This latter system, involving pituitary melanotrope cells which produces alpha-melanophore stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), is responsible for stimulating the production and dispersion of melanin pigment in dermal melanophores. The purpose of the present study was to determine to which degree the albinism is intrinsic to the melanophore or involves neuroendocrine malfunction. Experiments involved transplantation of presumptive melanophores from wild-type to albino embryos, and vice versa, immunocytochemical analysis of the albino neuroendocrine system and the creation of wild-type/albino parabiotic animals to determine if the neuroendocrine system of the albino can support melanotrope cell function. We show that the albino has a functional neuroendocrine system and conclude that the defect in the albino primarily affects the melanophore cell, possibly rendering it incapable of responding to alpha-MSH. It is also apparent from our results that in later stages of development the cellular environment of the melanotrope cell does become important to its development, but the nature of the critical cellular factors involved remains to be determined.
The 6th International Symposium on Amphibian and Reptilian Endocrinology and Neurobiology (ISAREN), the former International Symposium on Amphibian Endocrinology (ISAE), was recently held in Berlin. ISAREN developed from two symposia on amphibian biology held in European countries in 1988-1990. In this article, the history of ISAREN was briefly stated. In addition, some of the topics of our researches carried out in collaboration with several groups, using various amphibian species during the past 20 years and/or presented in the past symposia were reviewed. The topics included the discovery of pancreatic chitinase, involvement of growth hormone in vitellogenin synthesis, changes of ANF-like immunoreactivity in the frogs sent into the space, discovery of a peptide sex-pheromone, origin of the epithelial pituitary, and hypothalamic regulation of thyroid-stimulating hormone.
Null mutations in the genes white and brown, but not scarlet, enhance a rough eye phenotype in a Drosophila melanogaster model of tauopathy; however, adding rosy mutations suppresses these effects. Interaction with nucleotide-derived pigments or increased lysosomal dysregulation are potential mechanisms. Finally, tau toxicity correlates with increased GSK-3 activity, but not with tau phosphorylation at Ser202/Thr205.


Accumulating evidence indicates that mammalian cochlear frequency-position maps (location of maximum vibration of the basilar membrane as a function of frequency) depend on the physiological condition of the inner ear. Cochlear damage desensitizes the ear, after the damage the original location of maximum vibration is tuned to a lower sound frequency. This suggests that frequency-position maps, derived from such desensitized ears, are shifted to lower frequencies, corresponding to a shift of the basilar membrane vibration pattern towards the base for a given stimulus frequency. To test this hypothesis, we re-mapped the cochlear frequency-position map in the chinchilla. We collected frequency-position data from chinchillas in normal physiological condition (&quot;physiological map&quot;) and compared these to data previously established from sound overexposed ears (&quot;anatomical map&quot;). The characteristic frequency (CF) of neurons in the cochlear nucleus was determined. Horse-radish peroxidase (HRP) or biocytin (BCT) were injected iontophoretically to trace auditory nerve fibers towards their innervation site in the organ of Corti. The relationship between distance from the base (d, percent) and frequency (f, kHz) was described best by a simple exponential function: d = 61.2 - 42.2 x log(f). The slope of the function was 2.55 mm/octave. Compared to the &quot;anatomical map&quot;, the &quot;physiological map&quot; was shifted by about 0.3 octaves to higher frequencies corresponding to a shift of the basilar membrane vibration pattern of 0.8 mm towards the apex for a given stimulus frequency. Our findings affirm that frequency-position maps in the mammalian cochlea depend on the condition of the inner ear. Damage-induced desensitization in mammalian inner ears results in similar shifts of CF (about 0.5 octaves) but different shifts of the maximum of the vibration pattern towards the base at given frequencies, dependent on the mapping constant of the species, longer basilar membranes showing a larger basal shift. Furthermore, the results substantiate the notion that &quot;crowding&quot; at lower frequencies appears to be a specialization rather than a general feature.
We used the stimulus-driven 40-Hz auditory steady-state response (ASSR) that localizes tonotopically to the region of primary auditory cortex (A1) to study modulation of this region by top-down attention. Experiment 1 presented amplitude modulated (AM) auditory and visual stimuli simultaneously (AM at 40 Hz and 16 Hz, respectively) while participants responded to targets in one modality or the other. ASSR amplitude increased from an unattended passive baseline during auditory but not visual attention demonstrating modality-specific auditory attention, when attention was required for brief (1 s) but not long (2 min) time intervals. Modality-specific visual attention occurred at both time intervals. Experiment 2 asked whether attention directed to one or the other of two simultaneous auditory streams (carrier frequencies of 250 and 4100 Hz AM at 37 and 41 Hz respectively, counterbalanced) increased ASSR amplitude for the attended stream (frequency-specific auditory attention). Behaviour was strongly controlled by carrier frequency (overall target rate 1.7 Hz), and the cortical sources of the two carriers were resolved by inverse modeling. Despite these conditions favourable to frequency specificity, frequency-specific modulation of ASSR amplitude was not found at either time interval. Frequency-specific modulation of A1 may require re-entrant feedback to the auditory core from auditory percepts that possess distinct spectral attributes and are attended in higher regions of the auditory system.
While adaptation to complex auditory stimuli has traditionally been reported for linguistic properties of speech, the present study demonstrates non-linguistic high-level aftereffects in the perception of voice identity, following adaptation to voices or faces of personally familiar speakers. In Exp. 1, prolonged exposure to speaker A's voice biased the perception of identity-ambiguous voice morphs between speakers A and B towards speaker B (and vice versa). Significantly biased voice identity perception was also observed in Exp. 2 when adaptors were videos of speakers' silently articulating faces, although effects were reduced in magnitude relative to those seen in Exp. 1. By contrast, adaptation to an unrelated speaker C elicited an intermediate proportion of speaker A identifications in both experiments. While crossmodal aftereffects on auditory identification (Exp. 2) dissipated rapidly, unimodal aftereffects (Exp. 1) were still measurable a few minutes after adaptation. These novel findings suggest contrastive coding of voice identity in long-term memory, with at least two perceptual mechanisms of voice identity adaptation: one related to auditory coding of voice characteristics, and another related to multimodal coding of familiar speaker identity.
Performance in several memory tasks is known to be unaffected by hippocampal damage sustained before learning, but is severely disrupted if the same damage occurs after learning. Memories for preferred locations, or home bases, in exploratory tasks can be formed by rats with hippocampal damage, but it is unknown if the memory for a home base survives hippocampal damage. To examine this question, for 30 min each day for five consecutive days, rats explored a circular open field containing one local cue. By Day 5 the rats preferentially went directly to that location, spent the majority of their time at that location, made rapid direct trips to that location when returning from an excursion and so demonstrated that the location was a home base. Memory for the cued location was examined after a 24 h or 14-day interval with the cue removed. In Experiments 1 and 2, control rats and rats with prior N-methyl-D-aspartic acid hippocampal lesions demonstrated memory of the home base location by making direct trips to that location. In Experiment 3, rats that had first explored the open field and cue and then received hippocampal lesions showed no memory for the cued location. The absence of anterograde impairment vs. the presence of retrograde impairment for memory of a spatial home base confirms a role for the hippocampus in the retention of spatial memory acquired during exploration.
Area CA3 receives two extrinsic excitatory inputs, the mossy fibers (MF), and the perforant path (PP). Interneurons with somata in str. lacunosum moleculare (L-M) of CA3 modulate the influence of the MF and PP on pyramidal cell activity by providing strong feed-forward inhibitory influence to pyramidal cells. Here we report that L-M interneurons receive two separate MF inputs, one to the dorsal dendrites from the suprapyramidal blade of the dentate gyrus (MF(SDG)), and a second to ventral dendrites from the str. lucidum (MF(SL)). Responses elicited from MF(SDG) and MF(SL) stimulation sites have strong paired-pulse facilitation, similar DCG-IV sensitivity, amplitude, and decay kinetics but target spatially segregated domains on the interneuron dendrites. These data demonstrate that certain interneuron subtypes are entrained by two convergent MF inputs to spatially separated regions of the dendritic tree. This anatomical arrangement could make these interneurons considerably more responsive to the excitatory drive from dentate granule cells. Furthermore, temporal summation is linear or slightly sublinear between PP and MF(SL) but supralinear between PP and MF(SDG). This specific boosting of the excitatory drive to interneurons from the SDG location may indicate that L-M interneurons could be specifically involved in the processing of the associational component of the recognition memory.
This study used microarray analysis to examine age-related changes in gene expression 6 and 12 h following a single estradiol injection in ovariectomized mice. Estradiol-responsive gene expression at the 6 h time point was reduced in aged (18 months) animals compared with young (4 months) and middle-aged (MA, 12 months) mice. Examination of gene clustering within biological and functional pathways indicated that young and MA mice exhibited increased expression of genes for cellular components of the synapse and decreased expression of genes related to oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial dysfunction. At the 12 h time point, estradiol-responsive gene expression increased in aged animals and decreased in young and MA mice compared with the 6 h time point. Gene clustering analysis indicated that aged mice exhibited increased expression of genes for signaling pathways that are rapidly influenced by estradiol. The age differences in gene expression for rapid signaling pathways may relate to disparity in basal pathway activity and estradiol mediated activation of rapid signaling cascades.
Knowledge on the molecular mechanisms involved in memory retrieval is limited due to the lack of tools to study this stage of the memory process. Here we report that exchange proteins activated by cAMP (Epac) play a surprisingly specific role in memory retrieval. Intrahippocampal injection of the Epac activator 8-pCPT-2'O-Me-cAMP was shown to improve fear memory retrieval in contextual fear conditioning whereas acquisition and consolidation were not affected. The retrieval enhancing effect of the Epac activator was even more prominent in the passive avoidance paradigm. Down-regulation of Epac2 expression in the hippocampal CA1 area impaired fear memory retrieval when the memory test was performed 72 h after training, but not when tested after 17 days. Our data thus identify an important time-limited role for hippocampal Epac2 signaling in cognition and opens new avenues to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying memory retrieval.
A functional polymorphism of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene (Val66Met) has been associated with the risk for schizophrenia and volume differences in the hippocampus. However, little is known about the association between progressive brain volume change in schizophrenia and BDNF genotype. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between hippocampal volume change in patients with schizophrenia and healthy control subjects and BDNF genotype. Two structural magnetic resonance imaging brain scans were acquired of 68 patients with schizophrenia and 83 healthy subjects with an interval of approximately 5 yrs. Hippocampal volume change was measured and related to BDNF genotype in patients and healthy controls. BDNF genotype was not associated with hippocampal volume change over time in patients or healthy controls, nor could we replicate earlier findings on smaller hippocampal volume in Met-carriers. However, we did find a genotype-by-diagnosis interaction at baseline demonstrating smaller hippocampal volumes in patients homozygous for the Val-allele relative to healthy Val-homozygotes. In addition, irrespective of genotype, patients showed smaller hippocampal volumes compared with healthy controls at baseline. In summary, our results suggest that the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism is not associated with hippocampal volume change over time. Nevertheless, our findings may support the possibility that BDNF affects brain morphology differently in schizophrenia patients and healthy subjects.
There is an emerging group of neurological disorders that result from genetic mutations affecting gap junction proteins in myelinating cells. The X-linked form of Charcot Marie Tooth disease (CMT1X) is caused by numerous mutations in the GJB1 gene encoding the gap junction protein connexin32 (Cx32), which is expressed in both Schwann cells in the PNS and oligodendrocytes in the CNS. Patients with CMT1X present mainly with a progressive peripheral neuropathy, showing mixed axonal and demyelinating features. In many cases there is also clinical or subclinical involvement of the CNS with acute or chronic phenotypes of encephalopathy. Furthermore, mutations in the GJA12/GJC2 gene encoding the gap junction protein Cx47, which is expressed in oligodendrocytes, have been identified in families with progressive leukodystrophy, known as Pelizaeus-Merzbacher-like disease, as well as in patients with hereditary spastic paraplegia. Recent studies have provided insights into the pattern of gap junction protein expression and function in CNS and PNS myelinating cells. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo disease models have clarified some of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying these disorders. Here we provide an overview of the clinical, genetic, and neurobiological aspects of gap junction disorders affecting the nervous system.
Adult neurogenesis occurs in the hippocampus of most mammals. While the function of adult hippocampal neurogenesis is not known, there is a relationship between neurogenesis and hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Ovarian hormones can influence learning and memory and strategy choice. In competitive memory tasks, higher levels of estradiol shift female rats towards the use of the place strategy. Previous studies using a cue-competition paradigm find that 36% of male rats will use a hippocampus-dependent place strategy and place strategy users had lower levels of cell proliferation in the hippocampus. Here, we used the same paradigm to test whether endogenous or exogenous ovarian hormones influence strategy choice in the cue-competition paradigm and whether cell proliferation was related to strategy choice. We tested ovariectomized estradiol-treated (10 microg of estradiol benzoate) or sham-operated female rats on alternating blocks of hippocampus-dependent and hippocampus-independent versions of the Morris water task. Rats were then given a probe session with the platform visible and in a novel location. Preferred strategy was classified as place strategy (hippocampus-dependent) if they swam to the old platform location or cue strategy (hippocampus-independent) if they swam to the visible platform. All groups showed a preference for the cue strategy. However, proestrous rats were more likely to be place strategy users than rats not in proestrus. Female place strategy users had increased cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus compared to cue strategy users. Our study suggests that 78% of female rats chose the cue strategy instead of the place strategy. In summary the present results suggest that estradiol does not shift strategy use in this paradigm and that cell proliferation is related to strategy use with greater cell proliferation seen in place strategy users in female rats.
Maternal licking in rats affects the development of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), a sexually dimorphic motor nucleus that controls penile reflexes involved with copulation. Reduced maternal licking results in decreased motoneuron number, size, and dendritic length in the adult SNB, as well as deficits in adult male copulatory behavior. Our previous findings that licking-like tactile stimulation influences SNB dendritic development and upregulates Fos expression in the lumbosacral spinal cord suggest that afferent signaling is changed by differences in maternal stimulation. Oxytocin afferents from the hypothalamus are a possible candidate, given previous research that has shown oxytocin is released following sensory stimulation, oxytocin modulates excitability in the spinal cord, and is a pro-erectile modulator of male sex behavior. In this experiment, we used immunofluorescence and immediate early gene analysis to assess whether licking-like tactile stimulation of the perineum activated parvocellular oxytocinergic neurons in the hypothalamus in neonates. We also used enzyme immunoassay to determine whether this same stroking stimulation produced an increase in spinal oxytocin levels. We found that stroking increased Fos immunolabeling in small oxytocin-positive cells in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, in comparison to unstroked or handled control pups. In addition, 60s of licking-like perineal stimulation produced a transient 89% increase in oxytocin levels in the lumbosacral spinal cord. Together, these results suggest that oxytocin afferent activity may contribute to the effects of early maternal care on the masculinization of the SNB and resultant male copulatory behavior.
Animals are remarkably well equipped to respond to changes in their environment across different time scales and levels of biological organization. Here, I introduce a novel perspective that incorporates the three main processes the nervous system uses to integrate and process information: electrophysiological, genomic, and neuroendocrine action potentials. After discussing several examples of neuroendocrine action potentials, I lay out the commonalities of these temporally organized responses and how they might be interrelated with electrophysiological activity and genomic responses. This framework provides a novel outlook on longstanding questions in behavioral neuroendocrinology and suggests exciting new avenues for further research that will integrate across disciplines and levels of biological organization.
Food consumption in stressful situations vary as a function of individual difference factors (e.g., emotional vs. non-emotional eating), and may be related to hormonal responses elicited by the stressful event. These hormonal responses may be tied to specific emotions elicited by the stressful event. The present investigation examined the emotional and hormonal (cortisol, ghrelin) responses of high and low emotional eaters following a laboratory stressor (Trier Social Stress Test; TSST). Women (n=48) either high or low in emotional eating status were tested in a TSST or served as controls during which blood samples were taken for analysis of cortisol and ghrelin, both of which have been implicated in eating and in response to stressors. The TSST promoted elevated cortisol levels, being somewhat more pronounced in emotional than in non-emotional eaters. Both shame and anger were provoked by the TSST, and although both these emotions were correlated with cortisol levels, only anger significantly mediated the relationship between the stressor and cortisol levels. As well, baseline ghrelin levels in low emotional eaters exceeded that of high emotional eaters, and increased moderately in response to the stressor situation, irrespective of emotional eating status. Interestingly, when provided with food, ghrelin levels declined in the non-emotional eaters, but not in emotional eaters. The possibility is offered that the lack of a decline of ghrelin in emotional eaters may sustain eating in these individuals.
Declarative memory is remarkably adaptive in the way it maintains sensitivity to relative novelty in both unknown and highly familiar environments. However, the neural mechanisms underlying this contextual adaptation are poorly understood. On the basis of emerging links between novelty processing and reinforcement learning mechanisms, we hypothesized that responses to novelty will be adaptively scaled according to expected contextual probabilities of new and familiar events, in the same way that responses to prediction errors for rewards are scaled according to their expected range. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans, we show that the influence of novelty and reward on memory formation in an incidental memory task is adaptively scaled and furthermore that the BOLD signal in orbital prefrontal and medial temporal cortices exhibits concomitant scaled adaptive coding. These findings demonstrate a new mechanism for adjusting gain and sensitivity in declarative memory in accordance with contextual probabilities and expectancies of future events.
Variants of unknown significance in the CAPN3 gene constitute a significant challenge for genetic counselling. Despite the frequency of intronic nucleotide changes in this gene (15-25% of all mutations), so far their pathogenicity has only been inferred by in-silico analysis, and occasionally, proven by RNA analysis. In this study, 5 different intronic variants (one novel) that bioinformatic tools predicted would affect RNA splicing, underwent comprehensive studies which were designed to prove they are disease-causing. Muscle mRNA from 15 calpainopathy patients was analyzed by RT-PCR and splicing-specific-PCR tests. We established the previously unrecognized pathogenicity of these mutations, which caused aberrant splicing, most frequently by the activation of cryptic splicing sites or, occasionally, by exon skipping. The absence or severe reduction of protein demonstrated their deleterious effect at translational level. We concluded that bioinformatic tools are valuable to suggest the potential effects of intronic variants; however, the experimental demonstration of the pathogenicity is not always easy to do even when using RNA analysis (low abundance, degradation mechanisms), and it might not be successful unless splicing-specific-PCR tests are used. A comprehensive approach is therefore recommended to identify and describe unclassified variants in order to offer essential data for basic and clinical geneticists.

The European Neuroscience--Seventh Biennial FENS Forum, held in Amsterdam, included topics covering new therapeutic developments in the field of neuroscience. This conference report highlights selected presentations on sodium channel inhibitors, ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists, serotonin receptor modulators, and novel therapies for depression, pain and stroke. Investigational drugs discussed include ST-1936 (Sigma-Tau Industrie Farmaceutiche Riunite SpA), LY-392098 (Eli Lilly &amp; Co) and Lu-AA21004 (H Lundbeck A/S/Takeda Pharmaceutical Co Ltd).
Toll-like receptor (TLR) 3 recognizes double-stranded RNA and triggers the production of type 1 interferon and inflammatory cytokines/chemokines. Its engagement in dendritic cells (DCs) induces their maturation into potent immunostimulatory cells endowed with the capacity to efficiently cross-prime T lymphocytes. Owing to these properties, TLR3 agonists are currently under investigation as promising adjuvants in DC-based immunotherapy protocols for the treatment of viral and neoplastic diseases. Thus, a detailed understanding of the cascade of events specifically triggered in DCs upon engagement of this receptor is of great interest in translational research. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on TLR3 signalling in DCs and highlight similarities and differences with respect to other cell types.
Protein phosphatase 2A (PP-2A) has been implicated to be crucial in neural development and the normal function of nervous system. However, little is known about its role in neuritogenesis. In this study, we reported that inhibition of PP-2A strongly suppresses the outgrowth of cell processes only during the initiation stage, while activation of PP-2A promotes extensive outgrowth of long neurites in Neura2A cells and long single axon or multiple axons in hippocampal neurons. Our results indicated that PP-2A may be an important positive regulator in neurite outgrowth, and upregulation PP-2A could be a possible target for the therapy of axonopathy in neural diseases.
The fused in sarcoma/translocated in liposarcoma (FUS/TLS) gene was initially identified as a component of a fusion pro-oncogene resulting from a chromosomal translocation seen in liposarcomas. FUS/TLS belongs to a sub-family of RNA binding proteins, encoding an N-terminal serine-tyrosine-glycine-glutamine (SYGQ) region, an RNA recognition motif (RRM) flanked by glycine rich (G-rich) regions, a cysteine(2)/cysteine(2) zinc finger motif and multiple RGG repeats. The FUS/TLS protein interacts with RNA, single stranded DNA and double stranded DNA, and is involved in unique functions in mRNA processing and transport, transcriptional regulation and maintenance of genomic stability. Recently, several mutations in this gene have been found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. The mutant forms of FUS/TLS exhibit similar pathology to other ALS causative genes, including aberrant cytoplasmic inclusions and an increased FUS/TLS cytoplasmic to nuclear ratio. The FUS/TLS mutations identified in ALS patients suggests that altered RNA metabolism may play a role in ALS pathogenesis.
Oxidative imbalance is one of the earliest manifestations of Alzheimer disease (AD) actually preceding the classic pathology of amyloid  deposits and neurofibrillary tangles. Clinical trials examining antioxidant modulation by a number of global interventions show efficacy, while simple supplementation has limited benefit suggesting complexity of multiple contributing factors. In this review, we highlight new insights regarding novel approaches to understanding and treating AD based on holistic views of oxidative balance including diet.
Historically, the Swedish criminal justice system conformed to other Western penal law systems, exempting severely mentally disordered offenders considered to be unaccountable. However, in 1965 Sweden enforced a radical penal law abolishing exceptions based on unaccountability. Mentally disordered offenders have since then been subjected to various forms of sanctions motivated by the offender's need for care and aimed at general prevention. Until 2008, a prison sentence was not allowed for offenders found to have committed a crime under the influence of a severe mental disorder, leaving forensic psychiatric care the most common sanction in this group. Such offenders are nevertheless held criminally responsible, liable for damages, and encumbered with a criminal record. In most cases, such offenders must not be discharged without the approval of an administrative court. Two essentially modern principles may be discerned behind the &quot;Swedish model&quot;: first, an attempted abolishment of moral responsibility, omitting concepts such as guilt, accountability, atonement, and retribution, and, second, the integration of psychiatric care into the societal reaction and control systems. The model has been much criticized, and several governmental committees have suggested a re-introduction of a system involving the concept of accountability. This review describes the Swedish special criminal justice provisions on mentally disordered offenders including the legislative changes in 1965 along with current proposals to return to a pre-1965 system, presents current Swedish forensic psychiatric practice and research, and discusses some of the ethical, political, and metaphysical presumptions that underlie the current system.
We have previously reported that 14-d chronic intermittent cold (CIC) stress induced a cognitive deficit in reversal learning on the rat attentional set-shifting test. This effect may be related to dysregulation of 5-HT function in orbitofrontal cortex, as a model of cognitive dysfunction in depression. To test the ability of chronic antidepressant drug treatment to reverse the cognitive deficit induced by CIC, it was first necessary to assess the temporal characteristics of the CIC-induced cognitive deficit. Thus, in the first experiment, we assessed the duration of the cognitive deficit following 2-wk CIC stress. Replicating previous experiments, CIC induced a reversal learning deficit tested 3 d after the last cold exposure. However, cognitive performance of CIC-stressed rats was no different from unstressed controls when tested 7, 14 or 21 d after termination of the stress treatment. We next compared behaviour 3 d after 2-wk CIC to that seen 3 d after 5-wk CIC, and found similar deficits in reversal learning. Thus, in the final experiment, antidepressant drug treatment was initiated after 2-wk CIC stress, and was maintained for 3 wk, concurrent with the continuation of CIC stress. Both chronic and acute treatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, citalopram, but not the norepinephrine reuptake blocker, desipramine, reversed the cognitive deficit induced by CIC stress. Thus, this stress-induced cognitive deficit may be a useful model for cognitive deficits related to prefrontal cortical hypoactivity in depression, and for investigating neurobiological mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of chronic antidepressant drug treatment.
Chronic administration of antidepressants such as fluoxetine and imipramine increases the responsiveness of 5-HT(1A) receptors in dorsal periaqueductal grey matter (DPAG), a midbrain area consistently implicated in the pathogenesis of panic disorder. This effect has been related to the clinically relevant anti-panic action of these drugs. In this study we determined whether long-term administration of fluoxetine also affects 5-HT efflux in DPAG. As a comparison, the effect of chronic treatment with the anxiolytic 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist buspirone on DPAG 5-HT levels was assessed. We also investigated whether the inhibitory effect of chronic fluoxetine on escape behaviour in the rat elevated T-maze, considered as a panicolytic-like effect, is counteracted by intra-DPAG injection of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635. Male Wistar rats were treated (1 or 21 d, i.p.) with fluoxetine, buspirone or vehicle, once daily. After treatment, 5-HT in DPAG was measured by in-vivo microdialysis coupled to HPLC. In another study, rats treated (21 d, i.p.) with either fluoxetine or vehicle also received intra-DPAG injection of WAY 100635 or saline 10 min before being tested in the elevated T-maze. Chronic, but not acute, administration of fluoxetine significantly raised extracellular levels of 5-HT in DPAG. Long-term treatment with buspirone was ineffective. In the elevated T-maze, intra-DPAG injection of WAY 100635 fully blocked the anti-escape effect of chronic administration of fluoxetine. Therefore, chronic fluoxetine facilitates 5-HT(1A)-mediated neurotransmission within DPAG and this effect accounts for the panicolytic-like effect of this antidepressant in the elevated T-maze.
Antipsychotic drugs are the mainstay pharmacotherapy for schizophrenia and related psychiatric disorders. While the metabolic pathways of antipsychotic drugs have been well defined, the role of drug transporters in the disposition and effects of antipsychotic drugs has not been systematically explored. P-glycoprotein has ubiquitous expression in brain endothelial cells and plays a protective role by effluxing substrates for elimination and by limiting their accumulation in the central nervous system. Risperidone and several other antipsychotic drugs are substrates of P-glycoprotein. Increased antipsychotic drug entry into the brain via blockade of the P-glycoprotein transporter may facilitate the amount of available drug to its targets, particularly dopamine receptors. By increasing available antipsychotic drug concentrations, P-glycoprotein inhibition offers a novel means of enhanced drug delivery. This study evaluated whether selective P-glycoprotein transporter inhibition would increase the effects of risperidone on relevant indices of behaviour (catalepsy and locomotion) and neurochemistry (dopamine release and metabolism as measured by in-vivo microdialysis). We administered the P-glycoprotein inhibitor, PSC 833 (100 mg/kg p.o.), to rats prior to administration of risperidone at varying doses (0.01-4.0 mg/kg s.c.). P-glycoprotein inhibition significantly increased risperidone-induced cataleptic effects, blockade of amphetamine-induced locomotion, and effects on dopamine turnover as seen by increased striatal dopamine metabolite levels. These results provide functional evidence concordant with prior data for increased brain levels of risperidone following PSC 833 treatment.
The basis of literacy acquisition in alphabetic orthographies is the learning of the associations between the letters and the corresponding speech sounds. In spite of this primacy in learning to read, there is only scarce knowledge on how this audiovisual integration process works and which mechanisms are involved. Recent electrophysiological studies of letter-speech sound processing have revealed that normally developing readers take years to automate these associations and dyslexic readers hardly exhibit automation of these associations. It is argued that the reason for this effortful learning may reside in the nature of the audiovisual process that is recruited for the integration of in principle arbitrarily linked elements. It is shown that letter-speech sound integration does not resemble the processes involved in the integration of natural audiovisual objects such as audiovisual speech. The automatic symmetrical recruitment of the assumedly uni-sensory visual and auditory cortices in audiovisual speech integration does not occur for letter and speech sound integration. It is also argued that letter-speech sound integration only partly resembles the integration of arbitrarily linked unfamiliar audiovisual objects. Letter-sound integration and artificial audiovisual objects share the necessity of a narrow time window for integration to occur. However, they differ from these artificial objects, because they constitute an integration of partly familiar elements which acquire meaning through the learning of an orthography. Although letter-speech sound pairs share similarities with audiovisual speech processing as well as with unfamiliar, arbitrary objects, it seems that letter-speech sound pairs develop into unique audiovisual objects that furthermore have to be processed in a unique way in order to enable fluent reading and thus very likely recruit other neurobiological learning mechanisms than the ones involved in learning natural or arbitrary unfamiliar audiovisual associations.
A central question in modern neuroscience is how anatomical and functional connections between brain areas are organized to allow optimal information processing. In particular, both segregation and integration of information have to be dealt with in a single architecture of brain networks. There is strong evidence that synchronization of neural activity, both locally and between distant regions is a crucial code for functional interactions. However, a powerful theoretical framework to describe the structural and functional topology of system-wide brain networks has only become available with the discovery of 'small-world' and 'scale-free' networks in 1998 and 1999. There is now strong evidence that brain networks, ranging from simple nets of interconnected neurons up to macroscopic networks of brain areas display the typical features of complex systems: high clustering, short path lengths (both typical of 'small-world' networks), skewed degree distributions, presence of hubs, assortative mixing and the presence of modules. This has been demonstrated for anatomical and functional networks using neuroanatomical techniques, EEG, MEG and structural and functional MRI, in organisms ranging from C. elegans to man. In addition, network topology has been shown to be highly heritable, and very predictive of cognitive functioning. A short path length, which implies that from any area in the brain any other area can be reached in a small number of steps, is strongly correlated with IQ. Computational models are now beginning to reveal how the complex structure of adult brain networks could arise during development.

The chemical communication system in Drosophila melanogaster Meigen, 1830 plays a major role in courtship and consists of the male-specific cis-Vaccenyl acetate and sex-specific contact pheromones, cuticular hydrocarbons (CHC), which build up during ontogeny (first 4 days). They replace longer CHCs, common to both sexes and present only after the imaginal eclosion. A detailed quantitative description of the evolution of cuticular unsaturated hydrocarbons with age is presented here for males and females of different D. melanogaster strains, which have been bred in well controlled environments. Monoenes appear in both sexes at around 12 h, before female dienes. The present paper argues that this is likely linked to the switching on of a new set of genes. Ecdysone, which is more abundant in females than in males during this critical period, might control this switch. Parallel behavioral studies show that whereas female of all ages trigger early mature male courtship steps like wing vibration, only females older than 1 day trigger late courtship steps like attempted copulation. This supports the hypothesis that late male courtship steps might be triggered by the CHCs, which build up after this age, especially female-specific (Z,Z)-7,11 - and (Z,Z)-5,9-dienes.

DJ-1 is a mitochondrial protein linked to Parkinson's disease. DJ-1 has been suggested to have several possible functions, although it has been mainly associated to oxidative stress defence. Changes in the two-dimensional electrophoresis pattern have been thoroughly described as a consequence of oxidative modification of the Cys106 residue. There is accumulating evidence supporting a specific role of DJ-1 in protecting dopaminergic neurons from dopamine itself. By exposing SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma catecholaminergic cells to dopamine, we observed a specific increase in the most acidic forms in the DJ-1 two-dimensional electrophoresis pattern together with a significant decrease of the most basic spot. Unlike cells exposed to generic oxidative conditions, no additional shift was observed. The results are corroborated by a meta-analysis of the literature showing that in the absence of dopamine treatment the specific acidic form is underrepresented.
Bernstein and Trahiotis [(2009). J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 125, 3234-3242] reported threshold interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) conveyed by the envelopes of 4-kHz-centered &quot;raised-sine&quot; stimuli. A raised-sine stimulus consists of a carrier modulated by a sinusoid raised to an exponent. Such stimuli permitted Bernstein and Trahiotis to vary, independently, stimulus modulation frequency, modulation depth, and &quot;relative peakedness/deadtime.&quot; An interaural correlation-based model that included stages mimicking peripheral auditory processing captured most of the data save for an overestimation of threshold ITDs obtained when the depth of modulation was 25% and the raised-sine exponent was 8.0. The purpose of the present study was: (1) to present a quantitative evaluation of how well other measures, including normalized envelope fourth moment, envelope peakwidth, and envelope &quot;deadtime&quot; might also account for the data reported by Bernstein and Trahiotis and (2) to present new threshold ITDs measured while varying, factorially, depth of modulation, raised-sine exponent, and modulation frequency. Quantitative analyses of both the prior and the new data showed that the normalized interaural correlation, computed subsequent to peripheral auditory processing, provided the most accurate predictions. Importantly, the overestimation of threshold ITDs did not occur when it was assumed that listeners can employ information within &quot;off-frequency&quot; auditory filters.




Abstract Objectives: Massage therapy is a multi-billion dollar industry in the United States with 8.7% of adults receiving at least one massage within the last year; yet, little is known about the physiologic effects of a single session of massage in healthy individuals. The purpose of this study was to determine effects of a single session of Swedish massage on neuroendocrine and immune function. It was hypothesized that Swedish Massage Therapy would increase oxytocin (OT) levels, which would lead to a decrease in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity and enhanced immune function. Design: The study design was a head-to-head, single-session comparison of Swedish Massage Therapy with a light touch control condition. Serial measurements were performed to determine OT, arginine-vasopressin (AVP), adrenal corticotropin hormone (ACTH), cortisol (CORT), circulating phenotypic lymphocytes markers, and mitogen-stimulated cytokine production. Setting: This research was conducted in an outpatient research unit in an academic medical center. Subjects: Medically and psychiatrically healthy adults, 18-45 years old, participated in this study. Intervention: The intervention tested was 45 minutes of Swedish Massage Therapy versus a light touch control condition, using highly specified and identical protocols. Outcome measures: The standardized mean difference was calculated between Swedish Massage Therapy versus light touch on pre- to postintervention change in levels of OT, AVP, ACTH, CORT, lymphocyte markers, and cytokine levels. Results: Compared to light touch, Swedish Massage Therapy caused a large effect size decrease in AVP, and a small effect size decrease in CORT, but these findings were not mediated by OT. Massage increased the number of circulating lymphocytes, CD 25+ lymphocytes, CD 56+ lymphocytes, CD4 + lymphocytes, and CD8+ lymphocytes (effect sizes from 0.14 to 0.43). Mitogen-stimulated levels of interleukin (IL)-1ss, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-13, and IFN-gamma decreased for subjects receiving Swedish Massage Therapy versus light touch (effect sizes from -0.22 to -0.63). Swedish Massage Therapy decreased IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13 levels relative to baseline measures. Conclusions: Preliminary data suggest that a single session of Swedish Massage Therapy produces measurable biologic effects. If replicated, these findings may have implications for managing inflammatory and autoimmune conditions.
&quot;The International Conference on Behavioral Health and Traumatic Brain Injury&quot; held at St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center in Paterson, NJ., from October 12 to 15, 2008, included a presentation on the novel assessment and treatment approach to mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) by Philip A. DeFina, PhD, of the International Brain Research Foundation (IBRF). Because of the urgent need to treat a large number of our troops who are diagnosed with mTBI and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), the conference was held to create a report for Congress titled &quot;Recommendations to Improve the Care of Wounded Warriors NOW. March 12, 2009.&quot; This article summarizes and adds greater detail to Dr. DeFina's presentation on the current standard and novel ways to approach assessment and treatment of mTBI and PTSD. Pilot data derived from collaborative studies through the IBRF have led to the development of clinical and research protocols utilizing currently accepted, valid, and reliable neuroimaging technologies combined in novel ways to develop &quot;neuromarkers.&quot; These neuromarkers are being evaluated in the context of an &quot;Integrity-Deficit Matrix&quot; model to demonstrate their ability to improve diagnostic accuracy, guide treatment programs, and possibly predict outcomes for patients suffering from traumatic brain injury.
Dural tears are among the most commonly seen complications in spine surgery. Most studies in the literature indicate that long-term outcomes are not negatively affected, provided that the tears are diagnosed early and managed appropriately. Direct suture repair remains the preferred method for the management of durotomy caused by or found during surgery. However, recent literature reports encouraging results with sutureless repair. Understanding dural anatomy, dural healing, and cerebrospinal fluid dynamics is helpful in choosing among the available management options for dural tear.


The existence of an effective biomarker for early detection of Alzheimer disease would facilitate improved diagnosis and stimulate therapeutic trials. Multidisciplinary clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is time consuming and expensive and relies on experts who are rarely available outside of specialty clinics. Thus, many patients do not receive proper diagnosis until the disease has progressed beyond stages in which treatments are maximally effective. In the clinical trial setting, rapid, cost-effective screening of patients for Alzheimer disease is of paramount importance for the development of new treatments. Neuroimaging of cortical amyloid burden and volumetric changes in the brain and assessment of protein concentrations (eg, -amyloid 1-42, total tau, phosphorylated tau) in cerebrospinal fluid are diagnostic tools that are not widely available. Known genetic markers do not provide sufficient discriminatory power between different forms of dementia to be useful in isolation. Recent studies using panels of biomarkers for diagnosis of Alzheimer disease or mild cognitive impairment have been promising, though no such studies have been cross-validated in independent samples of subjects. The ideal biomarker enabling early detection of Alzheimer disease has not yet been identified.
Skeletal muscle weakness is a reported ailment in individuals working in commercial hog confinement facilities. To date, specific mechanisms responsible for this symptom remain undefined. The purpose of this study was to assess whether hog barn dust (HBD) contains components that are capable of binding to and modulating the activity of type 1 ryanodine receptor Ca2+-release channel (RyR1), a key regulator of skeletal muscle function. HBD collected from confinement facilities in Nebraska were extracted with chloroform, filtered, and rotary evaporated to dryness. Residues were resuspended in hexane-chloroform (20:1) and precipitates, referred to as HBDorg, were air-dried and studied further. In competition assays, HBDorg dose-dependently displaced [3H]ryanodine from binding sites on RyR1 with an IC50 of 1.50.1 microg/ml (Ki=0.40.0 microg/ml). In single-channel assays using RyR1 reconstituted into a lipid bilayer, HBDorg exhibited three distinct dose-dependent effects: first it increased the open probability of RyR1 by increasing its gating frequency and dwell time in the open state, then it induced a state of reduced conductance (55% of maximum) that was more likely to occur and persist at positive holding potentials, and finally it irreversibly closed RyR1. In differentiated C2C12 myotubes, addition of HBD triggered a rise in intracellular Ca2+ that was blocked by pretreatment with ryanodine. Since persistent activation and/or closure of RyR1 results in skeletal muscle weakness, these new data suggest that HBD is responsible, at least in part, for the muscle ailment reported by hog confinement workers.
The three-dimensional vestibulo-ocular reflex (3D VOR) ideally generates compensatory ocular rotations not only with a magnitude equal and opposite to the head rotation but also about an axis that is collinear with the head rotation axis. Vestibulo-ocular responses only partially fulfill this ideal behavior. Because animal studies have shown that vestibular stimulation about particular axes may lead to suboptimal compensatory responses, we investigated in healthy subjects the peaks and troughs in 3D VOR stabilization in terms of gain and alignment of the 3D vestibulo-ocular response. Six healthy upright sitting subjects underwent whole body small amplitude sinusoidal and constant acceleration transients delivered by a six-degree-of-freedom motion platform. Subjects were oscillated about the vertical axis and about axes in the horizontal plane varying between roll and pitch at increments of 22.5 degrees in azimuth. Transients were delivered in yaw, roll, and pitch and in the vertical canal planes. Eye movements were recorded in with 3D search coils. Eye coil signals were converted to rotation vectors, from which we calculated gain and misalignment. During horizontal axis stimulation, systematic deviations were found. In the light, misalignment of the 3D VOR had a maximum misalignment at about 45 degrees . These deviations in misalignment can be explained by vector summation of the eye rotation components with a low gain for torsion and high gain for vertical. In the dark and in response to transients, gain of all components had lower values. Misalignment in darkness and for transients had different peaks and troughs than in the light: its minimum was during pitch axis stimulation and its maximum during roll axis stimulation. We show that the relatively large misalignment for roll in darkness is due to a horizontal eye movement component that is only present in darkness. In combination with the relatively low torsion gain, this horizontal component has a relative large effect on the alignment of the eye rotation axis with respect to the head rotation axis.
Individuals with autism or autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are known to have difficulties discriminating animacy and are less likely to attend to animate stimuli, which may underlie the social deficits of autism. For individuals without ASD, animacy also affects word order choices: speakers choose syntactic structures (active vs. passive) that place animate entities as the grammatical subject, as a result of their conceptual salience. This study tested whether highly verbal adults with ASD would show sensitivity to animacy in a picture description task. Results showed that individuals with ASD were as sensitive to animacy as controls, and overwhelmingly placed animate entities as the grammatical subject. One stimulus proved an exception, where only individuals with ASD placed an inanimate entity (a clock) in subject position in preference to an animate one (a boy), which coincides with previous observations that individuals with autism find clocks highly salient. This study provides converging evidence of the role of conceptual salience in word order choices, and furthermore shows animate entities to be highly salient for individuals with ASD, at least as it pertains to these word order choices.
We conducted a study of a group therapy based on exposure and mindfulness in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Out of 49 outpatients, most of whom were referred from gastroenterological clinics, 34 entered into the 10-week treatment. Patients were assessed before, immediately after and 6 months after treatment. The assessments consisted of a gastrointestinal symptom diary, self-report questionnaires covering quality of life, gastrointestinal specific anxiety, general functioning, and a psychiatric interview. At post-treatment, the mean reduction in symptoms was 41% and 50% of patients showed clinically significant improvement in symptom level. Patients also showed marked improvement on other outcome measures. Treatment gains were maintained at follow-up. The results support the use of exposure and mindfulness based strategies in the treatment of IBS, but further randomised studies are needed to confirm the efficacy of the treatment.
A method for three-dimensional motion analysis designed for live cell imaging by fluorescence confocal microscopy is described. The approach is based on optical flow computation and takes into account brightness variations in the image scene that are not due to motion, such as photobleaching or fluorescence variations that may reflect changes in cellular physiology. The 3-D optical flow algorithm allowed almost perfect motion estimation on noise-free artificial sequences, and performed with a relative error of &lt;10% on noisy images typical of real experiments. The method was applied to a series of 3-D confocal image stacks from an in vitro preparation of the guinea pig cochlea. The complex motions caused by slow pressure changes in the cochlear compartments were quantified. At the surface of the hearing organ, the largest motion component was the transverse one (normal to the surface), but significant radial and longitudinal displacements were also present. The outer hair cell displayed larger radial motion at their basolateral membrane than at their apical surface. These movements reflect mechanical interactions between different cellular structures, which may be important for communicating sound-evoked vibrations to the sensory cells. A better understanding of these interactions is important for testing realistic models of cochlear mechanics.
Class I-restricted T cell associated molecule (CRTAM) is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily that complies with the structural characteristics of the JAM family of proteins and is phylogenetically more closely related to nectin-like proteins. Here we demonstrate for the first time, that CRTAM is expressed in epithelial cells along the lateral membrane and is important for early cell-cell contacts and cell-substrate interactions. CRTAM is sensitive to intermediate filament disruption and treatment of monolayers with soluble CRTAM enhances cell-cell dissociation and lowers transepithelial electrical resistance. Incubation of newly plated cells with anti-CRTAM antibody decreases the formation of cell aggregates and promotes cell detachment. Co-cultures of epithelial cells and fibroblasts that lack CRTAM expression and in vitro binding assays, demonstrate the participation of CRTAM in homotypic and heterotypic trans-interactions. Hence we conclude that CRTAM is a molecule involved in epithelial cell adhesion.
Release of Zn(2+) from presynaptic glutamatergic terminals has long been considered the principle challenge necessitating the existence of zinc homeostatic proteins (ZHP) in the mammalian nervous system. It is now known that neural cells also possess an intracellular zinc pool, termed here [Zn(2+)](i), which functions in a cell signaling context. A major challenge is characterizing the interaction of these two populations of zinc ions. To assess the relationship of this Zn(2+) pool to cellular ZHP production, we employed immunofluorescence and immunoblot analysis to compare the expression of ZHP's ZnT-1 and MT-I/II in olfactory bulb and hippocampus of wild-type and ZnT-3 KO mice, which lack synaptic Zn(2+). In both areas, the respective distribution and concentration of ZnT-1 and MT-I/II were identical in ZnT-3 KO and control animals. We subsequently examined ZHP content in ZnT-3 KO and WT mice treated with a membrane-permeable Zn(2+) chelator. In both olfactory bulb and hippocampus of the KO mice, the ZHP content was significantly reduced 15 h after chelation of [Zn(2+)](i) compared to WT controls. Our findings support the conclusion that ZHP expression is regulated by crosstalk between synaptic and intracellular pools of Zn(2+).
Over the past year, a heated discussion about 'circular' or 'nonindependent' analysis in brain imaging has emerged in the literature. An analysis is circular (or nonindependent) if it is based on data that were selected for showing the effect of interest or a related effect. The authors of this paper are researchers who have contributed to the discussion and span a range of viewpoints. To clarify points of agreement and disagreement in the community, we collaboratively assembled a series of questions on circularity herein, to which we provide our individual current answers in &lt;or=100 words per question. Although divergent views remain on some of the questions, there is also a substantial convergence of opinion, which we have summarized in a consensus box. The box provides the best current answers that the five authors could agree upon.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) has a critical role in central nervous system homeostasis. Intercellular tight junction (TJ) protein complexes of the brain microvasculature limit paracellular diffusion of substances from the blood into the brain. Hypoxia and reoxygenation (HR) is a central component to numerous disease states and pathologic conditions. We have previously shown that HR can influence the permeability of the BBB as well as the critical TJ protein occludin. During HR, free radicals are produced, which may lead to oxidative stress. Using the free radical scavenger tempol (200 mg/kg, intraperitoneal), we show that oxidative stress produced during HR (6% O(2) for 1 h, followed by room air for 20 min) mediates an increase in BBB permeability in vivo using in situ brain perfusion. We also show that these changes are associated with alterations in the structure and localization of occludin. Our data indicate that oxidative stress is associated with movement of occludin away from the TJ. Furthermore, subcellular fractionation of cerebral microvessels reveals alterations in occludin oligomeric assemblies in TJ associated with plasma membrane lipid rafts. Our data suggest that pharmacological inhibition of disease states with an HR component may help preserve BBB functional integrity.



The body's capacity to restore damaged neural networks in the injured CNS is severely limited. Although various treatment regimens can partially alleviate spinal cord injury (SCI), the mechanisms responsible for symptomatic improvement remain elusive. Here, using a mouse model of SCI, we have shown that transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) together with administration of valproic acid (VPA), a known antiepileptic and histone deacetylase inhibitor, dramatically enhanced the restoration of hind limb function. VPA treatment promoted the differentiation of transplanted NSCs into neurons rather than glial cells. Transsynaptic anterograde corticospinal tract tracing revealed that transplant-derived neurons reconstructed broken neuronal circuits, and electron microscopic analysis revealed that the transplant-derived neurons both received and sent synaptic connections to endogenous neurons. Ablation of the transplanted cells abolished the recovery of hind limb motor function, confirming that NSC transplantation directly contributed to restored motor function. These findings raise the possibility that epigenetic status in transplanted NSCs can be manipulated to provide effective treatment for SCI.

Two cases initially diagnosed as &quot;encephalitis lethargica&quot; are discussed. Both cases satisfied the published diagnostic criteria for encephalitis lethargica, with neuropsychiatric features including complex movement disorder, hypoventilation and altered conscious state. On later investigation N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antibodies were detected in both cases. With the recent descriptions of tumour related antibodies to neuronal surface antigens in NMDA-receptor encephalitis, we highlight the importance of revisiting a diagnosis which may have prognostic significance.

Object representations in working memory depend on neural firing that is phase-locked to oscillations in the theta band (4-8 Hz). Cannabis intake disrupts synchronicity of theta oscillations and interferes with memory performance. Sixteen participants smoked cigarettes containing 0.0, 29.3, 49.1, or 69.4 mg Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in a randomized crossover design and performed working memory and general attention tasks. Dose-dependent effects of THC were observed for resting state EEG theta and beta power, working memory (per-item search time), and attentional performance (percent errors and RT). The THC effects on EEG theta power and memory performance were correlated, whereas other EEG and behavioral effects were not. These findings confirm and extend previous results in rodents and humans, and corroborate a neurocomputational model that postulates that temporal aspects of information processing in working memory depend causally on nested oscillations in the theta and gamma (&gt;30 Hz) bands.
Previous functional imaging research has consistently indicated involvement of bilateral fronto-parietal networks during the execution of visuospatial tasks. Studies with TMS have suggested that the right hemispheric network, but not the left, is functionally relevant for visuospatial judgments. However, very little is still known about the interactions within these fronto-parietal networks underlying visuospatial processing. In the current study, we investigated task modulation of functional connectivity (instantaneous correlations of regional time courses), and task-specific effective connectivity (direction of influences), within the right fronto-parietal network activated during visuospatial judgments. Ten healthy volunteers performed a behaviorally controlled visuospatial judgment task (ANGLE) or a control task (COLOR) in an fMRI experiment. Visuospatial task-specific activations were found in posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and middle/inferior frontal gyrus (MFG). Functional connectivity within this network was task-modulated, with significantly higher connectivity between PPC and MFG during ANGLE than during COLOR. Effective connectivity analysis for directed influence revealed that visuospatial task-specific projections within this network were predominantly in a frontal-to-parietal direction. Moreover, ANGLE-specific influences from thalamic nuclei to PPC were identified. Exploratory effective connectivity analysis revealed that closely neighboring clusters, within visuospatial regions, were differentially involved in the network. These neighboring clusters had opposite effective connectivity patterns to other nodes of the fronto-parietal network. Our data thus reveal that visuospatial judgments are supported by massive fronto-parietal backprojections, thalamo-parietal influence, and multiple stages, or loops, of information flow within the visuospatial network. We speculate on possible functional contributions of the various network nodes and informational loops in a neurocognitive model.
Processing of lexical verbs involves automatic access to argument structure entries entailed within the verb's representation. Recent neuroimaging studies with young normal listeners suggest that this involves bilateral posterior peri-sylvian tissue, with graded activation in these regions on the basis of argument structure complexity. The aim of the present study was to examine the neural mechanisms of verb processing using fMRI in older normal volunteers and patients with stroke-induced agrammatic aphasia, a syndrome in which verb, as compared to noun, production often is selectively impaired, but verb comprehension in both on-line and off-line tasks is spared. Fourteen healthy listeners and five age-matched aphasic patients performed a lexical decision task, which examined verb processing by argument structure complexity, namely, one-argument [i.e., intransitive (v1)], two-argument [i.e., transitive (v2)], and three-argument (v3) verbs. Results for the age-matched listeners largely replicated those for younger participants studied by Thompson et al. [Thompson, C. K., Bonakdarpour, B., Fix, S. C., Blumenfeld, H. K., Parrish, T. B., Gitelman, D. R., et al. Neural correlates of verb argument structure processing. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 19, 1753-1767, 2007]: v3 - v1 comparisons showed activation of the angular gyrus in both hemispheres and this same heteromodal region was activated in the left hemisphere in the (v2 + v3) - v1 contrast. Similar results were derived for the agrammatic aphasic patients, however, activation was unilateral (in the right hemisphere for three participants) rather than bilateral, likely because these patients' lesions extended to the left temporo-parietal region. All performed the task with high accuracy and, despite differences in lesion site and extent, they recruited spared tissue in the same regions as healthy subjects. Consistent with psycholinguistic models of sentence processing, these findings indicate that the posterior language network is engaged for processing verb argument structure and is crucial for semantic integration of argument structure information.
Goal pursuit in humans sometimes involves approaching unpleasant and avoiding pleasant stimuli, such as when a dieter chooses to eat vegetables (although he does not like them) instead of doughnuts (which he greatly prefers). Previous neuroscience investigations have established a left-right prefrontal asymmetry between approaching pleasant and avoiding unpleasant stimuli, but these investigations typically do not untangle the roles of action motivation (approach vs. avoidance) and stimulus valence (pleasant vs. unpleasant) in this asymmetry. Additionally, studies on asymmetry have been conducted almost exclusively using electroencephalography and have been difficult to replicate using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The present fMRI study uses a novel goal pursuit task that separates action motivation from stimulus valence and a region-of-interest analysis approach to address these limitations. Results suggest that prefrontal asymmetry is associated with action motivation and not with stimulus valence. Specifically, there was increased left (vs. right) activation in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during approach (vs. avoidance) actions regardless of the stimulus valence, but no such effect was observed for pleasant compared to unpleasant stimuli. This asymmetry effect during approach-avoidance action motivations occurred in the dorsolateral but not orbito-frontal aspects of prefrontal cortex. Also, individual differences in approach-avoidance motivation moderated the effect such that increasing trait approach motivation was associated with greater left-sided asymmetry during approach actions (regardless of the stimulus valence). Together, these results support the notion that prefrontal asymmetry is associated with action motivation regardless of stimulus valence and, as such, might be linked with goal pursuit processes more broadly.
Research in psycholinguistics and in the cognitive neuroscience of language has suggested that semantic and syntactic processing are associated with different neurophysiologic correlates, such as the N400 and the P600 in the ERPs. However, only a handful of studies have investigated the neural basis of the syntax-semantics interface, and even fewer experiments have dealt with the cases in which semantic composition can proceed independently of the syntax. Here we looked into one such case-complement coercion--using ERPs. We compared sentences such as, &quot;The journalist wrote the article&quot; with &quot;The journalist began the article.&quot; The second sentence seems to involve a silent semantic element, which is expressed in the first sentence by the head of the verb phrase (VP) &quot;wrote the article.&quot; The second type of construction may therefore require the reader to infer or recover from memory a richer event sense of the VP &quot;began the article,&quot; such as began writing the article, and to integrate that into a semantic representation of the sentence. This operation is referred to as &quot;complement coercion.&quot; Consistently with earlier reading time, eye tracking, and MEG studies, we found traces of such additional computations in the ERPs: Coercion gives rise to a long-lasting negative shift, which differs at least in duration from a standard N400 effect. Issues regarding the nature of the computation involved are discussed in the light of a neurocognitive model of language processing and a formal semantic analysis of coercion.
Previous studies have reported that capsaicin-induced C-fiber depletion results in expansion of low threshold somatosensory mechanoreceptive fields. Here we used this paradigm to investigate its effect on experience-dependent plasticity in the barrel cortex of rats. All but the D2 vibrissa were first plucked on postnatal day 0 (P0), P5, or P8, and kept plucked for a period of 30 days before being allowed to regrow for 7-9 days prior to the recording session. To assess receptive field characteristics the spared D2 principal whisker (PW) and the deprived D1 adjacent whisker (AW) were moved either singly or in concert, neuronal responses being recorded in layers IV and V of the D2 barrel. In vehicle-treated rats, PW-evoked ON responses (layer IV) were increased only in those animals that first had their vibrissae plucked on P0, whereas AW-evoked ON responses (layers IV and V) were decreased in the P0, P5, and P8 groups. In the capsaicin-treated animals, PW-evoked ON responses (layer IV) were increased in all three groups, but no decrease was recorded in the AW-evoked ON (layers IV and V) responses. In the vehicle- and capsaicin-treated animals, the greatest decrease in inhibitory interactions was observed in the P5 and P0 groups, respectively. These findings indicate that, following the induction of experience-dependent plasticity, the resultant changes in excitatory and integrative circuits can be further influenced by C-fiber depletion.
Serotonin neurons play a major role in many normal and pathological brain functions. In the rat these neurons have a varying number of cotransmitters, including neuropeptides. Here we studied, with histochemical techniques, the relation between serotonin, some other small-molecule transmitters, and a number of neuropeptides in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and the adjacent ventral periaqueductal gray (vPAG) of mouse, an important question being to establish possible differences from rat. Even if similarly distributed, the serotonin neurons in mouse lacked the extensive coexpression of nitric oxide synthase and galanin seen in rat. Although partly overlapping in the vPAG, no evidence was obtained for the coexistence of serotonin with dopamine, substance P, cholecystokinin, enkephalin, somatostatin, neurotensin, dynorphin, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, or corticotropin-releasing hormone. However, some serotonin neurons expressed the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Work in other laboratories suggests that, as in rat, serotonin neurons in the mouse midline DRN express the vesicular glutamate transporter 3, presumably releasing glutamate. Our study also shows that many of the neuropeptides studied (substance P, galanin, neurotensin, dynorphin, and corticotropin-releasing factor) are present in nerve terminal networks of varying densities close to the serotonin neurons, and therefore may directly or indirectly influence these cells. The apparently low numbers of coexisting messengers in mouse serotonin neurons, compared to rat, indicate considerable species differences with regard to the chemical neuronatomy of the DRN. Thus, extrapolation of DRN physiology, and possibly pathology, from rat to mouse, and even human, should be made with caution.
Many studies provide detailed behavioural and neurophysiological information on the ability of crickets to localize a sound source under ideal acoustic conditions, but very little is known about how they perform in real habitats. We investigated directional hearing of crickets in the field using a neurophysiological approach, by recording the activity of the two prominent, bilaterally homologous AN1 neurons simultaneously in a cricket's habitat. The discharge and latency differences of the pair of neurons in response to conspecific chirps presented at different distances and directions were taken as a measure of directional information. The maximum hearing distance differed between individuals and weather conditions from 1 to 15 m (mean 9.2 m). Although the AN1 activity generally decreased with increasing distance, large fluctuations in the magnitude of responses occurred with distance, indicating that the intensity gradient over distance is often irregular. The directional information provided in the discharge differences of the two neurons also varied with distance. Again, there was no simple directional gradient on the transmission channel; rather, with decreasing distance to the source there were receiver locations providing suprathreshold responses, but no directional information. The consequences for the ability of field crickets to communicate acoustically close to the ground are discussed.
Muscles respond to imposed length changes with rapid, large force changes followed by slow relaxations to new steady-state forces. These responses were originally believed to arise from background levels of actomyosin binding. Discovery of giant sarcomere-spanning proteins suggested muscle passive responses could arise from length changes of elastic domains present in these proteins. However, direct evidence that actomyosin plays little role in passive muscle force responses to imposed length changes has not been provided. We show here that a poison of actomyosin interaction, thiourea, does not alter initial force changes or subsequent relaxations of lobster stomatogastric muscles. These data provide direct evidence that background actomyosin cross-bridge formation likely plays, at most, a small role in muscle passive responses to length changes. Thiourea does not alter lobster muscle electrical responses to motor nerve stimulation, although in this species it does cause tonic motor nerve firing. This firing limits the utility of thiourea to study lobster muscle electrical responses to motor nerve stimulation. However, it is unclear whether thiourea induces such motor nerve firing in other animals. Thiourea may therefore provide a convenient technique to measure muscle electrical responses to motor nerve input without the confounding difficulties caused by muscle contraction.
Sensitivity to acoustic amplitude modulation in crickets differs between species and depends on carrier frequency (e.g., calling song vs. bat-ultrasound bands). Using computational tools, we explore how Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms underlying selective attention can contribute to such differences in amplitude modulation sensitivity. For omega neuron 1 (ON1), selective attention is mediated by Ca(2+)-dependent feedback: [Ca(2+)](internal) increases with excitation, activating a Ca(2+)-dependent after-hyperpolarizing current. We propose that Ca(2+) removal rate and the size of the after-hyperpolarizing current can determine ON1's temporal modulation transfer function (TMTF). This is tested using a conductance-based simulation calibrated to responses in vivo. The model shows that parameter values that simulate responses to single pulses are sufficient in simulating responses to modulated stimuli: no special modulation-sensitive mechanisms are necessary, as high and low-pass portions of the TMTF are due to Ca(2+)-dependent spike frequency adaptation and post-synaptic potential depression, respectively. Furthermore, variance in the two biophysical parameters is sufficient to produce TMTFs of varying bandwidth, shifting amplitude modulation sensitivity like that in different species and in response to different carrier frequencies. Thus, the hypothesis that the size of after-hyperpolarizing current and the rate of Ca(2+) removal can affect amplitude modulation sensitivity is computationally validated.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is characterized by degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) indexes obtained along the corticospinal tracts distinguish ALS patients and control subjects. Diffusion tensor imaging can be estimated from at least 6 diffusion-weighted images; however an acquisition scheme with a higher number of diffusion directions allows a more robust estimation of DTI indexes. The aim of the study was to establish if a higher number of diffusion encoding gradients increases the diagnostic accuracy of DTI in ALS. We studied 18 patients and 16 control subjects acquiring 2 DTI data sets with 6 and 31 gradient orientations. The mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy values were measured along the corticospinal tract. Mean diffusivity in ALS was significantly increased (P = 0.026) with respect to control subjects in acquisition scheme with 31 but not (P = 0.214) with 6 diffusion-weighting directions. Fractional anisotropy was significantly lower in patients both with 6 (P = 0.0036) and with 31 (P = 0.0004) diffusion-weighting directions (0.538 vs 0.588 and 0.530 vs 0.594). Fractional anisotropy receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed a higher diagnostic accuracy by using 31 diffusion-weighting direction (85.76%) with respect to 6 directions (79.86%). Diffusion tensor imaging confirms its potentials in diagnosing ALS with a good accuracy; the acquisition scheme with a higher diffusion-weighting directions seems to better discriminate between ALS patients and control subjects.
This study examined the fluid-crystallized distinction of cognitive abilities in African Americans. We analyzed the factorial invariance of a battery of cognitive ability measures in a sample of 197 community-dwelling African American elders. Specifically, factorial invariance was tested in groups of African American elders differing in age (50-61 years, 62-79 years) and education (low, high). Using a partial invariance approach, if non-invariance was found between two groups, we explored the specific model parameters that contributed to the overall lack of invariance. The results indicated that the factor structure was confirmed in the sample as a whole. Evidence of strict invariance was found between age groups. However, a lack of invariance of specific factor loadings, intercepts, and uniqueness terms was found between education groups. The importance of highlighting idiosyncrasies in cognitive performance among African Americans is shown using a within group variation approach.
A growing and interdisciplinary translational neuroscience research effort for neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) is investigating the mechanisms of dysfunction and testing effective treatment strategies in animal models and, when possible, in the clinic. NDDs with a genetic basis have received particular attention. Transgenic animals that mimic genetic insults responsible for disease in man have provided insight about mechanisms of dysfunction, and, surprisingly, have shown that cognitive deficits can be addressed in adult animals. This review will present recent translational research based on animal models of genetic NDDs, as well as pharmacotherapeutic strategies under development to address deficits of brain function for Down syndrome, fragile X syndrome, Rett syndrome, neurofibromatosis-1, tuberous sclerosis, and autism. Although these disorders vary in underlying causes and clinical presentation, common pathways and mechanisms for dysfunction have been observed. These include abnormal gene dosage, imbalance among neurotransmitter systems, and deficits in the development, maintenance and plasticity of neuronal circuits. NDDs affect multiple brain systems and behaviors that may be amenable to drug therapies that target distinct deficits. A primary goal of translational research is to replace symptomatic and supportive drug therapies with pharmacotherapies based on a principled understanding of the causes of dysfunction. Based on this principle, several recently developed therapeutic strategies offer clear promise for clinical development in man.

In this article, we review the parameters that define the electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) electrical stimulus and discuss their biophysical roles. We also present the summary metrics of charge and energy that are conventionally used to describe the dose of ECT and the rules commonly deployed to individualize the dose for each patient. We then highlight the limitations of these summary metrics and dosing rules in that they do not adequately capture the roles of the distinct stimulus parameters. Specifically, there is strong theoretical and empirical evidence that stimulus parameters (pulse amplitude, shape, and width, and train frequency, directionality, polarity, and duration) exert unique neurobiological effects that are important for understanding ECT outcomes. Consideration of the distinct stimulus parameters, in conjunction with electrode placement, is central to further optimization of ECT dosing paradigms to improve the risk-benefit ratio. Indeed, manipulation of specific parameters, such as reduction of pulse width and increase in number of pulses, has already resulted in dramatic reduction of adverse effects, while maintaining efficacy. Furthermore, the manipulation of other parameters, such as current amplitude, which are commonly held at fixed, high values, might be productively examined as additional means of targeting and individualizing the stimulus, potentially reducing adverse effects. We recommend that ECT dose be defined using all stimulus parameters rather than a summary metric. All stimulus parameters should be noted in treatment records and published reports. To enable research on optimization of dosing paradigms, we suggest that ECT devices provide capabilities to adjust and display all stimulus parameters.
The frequency of sessions during a course of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a topic of considerable interest for the practicing psychiatrist. In this narrative review, we examine the practice of and evidence-base for different schedules of ECT administration. A reasonable level of evidence is available to suggest that ECT administered twice weekly seems to have the best balance between therapeutic outcome and adverse effects in the immediate treatment of major depressive disorder while using bilateral ECT. Evidence also suggests that increasing the frequency of ECT may result in more rapid improvement of depression, but it increases adverse cognitive effects. However, very few data exist for comparing the merits and demerits of different frequencies of ECT administration during the immediate treatment of other disorders. There is also lack of research evidence to guide psychiatrists in deciding on the frequency of ECT administration during the continuation and maintenance phases.
Charles Sherrington identified the properties of the synapse by purely behavioral means-the study of reflexes-more than 100years ago. They were subsequently confirmed neurophysiologically. Studying reflex interaction, he also showed that activating one reflex often facilitates another, antagonistic one: successive induction, which has since been demonstrated in a wide range of species, from aphids to locusts to dogs and humans. We show a particularly orderly example in zebrafish (Danio rerio) larvae; the behavior (locomotion) of larvae is low in dark and intermediate in light, but low in light and substantially higher in dark when dark followed light. A quantitative model of a simple dynamic process is described that readily captures the behavior pattern and the effects of a number of manipulations of lighting conditions.
Post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) at the calyx of Held synapse is caused by increases not only in release probability (P(r)) but also in the readily releasable pool size estimated from a cumulative plot of excitatory post-synaptic current amplitudes (RRP(cum)), which contribute to the augmentation phase and the late phase of PTP, respectively. The vesicle pool dynamics underlying the latter has not been investigated, because PTP is abolished by presynaptic whole-cell patch clamp. We found that supplement of recombinant calmodulin to the presynaptic pipette solution rescued the increase in the RRP(cum) after high-frequency stimulation (100 Hz for 4-s duration, HFS), but not the increase in P(r). Release-competent synaptic vesicles (SVs) are heterogeneous in their releasing kinetics. To investigate post-tetanic changes of fast and slowly releasing SV pool (FRP and SRP) sizes, we estimated quantal release rates before and 40 s after HFS using the deconvolution method. After HFS, the FRP size increased by 19.1% and the SRP size decreased by 25.4%, whereas the sum of FRP and SRP sizes did not increase. Similar changes in the RRP were induced by a single long depolarizing pulse (100 ms). The post-tetanic complementary changes of FRP and SRP sizes were abolished by inhibitors of myosin II or myosin light chain kinase. The post-tetanic increase in the FRP size coupled to a decrease in the SRP size provides the first line of evidence for the idea that a slowly releasing SV can be converted to a fast releasing one.
DOA kinase, the Drosophila member of the LAMMER/Clk protein kinase family, phosphorylates SR and SR-like proteins, including TRA, TRA2 and RBP1, which are responsible for the alternative splicing of transcripts encoding the key regulator of sex-specific expression in somatic cells of the fly, DOUBLESEX. Specific Doa alleles induce somatic female-to-male sex transformations, which can be enhanced when combined with mutations in loci encoding SR and SR-like proteins. The Doa locus encodes six different kinases, of which a 69-kDa isoform is expressed solely in females. Expression of this isoform is itself under the regulation of the somatic sex determination regulatory network, thus forming a putative positive autoregulatory loop which would reinforce the choice of the female cell-fate. We speculate that this loop is part of the evolutionary ancestral sex-determination machinery, based upon evidence demonstrating the existence of an autoregulatory loop involving TRA and TRA2 in several other insect species.
Phagocytosis is an essential element of the immune response permitting the elimination of pathogens, cellular debris, apoptotic cells, and tumor cells. Recently, both phospholipase D (PLD) isoforms, PLD1 and PLD2, were shown to be necessary for efficient FcgammaR-mediated phagocytosis. In this study, we investigated the role of a potential PLD regulator, the Ral GTPases RalA and RalB, in murine RAW 264.7 macrophages. Both Ral isoforms are expressed in macrophages and are transiently activated following FcgammaR stimulation. When Ral expression levels were varied using Ral mutants or interference RNA, phagocytosis assays revealed that Ral isoforms have antagonistic effects; RalA is a positive modulator, whereas RalB plays a negative role. We then focused on RalA and its possible relationship with PLD. The increase in PLD activity that occurs when phagocytosis is stimulated was inhibited in cells with reduced RalA protein, but it was unaffected by reduced levels of RalB. Furthermore, in macrophages transfected with dsRed-RalA and GFP-PLD1 or GFP-PLD2, RalA colocalized with PLD1 and PLD2 at the phagocytic cup during phagosome formation. Additional results obtained from immunoprecipitation of PLD from macrophages transfected with myc-RalA and hemagglutinin-tagged PLD1 or PLD2 indicated an enhanced interaction of RalA with both PLD isoforms during phagocytic stimulation. The increase in RalA and PLD1 interaction was transient and correlated with the time course of RalA activation. These findings reveal a novel pathway involving RalA and PLD in the regulation of FcgammaR-mediated phagocytosis.
Averaging 8.1% (w/w) of the earth's crust, aluminum is the most highly abundant metal in our biosphere, yet has long been thought to serve no essential biological function. In aqueous solutions, aluminum salts and hydroxides are exceptionally potent aggregators of biological molecules, often coalescing molecular species to the point that they precipitate out of solution. A biological function for aluminum is proposed in which this abundant, high charge density metal cation has a significant role in biomolecular compaction. Sometimes, molecules ectopically aggregated by aluminum are associated with pathological conditions. The data further suggests that a specific consequence of 'aluminum biocompaction' may be particularly important in the condensation of A+T-rich chromatin domains, and in silencing the expression of specific kinds of genetic information.
In this work we report biochemical ex vivo studies with a vanadium compound containing a pyridinone ligand, the bis(1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxy-4-pyridinonate)oxovanadium (IV), V(IV)O(dmpp)(2), which has shown to have promising antidiabetic activity. The experiments were carried out on primary adipocytes of 6-8 week old Wistar rats. Insulin-stimulated glucose uptake studies were performed using a radioactive assay by measuring the (U)-(14)C-glucose taken up by the isolated adipocytes for 30 min. Adipocytes were incubated with and without insulin and in the presence and absence of different concentrations of V(IV)O(dmpp)(2) (100-500 microM) for 45 min. We observed that in a nontoxic concentration, as demonstrated by the Alamar Blue test, V(IV)O(dmpp)(2) significantly increases glucose uptake, in the absence of insulin, by 5-folds higher than basal, and it has a significant inhibitory effect of 78% on free fatty acid release in isolated adipocytes from normal rats. We also demonstrated that it promotes the phosphorylation of Akt1, a key protein in the insulin signaling cascade. These results were compared with those obtained with another vanadium compound reported in the literature, with a similar structure, the bis(maltolato)oxovanadium (IV) (BMOV), which is now in clinical trials. Our ex vivo results clearly indicate that V(IV)O(dmpp)(2) is a good candidate to be a promising drug for the treatment of diabetes and other metabolic disorders.
Cognitive reserve is widely recognized as a moderator of cognitive decline in patients with senile dementias such as Alzheimer's disease. The same effect may occur in multiple sclerosis (MS), an immunologic disorder affecting the central nervous system. While MS is traditionally considered an inflammatory, white matter disease, degeneration of gray matter is increasingly recognized as the primary contributor to progressive cognitive decline. Our aim was to determine if individual differences in estimated cognitive reserve protect against the progression of cognitive dysfunction in MS. Ninety-one patients assessed twice roughly 5 years apart were identified retrospectively. Cognitive testing emphasized mental processing speed. Cognitive reserve was estimated by years of education and by performance on the North American Adult Reading Test (NAART). After controlling for baseline characteristics, both years of education (p = .013) and NAART scores (p = .049) significantly improved regression models predicting cognitive decline. Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT) performance showed no significant change in patients with &gt; 14 years of education, whereas it declined significantly in patients with  14 years of education. We conclude that greater cognitive reserve as indexed by either higher premorbid intelligence or more years of education protects against the progression of cognitive dysfunction in MS.

MR sequences where two diffusion-weighting periods are applied successively in a single acquisition seem to be a promising tool for the investigation of tissue structure on a microscopic level such as the characterization of the compartment size or eccentricity measures of pores. However, the application of such double-wave-vector (DWV) experiments on whole-body MR systems is hampered by the long gradient pulses required that have been shown to reduce the signal modulation. In this work, it is demonstrated that involving multiple concatenations of the two diffusion-weighting periods can ameliorate this problem in experiments with long mixing times between the two wave vectors. The recently presented tensor equation is extended to multiple concatenations. As confirmed by Monte-Carlo simulations, this model shows a good approximation of the signals observed for typical whole-body gradient pulse durations and the derived anisotropy measures are obtained with good accuracy. Most importantly, the signal modulation is increased with multiple concatenations because shorter gradient pulses can be used to achieve the desired diffusion-weighting. Thus, the multiple concatenation approach may help to improve the applicability and reliability of DWV measurements with long mixing times on standard whole-body MR systems.


The neuropeptides orexin A and orexin B (also known as hypocretin 1 and hypocretin 2), produced in lateral hypothalamic neurons, are critical regulators of feeding behavior, the reward system, and sleep/wake states. Orexin-producing neurons (orexin neurons) are regulated by various factors involved in regulation of energy homeostasis and sleep/wakefulness states. Bombesin receptor subtype 3 (BRS3) is an orphan receptor that might be implicated in energy homeostasis and is highly expressed in the hypothalamus. However, the neural pathway by which BRS3 regulates energy homeostasis is largely unknown. We examined whether BRS3 is involved in the regulation of orexin neurons. Using a calcium imaging method, we found that a selective BRS3 agonist [Ac-Phe-Trp-Ala-His-(tauBzl)-Nip-Gly-Arg-NH2] increased the intracellular calcium concentration of orexin neurons. However, intracellular recordings from slice preparations revealed that the BRS3 agonist hyperpolarized orexin neurons. The BRS3 agonist depolarized orexin neuron in the presence of tetrodotoxin. Moreover, in the presence of GABA receptor blockers, picrotoxin and CGP55845, the BRS3 agonist induced depolarization and increased firing frequency. Additionally, double-label in situ hybridization study revealed that Brs3 mRNA was expressed in almost all orexin neurons and many cells around these neurons. These findings suggest that the BRS3 agonist indirectly inhibited orexin neurons through GABAergic input and directly activated orexin neurons. Inhibition of activity of orexin neurons through BRS3 might be an important pathway for regulation of feeding and sleep/wake states. This pathway might serve as a novel target for the treatment of obesity.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most neurodegenerative disorder leading to dementia. Neuritic plaque formation in brains is a hallmark of AD pathogenesis. Amyloid beta protein (Abeta) is the central component of neuritic plaques. Processing beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) at the beta-secretase site by the beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is essential for generation of Abeta. Elevation of BACE1 activity and expression has been reported in AD brains. However, no mutation in the BACE1 coding sequence has been identified in AD cases. Human BACE1 expression is tightly regulated at the transcription and translation level. To determine whether there is any single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the BACE1 gene promoter region affecting BACE1 expression in AD pathogenesis, in this study, we screened 2.6 kb of the human BACE1 gene promoter region from late-onset AD patients and found that there was no significant association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms and AD cases.
Behavioral sensitization to nicotine has been studied in both male and female rats, but studies up to now have been difficult to compare due to different experimental conditions. Including both sexes in scientific research is of great importance since clinical data indicate gender differences both in response to nicotine and in ability for smoking cessation. The aim of the present study was to compare behavioral sensitization and body-weight gain to two chronic doses of nicotine in female and male Wistar rats housed in unisex conditions. The rats received daily subcutaneous injections of vehicle or nicotine (0.2 or 0.4 mg/kg, free base) and locomotor activity was measured at days 1, 7, 14, 21, 28 and 37 after administration of vehicle or nicotine (0.4 mg/kg). On day 45, all rats received an injection of nicotine. Body weights were monitored throughout the experiment. All rats receiving nicotine developed a sensitized response to the locomotor stimulatory effects of the drug. Male and female rats displayed a similar effect on horizontal and rearing activity after treatment with nicotine. Acute nicotine treatment induced a depressed rearing activity in male, but not female, rats; however, after chronic treatment the rats displayed a sensitized response. Furthermore, females treated with nicotine gained less weight compared to controls, while no such effect was seen in males. In conclusion, the present study does not support findings suggesting sex differences in development of behavioral sensitization to nicotine, while it demonstrates differences in nicotine-induced effects on weight gain in female and male rats.
Despite advances in neuroimaging, the diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) remains clinical. The identification of biological markers for an early diagnosis is of great interest to start a neuroprotective therapy aimed at slowing, blocking or reversing the disease progression. Vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) sequesters cytoplasmic dopamine into synaptic vesicles for storage and release. Thus, VMAT2 impairment can regulate intra- and extracellular dopamine levels, influencing oxidative stress and neuronal death. Because in vivo imaging studies have demonstrated a VMAT2 reduction in PD patients greater than would be explained by neuronal loss alone, as an exploratory study we assessed VMAT2 mRNA and protein levels in platelets from 39 PD patients, 39 healthy subjects and 10 patients with vascular parkinsonism (VP) to identify a possible peripheral biomarker for PD. A significant reduction (p &lt; 0.05) of VMAT2 mRNA levels was demonstrated in PD patients versus healthy controls. Patients with VP showed VMAT2 mRNA levels similar to controls. No difference in VMAT2 mRNA levels was found in untreated versus treated patients. No correlation was observed between mRNA levels and demographic or clinical characteristics. Furthermore, eight SNPs tagging the VMAT2 gene did not show effects on VMAT2 mRNA levels. Western blot analysis did not allow the quantification of VMAT2 protein expression in blood platelets. Although further studies in a greater number of cases are needed to confirm our data, the reduction in VMAT2 mRNA in platelets from PD patients suggests the existence of a systemic impairment of this transporter possibly contributing to PD pathology.
Dystonia is a neurological disorder characterized by involuntary movements. We examined striatal dopamine (DA) function in hyperactive transgenic (Tg) mice generated as a model of dystonia. Evoked extracellular DA concentration was monitored with carbon-fiber microelectrodes and fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in striatal slices from non-Tg mice, Tg mice with a positive motor phenotype, and phenotype-negative Tg littermates. Peak single-pulse evoked extracellular DA concentration was significantly lower in phenotype-positive mice than in non-Tg or phenotype-negative mice, but indistinguishable between non-Tg and phenotype-negative mice. Phenotype-positive mice also had higher functional D2 DA autoreceptor sensitivity than non-Tg mice, which would be consistent with lower extracellular DA concentration in vivo. Multiple-pulse (phasic) stimulation (five pulses, 10-100 Hz) revealed an enhanced frequency dependence of evoked DA release in phenotype-positive versus non-Tg or phenotype-negative mice, which was exacerbated when extracellular Ca(2+) concentration was lowered. Enhanced sensitivity to phasic stimulation in phenotype-positive mice was reminiscent of the pattern seen with antagonism of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Consistent with a role for altered cholinergic regulation, the difference in phasic responsiveness among groups was lost when nicotinic receptors were blocked by mecamylamine. Together, these data implicate compromised DA release regulation, possibly from cholinergic dysfunction, in the motor symptoms of this dystonia model.
Ethanol inhibits the proliferation of neural precursors by altering mitogenic and anti-mitogenic growth factor signaling and can affect global methylation activity in the fetus. We tested the hypothesis that epigenetic modification of specific cell cycle genes underlies the ethanol-induced inhibition of growth factor-regulated cell cycle progression. Monolayer cultures of neural stem cells (NSCs) were treated with fibroblast growth factor 2 or transforming growth factor (TGF) 1 in the absence or presence of ethanol. Ethanol increased the total length of the cell cycle by elongating the amount of time spent in the gap 1 (G1) and synthesis (S) phases of the cell cycle. Ethanol induced the hypermethylation of multiple cell cycle genes associated with the G1/S and gap 2/mitotic phase (G2/M) checkpoints and increased the expression and activity of DNA methyltransferases. These changes were most pronounced in the presence of TGF1. Epigenetic alterations paralleled the down-regulation of associated transcripts and other checkpoint-related mRNAs both in vitro (NS-5 cell culture) and in vivo (fetal mouse cortex). Ethanol-induced hypermethylation was accompanied by decreases in the proportion of NSCs expressing associated cell cycle proteins. Thus, ethanol disrupts growth factor-related cell cycle progression by inducing checkpoint restriction at the G1/S transition through a feed-forward system involving the methylation of G2/M regulators.
Neuroprotection is one of the prominent functions of the interleukin (IL)-6-type cytokine family, for which the underlying mechanism(s) are not fully understood. We have previously shown that neuroprotection and neuromodulation mediated by IL-6 require neuronal adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1) R) function. We now have investigated whether two other IL-6-type cytokines [oncostatin M (OSM) and leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF)] use a similar mechanism. It is presented here that OSM but not LIF, enhanced the expression of A(1) Rs (both mRNA and protein levels) in cultured neurons. Whereas the neuroprotective effect of LIF was unchanged in A(1) R deficient neurons, OSM failed to protect neurons in the absence of A(1) R. In addition, OSM pre-treatment for 4 h potentiated the A(1) R-mediated inhibition of electrically evoked excitatory post-synaptic currents recorded from hippocampal slices either under normal or hypoxic conditions. No such effect was observed after LIF pre-treatment. Our findings thus strongly suggest that, despite known structural and functional similarities, OSM and LIF use different mechanisms to achieve neuroprotection and neuromodulation.
We have previously shown that all perineuronal nets (PNNs) bearing neurons express a hyaluronan synthase (HAS), a link protein (usually cartilage link protein-1; Crtl1) and a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (usually aggrecan). Animal lacking Crtl1 in the CNS lacks normal PNNs. PNNs are implicated in the control of neuronal plasticity, and interventions to modulate PNN formation will be useful for manipulating plasticity. We have developed an in vitro model which demonstrates how the structural components of PNNs trigger their formation, using human embryonic kidney cells, which do not normally produce a pericellular matrix. Expression of HAS3 leads to the production of a diffuse matrix. It was converted into a compact PNN-like structure when the cells also expressed Crtl1 and aggrecan. This matrix was stained by Wisteria floribunda, contained Crtl1 and aggrecan, and like PNNs, could only be solubilized in 6 M urea. In the absence of hyaluronan produced by HAS3, aggrecan and Crtl1 dissipated into the medium, but when the cells were transfected to produce a hyaluronan matrix, Crtl1 and aggrecan were incorporated into it. Cells lacking any one of these molecules showed impaired integrity of the PNNs. Cells expressing HAS3 and Crtl1 were able to incorporate exogenous aggrecan into their pericellular matrix.
We investigated the role of serotonin(2C) receptor-mediated feedback mechanisms in the response to citalopram in C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice, which are respectively responders and non-responders to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in the forced swimming test. The microdialysis technique was used to assess changes in extracellular serotonin and GABA in the mouse dorsal raph (DR). Citalopram (1.25-20 mg/kg) raised extracellular serotonin and GABA in the DR of both mouse strains. These effects were abolished by depleting brain serotonin with p-chlorophenylalanine (300 mg/kg  3). Systemic and/or intra-DR infusion of the serotonin(2C) receptor antagonist 6-chloro-5-methyl-1-[[2-[(2-methyl-3-pyridyl)oxy]-5-pyridyl]carbamoyl]-indoline (1 mg/kg and 0.1 M, respectively) enhanced citalopram's effect on extracellular serotonin in the DR and medial prefrontal cortex and abolished the rise of GABA in the DR of DBA/2 mice but had no effect in C57BL/6 mice. The serotonin(2C) receptor agonist Ro60-0175 (0.03-3.0 mg/kg) reduced extracellular serotonin and raised GABA in the DR of DBA/2 mice but had much less effect in C57BL/6 mice. These findings show that the sensitivity of serotonin(2C) receptors determines the efficacy of augmentation strategies aimed at enhancing the effect of serotonin reuptake inhibitors on extracellular serotonin through the suppression of serotonin(2C) receptor-mediated feedback control of serotonin neurons.
Cystamine has shown significant neuroprotective properties in preclinical studies of Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Cysteamine, its FDA-approved reduced form, is scheduled to be tested for clinical efficacy in HD patients. Here, we studied the key cystamine metabolites, namely cysteamine, hypotaurine and taurine, as well as cysteine, in order to identify which one is more distinctively responsible for the neuroprotective action of cystamine. After a single administration of cystamine (10, 50 or 200 mg/kg), nave mice were perfused with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) at 1, 3, 12, 24 or 48 h post-injection and brain and plasma samples were analyzed by two distinct HPLC methods. Although plasma levels remained under the detection threshold, significant increases in cysteamine brain levels were detected with the 50 and 200 mg/kg doses in mice perfused 1 and 3 h following cystamine injection. To further assess cysteamine as the candidate molecule for pre-clinical and clinical trials in PD, we evaluated its capacity to cross the blood brain barrier. Using an in situ cerebral perfusion technique, we determined that the brain transport coefficient (Clup) of cysteamine (259 M) was 0.15  0.02 L/g/s and was increased up to 0.34  0.07 L/g/s when co-perfused in the presence of cysteine. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that cysteamine is the neuroactive metabolite of cystamine and may further support its therapeutic use in neurodegenerative diseases, particularly in HD and PD.
Autism is a behaviorally defined neurodevelopmental disorder and among its symptoms are disturbances in face and emotional processing. Emerging evidence demonstrates abnormalities in the GABAergic (gamma-aminobutyric acid) system in autism, which likely contributes to these deficits. GABA(B) receptors play an important role in modulating synapses and maintaining the balance of excitation-inhibition in the brain. The density of GABA(B) receptors in subjects with autism and matched controls was quantified in the anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, important for socio-emotional and cognitive processing, and the fusiform gyrus, important for identification of faces and facial expressions. Significant reductions in GABA(B) receptor density were demonstrated in all three regions examined suggesting that alterations in this key inhibitory receptor subtype may contribute to the functional deficits in individuals with autism. Interestingly, the presence of seizure in a subset of autism cases did not have a significant effect on the density of GABA(B) receptors in any of the three regions.
The present study demonstrates a novel high-affinity neuronal target for endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs), which potentially cause psychological disorders. EDCs competitively inhibited the binding of bovine serum albumin-conjugated progesterone to recombinant human microtubule-associated protein 2C (rhMAP2C) with an inhibition constant at picomolar levels. In the rhMAP2C-stimulated tubulin assembly assay, agonistic enhancement was observed with dibutyl phthalate and pentachlorphenol and pregnenolone, while an inverse agonistic effect was observed with 4-nonylphenol. In contrast, progesterone and many of the EDCs, including bisphenol A, antagonized the pregnenolone-induced enhancement of rhMAP2C-stimulated tubulin assembly. These agonistic and inverse agonistic actions were not observed in tubulin assembly stimulated with Delta1-71 rhMAP2C, which lacks the steroid-binding site. Using a dark-field microscopy, pregnenolone and pentachlorphenol were observed to generate characteristic filamentous microtubules in a progesterone- or bisphenol A-reversible manner. In cultured hippocampal neurons, similar agonist-antagonist relationships were reproduced in terms of dendritic outgrowth. Fluorescent recovery after photobleaching of hippocampal neurons showed that pregnenolone and agonistic EDCs enhanced, but that 4-nonylphenol inhibited the MAP2-mediated neurite outgrowth in a progesterone- or antagonistic EDC-reversible manner. Furthermore, none of the examined effects were affected by mifepristone or ICI-182,786 i.e. the classical progesterone and estrogen receptor antagonists. Taken together, these results suggest that EDCs cause a wide variety of significant disturbances to dendritic outgrowth in hippocampal neurons, which may lead to psychological disorders following chronic exposure during early neuronal development.
Neurodegenerative diseases, notably Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, are amongst the most devastating disorders afflicting the elderly. Currently, no curative treatments or treatments that interdict disease progression exist. Over the past decade, immunization strategies have been proposed to combat disease progression. Such strategies induce humoral immune responses against misfolded protein aggregates to facilitate their clearance. Robust adaptive immunity against misfolded proteins, however, accelerates disease progression, precipitated by induced effector T cell responses that lead to encephalitis and neuronal death. Since then, mechanisms that attenuate such adaptive neurotoxic immune responses have been sought. We propose that shifting the balance between effector and regulatory T cell activity can attenuate neurotoxic inflammatory events. This review summarizes advances in immune regulation to achieve a homeostatic glial response for therapeutic gain. Promising new ways to optimize immunization schemes and measure their clinical efficacy are also discussed.
It has been postulated that bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) might be effective treatments for neurodegenerative disorders either by replacement of lost cells by differentiation into functional neural tissue; modulation of the immune system to prevent further neurodegeneration; and/or provision of trophic support for the diseased nervous system. Here we have performed a series of experiments showing that human bone marrow-derived MSCs are able to protect cultured rodent cerebellar neurons, and specifically cells expressing Purkinje cell markers, against either nitric oxide exposure or withdrawal of trophic support via cell-cell contact and/or secretion of soluble factors, or through secretion of soluble factors alone. We have demonstrated that MSCs protect cerebellar neurons against toxic insults via modulation of both the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt and MAPK pathways and defined superoxide dismutase 3 as a secreted active antioxidant biomolecule by which MSCs modulate, at least in part, their neuroprotective effect on cerebellar cells in vitro. Together, the results demonstrate new and specific mechanisms by which MSCs promote cerebellar neuronal survival and add further evidence to the concept that MSCs may be potential therapeutic agents for neurological disorders involving the cerebellum.
The field of behavioral neuroscience has been successful in using an animal model of enriched environments for over five decades to measure the rehabilitative and preventative effects of sensory, cognitive and motor stimulation in animal models. Several key principles of enriched environments match those used in sensory integration therapy, a treatment used for children with neurodevelopmental disorders. This paper reviews the paradigm of environmental enrichment, compares animal models of enriched environments to principles of sensory integration treatment, and discusses applications for the rehabilitation of neurodevelopmental disorders. Based on this review, the essential features in the enriched environment paradigm which should be included in sensory integration treatment are multiple sensory experiences, novelty in the environment, and active engagement in challenging cognitive, sensory, and motor tasks. Use of sensory integration treatment may be most applicable for children with anxiety, hypersensitivity, repetitive behaviors or heightened levels of stress. Additionally, individuals with deficits in social behavior, social participation, or impairments in learning and memory may show gains with this type of treatment.
Androgens can protect neurones from injury, although androgen neuroprotection is not well characterised in terms of either specificity or mechanism. In the present study, we compared the ability of androgens to protect neurones against a panel of insults, empirically determined to induce cell death by apoptotic or non-apoptotic mechanisms. Three criteria defining but not inclusive of apoptosis are: protection by caspase inhibition, protection by protein synthesis inhibition and the presence of pyknotic nuclei. According to these criteria, beta-amyloid, staurosporine, and Apoptosis Activator II induced cell death involving apoptosis, whereas hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), iron, calcium ionophore and 3-nitropropionic acid induced cell death featuring non-apoptotic characteristics. Pretreatment of hippocampal neurones with testosterone or dihydrotestosterone attenuated cell death induced by beta-amyloid, staurosporine and Apoptosis Activator II, but none of the other insults. The anti-oxidant Trolox did not reduce cell death induced by beta-amyloid, staurosporine and Apoptosis Activator II, but did protect against H(2)O(2) and iron. Similarly, a supra-physiological concentration of oestrogen reduced cell death induced by H(2)O(2) and iron, an effect not observed with androgens. We also show that activation of oestrogen pathways was not necessary for androgen neuroprotection. These data suggest that androgens directly activate a neuroprotective mechanism specific to inhibition of cell death involving apoptosis. Determining the specificity of androgen neuroprotection may enable the development of androgen compounds for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a well-known plastic-derived pollutant that can bind to oestrogen receptors and is considered an endocrine-disrupting chemical. Its impact on different behaviours in rodents has been largely investigated, however, only a few data are available on its effects upon neural circuits. In the present study, we investigated the long-term effects of early exposure of mice of both sexes to BPA on the nitrinergic system, one of the neural systems involved in the control of sexual behaviour and under the control of gonadal hormones. Mice of both sexes were exposed for eight prenatal and eight postnatal days to BPA that was administered to the mothers. The maternally-exposed mice were sacrificed at the age of 2 months and their brains were sectioned and immunohistochemically treated for the detection of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Significant effects of BPA exposure were detected for the number of immunoreactive cells in the medial preoptic nucleus and in the ventromedial subdivision of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, in a sex-oriented and dose-dependent way. These results indicate that BPA has a powerful effect on specific portions of the nNOS-immunoreactive system belonging to the accessory olfactory system that are particularly important for the control of sexual behaviour. In addition, they confirm that perinatal exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals, in particular to BPA, may have a high impact on the organisation of specific neural pathways that can later affect complex behaviours and functions.



Cysteine-string protein (CSP), a member of the DnaJ/Hsp40 family of cochaperones, is critical for maintaining neurotransmitter release and preventing neurodegeneration. CSP likely forms a chaperone complex on synaptic vesicles together with the 70-kDa heat shock cognate (Hsc70) and the small glutamine-rich tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR)-containing protein (SGT) that may control or protect the assembly and activity of SNARE proteins and various other protein substrates. Here, the author summarizes studies that elucidated CSP's neuroprotective role.
Chronic HIV-1 infection commonly affects behavioral, cognitive, and motor functions in the infected human host and is commonly referred to as HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). This occurs, in measure, as a consequence of ingress of leukocytes into brain perivascular regions. Such cells facilitate viral infection and disease by eliciting blood-brain barrier and neuronal network dysfunctions. Previous works demonstrated that the endocannabinoid system modulates neuroimmunity and as such neuronal and glial functions. Herein, we investigated CB2R receptor expression in murine HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE) and the abilities of a highly selective CB2R agonist, Gp1a, to modulate disease. HIV-1-infected human monocyte-derived macrophages were injected into the caudate and putamen of immunodeficient mice reconstituted with human peripheral blood lymphocytes (hu-PBL/HIVE). Brains of hu-PBL/HIVE mice showed microglial activation and increased expression of CB2R, but not CB1R or GPR55. Gp1a substantively reduced infiltration of human cells into the mouse brain and reduced HLA DQ activation. Gp1a down modulated CCR5 expression on human cells in the spleen with an increase in Fas ligand expression. Our results support the notion that CB2 receptor agonists may be a viable therapeutic candidate for HAND.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a growing concern for patients undergoing immune modulatory therapies for treatment of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis. Currently, there are no drugs approved for the treatment of PML that have been demonstrated in the patient to effectively and reproducibly alter the course of disease progression. The human polyoma virus JC is the causative agent of PML. JC virus (JCV) dissemination is tightly controlled by regulation of viral gene expression from the promoter by cellular transcription factors expressed in cells permissive for infection. JCV infection likely occurs during childhood, and latent virus containing PML-associated promoter sequences is maintained in lymphoid cells within the bone marrow. Because development of PML is tightly linked to suppression and or modulation of the immune system as in development of hematological malignancies, AIDS, and monoclonal antibody treatments, further scrutiny of the course of JCV infection in immune cells will be essential to our understanding of development of PML and identification of new therapeutic targets.
Alphaherpesviruses are a subfamily of the Herpesviridae that can invade the nervous system and establish either lytic or latent infections. The establishment of latent infection can occur only in neurons, indicating a unique virus-host interaction in these cells. Here, we compare results from seven microarray studies that focused on the host response of either neural tissue or isolated neurons to alphaherpesvirus infection. These studies utilized either herpes simplex virus type 1 or pseudorabies virus as the infectious agent. From these data, we have found common host responses spanning a variety of infection models in different species, with different herpesvirus strains, and during all phases of infection including lytic, latent, and reactivation. The repeated observation of transcriptional effects on these genes and gene families indicates their likely importance in host defenses or the viral infectious process. We discuss the possible role of these different genes and genes families in alphaherpesvirus infection.



Thymoma-associated paraneoplastic diseases include myasthenia gravis (MG), neuromyotonia (NMT), Morvan's syndrome, and several non-neurological paraneoplastic manifestations, including glomerulonephritis. Paraneoplastic syndromes often precede the occurrence of thymoma, but cases occurring after thymomectomy, which sometimes herald the recurrence of thymoma, have also been described. We report on a patient who developed MG after thymomectomy for a malignant thymoma. After MG remission, NMT and Morvan's syndrome occurred, which heralded a mediastinic recurrence, as demonstrated only by autopsy findings.
Huntington disease has been linked to increased dopaminergic neurotransmission in the striatum, and clinical studies have demonstrated that the associated chorea can be treated with dopamine antagonist or dopamine-depleting drugs. The origin of this hyperdopaminergic status is unknown. Because substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area are the main sources of striatal dopamine input, we hypothesized that changes in these regions relate to striatal dopaminergic alterations. Here, in a recently generated transgenic rat Huntington disease model that shows progressive striatal neurodegeneration and chorea, we found evidence of increased dopamine levels in the striatum. We also demonstrate more dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area in these rats. These results suggest that increased striatal dopamine comes from these 2 main nuclei, and that it is not necessarily related to shrinkage of the striatum. The findings implicate increased dopamine input from these nuclei in the pathogenesis of chorea in Huntington disease.
The X-linked demyelinating/type I Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathy (CMT1X) is an inherited peripheral neuropathy caused by mutations in GJB1, the gene that encodes the gap junction protein connexin32. Connexin32 is expressed by myelinating Schwann cells and forms gap junctions in noncompact myelin areas, but axonal involvement is more prominent in X-linked compared with other forms of demyelinating Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. To clarify the cellular and molecular mechanisms of axonal pathology in CMT1X, we studied Gjb1-null mice at early stages (i.e. 2-4 months old) of the neuropathy, when there is minimal or no demyelination. The diameters of large myelinated axons were progressively reduced in Gjb1-null mice compared with those in wild-type littermates. Furthermore, neurofilaments were relatively more dephosphorylated and more densely packed starting at 2 months of age. Increased expression of -amyloid precursor protein, a marker of axonal damage, was also detected in Gjb1-null nerves. Finally, fast axonal transport, assayed by sciatic nerve ligation experiments, was slower in distal axons of Gjb1-null versus wild-type animals with reduced accumulation of synaptic vesicle-associated proteins. These findings demonstrate that axonal abnormalities including impaired cytoskeletal organization and defects in axonal transport precede demyelination in this mouse model of CMT1X.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are expressed at high levels in the brain during early development and may be critical for the proper development of neuronal networks. Here we elucidated a physiological role of high-affinity KARs in developing hippocampal network by studying the effects of 25-100 nM kainate (KA) on intrinsic network activity in slice preparations. Whereas 100 nM KA resulted in hyperexcitability of the network and the disruption of natural activity patterns,  50 nM KA concentrations enhanced the initiation of network bursts yet preserved the characteristic patterns of endogenous activity. This was not dependent on changes in GABAergic transmission or on activation of GluK1 subunit containing KARs. However, the activation of high-affinity KARs increased glutamatergic drive by promoting spontaneous firing of CA3 pyramidal neurons without affecting action potential independent glutamate release. This was not because of changes in the intrinsic somatic properties of pyramidal neurons but seemed to reside in an electrically remote site, most probably in an axonal compartment. Although application of KAR agonists has mainly been used to study pathological type of network activities, this study provides a novel mechanism by which endogenous activity of KARs can modulate intrinsic activities of the emerging neuronal network in a physiologically relevant manner. The results support recent studies that KARs play a central role in the activity-dependent maturation of synaptic circuitries.
We describe intracranial local field potentials (LFPs) recorded in the supplementary eye field (SEF) of macaque monkeys performing a saccade countermanding task. The most prominent feature at 90% of the sites was a negative-going polarization evoked by a contralateral visual target. At roughly 50% of sites a negative-going polarization was observed preceding saccades, but in stop signal trials this polarization was not modulated in a manner sufficient to control saccade initiation. When saccades were canceled in stop signal trials, LFP modulation increased with the inferred magnitude of response conflict derived from the coactivation of gaze-shifting and gaze-holding neurons. At 30% of sites, a pronounced negative-going polarization occurred after errors. This negative polarity did not appear in unrewarded correct trials. Variations of response time with trial history were not related to any features of the LFP. The results provide new evidence that error-related and conflict-related but not feedback-related signals are conveyed by the LFP in the macaque SEF and are important for identifying the generator of the error-related negativity.
Central pain syndrome (CPS) is a debilitating and chronic pain condition that results from a lesion or dysfunction in the CNS. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying CPS are poorly understood. We recently demonstrated that CPS is associated with suppressed inputs from the inhibitory nucleus zona incerta to the posterior thalamus (PO). As a consequence, activity in PO is abnormally increased in CPS. Because the perception of pain requires activity in the cerebral cortex, CPS must also involve abnormal cortical activity. Here we test the hypothesis that CPS is associated with increased activity in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI), a major projection target of PO that plays an important role in processing sensory-discriminative aspects of pain. We recorded activity of single units in SI in rats with CPS resulting from spinal cord lesions. Consistent with our hypothesis, SI neurons recorded from lesioned rats exhibited significantly higher spontaneous firing rates and greater responses evoked by innocuous and noxious mechanical stimulation of the hindpaw compared with control rats. Neurons from lesioned rats also showed a greater tendency than controls to fire bursts of action potentials in response to noxious stimuli. Thus, the excruciatingly painful symptoms of CPS may result, at least in part, from abnormally increased activity in SI.
Although many studies in neuroscience are based on comparing neuronal responses to single, isolated sensory or motor events, multiple events frequently occur in close temporal proximity in freely moving animals. This often obscures the precise temporal correlation between each event and the relevant brain activity. By simulating neuronal responses in multi-event tasks, we show that perievent time histograms (PETHs) greatly distort the underlying true responses. We propose a multi-event deconvolution method that can separate the contribution of each event to the overall neuronal activity. The improvements over PETH in analyzing real data are demonstrated using simulated data and a sample electrophysiological recording obtained from rats in a task involving responses to a reward predictive cue.
In many brain regions, synchronous neural activity causes a rapid rise in extracellular pH. In the CA1 region of hippocampus, this population alkaline transient (PAT) enhances responses from postsynaptic, pH-sensitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Recently, we showed that the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase (PMCA), a ubiquitous transporter that exchanges internal Ca(2+) for external H(+), is largely responsible for the PAT. It has also been shown that a PAT can be generated after replacing extracellular Ca(2+) with Ba(2+). The cause of this PAT is unknown, however, because the ability of the mammalian PMCA to transport Ba(2+) is unclear. If the PMCA did not carry Ba(2+), a different alkalinizing source would have to be postulated. Here, we address this issue in mouse hippocampal slices, using concentric (high-speed, low-noise) pH microelectrodes. In Ba(2+)-containing, Ca(2+)-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid, a single antidromic shock to the alveus elicited a large (0.1-0.2 unit pH), &quot;all-or-none&quot; PAT in the CA1 cell body region. In whole cell current clamp of single CA1 pyramidal neurons, the same stimulus evoked a prolonged plateau potential that was similarly all-or-none. Using this plateau as the voltage command in other cells, we recorded Ba(2+)-dependent surface alkaline transients (SATs). The SATs were suppressed by adding 5 mM extracellular HEPES and abolished when carboxyeosin (a PMCA inhibitor) was in the patch pipette solution. These results suggest that the PAT evoked in the presence of Ba(2+) is caused by the PMCA and that this transporter is responsible for the PAT whether Ca(2+) or Ba(2+) is the charge carrying divalent cation.
In previous studies, we demonstrated that the forebrain commissures are the primary pathway for remapping from one hemifield to the other. Nonetheless, remapping in lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP) across hemifield is still present in split brain monkeys. This finding indicates that a subcortical structure must contribute to remapping. The primary goal of the current study was to characterize remapping activity in the superior colliculus in intact and split brain monkeys. We recorded neurons in both the superficial and intermediate layers of the SC. We found that across-hemifield remapping was reduced in magnitude and delayed compared with within-hemifield remapping in the intermediate layers of the SC in split brain monkeys. These results mirror our previous findings in area LIP. In contrast, we found no difference in the magnitude or latency for within- compared with across-hemifield remapping in the superficial layers. At the behavioral level, we compared the performance of the monkeys on two conditions of a double-step task. When the second target remained within a single hemifield, performance remained accurate. When the second target had to be updated across hemifields, the split brain monkeys' performance was impaired. Remapping activity in the intermediate layers was correlated with the accuracy and latency of the second saccade during the across-hemifield trials. Remapping in the superficial layers was correlated with latency of the second saccade during the within- and across-hemifield trials. The differences between the layers suggest that different circuits underlie remapping in the superficial and intermediate layers of the superior colliculus.
Songbirds, which, like humans, learn complex vocalizations, provide an excellent model for the study of acoustic pattern recognition. Here we examined the role of three basic acoustic parameters in an ethologically relevant categorization task. Female zebra finches were first trained to classify songs as belonging to one of two males and then asked whether they could generalize this knowledge to songs systematically altered with respect to frequency, timing, or intensity. Birds' performance on song categorization fell off rapidly when songs were altered in frequency or intensity, but they generalized well to songs that were changed in duration by &gt;25%. Birds were not deaf to timing changes, however; they detected these tempo alterations when asked to discriminate between the same song played back at two different speeds. In addition, when birds were retrained with songs at many intensities, they could correctly categorize songs over a wide range of volumes. Thus although they can detect all these cues, birds attend less to tempo than to frequency or intensity cues during song categorization. These results are unexpected for several reasons: zebra finches normally encounter a wide range of song volumes but most failed to generalize across volumes in this task; males produce only slight variations in tempo, but females generalized widely over changes in song duration; and all three acoustic parameters are critical for auditory neurons. Thus behavioral data place surprising constraints on the relationship between previous experience, behavioral task, neural responses, and perception. We discuss implications for models of auditory pattern recognition.
The hypothalamic neuropeptide melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) plays important roles in energy homeostasis, anxiety, and sleep regulation. Since the MCH receptor-1 (MCH-R1), the only functional receptor that mediates MCH functions in rodents, facilitates behavioral performance in hippocampus-dependent learning tasks, we investigated whether glutamatergic transmission in CA1 pyramidal cells could be modulated in mice lacking the MCH-R1 gene (MCH-R1(-/-)). We found that both -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated transmissions were diminished in the mutant mice compared with their controls. This deficit was explained, at least in part, by a postsynaptic down-regulation of these receptors since the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents and the NMDA/AMPA ratio were decreased. Long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) was also impaired in MCH-R1(-/-) mice. This was due to an altered induction, rather than an impaired, expression because repeating the induction stimulus restored LTP to a normal magnitude. In addition, long-term synaptic depression was strongly diminished in MCH-R1(-/-) mice. These results suggest that MCH exerts a facilitatory effect on CA1 glutamatergic synaptic transmission and long-term synaptic plasticity. Recently, it has been shown that MCH neurons fire exclusively during sleep and mainly during rapid eye movement sleep. Thus these findings provide a mechanism by which sleep might facilitate memory consolidation.
Motoneurons in most organisms conserve a division into low-threshold and high-threshold types that are responsible for generating powerful and precise movements. Drosophila 1b and 1s motoneurons may be analogous to low-threshold and high-threshold neurons, respectively, based on data obtained at the neuromuscular junction, although there is little information available on intrinsic properties or recruitment during behavior. Therefore in situ whole cell patch-clamp recordings were used to compare parameters of 1b and 1s motoneurons in Drosophila larvae. We find that resting membrane potential, voltage threshold, and delay-to-spike distinguish 1b from 1s motoneurons. The longer delay-to-spike in 1s motoneurons is a result of the shal-encoded A-type K(+) current. Functional differences between 1b and 1s motoneurons are behaviorally relevant because a higher threshold and longer delay-to-spike are observed in MNISN-1s in pairwise whole cell recordings of synaptically evoked activity during bouts of fictive locomotion.
Motor learning and habit formation are thought to depend on corticostriatal synaptic plasticity. Moreover, basolateral amygdala (BLA) activity facilitates consolidation of striatal-dependent memories. Accordingly, BLA stimulation in vitro facilitates long-term potentiation (LTP) induction at corticostriatal synapses onto medium spiny neurons (MSNs). Although these effects were found to depend on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation at BLA synapses and consequent Ca(2+) influx, it is unclear how this event can facilitate LTP at cortical synapses, even when the two inputs are not coactivated. Here, we aimed to shed light on this question, using whole cell recordings of MSNs in vitro. We first tested whether BLA inputs end at more proximal dendritic sites than cortical inputs. In this scenario, BLA synapses would experience stronger spike-related depolarizations and be in a strategic position to control the spread of second messengers. However, comparison of compound excitatory postsynaptic potentials and single-axon excitatory postsynaptic currents revealed that BLA and cortical synapses are intermingled. Next, we examined the sensitivity of cortical and BLA NMDA responses to ifenprodil because NR2A-containing NMDA receptors have faster kinetics than those containing NR2B subunits. However, the two inputs did not differ in this respect. Last, reasoning that propagating waves of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) could bridge temporal gaps between the two inputs, we tested the effects of CICR inhibitors on the BLA facilitation of corticostriatal LTP induction. Pharmacological interference with CICR blocked corticostriatal LTP induction. Thus our results are consistent with the notion that NMDA-dependent Ca(2+) influx at BLA synapses initiates propagating waves of CICR, thereby biasing active corticostriatal inputs toward synaptic potentiation.
The sense of hearing achieves its striking sensitivity, frequency selectivity, and dynamic range through an active process mediated by the inner ear's mechanoreceptive hair cells. Although the active process renders hearing highly nonlinear and produces a wealth of complex behaviors, these various characteristics may be understood as consequences of a simple phenomenon: the Hopf bifurcation. Any critical oscillator operating near this dynamic instability manifests the properties demonstrated for hearing: amplification with a specific form of compressive nonlinearity and frequency tuning whose sharpness depends on the degree of amplification. Critical oscillation also explains spontaneous otoacoustic emissions as well as the spectrum and level dependence of the ear's distortion products. Although this has not been realized, several valuable theories of cochlear function have achieved their success by incorporating critical oscillators.
Using the paired-pulse paradigm, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has revealed much about the human primary motor cortex (M1). A preceding subthreshold conditioning stimulus (CS) inhibits the excitability of the motor cortex, which is named short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI). In contrast, facilitation is observed when the first pulse (S1) is followed by a second one at threshold (S2), named short-interval intracortical facilitation (SICF). SICI and SICF have been considered to be mediated by different neural circuits within M1, but more recent studies reported relations between them. In this study, we performed triple-pulse stimulation consisting of CS-S1-S2 to further explore putative interactions between these two effects. Three intensities of CS (80-120% of active motor threshold: AMT) and two intensities of S2 (120 and 140% AMT) were combined. The SICF in the paired-pulse paradigm exhibited clear facilitatory peaks at ISIs of 1.5 and 3 ms. The second peak at 3 ms was significantly suppressed by triple-pulse stimulation using 120% AMT CS, although the first peak was almost unaffected. Our present results obtained using triple-pulse stimulation suggest that each peak of SICF is differently modulated by different intensities of CS. The suppression of the second peak might be ascribed to the findings in the paired-pulse paradigm that CS mediates SICI by inhibiting later I waves such as I3 waves and that the second peak of SICF is most probably related to I3 waves. We propose that CS might inhibit the second peak of SICF at the interneurons responsible for I3 waves.
Three experiments tested the hypothesis that activation of semantic memory from perceptual input does not require initial retention of the perceptual material in working memory as assumed by a widely held view of information processing. In Expt 1, two brain-damaged patients with left-sided unilateral spatial neglect were tested. They were asked to listen to and read a series of familiar (British) and unfamiliar (foreign) proverbs and to choose which proverb was the best match to a depicted figure shown with the target object(s) on the left (neglected side) of the patients' visual field. Expt 2 simulated the testing conditions for the neglect patients with healthy participants using subliminal presentation of one half of each picture. Using different materials, Expt 3 replicated the outcomes of Expts 1 and 2 with a third neglect patient and a new group of controls. In all three experiments, participants appeared to be unaware of target features; however they selected familiar, but not unfamiliar, target proverbs above chance. The results showing implicit processing of semantic material can be explained by a model in which working memory is a separate system that deals with activated contents of semantic memory, and in which there is direct activation of semantic memory from perception without intermediate stages of processing in working memory.
We used six psychophysical tasks to measure sensitivity to different types of global motion in 45 healthy adults and in 57 stroke patients who had recovered from the initial results of the stroke, but a large subset of them had enduring deficits on selective visual motion perception tasks. The patients were divided into four groups on the basis of the location of their cortical lesion: occipito-temporal, occipito-parietal, rostro-dorsal parietal, or frontal-prefrontal. The six tasks were: direction discrimination, speed discrimination, motion coherence, motion discontinuity, two-dimensional form-from-motion, and motion coherence - radial. We found both qualitative and quantitative differences among the motion impairments in the four groups: patients with frontal lesions or occipito-temporal lesions were not impaired on any task. The other two groups had substantial impairments, most severe in the group with occipito-parietal damage. We also tested eight healthy control subjects on the same tasks while they were scanned by functional magnetic resonance imaging. The BOLD signal provoked by the different tasks correlated well with the locus of the lesions that led to impairments among the different tasks. The results highlight the advantage of using psychophysical techniques and a variety of visual tasks with neurological patients to tease apart the contribution of different cortical areas to motion processing.
Cortical axons contain a diverse range of voltage-activated ion channels, including Ca(2+) currents. Interestingly, Ca(2+) channels are not only located at presynaptic terminals, but also in the axon initial segment (AIS), suggesting a potentially important role in the regulation of action potential generation and neuronal excitability. Here, using two-photon microscopy and whole-cell patch-clamp recording, we examined the properties and role of calcium channels located in the AIS and presynaptic terminals of ferret layer 5 prefrontal cortical pyramidal cells in vitro. Subthreshold depolarization of the soma resulted in an increase in baseline and spike-triggered calcium concentration in both the AIS and nearby synaptic terminals. The increase in baseline calcium concentration rose with depolarization and fell with hyperpolarization with a time constant of approximately 1 s and was blocked by removal of Ca(2+) from the bathing medium. The increases in calcium concentration at the AIS evoked by subthreshold or suprathreshold depolarization of the soma were blocked by the P/Q-channel antagonist omega-agatoxin IVA or the N-channel antagonist omega-conotoxin GVIA or both. The presence of these channels in the AIS pyramidal cells was confirmed with immunochemistry. Block of these channels slowed axonal action potential repolarization, apparently from reduction of the activation of a Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current, and increased neuronal excitability. These results demonstrate novel mechanisms by which calcium currents may control the electrophysiological properties of axonal spike generation and neurotransmitter release in the neocortex.
Gating in the NMDA receptor is initiated in the extracellular ligand-binding domain (LBD) and is ultimately propagated via three linkers-S1-M1, M3-S2, and S2-M4-to the ion channel. M3-S2 directly couples LBD movements into channel gating, but the functional and structural contributions of S1-M1 and S2-M4 to the overall gating process are unknown. A scan of substituted cysteines in and around the NMDA receptor S1-M1 and S2-M4 with a bulky cysteine-reactive reagent identified numerous positions that showed potentiation of glutamate-activated as well as leak currents. As indexed by MK801 (dizocilpine hydrogen maleate), an open channel blocker, this potentiation was attributable to an increase in open probability, an interpretation confirmed for a subset of positions with single-channel recordings. The magnitude of this gating effect, acting through S1-M1 or S2-M4, was dependent on the intrinsic gating properties of the NMDA receptors, being more effective in the inherently low open probability GluN2C- than the higher open probability GluN2A-subunit-containing receptors. For the majority of these potentiation positions, we propose that alteration of gating arises from steric destabilization of contact interfaces where close apposition of the contacting partners is necessary for efficient channel closure. Our results therefore indicate that the NMDA receptor S1-M1 and S2-M4 linkers are dynamic during gating and can modulate the overall energetics of this process. Furthermore, the results conceptualize a mechanistic, as well as a possible structural, framework for pharmacologically targeting the linkers through noncompetitive and subunit-specific modes of action.
Testosterone contributes to sex differences in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function in humans and rodents, but the central organization of this regulation remains unclear. The medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) stands out as an important candidate in this regard because it contains androgen receptors and projects to forebrain nuclei integrating cognitive-affective information and regulating HPA responses to homeostatic threat. These include the HPA effector neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, medial amygdala, and lateral septum. To test the extent to which androgen receptors in the MPN engage these cell groups, we compared in adult male rats the effects of unilateral microimplants of testosterone and the androgen receptor antagonist hydroxyflutamide into the MPN on acute restraint induced activation and/or neuropeptide expression levels. The basic effects of these implants were lateralized to the sides of the nuclei ipsilateral to the implants. Testosterone, but not hydroxyflutamide implants, decreased stress-induced Fos and arginine vasopressin (AVP) heteronuclear RNA expression in the PVN, as well as Fos expression in the lateral septum. In unstressed animals, AVP mRNA expression in the PVN decreased and increased in response to testosterone and hydroxflutamide MPN implants, respectively. The differential influences of these implants on AVP mRNA expression were opposite in the medial amygdala. These results confirm a role for androgen receptors in the MPN to concurrently modulate neuropeptide expression and activational responses in the PVN and its extended circuitries. This suggests that the MPN is capable of bridging converging limbic influences to the HPA axis with changes in gonadal status.
The recycling pathway is a major route for delivering signaling receptors to the somatodendritic plasma membrane. We investigated the cell biological basis for the remarkable selectivity and speed of this process. We focused on the mu-opioid neuropeptide receptor and the beta(2)-adrenergic catecholamine receptor, two seven-transmembrane signaling receptors that traverse the recycling pathway efficiently after ligand-induced endocytosis and localize at steady state throughout the postsynaptic surface. Rapid recycling of each receptor in dissociated neuronal cultures was mediated by a receptor-specific cytoplasmic sorting sequence. Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy imaging revealed that both sequences drive recycling via discrete vesicular fusion events in the cell body and dendritic shaft. Both sequences promoted recycling via &quot;transient&quot;-type events characterized by nearly immediate lateral spread of receptors after vesicular insertion resembling receptor insertion events observed previously in non-neural cells. The sequences differed in their abilities to produce distinct &quot;persistent&quot;-type events at which inserted receptors lingered for a variable time period before lateral spread. Both types of insertion event generated a uniform distribution of receptors in the somatodendritic plasma membrane when imaged over a 1 min interval, but persistent events uniquely generated a punctate surface distribution over a 10 s interval. These results establish sequence-directed recycling of signaling receptors in CNS neurons and show that this mechanism has the ability to generate receptor-specific patterns of local surface distribution on a timescale overlapping that of rapid physiological signaling.
When we visualize scenes, either from our own past or invented, we impose a viewpoint for our &quot;mind's eye&quot; and we experience the resulting image as spatially coherent from that viewpoint. The hippocampus has been implicated in this process, but its precise contribution is unknown. We tested a specific hypothesis based on the spatial firing properties of neurons in the hippocampal formation of rats, that this region supports the construction of spatially coherent mental images by representing the locations of the environmental boundaries surrounding our viewpoint. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we show that hippocampal activation increases parametrically with the number of enclosing boundaries in the imagined scene. In contrast, hippocampal activity is not modulated by a nonspatial manipulation of scene complexity nor to increasing difficulty of imagining the scenes in general. Our findings identify a specific computational role for the hippocampus in mental imagery and episodic recollection.
Recent findings in neuroscience suggest that adult brain structure changes in response to environmental alterations and skill learning. Whereas much is known about structural changes after intensive practice for several months, little is known about the effects of single practice sessions on macroscopic brain structure and about progressive (dynamic) morphological alterations relative to improved task proficiency during learning for several weeks. Using T1-weighted and diffusion tensor imaging in humans, we demonstrate significant gray matter volume increases in frontal and parietal brain areas following only two sessions of practice in a complex whole-body balancing task. Gray matter volume increase in the prefrontal cortex correlated positively with subject's performance improvements during a 6 week learning period. Furthermore, we found that microstructural changes of fractional anisotropy in corresponding white matter regions followed the same temporal dynamic in relation to task performance. The results make clear how marginal alterations in our ever changing environment affect adult brain structure and elucidate the interrelated reorganization in cortical areas and associated fiber connections in correlation with improvements in task performance.
Integrins play an important part in axon growth, but integrin traffic in neurons is poorly understood. Expression of the tenascin-C-binding integrin alpha9 promotes axon regeneration. We have therefore studied the mechanism by which alpha9 integrin and its partner beta1 are trafficked along axons and at the growth cone using adult DRG neurons and PC12 cells. We have focused on the small GTPase Rab11 and its effector Rab coupling protein (RCP), as they are involved in the long-range trafficking of beta1 integrins in other cells. Rab11 colocalizes with alpha9 and other alpha integrins and with beta1 integrin in growth cones and axons, and immunopurified Rab11 vesicles contain alpha9 and beta1. Endocytosed beta1 integrins traffic via Rab11. However, Rab11 vesicles in axons are generally static, and alpha9 integrins undergo bouts of movement during which they leave the Rab11 compartment. In growth cones, alpha9 and beta1 overlap with RCP, particularly at the growth cone periphery. We show that beta1 integrin trafficking during neurite outgrowth involves Rab11 and RCP, and that manipulation of these molecules alters surface integrin levels and axon growth, and can be used to enhance alpha9 integrin-dependent neurite outgrowth. Our data suggest that manipulation of trafficking via Rab11 and RCP could be a useful strategy for promoting integrin-dependent axonal regeneration.
The generalization of learning from trained to untrained conditions is of great potential value because it markedly increases the efficacy of practice. In principle, generalization and the learning itself could arise from either the same or distinct neural changes. Here, we assessed these two possibilities in the realm of human perceptual learning by comparing the time course of improvement on a trained condition (learning) to that on an untrained condition (generalization) for an auditory temporal-interval discrimination task. While significant improvement on the trained condition occurred within 2 d, generalization to the untrained condition lagged behind, only emerging after 4 d. The different time courses for learning and generalization suggest that these two types of perceptual improvement can arise from at least partially distinct neural changes. The notably longer time course for generalization than learning demonstrates that increasing the duration of training can be an effective means to increase the number of conditions to which learning generalizes on perceptual tasks.
An internal model for predictive saccades in frontal cortex was investigated by recording neurons in monkey frontal eye field (FEF) during an inferred motion task. Monkeys were trained to make saccades to the extrapolated position of a small moving target that was rendered temporarily invisible and whose trajectory was altered. On approximately two-thirds of the trials, monkeys made multiple saccades while the target was invisible. Primary saccades were correlated with extrapolated target position. Secondary saccades significantly reduced residual errors resulting from imperfect accuracy of the first saccade. These observations suggest that the second saccade was corrective. Because there was no visual feedback, corrective saccades could only be driven by an internally generated error signal. Neuronal activity in the frontal eye field was directionally tuned before both primary and secondary saccades. Separate subpopulations of cells encoded either saccade direction or direction error before the second saccade. These results suggest that FEF neurons encode the error after the first saccade, as well as the direction of the second saccade. Hence, FEF appears to contribute to detecting and correcting movement errors based on internally generated signals.

Microglial activation occurs early during the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Recent evidence indicates that the expression of mutant Cu(2+)/Zn(2+) superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) in microglia contributes to the late disease progression of ALS. However, the mechanism by which microglia influence the neurodegenerative process and disease progression in ALS remains unclear. In this study, we revealed that activated microglia aggregated in the lumbar spinal cord of presymptomatic mutant SOD1(H46R) transgenic rats, an animal model of familial ALS. The aggregated microglia expressed a marker of proliferating cell, Ki67, and phagocytic marker proteins ED1 and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II. The motoneurons near the microglial aggregates showed weak choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunoreactivity and contained reduced granular endoplasmic reticulum and altered nucleus electron microscopically. Furthermore, immunopositive signals for tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) were localized in the aggregated microglia. These results suggest that the activated and aggregated microglia represent phagocytic features in response to early changes in motoneurons and possibly play an important role in ALS disease progression during the presymptomatic stage.
alpha-Synuclein (alphasyn) mutations, overexpression, misfolding, and aggregation are associated with Parkinson's disease. This protein has been intensively studied in neuronal systems. However, alphasyn is also present in extracellular fluids, such as cerebrospinal fluid and blood plasma. Recent studies have attempted to quantify its levels and compare these in various extracellular fluids of control and Parkinson's disease subjects. Data from these studies have been difficult to interpret, suggesting that more sensitive, standardized, and well-characterized assays of larger cohorts are required. Here, we describe the development of a new ELISA specifically for quantifying alphasyn in human plasma. An initial assay, using a commercial anti-alphasyn monoclonal antibody (211; Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) and based on a published protocol, was adapted for use in human plasma. In addition, we have developed a novel alphasyn-specific antibody for the assay that has very high sensitivity and signal:noise characteristics. Assays with either antibody showed high specificity for alphasyn, and detected it in a variety of sample types, including plasma. These assays can now be employed on large cohorts of patients and control subjects to determine whether plasma levels are altered in disease. Although measuring extracellular alphasyn levels may prove to be a useful biomarker of Parkinson's disease, it should also be a powerful tool for basic research aimed at understanding the normal and pathological physiology of alphasyn secretion. .
The immune cytokine interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) plays a crucial role in immune-mediated demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Our previous studies have shown that enforced expression of IFN-gamma in the central nervous system (CNS) inhibits developmental myelination or remyelination in EAE demyelinated lesions. Although many of the cellular actions of IFN-gamma result from its activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) pathway, recent studies have shown that STAT1-independent pathways regulate some facets of IFN-gamma biology. In this study, we dissected the role ofSTAT1-dependent and STAT1-independent pathways in IFN-gamma-induced hypomyelination using a genetic approach. We found that the induction of STAT1-dependent, IFN-gamma-responsive genes in response to this cytokine was abolished in the CNS of STAT1 null mice. Moreover, STAT1 deletion diminished oligodendrocyte loss, reduction of myelinated axons, and the inflammatory response in the CNS of transgenic mice that ectopically expressed IFN-gamma in the CNS. Nevertheless, IFN-gamma-induced reduction of myelin sheath thickness in the CNS of these mice was not altered by STAT1 deletion. Collectively, these data demonstrate that both STAT1-dependent and STAT1-independent pathways are involved in the detrimental effects of IFN-gamma on the myelination process.
The process of Schwann cell myelination requires precisely coordinated gene expression. At the onset of myelination, there is an increase in the expression of differentiation-promoting transcription factors that regulate key Schwann cell genes. Further control of myelin gene expression occurs at the posttranscriptional level and, in part, is mediated by RNA binding proteins and micro-RNAs (miRNAs). miRNAs are small, endogenously derived RNA molecules that repress gene expression by specifically binding to their mRNA targets. In the experiments described here, we tested whether miRNAs were essential in controlling myelination by reducing the levels of Dicer, an essential endoribonuclease in miRNA biogenesis. We decreased the expression of Dicer by about 60% within Schwann cells using a lentiviral vector expressing an shRNA against Dicer. The reduced levels of Dicer led to a decrease in the steady-state expression of selected miRNAs and of the transcription factors Oct6 and Egr2/Krox20, both of which are critical for Schwann cells differentiation and myelination. In contrast, the levels of c-jun and Sox2 were up-regulated by the reduction in Dicer and were associated with an increase in Schwann cell proliferation. In dorsal root ganglion cocultures, Schwann cells transduced with Dicer shRNA synthesized less myelin, which was accompanied by significant reductions in the levels of myelin basic protein and protein zero. These findings support a critical role for Dicer and miRNAs in Schwann cell differentiation and myelination.



Central neuropathic pain occurs with multiple sclerosis, stroke, and spinal cord injury (SCI). Models of SCI are commonly used to study central neuropathic pain and are excellent at modeling gross physiological changes. Our goal was to develop a rat model of central neuropathic pain by traumatizing a discrete region of the dorsal spinal cord, thereby avoiding issues including paralysis, urinary tract infection, and autotomy. To this end, dorsal root avulsion was pursued. The model was developed by first determining the number of avulsed dorsal roots sufficient to induce below-level hindpaw mechanical allodynia. This was optimally achieved by unilateral T13 and L1 avulsion, which resulted in tissue damage confined to Lissauer's tract, dorsal horn, and dorsal columns, at the site of avulsion, with no gross physical changes at other spinal levels. Behavior following avulsion was compared to that following rhizotomy of the T13 and L1 dorsal roots, a commonly used model of neuropathic pain. Avulsion induced below-level allodynia that was more robust and enduring than that seen after rhizotomy. This, plus the lack of direct spinal cord damage associated with rhizotomy, suggests that avulsion is not synonymous with rhizotomy, and that avulsion (but not rhizotomy) is a model of central neuropathic pain. The new model described here is the first to use discrete dorsal horn damage by dorsal root avulsion to create below-level bilateral central neuropathic pain.
For patients with profound hearing loss, a cochlear implant is the only treatment available today. The function of a cochlear implant depends in part on the function and survival of spiral ganglion neurons. Following deafferentation, glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is known to affect spiral ganglion neuron survival. The purpose of this study was to assess delayed GDNF treatment after deafening, the effects of cessation of GDNF treatment, and the effects of subsequent antioxidants on responsiveness and survival of the spiral ganglion neurons. Three-week deafened (by local neomycin administration) guinea pigs were implanted in the scala tympani with a combined cochlear implant electrode and cannula. GDNF (1g/mL) or artificial perilymph was then delivered for 4 weeks, following which the animals received systemic ascorbic acid + Trolox or saline for an additional 4 weeks. Thresholds for electrically-evoked auditory brain stem responses (eABRs) were significantly elevated at 3 weeks with deafness, stabilized with GDNF, and showed no change with GDNF cessation and treatment with antioxidants or saline. The populations of spiral ganglion neurons were reduced with deafness (by 40% at 3 weeks and 70% at 11 weeks), and rescued from cell death by GDNF with no further reduction at 8 weeks following 4 weeks of cessation of GDNF treatment equally in both the antioxidant- and saline-treated groups. Local growth factor treatment of the deaf ear may prevent deterioration in electrical responsiveness and rescue auditory nerve cells from death; these effects outlast the period of treatment, and may enhance the benefits of cochlear implant therapy for the deaf.
There is a need for more efficient tests to evaluate functional outcome following experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI), reflecting deficits in cognitive, sensory, and motor functions that are seen in TBI patients. The Multivariate Concentric Square Field (MCSF) test is a relatively new behavioral model that measures exploration, risk taking, risk assessment, and shelter seeking, all of which are evolutionarily-conserved strategies for survival. The multivariate design enables scoring of different functional domains in a single test situation, with a free choice of optional environmental settings. Furthermore, repeated trials permits cognitive effects to be measured. In the present study, 11 anesthetized C57BL6 mice received controlled cortical injury (CCI) (0.5mm and 3.3m/sec) over the right parietal cerebral cortex or sham surgery (n=12). Nave mice (n=12) not subjected to any surgical procedure were also included. The animals were evaluated in the MCSF test at 2 and 7 days post-surgery, and behavioral profiles were analyzed. The results revealed differences in risk taking and explorative behavior between the sham animals and the animals subjected to trauma. Animals subjected to trauma were characterized by taking more risks and had a higher level of exploration activity, but they sought less shelter. Repeated exposure to the MCSF caused a general decrease in activity in the nave and sham group, while a more specific behavioral impairment was seen in injured mice, suggesting cognitive dysfunction. We submit that the MCSF test is a useful complementary tool for functional outcome evaluation in experimental TBI.



Cold paresis may occur in multifocal motor neuropathy and lower motor neuron disease. It was proposed to reflect nerve lesions where axons are depolarized due to loss of Na/K-pump activity. In those circumstances, a further decrease in pump activity by cooling may induce extra depolarization, conduction block, and weakness. Evidence for this hypothesis is incomplete because it is unknown if cold induces depolarization in human motor axons and other factors may contribute to the symptoms. To solve these questions, we examined 10 normal subjects. At 37, 25, 20, and 15C we assessed: excitability in the median nerve, decrement on 3-Hz stimulation, pulsed Doppler of a wrist artery, and thenar muscle strength. Cooling induced: (1) findings compatible with axonal depolarization on excitability testing (fanning-in of threshold electrotonus, steepened current threshold relation, increased refractory period, decreased super- and subexcitability), (2) decreased Doppler peak systolic velocity without causing ischemia, (3) decreased muscle strength and impaired muscle relaxation. Decrement tests and compound muscle action potential amplitude remained normal. The excitability findings induced by cooling were best explained by axonal depolarization due to the effect of temperature on Na/K-pump activity. The induced weakness may be explained not only by this mechanism but also by impaired muscle contraction.
Testosterone modulates seizure susceptibility, but the underlying mechanisms are obscure. Recently, we demonstrated that testosterone affects seizure activity via its conversion to neurosteroids in the brain. Androstanediol (5alpha-androstan-3alpha,17beta-diol) is an endogenous neurosteroid synthesized from testosterone. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the seizure protection activity of androstanediol remains unclear. Here, we show that androstanediol has positive allosteric activity as a GABA(A) receptor modulator. In whole-cell recordings from acutely dissociated hippocampus CA1 pyramidal cells, androstanediol (but not its 3beta-epimer) produced a concentration-dependent enhancement of GABA-activated currents (EC(50) of 5 microM). At 1 microM, androstanediol produced a 50% potentiation of GABA responses. In the absence of GABA, androstanediol has moderate direct effects on GABA(A) receptor-mediated currents at high concentrations. Systemic doses of androstanediol (5-100 mg/kg), but not its 3beta-epimer, caused dose-dependent suppression of behavioral and electrographic seizures in mouse hippocampus kindling, which is a model of temporal lobe epilepsy. The ED(50) value for antiseizure effects of androstanediol was 50 mg/kg, which did not produce sedation/motor toxicity. At high (2x ED(50)) doses, androstanediol produced complete seizure protection that lasted for up to 3 h after injection. The estimated plasma concentrations of androstanediol producing 50% seizure protection in the kindling model (10.6 microM) are within the range of concentrations that modulate GABA(A) receptors. These studies suggest that androstanediol could be a neurosteroid mediator of testosterone actions on neuronal excitability and seizure susceptibility via its activity as a GABA(A) receptor modulator and that androstanediol may play a key role in men with epilepsy, especially during the age-related decline in androgen levels.
We previously suggested that therapeutic effects of betahistine in vestibular disorders result from its antagonist properties at histamine H(3) receptors (H(3)Rs). However, H(3)Rs exhibit constitutive activity, and most H(3)R antagonists act as inverse agonists. Here, we have investigated the effects of betahistine at recombinant H(3)R isoforms. On inhibition of cAMP formation and [(3)H]arachidonic acid release, betahistine behaved as a nanomolar inverse agonist and a micromolar agonist. Both effects were suppressed by pertussis toxin, were found at all isoforms tested, and were not detected in mock cells, confirming interactions at H(3)Rs. The inverse agonist potency of betahistine and its affinity on [(125)I]iodoproxyfan binding were similar in rat and human. We then investigated the effects of betahistine on histamine neuron activity by measuring tele-methylhistamine (t-MeHA) levels in the brains of mice. Its acute intraperitoneal administration increased t-MeHA levels with an ED(50) of 0.4 mg/kg, indicating inverse agonism. At higher doses, t-MeHA levels gradually returned to basal levels, a profile probably resulting from agonism. After acute oral administration, betahistine increased t-MeHA levels with an ED(50) of 2 mg/kg, a rightward shift probably caused by almost complete first-pass metabolism. In each case, the maximal effect of betahistine was lower than that of ciproxifan, indicating partial inverse agonism. After an oral 8-day treatment, the only effective dose of betahistine was 30 mg/kg, indicating that a tolerance had developed. These data strongly suggest that therapeutic effects of betahistine result from an enhancement of histamine neuron activity induced by inverse agonism at H(3) autoreceptors.
Enhancement of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) activity is considered a therapeutic approach for ameliorating cognitive deficits present in Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. In this study, we describe the in vitro profile of a novel selective alpha7 nAChR agonist, 5-(6-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2,2,2]oct-3-yloxy]pyridazin-3-yl)-1H-indole (ABT-107). ABT-107 displayed high affinity binding to alpha7 nAChRs [rat or human cortex, [(3)H](1S,4S)-2,2-dimethyl-5-(6-phenylpyridazin-3-yl)-5-aza-2-azoniabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane (A-585539), K(i) = 0.2-0.6 nM or [(3)H]methyllycaconitine (MLA), 7 nM] that was at least 100-fold selective versus non-alpha7 nAChRs and other receptors. Functionally, ABT-107 did not evoke detectible currents in Xenopus oocytes expressing human or nonhuman alpha3beta4, chimeric (alpha6/alpha3)beta4, or 5-HT(3A) receptors, and weak or negligible Ca(2+) responses in human neuroblastoma IMR-32 cells (alpha3* function) and human alpha4beta2 and alpha4beta4 nAChRs expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. ABT-107 potently evoked human and rat alpha7 nAChR current responses in oocytes (EC(50), 50-90 nM total charge, approximately 80% normalized to acetylcholine) that were enhanced by the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) 4-[5-(4-chloro-phenyl)-2-methyl-3-propionyl-pyrrol-1-yl]-benzenesulfonamide (A-867744). In rat hippocampus, ABT-107 alone evoked alpha7-like currents, which were inhibited by the alpha7 antagonist MLA. In dentate gyrus granule cells, ABT-107 enhanced spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current activity when coapplied with A-867744. In the presence of an alpha7 PAM [A-867744 or N-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-4-chlorobenzamide hydrochloride (PNU-120596)], the addition of ABT-107 elicited MLA-sensitive alpha7 nAChR-mediated Ca(2+) signals in IMR-32 cells and rat cortical cultures and enhanced extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation in differentiated PC-12 cells. ABT-107 was also effective in protecting rat cortical cultures against glutamate-induced toxicity. In summary, ABT-107 is a selective high affinity alpha7 nAChR agonist suitable for characterizing the roles of this subtype in pharmacological studies.
We previously reported that alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonism produces efficacy in preclinical cognition models correlating with activation of cognitive and neuroprotective signaling pathways associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. In the present studies, the selective and potent alpha7 nAChR agonist 5-(6-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yloxy] pyridazin-3-yl)-1H-indole (ABT-107) was evaluated in behavioral assays representing distinct cognitive domains. Studies were also conducted to address potential issues that may be associated with the clinical development of an alpha7 nAChR agonist. Specifically, ABT-107 improved cognition in monkey delayed matching to sample, rat social recognition, and mouse two-trial inhibitory avoidance, and continued to improve cognitive performance at injection times when exposure levels continued to decline. Rats concurrently infused with ABT-107 and donepezil at steady-state levels consistent with clinical exposure showed improved short-term recognition memory. Compared with nicotine, ABT-107 did not produce behavioral sensitization in rats or exhibit psychomotor stimulant activity in mice. Repeated (3 days) daily dosing of ABT-107 increased extracellular cortical acetylcholine in rats, whereas acute administration increased cortical extracellular signal-regulated kinase and cAMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation in mice, neurochemical and biochemical events germane to cognitive function. ABT-107 increased cortical phosphorylation of the inhibitory residue (Ser9) of glycogen synthase kinase-3, a primary tau kinase associated with AD pathology. In addition, continuous infusion of ABT-107 in tau/amyloid precursor protein transgenic AD mice reduced spinal tau hyperphosphorylation. These findings show that targeting alpha7 nAChRs may have potential utility for symptomatic alleviation and slowing of disease progression in the treatment AD, and expand the understanding of the potential therapeutic viability associated with the alpha7 nAChR approach in the treatment of AD.


The adoption of performance-based management has been under consideration by addiction treatment funding agencies, and, recently, many state and county agencies have developed performance-based measurement/management systems in an attempt to improve their treatment system. This article describes one such effort in Los Angeles County, California. The Performance-Based Pilot Project linked treatment encounters (counseling sessions, drug testing, case management, and methadone dosing) with client outcomes (abstinence or reduced drug use at discharge) and longer lengths of stay in treatment. Eleven outpatient counseling programs and three narcotic treatment programs participated in the nine-month project. Results indicated that for both outpatient counseling and narcotic treatment programs, more sessions attended in the first 30 days was associated with better client outcomes and longer lengths of stay. Furthermore, in outpatient counseling programs, more group sessions during the first 30 days predicted abstinence or greater reductions in primary drug use; in narcotic treatment programs, more doses received during the first 30 days was correlated to longer treatment retention. This research implies that increasing the availability of counseling sessions for a client's first 30 days and engaging clients early is a promising area for program efforts to improve treatment outcomes and program performance.
This article examines performance data improvement efforts among alcohol and other drug (AOD) county and program stakeholders within California's publicly-funded treatment system. County AOD system administrators from approximately two-thirds of California counties (N=37) and a random sample of treatment program managers (N=63) were surveyed about practices and priorities related to using performance data to improve service delivery. Survey results showed that over half (56.8%) of the county administrators reported using performance and/or outcome measures to guide decision-making about the treatment programs with which they contract. Measures of treatment engagement and retention were most frequently reported as high priorities for performance data collection. Treatment providers reported considerable variation with their use of performance measures to improve practices. Overall, findings from this study suggest that many programs and counties are taking steps toward adopting practices of performance measurement and management for treatment improvement, although they still require assistance and support in establishing, collecting, and using performance data.
Process improvement strategies provide industries with a method for improving outcomes and performance at a low cost and with minimal training. In Los Angeles County, two process improvement projects were implemented as a way to improve access to, and engagement and retention in, alcohol and other drug abuse treatment. A qualitative evaluation was completed after the Phase II pilot project to assess how the providers felt about the project, what worked, what did not work, what was learned, and the degree to which process improvements changed program operations. Semistructured interviews were conducted with 33 individuals, representing every level of staff participation in the project. Overall, comments indicated a positive experience for staff, administrators, and clients. Providers noted the relative ease of implementation and how quickly changes resulted in impressive improvements. Challenging issues included resistant staff or a lack of additional resources to pay for the project; however, most noted that these issues were resolved. Interview participants also requested more training on data collection and a reduction in the frequency of the project conference calls. This study gives support to the idea of process improvement being a tool that dramatically improves services to consumers of addiction treatment services.
Improving the care for individuals with substance use disorders is a national health policy priority. Like other parts of the health care system, the addiction field is under pressure for higher accountability-more efficient use of treatment resources, the delivery of quality services, and the production of positive client outcomes. This introductory article highlights the importance of the collection of articles being published in this special issue as they describe California's efforts toward making the alcohol and drug (AOD) treatment system more accountable and effective.
Deficits in verbal fluency associated with ecstasy use have been well established; however, the mechanisms underlying this impairment have yet to be elucidated. In this study we investigated for the first time whether there was a disproportionate impairment in two cognitive subcomponents of verbal fluency: clustering (ability to generate words within the same subcategory) and switching (ability to change the subcategory). We also investigated a possible association between ecstasy use and verbal fluency in subjects genotyped for 5-HTT (5-HTTLPR and 5-HTTVNTR) and COMT (val(108/158)met, rs165599 and rs2097603) polymorphisms, in order to find a potential implication of genetic factors. Ecstasy polydrug users (n = 30) and non-ecstasy users (n = 41) were evaluated in both semantic and phonemic fluency. Results showed that ecstasy users had poorer semantic (but not phonemic) fluency performance than controls. Detailed analysis of clustering and switching performance revealed that this impairment was associated with poorer clustering mechanisms. Clustering was also modulated by the COMT rs165599 polymorphism independently of the group. A specific effect of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism on switching performance was also found, with ss carriers performing significantly worse than ls and ll carriers, suggesting a serotonin modulation of frontal-executive flexibility. Based on the impaired clustering and switching strategies observed in ecstasy users, it might be proposed that both semantic knowledge and retrieval are impaired in this population. The verbal fluency deficit in ecstasy users may be attributable to a disruption of frontal-striatal circuits directly related with the serotonin function as well as a depletion of lexical-semantic stores mediated by temporal structures.
Drug withdrawal is suggested to play a role in precipitating mood disorders in individuals with familial predisposition. Age-related differences in affective responses to withdrawal might explain the increased risk of mental illnesses when drug use begins during adolescence. Recently we observed that, in contrast to adult male mice, adolescent males exhibited a decrease in immobility in the forced swim test on the third day of withdrawal, as compared with controls. Thus, the present study examined forced swim test behaviors of adolescent female mice during opioid withdrawal. Similar to the male study, adolescent female mice were injected with two morphine regimens which differed in dosage. Three and nine days following discontinuation of morphine administration, forced swim test immobility time and locomotion were evaluated. In contrast to males, which exhibited a decrease in immobility, no significant differences in immobility were observed in female adolescents undergoing withdrawal as compared with saline-injected controls. This sex difference in forced swim test behaviors was not due to changes in overall motor activity, since differences in locomotion were not observed in either male or female adolescent mice. Thus, this study demonstrates sex differences in forced swim test behavior during opioid withdrawal. Forced swim test behaviors are classically used to evaluate mood in rodents, thus this study suggests that opioid withdrawal might affect mood differentially across sexes.
The deficit to reorient attention from ipsilesional to contralesional space is one key feature of the spatial neglect syndrome. As previous studies suggest that reorienting of visuospatial attention is modulated by cholinergic neurotransmission, we investigated whether cholinergic stimulation with nicotine (Nicorette 2 mg, Pharmacia/Pfizer, Helsingborg, Sweden) facilitates attentional reorienting in spatial neglect patients. Nine nonsmoking patients with stable neglect symptoms were investigated in a within-subject cross-over design. We used a location-cueing paradigm and analysed reaction time (RT) differences between validly and invalidly cued, as well as between neutrally cued and uncued targets as a function of hemifield and drug. Moreover, since the nicotine effect is mediated by parietal brain areas in healthy subjects, we tested whether lesion location influences the pharmacological effect. Nicotine speeded RTs in valid and invalid trials nonspecifically, without modulating the validity effect in the location-cueing task in the whole group of patients. Lesion-symptom mapping revealed a relationship between lesion site and the pharmacological effect on reorienting to contralesional space in right parietal and temporal brain regions. We conclude that in patients with chronic spatial neglect the performance in the location-cueing paradigm can be modulated by a cholinergic stimulant provided that the lesion spares right parietal and temporal cortex.
Lyme disease, the multi-system infection caused by the tick-borne spirochaete Borrelia burgdorferi, can involve the nervous system, most commonly causing, alone or in combination, lymphocytic meningitis or abnormalities of cranial or peripheral nerves, the latter most typically presenting as a painful radicular syndrome. Diagnosis is based on appropriately used, standard serological tests; in instances where the central nervous system is involved, cerebrospinal fluid assessment for organism-specific antibodies can be useful. Treatment with any of several standard regimens of oral or parenteral antimicrobials is highly effective. Prolonged treatment beyond four weeks is rarely if ever warranted, and carries significant risk.



The aims of this study were to measure the error in sleep estimation in normal controls and subjects with primary insomnia to establish the minimum amount of sleep needed for reliable subjective estimation and to depict the distribution of the error in sleep estimation in both groups. A two-step retrospective (study 1) and prospective (study 2) validation study was carried out. Study 1 included 288 normal subjects [176 females and 112 males, mean age 58.5 years, standard deviation (SD) 7.23]. Study 2 included 159 patients (98 females and 61 males; mean age 49.1 years, SD 12.71) with primary insomnia. Participants underwent a full-night polysomnographic study, followed by a morning assessment of subjective sleep parameters. A misperception index (MI) was computed using the following formula: MI = [objective total sleep time (oTST)-subjective total sleep time (sTST)]/oTST. The statistical properties of this index were analysed in detail in both groups. In controls, the Bland-Altman test demonstrated the reliability of this index for values of oTST &gt;120 min. Healthy subjects estimated their sleep time correctly, while insomniacs largely underestimated their sleep time. Statistical analysis of the distribution of MI in insomnia patients disclosed the presence of two subgroups, one with moderate sleep misperception (132 patients) and the other with high sleep misperception (27 patients). The latter presented MI values &gt;or=0.9, exhibiting statistical properties different from those with MI &lt;0.9 and from normal subjects. The MI gives a reliable and immediate description of sleep misperception in healthy and insomnia subjects. Its application supports the existence of the high misperception of insomnia as a separate pathological entity.
Office-based treatment of opioid dependence with buprenorphine has the potential to expand treatment capacity in the United States. However, nationally, little is known about the number, characteristics, and experiences of physicians certified to prescribe buprenorphine. Moreover, little is known about the impact of easing federal regulations on the number of patients a physician is allowed to treat concurrently. To address these questions, surveys of national samples of physicians certified to prescribe buprenorphine (2004-2008) were analyzed (N = 6,892). There has been a continual increase in the number of physicians certified to prescribe buprenorphine, increase in the mean number of patients treated by physicians, and decrease in patients turned away, coinciding temporally with easing of federal regulations. In addition, most physicians prescribed buprenorphine outside of traditional treatment settings. The U.S. experiment in expanding Schedule III-V medications for opioid dependence to physicians outside of formal substance abuse treatment facilities appears to have resulted in expanded capacity.
A group of common lower respiratory tract infections, influenza A, influenza B, human parainfluenza virus 1-4 (HPIV1-4), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), rubella virus (RV) and Coxsackie virus (CSV), were selected for the development of a multiplex nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) assay. Quantifiable measurement utilizing an enzyme-linked oligonucleotide capture (EOC) optical detection method, which was described previously, alleviated the requirement of specialized instrumentation that is commonly used in other molecular techniques. Multiplex NASBA-EOC provided rapid and specific detection of a single virus from a multiplexed group, reducing laboratory testing time and enabling high throughput screening. The uniquely designed primers and probes proved to be highly sensitive and specific, exemplifying the robustness of the multiplex NASBA-EOC technique.


Most mouse models of diabetes do not fully reproduce features of human diabetic nephropathy, limiting their utility in inferring mechanisms of human disease. Here we performed detailed phenotypic and genetic characterization of leptin-receptor (Lepr) deficient mice on the FVB/NJ background (FVB(db/db)), an obese model of type II diabetes, to determine their suitability to model human diabetic nephropathy. These mice have sustained hyperglycemia, significant albuminuria and characteristic diabetic renal findings including mesangial sclerosis and nodular glomerulosclerosis after 6 months of age. In contrast, equally obese, hyperglycemic Lepr/Sur1 deficient C57BL/6J (Sur1 has defective insulin secretion) mice have minimal evidence of nephropathy. A genome-wide scan in 165 Lepr deficient backcross progeny derived from FVB/NJ and C57BL/6J identified a major locus influencing nephropathy and albuminuria on chromosome 8B1-C5 (Dbnph1 locus, peak lod score 5.0). This locus was distinct from those contrasting susceptibility to beta cell hypertrophy and HIV-nephropathy between the same parental strains, indicating specificity to diabetic kidney disease. Genome-wide expression profiling showed that high and low risk Dbnph1 genotypes were associated with significant enrichment for oxidative phosphorylation and lipid clearance, respectively; molecular pathways shared with human diabetic nephropathy. Hence, we found that the FVB(db/db) mouse recapitulates many clinical, histopathological and molecular features of human diabetic nephropathy. Identifying underlying susceptibility gene(s) and downstream dysregulated pathways in these mice may provide insight into the disease pathogenesis in humans.


Caloric restriction (CR) and antioxidants have been proposed as strategies to attenuate age-related brain changes. The hippocampus and its subregions dentate gyrus (DG), CA3 and CA1-2 show vulnerability to aging, with hippocampal volume alterations as a measurable sign. Using design-based stereological techniques, we investigated the volumes of the hippocampus and its subregions in six 12-month-old and six 24-month-old mice that were randomly selected from four aging cohorts of 60 male mice each: (1) wild-type mice (WT) fed with control diet (CD), (2) transgenic mice oxerexpressing normal human SOD1 fed with CD, (3) WT mice fed with CR diet, and (4) SOD1 mice fed with CR diet. Aging reduced the mean volume of the entire hippocampus (-9.5%), grey (-8.7%) and white matter (-9.7%), and CA3 subregion (-13.6%), but not DG or CA1-2 subregion. CR reduced the mean volumes of every hippocampal region investigated (on average -11%) in both 12-month-old, and 24-month-old mice. Overexpression of SOD1 was not associated with any volume alteration. These findings indicate that although aging and CR in mice are both associated with hippocampal volume reductions, the patterns of the volume reductions differ. These morphometric alterations may have impact on the function of the hippocampus during aging and CR.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is the last neuropeptide identified via reverse pharmacology techniques. NPS selectively binds and activates a previous orphan GPCR, now named NPSR, producing intracellular calcium mobilization and increases in cAMP levels. Biological functions modulated by the NPS/NPSR system include anxiety, arousal, locomotion, food intake, memory, and drug addiction. The primary sequence of NPS (in humans SFRNGVGTGMKKTSFQRAKS) is highly conserved among vertebrates especially at the N-terminus. Ala- and D-scan studies demonstrated that this part of the molecule is crucial for biological activity. Focused structure-activity studies performed on Phe(2), Arg(3), and Asn(4) confirmed this indication and revealed the chemical requirements of these positions for NPSR binding and activation. The sequence Gly(5)-Val(6)-Gly(7) seems to be important for shaping the bioactive conformation of the peptide. Structure-activity studies on Gly(5) enabled identification of the first generation of peptidergic NPSR pure antagonists including [D-Cys(tBu)(5)]NPS and [D-Val(5)]NPS whose antagonist properties were confirmed in vivo. Finally, the pharmacological features of substituted bicyclic piperazine molecules (e.g. SHA 68 (3-oxo-1,1-diphenyl-tetrahydro-oxazolo[3,4-a]pyrazine-7-carboxylic acid 4-fluoro-benzylamide) were recently published making available the first generation of nonpeptide NPSR antagonists. The use in future studies of NPSR antagonists will be of paramount importance for understanding which biological functions are controlled by the NPS/NPSR system and for defining the therapeutic potential of selective NPSR ligands.
This study sought to investigate the component processes underlying the ability to imagine future events, using an individual-differences approach. Participants completed several tasks assessing different aspects of future thinking (i.e., fluency, specificity, amount of episodic details, phenomenology) and were also assessed with tasks and questionnaires measuring various component processes that have been hypothesized to support future thinking (i.e., executive processes, visual-spatial processing, relational memory processing, self-consciousness, and time perspective). The main results showed that executive processes were correlated with various measures of future thinking, whereas visual-spatial processing abilities and time perspective were specifically related to the number of sensory descriptions reported when specific future events were imagined. Furthermore, individual differences in self-consciousness predicted the subjective feeling of experiencing the imagined future events. These results suggest that future thinking involves a collection of processes that are related to different facets of future-event representation.
OBJECTIVE: Although eating disorders are common psychiatric disorders that usually onset during adolescence, few evidence-based treatments for this age group have been identified. A critical review of treatments used for Anorexia Nervosa (AN) and Bulimia Nervosa (BN) and related conditions (EDNOS) is provided that summarizes the rationale for the treatments, evidence of effectiveness available, and outcomes. METHOD: Critical review of published randomized clinical trials (RCTs). RESULTS: There are only seven published RCTs of psychotherapy for AN in adolescents with a total of 480 subjects. There are only two published RCTs for outpatient psychotherapy for adolescent BN with a total of 165 subjects. There are no published RCTs examining medications for adolescent AN or BN. For adolescent AN, Family-Based Treatment (FBT) is the treatment with the most evidence supporting its use. Three RCTs suggest that FBT is superior to individual therapy at the end of treatment; however, at follow-up differences between individual and family approaches are generally reduced. For adolescent BN, one study found no differences between Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and FBT at the end of treatment or follow-up, while the other found FBT superior to individual therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Although the evidence remains limited, FBT appears to be the first line treatment for adolescent AN. There is little evidence to support a specific treatment for adolescent BN. There is a need for additional studies of treatment of child and adolescent eating disorders. New treatments studies may build on current evidence as well as examine new approaches based on novel findings in the neurosciences about cognitive and emotional processes in eating disorders.
The intermediate filament (IF) protein nestin is a widely accepted molecular marker for neural progenitor cells (NPCs), but its function during neurogenesis remains largely unknown. We found that in embryonic cortical NPCs down-regulation of the expression of nestin, but not its co-polymer IF protein vimentin, resulted in a G1 cell-cycle arrest and a severe reduction in the generation of neurons. Furthermore, down-regulating nestin expression in cultured cortical NPCs markedly suppressed their colony-formation ability and blocked the elevation of the cyclin D1/E protein level in response to the treatment with bFGF. Interestingly, nestin down-regulation caused a marked suppression in the activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway but not the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in these NPCs. Moreover, defects in the proliferation of cortical NPCs caused by nestin down-regulation could be prevented by up-regulating PI3K activity. Thus, nestin is essential for the proliferation of NPCs by promoting the activation of PI3K in response to mitogenic growth factors.
The locus coeruleus (LC) which is the major noradrenergic nucleus in the brain develops under the influence of Bmps secreted by the roof plate and Fgf8 emitted from the mid-hindbrain organizer. We studied the development of the LC in different Bmp mouse mutants and report the absence of this nucleus in Bmp5(-/-);Bmp7(-/-) double knockouts. Notably, genes marking organizers and neuronal populations adjacent to the LC precursor field are unperturbed in Bmp5(-/-);Bmp7(-/-) animals. In addition, we found that in En1(+/Otx2) mutants in which the caudal Otx2 expression domain and thereby the mid-hindbrain organizer are shifted caudally, LC neurons are concomitantly reduced along with Bmp5/7. Complementing these results, Otx1(-/-);Otx2(+/-) mutants, in which the mid-hinbrain organizer is shifted rostrally, show a rostrally extended Bmp5 expression area and an increase in LC neurons. Taken together, our data indicate that LC development requires either Bmp5 or Bmp7, and one is able to compensate for the loss of the other. In addition, we conclude that the position of the mid-hindbrain organizer determines the size of the LC and propose that Bmp5/7 play an important role in mediating this organizer function.
The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) celebrates in 2010 its 60(th) year as an institute of the National Institutes of Health. NIDDK has been fundamental in providing support for research in endocrinology, fostering research to elucidate basic principles of endocrine signaling leading to understanding of diseases and disorders of hormone action. Over this time span, a move to a more molecular level in understanding of the basis of hormone action has emerged and been supported by NIDDK, with many advances finding their way into a new journal, Molecular Endocrinology. The merging of disciplines that has made this possible constitutes a major force for further progress as NIDDK moves forward over the next 60 yr. Together, NIDDK and Molecular Endocrinology have served as catalysts for advancing knowledge in the field, energizing new paradigms that have led to advances in the clinic.
Dystrophin, the cytoskeletal protein whose defect is responsible for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), is normally expressed in both muscles and brain. Genetic loss of brain dystrophin in the mdx mouse model of DMD reduces the capacity for type A gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A))-receptor clustering in central inhibitory synapses, which is thought to be a main molecular defect leading to brain and cognitive alterations in this syndrome. U7 small nuclear RNAs modified to encode antisense sequences and expressed from recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors have proven efficient after intramuscular injection to induce skipping of the mutated exon 23 and rescue expression of a functional dystrophin-like product in muscle tissues of mdx mice in vivo. Here, we report that intrahippocampal injection of a single dose of rAAV2/1-U7 can rescue substantial levels of brain dystrophin expression (15-25%) in mdx mice for months. This is sufficient to completely restore GABA(A)-receptor clustering in pyramidal and dendritic layers of CA1 hippocampus, suggesting exon-skipping strategies offer the prospect to investigate and correct both brain and muscle alterations in DMD. This provides new evidence that in the adult brain dystrophin is critical for the control of GABA(A)-receptor clustering, which may have an important role in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in hippocampal circuits.



Definition of dysregulated immune components in multiple sclerosis may help in the identification of new therapeutic targets. Deviation of the interleukin 18 receptor 1 (IL18R1) is of particular interest since the receptor is critical for experimental neuroinflammation. The objective of this study was to determine whether expression of IL18R1 varies between multiple sclerosis patients and controls, and to test genetic association of IL18R1 with multiple sclerosis. We used quantitative real-time PCR to assess mRNA levels of IL18R1 in cerebrospinal fluid and peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 191 patients with multiple sclerosis, 61 patients with clinically isolated syndrome and 168 controls having other neurological disorders. Association was tested in 2153 patients with multiple sclerosis and 1733 controls using 13 tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms within the IL18R1 gene. We found that patients with multiple sclerosis had increased IL18R1 mRNA expression in both cerebrospinal fluid cells (p &lt; 0.05) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (p &lt; 0.05) compared with controls. Patients with clinically isolated syndrome had elevated levels compared with controls in cerebrospinal fluid cells (p &lt; 0.001) but not in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The gene was not associated to multiple sclerosis. We conclude that the increased expression of IL18R1 may contribute pathogenically to disease and is therefore a potential therapeutic target. The absence of a genetic association in the IL18R1 gene itself suggests regulation from other parts of the genome, or as part of the inflammatory cascade in multiple sclerosis without a prime genetic cause.

POEMS (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M-band, and skin changes) syndrome is characterized by chronic progressive polyneuropathy and plasma-cell dyscrasia. A major diagnostic criterion of POEMS is elevation of circulating vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), which is believed to play a pathogenic role in this disease. We report a case of POEMS that presented as relapsing acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, in which complete remission after intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) treatment was unexpectedly observed. At clinical nadir, the VEGF level was 30-fold higher, and the soluble form of VEGF receptor 2 (sVEGFR2), which acts as a decoy for VEGF, was 2.7-fold lower than normal. These changes combined might contribute to the pathogenesis of POEMS, inducing vascular permeability and tissue edema. At 9-month follow-up, during clinical remission, VEGF and sVEGFR2 were near normal values. sVEGFR2 reduction is a new finding in POEMS. IVIg treatment may benefit POEMS patients with acute neuropathy by downgrading VEGF release induced by inflammatory cytokines.
Selective expression of retinal cone opsin genes is essential for color vision, but the mechanism mediating this process is poorly understood. Both vertebrate rod and medium wavelength-sensitive (M) cone photoreceptors differentiate by repression of a short wavelength-sensitive (S) cone differentiation program. We found that Pias3 acts in mouse cone photoreceptors to activate expression of M opsin and repress expression of S opsin, with the transcription factors Trbeta2 and Rxrgamma mediating preferential expression of Pias3 in M cones. Finally, we observed that Pias3 directly regulated M and S cone opsin expression by modulating the cone-enriched transcription factors Rxrgamma, Roralpha and Trbeta1. Our results indicate that Pias3-dependent SUMOylation of photoreceptor-specific transcription factors is a common mechanism that controls both rod and cone photoreceptor subtype specification, regulating distinct molecular targets in the two cell types.
Despite abundant expression of DNA methyltransferases (Dnmts) in brain, the regulation and behavioral role of DNA methylation remain poorly understood. We found that Dnmt3a expression was regulated in mouse nucleus accumbens (NAc) by chronic cocaine use and chronic social defeat stress. Moreover, NAc-specific manipulations that block DNA methylation potentiated cocaine reward and exerted antidepressant-like effects, whereas NAc-specific Dnmt3a overexpression attenuated cocaine reward and was pro-depressant. On a cellular level, we found that chronic cocaine use selectively increased thin dendritic spines on NAc neurons and that DNA methylation was both necessary and sufficient to mediate these effects. These data establish the importance of Dnmt3a in the NAc in regulating cellular and behavioral plasticity to emotional stimuli.
Homeostatic synaptic scaling alters the strength of synapses to compensate for prolonged changes in network activity and involves both excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The immediate-early gene Narp (neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin) encodes a secreted synaptic protein that can bind to and induce clustering of AMPA receptors (AMPARs). We found that Narp prominently accumulated at excitatory synapses on parvalbumin-expressing interneurons (PV-INs). Increasing network activity resulted in a homeostatic increase of excitatory synaptic strength onto PV-INs that increased inhibitory drive and this response was absent in neurons cultured from Narp-/- mice. Activity-dependent changes in the strength of excitatory inputs on PV-INs in acute hippocampal slices were also dependent on Narp and Narp-/- mice had increased sensitivity to kindling-induced seizures. We propose that Narp recruits AMPARs at excitatory synapses onto PV-INs to rebalance network excitation/inhibition dynamics following episodes of increased circuit activity.
The X-linked transcriptional repressor methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2), known for its role in the neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome, is emerging as an important regulator of neuroplasticity in postmitotic neurons. Cocaine addiction is commonly viewed as a disorder of neuroplasticity, but the potential involvement of MeCP2 has not been explored. Here we identify a key role for MeCP2 in the dorsal striatum in the escalating cocaine intake seen in rats with extended access to the drug, a process that mimics the increasingly uncontrolled cocaine use seen in addicted humans. MeCP2 regulates cocaine intake through homeostatic interactions with microRNA-212 (miR-212) to control the effects of cocaine on striatal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels. These data suggest that homeostatic interactions between MeCP2 and miR-212 in dorsal striatum may be important in regulating vulnerability to cocaine addiction.
Visual cortex shows smooth retinotopic organization on the macroscopic scale, but it is unknown how receptive fields are organized at the level of neighboring neurons. This information is crucial for discriminating among models of visual cortex. We used in vivo two-photon calcium imaging to independently map ON and OFF receptive field subregions of local populations of layer 2/3 neurons in mouse visual cortex. Receptive field subregions were often precisely shared among neighboring neurons. Furthermore, large subregions seem to be assembled from multiple smaller, non-overlapping subregions of other neurons in the same local population. These experiments provide, to our knowledge, the first characterization of the diversity of receptive fields in a dense local network of visual cortex and reveal elementary units of receptive field organization. Our results suggest that a limited pool of afferent receptive fields is available to a local population of neurons and reveal new organizational principles for the neural circuitry of the mouse visual cortex.
It has been suggested that gene expression and protein synthesis are required for both long-term memory consolidation and late phases of long-term potentiation and long-term depression (LTD). The necessary genes and the specific transcription factor binding sites in their promoters remain unknown. We found that inhibition of the transcription factor SRF or its cofactor MAL blocked the late phase of LTD in mouse cultured cerebellar Purkinje cells, as did deletion of the immediate early gene Arc. Using neuronal bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transfection, we found that, in Arc-/- cells transfected with a wild-type Arc BAC, late-phase LTD was rescued. However, mutation of one SRF-binding site in the Arc promoter (SRE 6.9) blocked this rescue. Co-transfection of wild-type Arc and SRF engineered to bind mutated SRE 6.9 restored late-phase LTD in Arc-/-, SRE 6.9 mutant BAC cells. Thus, SRF binding to SRE 6.9 in the Arc promoter is required for the late phase of cerebellar LTD.
We found rat central auditory neurons to fire action potentials in a precise sequence of mini-bursts before the age of hearing onset. This stereotyped pattern was initiated by hair cells in the cochlea, which trigger brief bursts of action potentials in auditory neurons each time they fire a Ca2+ spike. By generating theta-like activity, hair cells may limit the influence of synaptic depression in developing auditory circuits and promote consolidation of synapses.
Human brain development occurs within a socioeconomic context and childhood socioeconomic status (SES) influences neural development--particularly of the systems that subserve language and executive function. Research in humans and in animal models has implicated prenatal factors, parent-child interactions and cognitive stimulation in the home environment in the effects of SES on neural development. These findings provide a unique opportunity for understanding how environmental factors can lead to individual differences in brain development, and for improving the programmes and policies that are designed to alleviate SES-related disparities in mental health and academic achievement.

Many hardware-based solutions now exist for the simulation of bio-like neural networks. Less conventional than software-based systems, these types of simulators generally combine digital and analog forms of computation. In this paper we present a mixed hardware-software platform, specifically designed for the simulation of spiking neural networks, using conductance-based models of neurons and synaptic connections with dynamic adaptation rules (Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity). The neurons and networks are configurable, and are computed in 'biological real time' by which we mean that the difference between simulated time and simulation time is guaranteed lower than 50 mus. After presenting the issues and context involved in the design and use of hardware-based spiking neural networks, we describe the analog neuromimetic integrated circuits which form the core of the platform. We then explain the organization and computation principles of the modules within the platform, and present experimental results which validate the system. Designed as a tool for computational neuroscience, the platform is exploited in collaborative research projects together with neurobiology and computer science partners.
Despite the increasing knowledge about the genetic alterations and molecular pathways involved in gliomas, few studies have investigated the association between the gene expression profiles (GEP) and both cytogenetics and histopathology of gliomas. Here, we analyzed the GEP (U133Plus2.0 chip) of 40 gliomas (35 astrocytic tumors, 3 oligodendrogliomas, and 2 mixed tumors) and their association with tumor cytogenetics and histopathology. Unsupervised and supervised analyses showed significantly different GEP in low- vs high-grade gliomas, the most discriminating genes including genes involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, DNA repair, and signal transduction. In turn, among glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), 3 subgroups of tumors were identified according to their GEP, which were closely associated with the cytogenetic profile of their ancestral tumor cell clones: (i) EGFR amplification, (ii) isolated trisomy 7, and (iii) more complex karyotypes. In summary, our results show a clear association between the GEP of gliomas and tumor histopathology; additionally, among grade IV astrocytoma, GEP are significantly associated with the cytogenetic profile of the ancestral tumor cell clone. Further studies in larger series of patients are necessary to confirm our observations.
Charlton et al. (2008) (Charlton, R.A., Landua, S., Schiavone, F., Barrick, T.R., Clark, C.A., Markus, H.S., Morris, R.G.A., 2008. Structural equation modelling investigation of age-related variance in executive function and DTI-measured white matter change. Neurobiol. Aging 29, 1547-1555) presented a model that suggests a specific age-related effect of white matter integrity on working memory. We illustrate potential pitfalls of structural equation modelling by criticizing their model for (a) its neglect of latent variables, (b) its complexity, (c) its questionable causal assumptions, (d) the use of empirical model reduction, (e) the mix-up of theoretical perspectives, and (f) the failure to compare alternative models. We show that a more parsimonious model, based solely on the well-established general factor of cognitive ability, fits their data at least as well. Importantly, when modelled this way there is no support for a role of white matter integrity in cognitive aging in this sample, indicating that their conclusion is strongly dependent on how the data are analysed. We suggest that evidence from more conclusive study designs is needed.
One of the possible mechanisms involved in beta-amyloid (Abeta)-induced neuronal damage is blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier dysfunction. Recently, we have demonstrated that Alzheimer patients have an elevated expression of Abeta in the choroid plexus (CP), where it could impair the physiological functions of CP epithelium. We investigated whether these alterations were mediated by mitochondrial dysfunction, a common early pathomechanism in Alzheimer's disease. Our main observations were: high Abeta levels; increased nitric oxide levels; impairment of the activity and assembly of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I and IV; and a significant increase in reactive oxygen species and caspase expression in CP epithelial cells treated with Abeta. Our results also demonstrate a direct relationship between Abeta toxicity, increased expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9, and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier disruption. We propose a sequence of pathological steps that link Abeta accumulation in CP epithelium with an enhanced nitric oxide production, mitochondrial dysfunction, and up-regulation of matrix metalloproteinase-9, which ultimately lead to cell death, and probably to CSF barrier dysfunction.
While human observational studies and animal studies report a neuroprotective role for estrogen therapy in stroke, the multicenter placebo-controlled Women's Health Initiative (WHI) study concluded that hormone therapy increased the risk for stroke in postmenopausal women. The present study therefore tested the hypothesis that estrogen replacement would increase the severity of a stroke-like injury in females when this replacement occurs after a prolonged hypoestrogenic period, such as the menopause or reproductive senescence, but not when given to females that were normally cycling immediately prior to the hormone replacement. Two groups of female rats were used: multiparous females with normal but lengthened estrus cycles (mature adults), and older multiparous females currently in a persistent acyclic state (reproductive senescent). Animals were either used intact, or were bilaterally ovariectomized and immediately replaced with a 17beta-estradiol pellet or control pellet. Animals were subject to a forelimb placing test (a test for sensorimotor deficit) and thereafter to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) by stereotaxic injection of the vasoconstrictive peptide endothelin-1, adjacent to the MCA. One week after stroke, behavioral tests were performed again. Cortical and striatal infarct volume, measured from brain slices, was significantly greater in intact reproductive senescent females as compared to intact mature adults. Furthermore, estrogen treatment to ovariectomized mature adult females significantly reduced the cortical infarct volume. Paradoxically, estrogen treatment to ovariectomized reproductive senescent females significantly increased cortical and striatal infarct volumes as compared to control pellet replaced senescent females. Significant post-stroke behavioral deficit was observed in all groups on the side contralateral to the lesion, while senescent females also exhibited deficits on the ipsilateral side, in the cross-midline forelimb placement test. Using an animal model that approximates the natural ovarian aging process, these findings strongly support the hypothesis that the effectiveness of estrogen therapy in protecting brain health may depend critically on the time of initiation with respect to a female's reproductive status.
Early onset torsion dystonia is an autosomal dominant movement disorder of variable penetrance caused by a glutamic acid, i.e. DeltaE, deletion in DYT1, encoding the protein TorsinA. Genetic and structural data implicate basal ganglia dysfunction in dystonia. TorsinA, however, is diffusely expressed, and therefore the primary source of dysfunction may be obscured in pan-neuronal transgenic mouse models. We utilized the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter to direct transgene expression specifically to dopaminergic neurons of the midbrain to identify cell-autonomous abnormalities. Expression of both the human wild type (hTorsinA) and mutant (DeltaE-hTorsinA) protein resulted in alterations of dopamine release as detected by microdialysis and fast cycle voltammetry. Motor abnormalities detected in these mice mimicked those noted in transgenic mice with pan-neuronal transgene expression. The locomotor response to cocaine in both TH-hTorsinA and TH-DeltaE-hTorsinA, in the face of abnormal extracellular DA levels relative to non-transgenic mice, suggests compensatory, post-synaptic alterations in striatal DA transmission. This is the first cell-subtype-specific DYT1 transgenic mouse that can serve to differentiate between primary and secondary changes in dystonia, thereby helping to target disease therapies.
Frequent interictal spikes are a common finding in the electroencephalograms of children with epileptic encephalopathies. While it is well recognized that interictal spikes are a biological marker of seizures and can lead to transitory cognitive impairment, whether interictal spikes can result in long-standing adverse effects on learning and memory in children is not known. Here we investigated the consequences of interictal spikes in rat pups without seizures on long-term learning and memory. Rat pups were given a low dose of flurothyl for 4h for 10 days during continuous electroencephalographic monitoring. Rats developed interictal spikes without seizures while age-matched controls under similar testing conditions had few interictal spikes. When rats were tested as adults, there was impairment in reference memory in the probe test of the Morris water maze, reference memory impairment in the four-trial radial-arm water maze and impaired long-term potentiation. Early-life interictal spikes resulted in impaired new cell formation and decreased cell counts in the hippocampus but did not cause an increase in apoptosis. This study, for the first time demonstrates that interictal spikes in rat pups without seizures can result in long-standing spatial cognitive impairment. Our findings suggest that suppressing IIS may be as important as treating seizures during brain development.
In the age-related, blinding disease glaucoma, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) degenerate, possibly affecting glutamatergic retinofugal transmission to the brain. The superior colliculus (SC) is a major central target of retinofugal axons in the rodent, a much used disease model. We investigated the contribution of NMDA-type glutamate receptors to retinocollicular transmission in a rat glaucoma model, using a SC brain slice preparation to determine the sensitivity of synaptic responses to the NMDAR antagonist D-AP5. At 32weeks after induction of experimental glaucoma, but not earlier, there was an increase in NMDAR contribution to SC synaptic responses in slices receiving input from glaucomatous eyes. This suggests that there are changes in NMDAR function after RGC degeneration in experimental glaucoma, which may represent functional SC compensation through plasticity via NMDARs. This has implications for studies carried out using rodent glaucoma models, especially those evaluating potential treatment strategies, as it suggests that functional changes in the central visual system need to be considered in addition to those in the eye. Furthermore, the data underline the need for early therapeutic intervention in order to pre-empt subsequent central functional changes.
The inaccuracy of the early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) has been a major incentive for studies aimed at the identification of biomarkers. Brain-derived cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins are potential biomarkers considering the major role that proteins play in PD pathogenesis. In this review, we discuss the current hypotheses about the pathogenesis of PD and identify the most promising candidate biomarkers among the CSF proteins studied so far. The list of potential markers includes proteins involved in various pathogenetic processes, such as oxidative stress and protein aggregation. This list will undoubtedly grow in the near future by application of CSF proteomics and subsequent validation of identified proteins. Probably a single biomarker will not suffice to reach high sensitivity and specificity, because PD is pathogenetically heterogeneous and shares etiological factors with other neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, identified candidate biomarkers will have to be thoroughly validated before they can be implemented as diagnostic aids.
To test the possibility that phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor (pEGFR) mediates axon growth inhibition, we determined if pEGFR levels were raised in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after non-regenerating dorsal column (DC) lesions and suppressed in regenerating sciatic nerve (SN) and preconditioning (P) SN+DC lesioned DRG. Levels of EGFR mRNA and protein in DRG were unchanged between control and all injury models. Satellite glia and not DRG neurons (DRGN) constitutively contained pEGFR and, only in PSN+DC rats, were levels significantly reduced in these cells. In vitro, siRNA mediated knockdown of EGFR (siEGFR) mRNA and protein was associated with suppressed RhoA activation, but fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) was a mandatory requirement for DRGN neuritogenesis after addition of inhibitory concentrations of CNS myelin. Thus, EGFR activation in satellite glia was not consistently correlated with DRGN axogenesis and siEGFR reduction of pEGFR with attenuated Rho-GTP signalling did not promote DRGN disinhibited neurite outgrowth without exogenous FGF2 stimulation. Together, these data argue against a direct intra-axonal involvement of pEGFR in axon regeneration.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway potentially links together the three major pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD): development of amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and brain atrophy. As activation of the JNK pathway has been observed in amyloid models of AD in association with peri-plaque regions and neuritic dystrophy, as we confirm here for Tg2576/PS(M146L) transgenic mice, we directly tested whether JNK inhibition could provide neuroprotection in a novel brain slice model for amyloid precursor protein (APP)-induced neurodegeneration. We found that APP/amyloid beta (Abeta)-induced neurodegeneration is blocked by both small molecule and peptide inhibitors of JNK, and provide evidence that this neuroprotection occurs downstream of APP/Abeta production and processing. Our findings demonstrate that Abeta can induce neurodegeneration, at least in part, through the JNK pathway and suggest that inhibition of JNK may be of therapeutic utility in the treatment of AD.
Previously, we showed that neonatal maternal separation impaired eyeblink conditioning in adult rats. This impairment is correlated with increased glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in the cerebellar posterior interpositus nucleus, a critical site of learning-related plasticity. To assess whether increased GR expression is responsible for the separation-induced learning impairment, we infused a GR antagonist (mifepristone) or vehicle into the posterior interpositus during eyeblink conditioning in adult male Long-Evans rats that had undergone control rearing or neonatal maternal separation (1h/day, postnatal days 2-14). Rats received standard rearing (control) or neonatal maternal separation (separated; 1h/day on postnatal days 2-14). In adulthood, rats underwent surgery for implantation of recording electrodes in the orbicularis oculi of the left eyelid, a bipolar stimulating electrode dorsocaudal to the left eye, and an infusion guide cannula positioned over the posterior interpositus. Then, rats underwent 10 daily sessions of eyeblink conditioning. Rats in each group received either 0.2microl of mifepristone (2ng in 2% EtOH) or vehicle infusion prior to each eyeblink conditioning session. Mifepristone infusions improved conditioning in separated rats, but impaired control rats' performance. Thus, separation-induced increases in GRs may mediate the learning deficit seen in adult neonatally separated rats.
Chronic stress produces dendritic retraction in medial prefrontal cortex and impairs retrieval of extinction of conditioned fear, a behavior mediated by the infralimbic region (IL) of medial prefrontal cortex. To test the hypothesis that stress-induced changes in IL contribute to the stress-induced impairment in extinction retrieval, we performed an occlusion experiment in which we assessed the effects of stress alone, lesion of IL alone, and the combined effects of stress and lesion on extinction retrieval. If IL is the substrate upon which stress acts to produce deficits in extinction retrieval, then prior removal of IL should prevent the effect of stress on extinction retrieval. Rats received either sham or ibotenic acid lesions of IL. Rats in each group then remained unstressed or underwent daily restraint stress for 1week. Following the final day of restraint, rats received five habituation trials to a 30-s tone, followed by seven pairings of the tone with a 500-ms coterminating footshock. One hour later, rats received tone-alone extinction trials. On the following day, rats were given two extinction trials to test for extinction retrieval. Percent freezing was assessed throughout. Stress increased freezing during conditioning, and IL lesion did not block this effect. Either IL lesion alone or stress alone increased freezing on initial extinction trials. IL lesion did not attenuate the effect of stress during initial extinction. Similarly, IL lesion alone and stress alone produced deficits in extinction retrieval. However, stressed rats with IL lesions showed extinction retrieval comparable to that seen in unstressed, sham-lesioned rats. Thus, lesion of IL occluded the stress-induced impairment of extinction retrieval but failed to prevent the stress-induced facilitation of fear conditioning. This dissociation suggests that the effects of stress on these two aspects of emotion regulation are mediated at least in part by independent mechanisms, and that stress-induced changes in IL contribute to stress-induced deficits in extinction retrieval.
Exposure to a single session of footshocks induces long-lasting inhibition of activity in unknown environments that markedly differ from the shock context. Interestingly, these effects are not necessarily associated to an enhanced anxiety and interpretation of this hypoactivity remains unclear. In the present experiment we further studied this phenomenon in male Sprague-Dawley rats. In a first experiment, a session of three shocks resulted in hypoactivity during exposure, 6-12days later, to three different unknown environments. This altered behaviour was not accompanied by a greater hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activation, although greater HPA activation paralleling higher levels of freezing was observed in the shock context. In a second experiment we used a single shock and two procedures, one with pre-exposure to the context before the shock and another with immediate shock that did not induce contextual fear conditioning. Hypoactivity and a certain level of generalization of fear (freezing) to the unknown environments only appeared in the group that developed fear conditioning, but no evidence for enhanced anxiety in the elevated plus-maze was found in any group. The results suggest that if animals are able to associate an aversive experience with a distinct unknown environment, they would display more cautious behaviour in any unknown environment and such strategy persists despite repeated experience with different environments. This long-lasting cautious behaviour was not associated to greater HPA response to the unknown environment that was however observed in the shock context. The present findings raised some concerns about interpretation of long-lasting behavioural changes caused by brief stressors.
Lipid peroxidation has many deleterious effects on cells, and in the nervous system is considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. To suppress lipid peroxidation, cells have various defense systems such as glutathione and thioredoxin, and defects in these defense systems will result in disturbance of normal cellular functions. Here we report that deficiency of ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) leads to vulnerability to lipid peroxidation both in vivo and in vitro, through analyses of the UCH-L1-deficient mutant mouse gracile axonal dystrophy (gad). In the gracile fasciculus of gad mice, punctate deposits were observed to be immunoreactive for 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, a by-product of lipid peroxidation. The motor deficits of gad mice were worsened by a diet deficient in vitamin E. When neurons from dorsal root ganglions (DRG) were cultured in the vitamin E-free medium, cell death was increased in the neurons of gad mice. These data suggest that UCH-L1 has a function in protecting DRG neurons from lipid peroxidation. Further, we describe newly identified properties: that UCH-L1 is localized on the inside of the plasma membrane of DRG neurons, and that UCH-L1 binds to phosphatidic acid according to the redox status and presence of mono-ubiquitin protein. These findings will provide clues for elucidating the physiological function of UCH-L1.
In order to develop a simplified method for long-term primary culture of highly-pure rat embryonic hippocampal neurons of low-density (10(3) cells/cm(2)), we optimized and modified conventional culturing methods. The modifications of our simplified method include: (1) combinational application of two growth substrates, tail collagen and poly-L-lysine, to coat plastic culture dishes and coverslips for a better neuronal attachment; (2) dissociation of hippocampal tissues with combinational use of two milder enzymes (collagenase and dispase) and trypsin of a lower concentration to minimize enzymatic damages to cultured neurons; (3) a cell pre-plating step to preliminarily eliminate the contaminating non-neuronal cells; (4) a modified culture medium as a critical step to promote highly pure neurons of low-density for a long term; and (5) appropriately reduced frequency and volume of refreshment of the culture medium. Using our modified method, the beta-tubulin III-immunostained and Hoechst 33342 counterstained neurons harvested a steady and healthy growth with a longer culture time of over 35 days, and a clear distinction between TAU-1- and MAP2-immunoreactive neurites was apparent at the early culturing period. In addition, the purity of neurons was over 95% at the different time points in comparison with the control culture using conventional serum-free method in which most neurons degenerated and died within 5 days. Thus, our modified method proved to be a simple, feasible as well as time- and resource-saving approach for a long-term survival of pure rat embryonic hippocampal neurons of low-density.

Computational neuromodeling may help to further our understanding of how empirical neuroimaging findings are generated by underlying neural mechanisms. Here, we used a simple computational model that simulates early visual processing of brightness changes in a dynamic, illusory display. The model accurately predicted illusory brightness changes in a grey area of constant luminance induced by (and in anti-phase to) luminance changes in its surroundings. Moreover, we were able to directly compare these predictions with recently observed fMRI results on the same brightness illusion by projecting predicted activity from our model onto empirically investigated brain regions. This new approach in which generated network activity and measured neuroimaging data are interfaced in a common representational &quot;brain space&quot; can contribute to the integration of computational and experimental neuroscience.
Can we understand the dynamic behaviour of leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF) networks, which present the major, and possibly the only, analytically tractable tool we employ in computational neuroscience? To answer this question, here we present a theoretical framework on the spike activities of LIF networks by including the first order moment (mean firing rate) and the second order moment statistics (variance and correlation), based on a moment neuronal network (MNN) approach. The spike activity of a LIF network is approximated as a Gaussian random field and can reduce to the classical Wilson-Cowan-Amari (WCA) neural field if the variances vanish. Our analyses reveal several interesting phenomena of LIF networks. With a small clamped correlation and strong inhibition, the firing rate response function could be non-monotonic (not sigmoidal type), which can lead to interesting dynamics. For a feedforward and recurrent neuronal network, our setup allows us to prove that all neuronal spike activities rapidly synchronize, a well-known fact observed in both experiments and numerical simulations. We also present several examples of wave propagations in this field model. Finally, we test our MNN with the content-dependent working memory setting. The potential application of this random neuronal field idea to account for many experimental data is also discussed.
Neurovascular coupling in response to stimulation of the rat barrel cortex was investigated using concurrent multichannel electrophysiology and laser Doppler flowmetry. The data were used to build a linear dynamic model relating neural activity to blood flow. Local field potential time series were subject to current source density analysis, and the time series of a layer IV sink of the barrel cortex was used as the input to the model. The model output was the time series of the changes in regional cerebral blood flow (CBF). We show that this model can provide excellent fit of the CBF responses for stimulus durations of up to 16 s. The structure of the model consisted of two coupled components representing vascular dilation and constriction. The complex temporal characteristics of the CBF time series were reproduced by the relatively simple balance of these two components. We show that the impulse response obtained under the 16-s duration stimulation condition generalised to provide a good prediction to the data from the shorter duration stimulation conditions. Furthermore, by optimising three out of the total of nine model parameters, the variability in the data can be well accounted for over a wide range of stimulus conditions. By establishing linearity, classic system analysis methods can be used to generate and explore a range of equivalent model structures (e.g., feed-forward or feedback) to guide the experimental investigation of the control of vascular dilation and constriction following stimulation.
Over the past decade, scientific interest in the properties of large-scale spontaneous neural dynamics has intensified. Concurrently, novel technologies have been developed for characterizing the connective anatomy of intra-regional circuits and inter-regional fiber pathways. It will soon be possible to build computational models that incorporate these newly detailed structural network measurements to make predictions of neural dynamics at multiple scales. Here, we review the practicality and the value of these efforts, while at the same time considering in which cases and to what extent structure does determine neural function. Studies of the healthy brain, of neural development, and of pathology all yield examples of direct correspondences between structural linkage and dynamical correlation. Theoretical arguments further support the notion that brain network topology and spatial embedding should strongly influence network dynamics. Although future models will need to be tested more quantitatively and against a wider range of empirical neurodynamic features, our present large-scale models can already predict the macroscopic pattern of dynamic correlation across the brain. We conclude that as neuroscience grapples with datasets of increasing completeness and complexity, and attempts to relate the structural and functional architectures discovered at different neural scales, the value of computational modeling will continue to grow.
Models of spatial attention are often based on the concept of a salience map. In computational cognitive neuroscience, such maps are implemented as a collection of nodes with self-excitation and lateral inhibition between all nodes (competitive interaction map). Here, we test some critical predictions of this idea. We argued that task demands, more precisely the level of attention required, can top-down modulate the level of lateral inhibition in a salience map, and thus induce different activation functions. We first show that a model with a high lateral inhibition parameter generates a monotonous activation curve as a function of set size similar to that typically observed in the literature (e.g. Todd and Marois, 2004). Next, we show that a competitive interaction map with medium lateral inhibition leads to a Lambda-shaped activation curve when set sizes increase. This prediction is confirmed in an fMRI experiment with medium attention demands where a similar Lambda-shaped activation curve is found in a posterior superior parietal area that was proposed to house a salience map (Todd and Marois, 2004). Finally, we show that a qualitatively different V-shaped activation curve is predicted with a very low inhibition parameter. An fMRI experiment with low attentional demands revealed this V-shaped activation curve in the same region. These findings provide critical support for the existence of a salience map based on competitive interactions in posterior superior parietal cortex, and suggest that its parameters (in particular, lateral inhibition) can be modulated in a top down manner dependent on task demands.
Complex tasks often require the memory of recent events, the knowledge about the context in which they occur, and the goals we intend to reach. All this information is stored in our mental states. Given a set of mental states, reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms predict the optimal policy that maximizes future reward. RL algorithms assign a value to each already-known state so that discovering the optimal policy reduces to selecting the action leading to the state with the highest value. But how does the brain create representations of these mental states in the first place? We propose a mechanism for the creation of mental states that contain information about the temporal statistics of the events in a particular context. We suggest that the mental states are represented by stable patterns of reverberating activity, which are attractors of the neural dynamics. These representations are built from neurons that are selective to specific combinations of external events (e.g. sensory stimuli) and pre-existent mental states. Consistent with this notion, we find that neurons in the amygdala and in orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) often exhibit this form of mixed selectivity. We propose that activating different mixed selectivity neurons in a fixed temporal order modifies synaptic connections so that conjunctions of events and mental states merge into a single pattern of reverberating activity. This process corresponds to the birth of a new, different mental state that encodes a different temporal context. The concretion process depends on temporal contiguity, i.e. on the probability that a combination of an event and mental states follows or precedes the events and states that define a certain context. The information contained in the context thereby allows an animal to assign unambiguously a value to the events that initially appeared in different situations with different meanings.
Dynamic causal modelling (DCM) of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data offers new insights into the pathophysiology of neurological disease and mechanisms of effective therapies. Current applications can be used both to identify the most likely functional brain network underlying observed data and estimate the networks' connectivity parameters. We examined the reproducibility of DCM in healthy subjects (young 18-48 years, n=27; old 50-80 years, n=15) in the context of action selection. We then examined the effects of Parkinson's disease (50-78 years, Hoehn and Yahr stage 1-2.5, n=16) and dopaminergic therapy. Forty-eight models were compared, for each of 90 sessions from 58 subjects. Model-evidences clustered according to sets of structurally similar models, with high correlations over two sessions in healthy older subjects. The same model was identified as most likely in healthy controls on both sessions and in medicated patients. In this most likely network model, the selection of action was associated with enhanced coupling between prefrontal cortex and the pre-supplementary motor area. However, the parameters for intrinsic connectivity and contextual modulation in this model were poorly correlated across sessions. A different model was identified in patients with Parkinson's disease after medication withdrawal. In &quot;off&quot; patients, action selection was associated with enhanced connectivity from prefrontal to lateral premotor cortex. This accords with independent evidence of a dopamine-dependent functional disconnection of the SMA in Parkinson's disease. Together, these results suggest that DCM model selection is robust and sensitive enough to study clinical populations and their pharmacological treatment. For critical inferences, model selection may be sufficient. However, caution is required when comparing groups or drug effects in terms of the connectivity parameter estimates, if there are significant posterior covariances among parameters.
This article reviews the substantial impact computational neuroscience has had on neuroimaging over the past years. It builds on the distinction between models of the brain as a computational machine and computational models of neuronal dynamics per se; i.e., models of brain function and biophysics. Both sorts of model borrow heavily from computational neuroscience, and both have enriched the analysis of neuroimaging data and the type of questions we address. To illustrate the role of functional models in imaging neuroscience, we focus on optimal control and decision (game) theory; the models used here provide a mechanistic account of neuronal computations and the latent (mental) states represent by the brain. In terms of biophysical modelling, we focus on dynamic causal modelling, with a special emphasis on recent advances in neural-mass models for hemodynamic and electrophysiological time series. Each example emphasises the role of generative models, which embed our hypotheses or questions, and the importance of model comparison (i.e., hypothesis testing). We will refer to this theme, when trying to contextualise recent trends in relation to each other.
Tubular aggregates (TAs) are inclusions described in skeletal muscle in a variety of disorders. In a retrospective analysis, TAs were found in 18 (0.24%) cases and involved a spectrum of clinical phenotypes. Ultrastructurally, four distinct types of aggregates were noted. There was no correlation between the clinical phenotypes, duration of illness and types of TAs.


A functional intracellular transport system is essential to maintain cell shape and function especially in elongated cells, e.g. neurons and lens fibre cells. Impaired intracellular transport has been suggested as a common pathological mechanism for age-related diseases characterised by protein aggregation. Here, we hypothesise that common genetic variation in the transport protein kinesin may influence the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-related cataract. This case-control study involves a PD material (165 cases and 190 controls), an AD material (653 cases and 845 controls) and a cataract material (495 cases and 183 controls). Genetic variation in the kinesin light chain 1-encoding gene (KLC1) was tagged by six tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Single SNPs and haplotypes were analysed for associations with disease risk, age parameters, mini-mental state examination scores and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for AD using logistic or linear regression. Genetic variation in KLC1 did not influence risk of PD. Weak associations with risk of AD were seen for rs8007903 and rs3212079 (P (c) = 0.04 and P (c) = 0.02, respectively). Two SNPs (rs8007903 and rs8702) influenced risk of cataract (P (c) = 0.0007 and P (c) = 0.04, respectively). However, the allele of rs8007903 that caused increased risk of AD caused reduced risk of cataract, speaking against a common functional effect of this particular SNP in the two diseases. Haplotype analyses did not add significantly to the associations found in the single SNP analyses. Altogether, these results do not convincingly support KLC1 as a major susceptibility gene in any of the studied diseases, although there is a small effect of KLC1 in relation to cataract.
The vascular hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has brought the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) into focus. The genomic region including the VEGF gene has been linked to AD and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the VEGF have in previous studies been associated with AD risk. To further evaluate these findings, we genotyped two SNPs in the VEGF gene (rs699947 [-2578]) and rs1570360 [-1154]) by TaqMan Allelic Discrimination in a study sample including AD patients (n = 801) and controls (n = 286). In a subgroup of the population these SNPs were analyzed in relation to APOE epsilon4 genotype, to cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers (T-tau, P-tau, and beta(42)-Amyloid) as well as to neuropathological markers for AD (neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques). No significant associations with risk for AD or any of the studied biomarkers could be found in this study, thus not supporting VEGF as being a major risk gene for AD.
Activation of sodium channels is essential to action potential generation and propagation. Recent genetic and pharmacological evidence indicates that activation of Na(v)1.8 channels contributes to chronic pain. Herein, we describe the identification of a novel series of structurally related pyridine derivatives as potent Na(v)1.8 channel blockers. A-887826 exemplifies this series and potently (IC(50)=11nM) blocked recombinant human Na(v)1.8 channels. A-887826 was approximately 3 fold less potent to block Na(v)1.2, approximately 10 fold less potent to block tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium (TTX-S Na(+)) currents and was &gt;30 fold less potent to block Na(V)1.5 channels. A-887826 potently blocked tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium (TTX-R Na(+)) currents (IC(50)=8nM) from small diameter rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in a voltage-dependent fashion. A-887826 effectively suppressed evoked action potential firing when DRG neurons were held at depolarized potentials and reversibly suppressed spontaneous firing in small diameter DRG neurons from complete Freund's adjuvant inflamed rats. Following oral administration, A-887826 significantly attenuated tactile allodynia in a rat neuropathic pain model. Further characterization of TTX-R current block in rat DRG neurons demonstrated that A-887826 (100nM) shifted the mid-point of voltage-dependent inactivation of TTX-R currents by approximately 4mV without affecting voltage-dependent activation and did not exhibit frequency-dependent inhibition. The present data demonstrate that A-887826 is a structurally novel and potent Na(v)1.8 blocker that inhibits rat DRG TTX-R currents in a voltage-, but not frequency-dependent fashion. The ability of this structurally novel Na(v)1.8 blocker to effectively reduce tactile allodynia in neuropathic rats further supports the role of Na(v)1.8 sodium channels in pathological pain states.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition is a defining feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The toxicity of Abeta aggregation is thought to contribute to clinical deficits including progressive memory loss and cognitive dysfunction. Therefore, Abeta peptide has become the focus of many therapeutic approaches for the treatment of AD due to its central role in the development of neuropathology of AD. In the past decade, taking the advantage of multiphoton microscopy and molecular probes for amyloid peptide labeling, the dynamic progression of Abeta aggregation in amyloid plaques and cerebral amyloid angiopathy has been monitored in real time in transgenic mouse models of AD. Moreover, amyloid plaque-associated alterations in the brain including dendritic and synaptic abnormalities, changes of neuronal and astrocytic calcium homeostasis, microglial activation and recruitment in the plaque location have been extensively studied. These studies provide remarkable insight to understand the pathogenesis and pathogenicity of amyloid plaques in the context of AD. The ability to longitudinally image plaques and related structures facilitates the evaluation of therapeutic approaches targeting toward the clearance of plaques.
Brain lipid homoeostasis is critical during neurodevelopment, repair after traumatic brain injury and for the maintenance of efficient neurotransmission. Several neurodegenerative disorders occur as a direct result of neuronal lipid dysfunction and underlying disease processes that are associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) also appear to be related to an imbalance in brain lipid homeostasis. In support of this latter hypothesis, recent genome wide association studies have confirmed and extended the now widely reproduced association between the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) and late onset AD. Even in populations with low APOE epsilon4 allele frequency, gene dosage of APOE epsilon4 increases the age-adjusted relative risk for developing the more common late onset form of AD. A major role for apolipoprotein E (apoE) in the brain is to maintain a constant supply of neuronal lipids for rapid and dynamic membrane synthesis thus ensuring efficient neurotransmitter release and the propagation of action potentials. Additionally, apoE synthesized primarily by glia is critical for the elimination of toxic brain-derived Abeta peptides. In addition to apoE isoform, the overall levels of apoE appear to be important determinants for brain Abeta clearance. Susceptibility to AD in APOE epsilon4 carriers may occur early since brain activity and the accumulation of Abeta in brain parenchyma both appear well in advance of disease onset. Given the pivotal role apoE plays in maintaining neuronal membrane homeostasis, elevating the levels of apoE in brain may be a viable therapeutic strategy for the prevention and/or treatment of AD.
The cognitive neuroscience of the cerebellum is now an established multidisciplinary field of investigation. This essay traces the historical evolution of this line of inquiry from an emerging field to its current status, with personal reflections over almost three decades on this journey of discovery. It pays tribute to early investigators who recognized the wider role of the cerebellum beyond motor control, traces the origins of new terms and concepts including the dysmetria of thought theory, the universal cerebellar transform, and the cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome, and places these developments within the broader context of the scientific efforts of a growing community of cerebellar cognitive neuroscientists. This account considers the converging evidence from theoretical, anatomical, physiological, clinical, and functional neuroimaging approaches that have resulted in the transition from recognizing the cerebellar incorporation into the distributed neural circuits subserving cognition and emotion, to a hopeful new era of treatment of neurocognitive and neuropsychiatric manifestations of cerebellar diseases, and to cerebellar-based interventions for psychiatric disorders.
The cerebellum and the basal ganglia are major subcortical nuclei that control multiple aspects of behavior largely through their interactions with the cerebral cortex. Discrete multisynaptic loops connect both the cerebellum and the basal ganglia with multiple areas of the cerebral cortex. Interactions between these loops have traditionally been thought to occur mainly at the level of the cerebral cortex. Here, we review a series of recent anatomical studies in nonhuman primates that challenge this perspective. We show that the anatomical substrate exists for substantial interactions between the cerebellum and the basal ganglia. Furthermore, we discuss how these pathways may provide a useful framework for understanding cerebellar contributions to the manifestation of two prototypical basal ganglia disorders, Parkinson's disease and dystonia.
Speech-both overt and covert-facilitates working memory by creating and refreshing motor memory traces, allowing new information to be received and processed. Neuroimaging studies suggest a functional topography within the sub-regions of the cerebellum that subserve verbal working memory. Medial regions of the anterior cerebellum support overt speech, consistent with other forms of motor execution such as finger tapping, whereas lateral portions of the superior cerebellum support speech planning and preparation (e.g., covert speech). The inferior cerebellum is active when information is maintained across a delay, but activation appears to be independent of speech, lateralized by modality of stimulus presentation, and possibly related to phonological storage processes. Motor (dorsal) and cognitive (ventral) channels of cerebellar output nuclei can be distinguished in working memory. Clinical investigations suggest that hyper-activity of cerebellum and disrupted control of inner speech may contribute to certain psychiatric symptoms.
Models of mnemonic function suggest that the hippocampus binds temporally discontiguous events in memory (Wallenstein, Eichenbaum, &amp; Hasselmo, 1998), which has been supported by recent studies in humans. Less is known, however, about the involvement of working memory in bridging the temporal gap between to-be-associated events. In this study, subsequent memory for associations between temporally discontiguous stimuli was examined using functional magnetic resonance imaging. In the scanner, subjects were instructed to remember sequentially presented images. Occasionally, a plus-sign was presented during the interstimulus interval between two images, instructing subjects to associate the two images as a pair. Following the scan, subjects identified remembered images and their pairs. Images following the plus-sign were separated into trials in which items were later recognized and the pair remembered, recognized and the pair forgotten, or not recognized. Blood-oxygen-level-dependent responses were measured to identify regions where response amplitude predicted subsequent associative- or item memory. Distinct neocortical regions were involved in each memory condition, where activity in bilateral frontal and parietal regions predicted memory for associative information and bilateral occipital and medial frontal regions for item information. While activity in posterior regions of the medial temporal lobe showed an intermediate response predicting memory for both conditions, bilateral hippocampal activity only predicted associative memory.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is involved in performance monitoring and in learning from performance feedback. Recent research suggests that the feedback-related negativity (FRN), an event-related potentials (ERP) component reflecting neural activity in the ACC, codes the size of a negative prediction error when reward probabilities are varied. There is as yet no clear evidence that the FRN is also sensitive to violations of reward magnitude expectations. In the present study, 20 healthy young subjects engaged in a learning task in which a coin had to be found on each trial. The value of the coin (the potential reward magnitude) was varied from trial to trial and amounted to 5 cent, 20 cent or 50 cent. Analysis of ERPs revealed that FRN amplitude differences between reward and non-reward were significantly modulated by (potential) reward magnitude. This effect was driven by the neural response to non-reward: the larger the potential reward, the larger was the FRN amplitude in response to non-reward. In contrast, the P300 was larger for positive outcomes and showed an effect of (potential) reward magnitude independent of valence. Together with evidence from previous studies, these results show that the FRN codes negative prediction errors in the context of varying reward probabilities and magnitudes. The findings are in line with recent results based on functional neuroimaging and lend further support to the idea of a key role of the ACC in the integration of information on different aspects of performance outcomes.
While regions of the lateral occipital cortex (LOC) are known to be selective for objects relative to feature-matched controls, it is not known what set of cues or configurations are used to promote this selectivity. Many theories of perceptual organization have emphasized the figure-ground relationship as being especially important in object-level processing. In the present work we studied the role of perceptual organization in eliciting visual evoked potentials from the object selective LOC. To do this, we used two-region stimuli in which the regions were modulated at different temporal frequencies and were comprised of either symmetric or asymmetric arrangements. The asymmetric arrangement produced an unambiguous figure-ground relationship consistent with a smaller figure region surrounded by a larger background, while four different symmetric arrangements resulted in ambiguous figure-ground relationships but still possessed strong kinetic boundaries between the regions. The surrounded figure-ground arrangement evoked greater activity in the LOC relative to first-tier visual areas (V1-V3). Response selectivity in the LOC, however, was not present for the four different types of symmetric stimuli. These results suggest that kinetic texture boundaries alone are not sufficient to trigger selective processing in the LOC, but that the spatial configuration of a figure that is surrounded by a larger background is both necessary and sufficient to selectively activate the LOC.
Encoding and retrieval of relational information requires interaction between the hippocampus and various neocortical regions, but it is unknown whether the connectivity of hippocampal-neocortical networks is different at input and output stages. To examine this, we conducted a network analysis of event-related fMRI data collected during a face-recognition, remember/know paradigm. Directed analyses in the medial temporal lobe identified a small region in the left hippocampus that showed differential activation for encoding and retrieval of recollected versus familiar items. Multivariate seed partial least squares (PLS) analysis was used to identify brain regions that were functionally connected to this hippocampal region at encoding and retrieval of 'remembered' items. Anatomically based structural equation modeling (SEM) was then used to test for differences in effective connectivity of network nodes between these two memory stages. The SEM analysis revealed a reversal of directionality between the left hippocampus (LHC) and left inferior parietal cortex (LIPC) at encoding and retrieval. During encoding, activation of the LHC had a positive influence on the LIPC, whereas during retrieval the reverse pattern was found, i.e., the LIPC activation positively influenced LHC activation. These findings emphasize the importance of hippocampal-parietal connections and underscore the complexity of their interactions in initial binding and retrieval/reintegration of relational memory. We also found that, during encoding, the right hippocampus had a positive influence on the right retrospenial cortex, whereas during retrieval this influence was significantly weaker. We submit that examining patterns of connectivity can be important both to elaborate and constrain models of memory involving hippocampal-neocortical interactions.
Computational theories of motor control propose that the brain uses 'forward' models of the body to ensure accurate control of movements. Forward 'dynamic' models are thought to generate an estimate of the next motor state for an upcoming movement: thereby providing a dynamic representation of the current postural configuration of the body that can be utilised during movement planning and execution. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging [fMRI] to investigate brain areas involved in maintaining and updating the postural representations of the upper limb that participate in the control of reaching movements. We demonstrate that the neural correlates for executing memory-guided reaching movements to unseen target locations that were defined by arm posture, are primarily within regions of the superior parietal lobule [SPL]: including an area of the medial SPL identified as the human homologue of the 'parietal reach region' [PRR]. Using effective connectivity analyses we show that signals that influence the BOLD response within this area originate within premotor areas of the frontal lobe, including premotor cortex and the supplementary motor area. These data are consistent with the view that the SPL maintains an up-to-date estimate of the current postural configuration of the arm that is used during the planning and execution of reaching movements.
Recently, an increasing number of studies have suggested a role for the basal ganglia and related dopamine inputs in procedural learning, specifically when learning occurs through trial-by-trial feedback (Shohamy, Myers, Kalanithi, &amp; Gluck. (2008). Basal ganglia and dopamine contributions to probabilistic category learning. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, 32, 219-236). A necessary relationship has however only been demonstrated in patient studies. In the present study, we show for the first time that increasing dopamine levels in the brain improves the gradual acquisition of complex information in healthy participants. We implemented two artificial-grammar-learning tasks, one with and one without performance feedback. Learning was improved after levodopa intake for the feedback-based learning task only, suggesting that dopamine plays a specific role in trial-by-trial feedback-based learning. This provides promising directions for future studies on dopaminergic modulation of cognitive functioning.
Patient and neuroimaging studies report that the ability to remember past personal experiences and the ability to envision future personal experiences are interconnected. Loss of episodic memory is typically accompanied by loss of future imagining, and engaging in either activity recruits common brain areas. The relationship between episodic memory and future imagining is also suggested by their co-emergence in ontogenetic development. However, it is unknown whether a failure of one ability to emerge in early development precludes the development of the other ability. To investigate this possibility, we tested H.C., a young woman with amnesia of developmental origin associated with bilateral hippocampal loss, and demographically matched controls on an adapted version of the Autobiographical Interview using Galton-Crovitz cueing. In response to cue words, participants described both past personal events and imagined future personal events that occurred, or could occur, in near and distant time periods. Results indicated a parallel pattern of impairment for both past and future event generation in H.C., such that her narratives of both types of events were similarly deficient. These results indicate that mental time travel can be compromised in hippocampal amnesia, whether acquired in early or later life, possibly as a result of a deficit in reassembling and binding together details of stored information from earlier episodes.


Supratentorial hemangioblastomas (HBs) are exceedingly rare tumors accounting for 5%-10% of all HBs and usually present in the setting of von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease. Isolated HBs of the central nervous system also occur as a result of spontaneous mutation in the absence of any clinical manifestations of VHL disease. Of 13 temporal lobe HBs, only one non-VHL case was reported in the hippocampus. We describe the TRICKS findings in a case of isolated hemangioblastoma in the hippocampus without VHL disease. To our knowledge, this is the second case report of a hippocampal non-VHL hemangioblastoma.

Hexafins are recently identified low-molecular-weight peptide agonists of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR), derived from the beta6-beta7 loop region of various FGFs. Synthetic hexafin peptides have been shown to bind to and induce tyrosine phosphorylation of FGFR1, stimulate neurite outgrowth, and promote neuronal survival in vitro. Thus, the pronounced biological activities of hexafins in vitro make them attractive compounds for pharmacological studies in vivo. The present study investigated the effects of subcutaneous administration of hexafin1 and hexafin2 (peptides derived from FGF1 and FGF2, respectively) on social memory, exploratory activity, and anxiety-like behavior in adult rats. Treatment with hexafin1 and hexafin2 resulted in prolonged retention of social memory. Furthermore, rats treated with hexafin2 exhibited decreased anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus maze. Employing an R6/2 mouse model of Huntington's disease (HD), we found that although hexafin2 did not affect the progression of motor symptoms, it alleviated deficits in activity related to social behavior, including sociability and social novelty. Thus, hexafin2 may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of HD.
Neurons in the subfornical organ (SFO) project to the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN) and there, in response to osmolar and blood pressure changes, regulate vasopressin neurons in the magnocellular part (mPVN) or neurons in the parvocellular part (pPVN) projecting to the cardiovascular center. The SFO is functionally classified in two parts, the dorsolateral peripheral (pSFO) and ventromedial core parts (cSFO). We investigated the possibility that neurons in each part of the SFO project region-specifically to each part of the PVN, using anterograde and retrograde tracing methods. Following injection of an anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine (BDX) in the SFO, the respective numbers of BDX-uptake neurons in the pSFO and cSFO were counted and the ratio of the former to the latter was obtained. In addition, the respective areas occupied by BDX-labeled axons per unit area of the mPVN and pPVN were measured and the ratio of the former to the latter was obtained. Similarly, following injection of the retrograde tracer in the PVN, the respective areas occupied by tracer per unit area of the mPVN and pPVN were measured and the ratio of the former to the latter was obtained. The respective numbers of retrogradely labeled neurons in the pSFO and cSFO were also counted and the ratio of the former to the latter was obtained. It became clear by statistical analyses that there are strong positive correlations between the ratio of BDX-uptake neuron number in the SFO and the ratio of BDX-axon area in the PVN in anterograde experiment (correlation coefficient: 0.787) and between the ratio of retrograde neuron number in the SFO and the ratio of tracer area in the PVN in retrograde experiment (correlation coefficient: 0.929). The result suggests that the SFO projects region-specifically to the PVN, the pSFO to the mPVN and the cSFO to the pPVN.
The protein kinase B (Akt)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)/p70 ribosomal S6 protein kinase (p70S6K) signaling pathway, as a central controller of cell growth, proliferation, survival, and differentiation in response to extracellular signals, growth factors, nutrient availability, energy status of the cell, and stress, has recently gained attention in neuroscience. The effects of this signaling pathway on repair of spinal cord injury (SCI), however, have not been well elucidated. ATP is increasingly recognized as an important regulator of signal transduction pathways, and plays important roles in functional recovery after nervous system injury. In the present study, we examined the ATP-induced changes of the Akt/mTOR/p70S6K signaling pathway in injured spinal cord of adult rats and potential therapeutic effects of this pathway on SCI-induced locomotor dysfunction. SCI was produced by extradural weight-drop using modified Allen's stall with damage energy of 50 g-cm force. The rats were divided into four groups: SCI plus ATP, SCI plus saline, SCI plus ATP and rapamycin, and sham-operated. Using immunostaining studies, Western blot analyses and real-time qualitative RT-PCR analyses, we demonstrated that the Akt/mTOR/p70S6K signaling pathway is present in the injured spinal cord and the expression of its components at the protein and mRNA levels is significantly elevated by exogenous administration of ATP following SCI. We observed the effectiveness of the activated Akt/mTOR/p70S6K signaling pathway in improving locomotor recovery, significantly increasing the expression of nestin, neuronal nuclei (NeuN), neuron specific enolase (NSE), and neurofilament 200 (NF200), and relatively inhibiting excessive reactive astrogliosis after SCI in a rapamycin-sensitive manner. We concluded that ATP injection produced a significant activation of the Akt/mTOR/p70S6K signaling pathway in the injured spinal cord and that enhancement of rapamycin-sensitive signaling produces beneficial effects on SCI-induced motor function defects and repair potential. We suggest that modulation of this protein kinase signaling pathway activity should be considered as a potential therapeutic strategy for SCI.
Estradiol and progesterone bind to their respective receptors in the hypothalamus and hippocampus to influence a variety of behavioral and physiological functions, including reproduction and cognition. Work from our lab and others has shown that the nuclear receptor coactivators, steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) and SRC-2, are essential for efficient estrogen receptor (ER) and progestin receptor (PR) transcriptional activity in brain and for hormone-dependent behaviors. While the expression of SRC-1 in brain has been studied extensively, little is known about the expression of SRC-2 in brain. In the present studies, we found that SRC-2 was highly expressed throughout the hippocampus, amygdala and hypothalamus, including the medial preoptic area (MPOA), ventral medial nucleus (VMN), arcuate nucleus (ARC), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, supraoptic nucleus and suprachiasmatic nucleus. In order for coactivators to function with steroid receptors, they must be expressed in the same cells. Indeed, SRC-2 and ER(alpha) were coexpressed in many cells in the MPOA, VMN and ARC, all brain regions known to be involved in female reproductive behavior and physiology. While in vitro studies indicate that SRC-2 physically associates with ER and PR, very little is known about receptor-coactivator interactions in brain. Therefore, we used pull-down assays to test the hypotheses that SRC-2 from hypothalamic and hippocampal tissue physically associate with ER and PR subtypes in a ligand-dependent manner. SRC-2 from both brain regions interacted with ER(alpha) bound to agonist, but not in the absence of ligand or in the presence of the selective ER modulator, tamoxifen. Analysis by mass spectrometry confirmed these ligand-dependent interactions between ER(alpha) and SRC-2 from brain. In dramatic contrast, SRC-2 from brain showed little to no interaction with ERbeta. Interestingly, SRC-2 from both brain regions interacted with PR-B, but not PR-A, in a ligand-dependent manner. Taken together, these findings reveal that SRC-2 is expressed in brain regions known to mediate a variety of steroid-dependent functions. Furthermore, SRC-2 is expressed in many ER(alpha) containing cells in the hypothalamus. Finally, SRC-2 from brain interacts with ER and PR in a subtype-specific manner, which may contribute to the functional differences of these steroid receptor subtypes in brain.
Most excitatory input in the hippocampus impinges on dendritic spines. Entry of Ca(2+) into spines through NMDA receptors can trigger a sequence of biochemical reactions leading to sustained changes in synaptic efficacy. To provide specificity, dendritic spines restrict the diffusion of Ca(2+) signaling and downstream molecules. The postsynaptic density (PSD) (the most prominent subdomain within the spine) is the site of Ca(2+) entry through NMDA receptors. We here demonstrate that Ca(2+) can also be removed via pumps embedded in the PSD. Using light- and electron-microscopic immunohistochemistry, we find that PMCA2w, a member of the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase (PMCA) family, concentrates at the PSD of most hippocampal spines. We propose that PMCA2w may be recruited into supramolecular complexes at the postsynaptic density, thus helping to regulate Ca(2+) nanodomains at subsynaptic sites. Taken together, these results suggest a novel function for PMCAs as modulators of Ca(2+) signaling at the synapse.
The vulnerability of oligodendrocytes to ischemic injury may contribute to functional loss in diseases of central white matter. Immunocytochemical methods to identify oligodendrocyte injury in experimental models rely on epitope availability, and fail to discriminate structural changes in oligodendrocyte morphology. We previously described the use of a lentiviral vector (LV) carrying enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) under the myelin basic protein (MBP) promoter for selective visualization of oligodendrocyte cell bodies and processes. In this study, we used LV-MBP-eGFP to label oligodendrocytes in rat cerebral white matter prior to transient focal cerebral ischemia, and examined oligodendrocyte injury 24 h, 48 h and 1 week post-reperfusion by quantifying cell survival and assaying the integrity of myelin processes. There was progressive loss of GFP+ oligodendrocytes in ischemic white matter at 24 and 48 h. Surviving GFP+ cells had non-pyknotic nuclear morphology and were terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-negative, but there was marked fragmentation of myelin processes as early as 24 h after stroke. One week after stroke, we observed a restoration of GFP+ oligodendrocytes in ischemic white matter, reflected both by cell counts and by structural integrity of myelin processes. Proliferating cells were not the main source of GFP+ oligodendrocytes, as revealed by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation. These observations identify novel transient structural changes in oligodendrocyte cell bodies and myelinating processes, which may have consequences for white matter function after stroke.
SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein) complex, a four-helical bundle composed of syntaxin1 and synaptosome-associated protein 25 (SNAP25) on the plasma membrane and synaptobrevin/VAMP2 (vesicle-associated membrane protein 2) on the vesicle membrane, plays a key role in synaptic exocytosis and facilitates neurotransmission. Disturbances of SNARE proteins were uncovered in some neurodegenerative diseases, neuroendocrine disturbances and even after environmental interventions. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of formaldehyde (FA) inhalation (13.5+/-1.5 ppm, twice 30-min each day for two rounds of 14 consecutive days) on learning and memory in Morris water maze and thereafter explored the SNARE protein levels in hippocampal synaptosomes. The formaldehyde-treated rats showed learning and memory impairment in escape latency and probe trials, without mobility disturbances in Morris water maze. Using western blotting assays, we detected the SNARE proteins in hippocampal synaptosomes and identified decrease of both SNAP25 and VAMP2 after formaldehyde treatment without significant changes of another SNARE protein, syntaxin 1, and synaptic vesicle marker, synaptophysin. Furthermore, the neuronal morphology and number detected in Nissl stain and western blotting assay of neurofilament-150 and synaptophysin were not affected after FA treatment. These results suggested that the specific decrease of SNAP25 and VAMP2 in hippocampal synaptosomes served as a potential contributing mechanism underlying learning and memory impairments after repetitive formaldehyde inhalation treatment.
Although nerve cell membranes are often assumed to be uniform with respect to electrical properties, there is increasing evidence for compartmentalization into subdomains with heterogeneous impacts on the overall cell function. Such microdomains are characterized by specific sets of proteins determining their functional properties. Recently, clustering of large-conductance calcium-activated potassium (BK(Ca)) channels was shown at sites of subsurface membrane cisterns in cerebellar Purkinje cells (PC), where they likely participate in building a subcellular signaling unit, the 'PLasmERosome'. By applying SDS-digested freeze-fracture replica labeling (SDS-FRL) and postembedding immunogold electron microscopy, we have now studied the spatial organization of somatic BK(Ca) channels in neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons, principal neurons of the central and basolateral amygdaloid nuclei, hippocampal pyramidal neurons and dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells to establish whether there is a common organizational principle in the distribution of BK(Ca) channels in central principal neurons. In all cell types analyzed, somatic BK(Ca) channels were found to be non-homogenously distributed in the plasma membrane, forming two pools of channels with one pool consisting of clustered channels and the other of scattered channels in the extrasynaptic membrane. Quantitative analysis by means of SDS-FRL revealed that about two-thirds of BK(Ca) channels belong to the scattered pool and about one-third to the clustered pool in principal cell somata. Overall densities of channels in both pools differed in the different cell types analyzed, although being considerably lower compared to cerebellar PC. Postembedding immunogold labeling revealed association of clustered channels with subsurface membrane cisterns and confirmed extrasynaptic localization of scattered channels. This study indicates a common organizational principle for somatic BK(Ca) channels in central principal neurons with the formation of a clustered and a scattered pool of channels, and a cell-type specific density of this channel type.
Vomeronasal neurons undergo continuous neurogenesis throughout development and adult life. These neurons originate as stem cells in the apical zone of the lumen of the vomeronasal organ (VNO) and are described as nestin-expressing glia-like progenitor cells (Murdoch and Roskams, 2008). They then migrate horizontally along the basal zone where they differentiate into functional VNO neurons (Kaba et al., 1988). We harvested progenitor cells from the adult VNO and, after 3-6 months of invitro culture, these VNO neurons remained in a stable undifferentiated state expressing nestin, beta-tubulin III and vomeronasal type 2 (V2r), but not vomeronasal type 1 (V1r) receptors. Application of histone-deacetylase inhibitors induced development of a neural phenotype that expressed V2r receptors, a down-regulation of nestin expression and no change in any specific genetic markers associated with glial cells. Treatment with valproic acid induced extensive changes in gene expression in the axon guidance pathway. The adult VNO is known to functionally adapt throughout life as a consequence of changes in both a mouse's physiological status and its social environment. These pluripotent cultured neurons may provide valuable insights into how changes in both physiology and environment, exert epigenetic effects on vomeronasal neurons as they undergo continuous neurogenesis and development throughout the life of a mouse.
Morphological plasticity has been demonstrated between breeding and anestrous seasons in the ewe hypothalamus, particularly for the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) system. We sought to determine the impact of a photoperiodic transition, from long days (LD, 16 h light/24 h) to short days (SD; 8 h light/24 h), on the association between a marker of cerebral plasticity, the polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), and two diencephalic populations: the GnRH and beta-endorphin (beta-END) neurons, the latter being potent inhibitors of GnRH neuronal activity. We also estimated the number of contacts on GnRH neurons after the passage to SD, using synaptophysin as a marker for synaptic buttons. Those parameters were evaluated in ovariectomized estradiol-replaced ewes using double immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy at different times after the transition to SD: day 0 (D0), D30, D45, D60 and D112. Luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion was recorded throughout the experiment. High LH levels were observed only at D112. Significantly more PSA-NCAM was found in the GnRH neuron perimeters in the D112 group than in the other groups. This increase was not associated with any change in the number of synaptophysin-immunoreactive contacts on GnRH neurons. The beta-END peri-neuronal space was affected negatively by the transition to SD: the percentage of PSA-NCAM on beta-END neurons decreased between D45 and D112 in the posterior two thirds of the arcuate nucleus (ARC). These results suggest that photoperiod may reorganize cell interactions in different hypothalamic areas, ultimately reactivating GnRH neurons, in our model of ovariectomized-estradiol replaced ewes.
A novel pyridine derivative, 8-{4-[(6-methoxy-2,3-dihydro-[1,4]dioxino[2,3-b]pyridine-3-ylmethyl)-amino]-butyl}-8-aza-spiro[4.5]decane-7,9-dione hydrochloride, termed JB-788, was designed to selectively target 5-HT(1A) receptors. In the present study, the pharmacological profile of JB-788 was characterized in vitro using radioligands binding tests and in vivo using neurochemical and behavioural experiments. JB-788 bound tightly to human 5-HT(1A) receptor expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK-293) cells with a K(i) value of 0.8 nM. Its binding affinity is in the same range as that observed for the (+/-)8-OH-DPAT, a reference 5HT(1A) agonist compound. Notably, JB-788 only bound weakly to 5-HT(1B) or 5-HT(2A) receptors and moreover the drug displayed only weak or indetectable binding to muscarinic, alpha(2), beta(1) and beta(2) adrenergic receptors, or dopaminergic D(1) receptors. JB-788 was found to display substantial binding affinity for dopaminergic D(2) receptors and, to a lesser extend to alpha(1) adrenoreceptors. JB-788 dose-dependently decreased forskolin-induced cAMP accumulation in HEK cells expressing human 5-HT(1A), thus acting as a potent 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (E(max.) 75%, EC(50) 3.5 nM). JB-788 did not exhibit any D(2) receptor agonism but progressively inhibited the effects of quinpirole, a D(2) receptor agonist, in the cAMP accumulation test with a K(i) value of 250 nM. JB-788 induced a weak change in cAMP levels in mouse brain but, like some antipsychotics, transiently increased glycogen contents in various brain regions. Behavioral effects were investigated in mice using the elevated plus-maze. JB-788 was found to increase the time duration spent by animals in anxiogenic situations. Locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine in mouse, a model of antipsychotic activity, was dose-dependently inhibited by JB-788. Altogether, these results suggest that JB-788 displays pharmacological properties, which could be of interest in the area of anxiolytic and antipsychotic drugs.
Two monoclonal antibodies (Nilo1 and Nilo2) were generated after immunization of hamsters with E13.5 olfactory bulb-derived mouse neurospheres. They are highly specific for neural stem and early progenitor cell surface antigens. Nilo positive cells present in the adult mouse subventricular zone (SVZ) were able to initiate primary neural stem cell cultures. Moreover, these antibodies added to neurosphere cultures induced proliferation arrest and interfered with their differentiation. In the lateral ventricles of adult mice, Nilo1 stained a cell subpopulation lining the ventricle and cells located in the SVZ, whereas Nilo2 stained a small population associated with the anterior horn of the SVZ at the beginning of the rostral migratory stream. Co-staining of Nilo1 or Nilo2 and neural markers demonstrated that Nilo1 identifies an early neural precursor subpopulation, whereas Nilo2 detects more differentiated neural progenitors. Thus, these antibodies identify distinct neurogenic populations within the SVZ of the lateral ventricle.
Only a small percentage of individuals develop posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the aftermath of a trauma. It is still largely unknown to what extent gene-environment interactions contribute to the inter-individual differences in PTSD susceptibility and resilience and what cellular processes may underlie long-term maintenance of the disorder. Here we employed a mouse model of PTSD to unravel the contribution of genetic background and maternal influences on long-lasting changes in kinase and transcription factor activities in PTSD-susceptible C57BL/6NCrl (B6N) and resilient C57BL/6JOlaHsd (B6JOla) mice. Mice received an inescapable foot shock and were tested for activity changes in the AKT/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin-pathway in specific brain structures 42 days later. To control for prenatal and postnatal environmental (i.e. maternal) factors part of the experiments were performed with animals originating from within-strain and between-strain embryo transfers. In PTSD-susceptible B6N mice, long-term maintenance of contextual and sensitized fear was accompanied by (i) increased levels of phosphorylated AKT within the dorsal hippocampus and (ii) higher levels of phosphorylated AKT and GSK-3beta and increased beta-catenin levels within the basolateral amygdala. In animals originating from embryo transfers, levels of phosphorylated GSK-3beta and of beta-catenin were decreased in the dorsal hippocampus, but increased in the basolateral amygdala of shocked B6N mice compared to shocked B6JOla mice. This was independent of the genotype of the recipient mothers. At the behavioural level, these differences coincided with sustained sensitized and more pronounced contextual fear of B6N compared to B6JOla mice. Taken together our study identifies lasting changes in the AKT/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin cascade within the hippocampus and amygdala as molecular correlates of genetically determined differences in the severity of PTSD-like symptoms.
Changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression have been implicated in the etiology of psychiatric disorders. To investigate pathological mechanisms elicited by perturbed BDNF signaling, we examined mutant mice with central depletion of BDNF (BDNF(2L/2LCk-cre)). A severe impairment specific for the serotonin 2A receptor (5-HT(2A)R) in prefrontal cortex was described previously in these mice. This is of much interest, as 5-HT(2A)Rs have been linked to neuropsychiatric disorders and anxiety-related behavior. Here we further characterized the serotonin receptor alterations triggered by BDNF depletion. 5-HT(2A) ([(3)H]-MDL100907) and 5-HT(1A) ([(3)H]-WAY100635) receptor autoradiography revealed site-specific alterations in BDNF mutant mice. They exhibited lower 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in frontal cortex but increased binding in hippocampus. Additionally, 5-HT(1A) receptor binding was decreased in hippocampus of BDNF mutants, but unchanged in frontal cortex. Molecular analysis indicated corresponding changes in 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(1A) mRNA expression but normal 5-HT(2C) content in these brain regions in BDNF(2L/2LCk-cre) mice. We investigated whether the reduction in frontal 5-HT(2A)R binding was reflected in reduced functional output in two 5-HT(2A)-receptor mediated behavioral tests, the head-twitch response (HTR) and the ear-scratch response (ESR). BDNF(2L/2LCk-cre) mutants treated with the 5-HT(2A) receptor agonist (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) showed a clearly diminished ESR but no differences in HTR compared to wildtypes. These findings illustrate the context-dependent effects of deficient BDNF signaling on the 5-HT receptor system and 5-HT(2A)-receptor functional output.
In the present study, we examined changes in the firing rate and firing pattern of putative slow-spiking (SS) and fast-spiking (FS) interneurons in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT(3)) receptor agonist SR 57227A on the neuronal firing in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) by using extracellular recording. The lesion of the SNc in rats decreased the firing rate of FS interneurons and the firing pattern of both SS and FS interneurons changed towards a more burst-firing. Systemic administration of SR 57227A (40-640 microg/kg, i.v.) increased the firing rate of SS interneurons, and decreased FS interneurons in sham-operated and the lesioned rats, respectively. The doses producing excitation or inhibition in the lesioned rats were higher than sham-operated rats. The local application of SR 57227A (0.01 microg) in mPFC excited SS interneurons, and inhibited FS interneurons in sham-operated rats, while having no effects on firing rate in the lesioned rats. Systemic administration of GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (2 mg/kg, i.v.) excited FS interneurons in sham-operated rats, whereas bicuculline did not change the activity of FS interneurons in the lesioned rats. Our findings indicate that the putative SS and FS interneurons activity is modulated through activation of 5-HT(3) receptor by direct or indirect action, and the lesion of the SNc leads to changes in firing activity of the SS and FS interneurons and decreased response of these interneurons to SR 57227A, suggesting dysfunction and/or down-regulation of 5-HT(3) receptor on interneurons in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats.
While the voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) are the key molecules for neuronal activities, the precise distribution of them in spinal cord is not clear in previous studies. We examined the expression of mRNAs for alpha-subunits of VGSC (Navs) in adult rat spinal cord before and 7 days after L5 spinal nerve ligation (SPNL) or complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced paw inflammation by in situ hybridization histochemistry, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and immunohistochemistry. Nav1.1 and Nav1.6 mRNAs were present in all laminae, except for lamina II, including the spinothalamic tract neurons in lamina I identified by retrograde tracing of Fluoro-gold. Nav1.2 mRNA was predominantly observed in the superficial layers (laminae I, II), and Nav1.3 mRNA was more restricted to these layers. All these transcripts were expressed by the neurons characterized by immunostaining for neuron-specific nuclear protein. Nav1.7 mRNA was selectively expressed by a half of motoneurons in lamina IX. No signals for Nav1.8 or Nav1.9 mRNAs were detected. Immunohistochemistry for Nav1.1, Nav1.2, Nav1.6, and Nav1.7 proteins verified some of these neuronal distributions. L5 SPNL decreased Nav1.1 and Nav1.6 mRNAs, and increased Nav1.3 and Nav1.7 mRNAs in the axotomized spinal motoneurons, without any changes in other laminae of L4-6 spinal segments. Intradermal injection of CFA did not cause any transcriptional change. Our findings demonstrate that spinal neurons have different compositions of VGSCs according to their location in laminae. Pathophysiological changes of spinal neuronal activity may due to post-transcriptional changes of VGSCs. Comparison with our previous data concerning the subpopulation-specific distribution of Nav transcripts in primary afferent neurons provides potentially specific targets for local analgesics at the peripheral nerve and spinal levels.
Immunoreactive (ir) staining of the neuropeptides oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) was performed in the brains of Brandt's voles (Lasiopodomys brandtii) and greater long-tailed hamsters (Tscherskia triton)-two species that differ remarkably in social behaviors. Social Brandt's voles had higher densities of OT-ir cells in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) and medial amygdala (MeA) as well as higher densities of AVP-ir cells in the lateral hypothalamus (LH) compared to solitary greater long-tailed hamsters. In contrast, the hamsters had higher densities of OT-ir cells in the anterior hypothalamus (AH) and LH and higher densities of AVP-ir cells in the MPOA than the voles. OT-ir and AVP-ir fibers were also found in many forebrain areas with subtle species differences. Given the roles of OT and AVP in the regulation of social behaviors in other rodent species, our data support the hypothesis that species-specific patterns of central OT and AVP pathways may underlie species differences in social behaviors. However, despite a higher density of OT-ir cells in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) in females than in males in both species, no other sex differences were found in OT-ir or AVP-ir staining. These data failed to support our prediction that a sexually dimorphic pattern of neuropeptide staining in the brain is more apparent in Brandt's voles than in greater long-tailed hamsters.
We reported previously that lactation prevents the cell damage induced by kainic acid (KA) excitotoxicity in the CA1, CA3, and CA4 areas of the dorsal hippocampus compared to rats in diestrus phase, and hypothesize that pronounced fluctuations of hormones, such as ovarian steroids and prolactin (PRL), have a role in the neuroprotection of the dorsal hippocampus during lactation. PRL is thought to be involved in modulating neural excitability and seizure activity. To investigate actions of prolactin that minimize KA-induced cell damage in the hippocampus, female intact and ovariectomized (OVX) rats were treated for 4 days with a daily dose of 100 microg of prolactin or vehicle. On the third day of prolactin treatment, rats received a systemic dose of 7.5 mg/kg of KA and were sacrificed 48 h later. Immunostaining for Neu-N revealed a significant decrease in cell number in the CA1, CA3 and CA4 areas of intact or OVX, vehicle-treated rats after KA, whereas prolactin treatment prevented cell loss in the CA3 area of intact, and in the CA1, CA3, and CA4 of OVX rats. Fluoro-Jade C staining confirmed these observations. Kainate-induced seizure behavior progressed further in OVX rats, but was attenuated in prolactin-treated rats, both intact and OVX, compared to vehicle-treated rats. These data indicate that prolactin diminishes the damaging actions of excitotoxicity in the kainate model of epilepsy.
The causes of the interindividual differences (IDs) in how we perceive and control spatial orientation are poorly understood. Here, we propose that IDs partly reflect preferred modes of spatial referencing and that these preferences or &quot;styles&quot; are maintained from the level of spatial perception to that of motor control. Two groups of experimental subjects, one with high visual field dependency (FD) and one with marked visual field independency (FI) were identified by the Rod and Frame Test, which identifies relative dependency on a visual frame of reference (VFoR). FD and FI subjects were tasked with standing still in conditions of increasing postural difficulty while visual cues of self-orientation (a visual frame tilted in roll) and self-motion (in stroboscopic illumination) were varied and in darkness to assess visual dependency. Postural stability, overall body orientation and modes of segmental stabilization relative to either external (space) or egocentric (adjacent segments) frames of reference in the roll plane were analysed. We hypothesized that a moderate challenge to balance should enhance subjects' reliance on VFoR, particularly in FD subjects, whereas a substantial challenge should constrain subjects to use a somatic-vestibular based FoR to prevent falling in which case IDs would vanish. The results showed that with increasing difficulty, FD subjects became more unstable and more disoriented shown by larger effects of the tilted visual frame on posture. Furthermore, their preference to coalign body/VFoR coordinate systems lead to greater fixation of the head-trunk articulation and stabilization of the hip in space, whereas the head and trunk remained more stabilized in space with the hip fixed on the leg in FI subjects. These results show that FD subjects have difficulties at identifying and/or adopting a more appropriate FoR based on proprioceptive and vestibular cues to regulate the coalignment of posturo/exocentric FoRs. The FI subjects' resistance in the face of altered VFoR and balance challenge resides in their greater ability to coordinate movement by coaligning body axes with more appropriate FoRs (provided by proprioceptive and vestibular co-variance).
As aged population dramatically increases in these decades, efforts should be made on the intervention for curing age-associated neurologic degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Caffeoylquinic acid (CQA), an antioxidant component and its derivatives are natural functional compounds isolated from a variety of plants. In this study, we determined the neuroprotective effect of 3,5-di-O-CQA on Abeta(1-42) treated SH-SY5Y cells using MTT assay. To investigate the possible neuroprotective mechanism of 3,5-di-O-CQA, we performed proteomics analysis, real-time PCR analysis and measurement of the intracellular ATP level. In addition, we carried out the measurement of escape latency time to find the hidden platform in Morris water maze (MWM), real-time PCR using senescence-accelerated-prone mice (SAMP) 8 and senescence-accelerated-resistant mice (SAMR) 1 mice. Results showed that 3,5-di-O-CQA had neuroprotective effect on Abeta (1-42) treated cells. The mRNA expression of glycolytic enzyme (phosphoglycerate kinase-1; PGK1) and intracellular ATP level were increased in 3,5-di-O-CQA treated SH-SY5Y cells. We also found that 3,5-di-O-CQA administration induced the improvement of spatial learning and memory on SAMP8 mice, and the overexpression of PGK1 mRNA. These findings suggest that 3,5-di-O-CQA has a neuroprotective effect on neuron through the upregulation of PGK1 expression and ATP production activation.
The ability to process information regarding reward-predictive cues involves a diverse network of neural substrates. Given the importance of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the basolateral amygdala (BLA) in associative reward processes, recent research has examined the functional importance of BLA-NAc interactions. Here, multi-neuron extracellular recordings of NAc neurons coupled to microinfusion of GABAA and GABAB agonists into the BLA were employed to determine the functional contribution of the BLA to phasic neural activity across the NAc core and shell during a cued-instrumental task. NAc neural response profiles prior to BLA inactivation exhibited largely indistinguishable activity across the core and shell. However, for NAc neurons that displayed cue-related increases in firing rates during the task, BLA inactivation significantly reduced this activity selectively in the core (not shell). Additionally, phasic increases in firing rate in the core (not shell) immediately following the lever press response were also significantly reduced following BLA manipulation. Concurrent with these neural changes, BLA inactivation caused a significant increase in latency to respond for rewards and a decrease in the percentage of trials in which animals made a conditioned approach to the cue. Together, these results suggest that an excitatory projection from the BLA provides a selective contribution to conditioned neural excitations of NAc core neurons during a cued-instrumental task, providing insight into the underlying neural circuitry that mediates responding to reward-predictive cues.
There is growing evidence that lesions of the anterior thalamic nuclei cause long-lasting intrinsic changes to retrosplenial cortex, with the potential to alter its functional properties. The present study had two goals. The first was to identify the pattern of changes in eight markers, as measured by in-situ hydridisation, in the granular retrosplenial cortex (area Rgb) following anterior thalamic lesions. The second was to use retrograde trans-neuronal tracing methods to identify the potential repercussions of intrinsic changes within granular retrosplenial cortex. In Experiment 1, adult rats received unilateral lesions of the anterior thalamic nuclei and were perfused 4 weeks later. Of the eight markers, four (c-fos, zif268, 5ht2rc, kcnab2) showed a very similar pattern of change, with decreased levels in superficial retrosplenial cortex (lamina II) in the ipsilateral hemisphere but little or no change in deeper layers (lamina V). A fifth marker (cox6b) showed a shift in activity levels in the opposite direction to the previous four markers. Three other markers (cox6a1, CD74, ncs-1) did not appear to change activity levels after surgery. The predominant pattern of change, a decrease in superficial cortical activity, points to potential alterations in plasticity and metabolism. In Experiment 2, wheat germ agglutin (WGA) was injected into the anterior thalamic nuclei in rats given different survival times, sometimes in combination with the retrograde, fluorescent tracer, Fast Blue. Dense aggregations of retrogradely labeled cells were always found in lamina VI of granular retrosplenial cortex, but additional labeled cells in lamina II were only found: (1) in WGA cases, that is never after Fast Blue injections, and (2) after longer WGA survival times (3 days). These layer II Rgb cells are likely to have been trans-neuronally labeled, revealing a pathway from lamina II of Rgb to those deeper retrosplenial cells that project directly to the anterior thalamic nuclei.
Improgan, the prototype compound of a novel class of non-opioid analgesic drugs derived from histamine antagonists, attenuates thermal and mechanical nociception in rodents following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration. Improgan does not bind to known opioid, histamine or cannabinoid receptors, and its molecular target has not been identified. It is known however, that improgan acts directly in the periaqueductal gray and the rostral ventromedial medulla to produce its antinociceptive effects, and that inactivation of the rostral ventromedial medulla prevents the antinociceptive effect of improgan given i.c.v. Here we used in vivo single-cell recording in lightly anesthetized rats to show that improgan engages pain-modulating neurons in the medulla to produce antinociception. Following improgan administration, OFF-cells, which inhibit nociception, became continuously active and no longer paused during noxious stimulation. The increase in OFF-cell firing does not represent a non-specific neuroexcitant effect of this drug, since ON-cell discharge, associated with net nociceptive facilitation, was depressed. NEUTRAL-cell firing was unaffected by improgan. The net response of rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) neurons to improgan is thus comparable to that evoked by mu-opioids and cannabinoids, well known RVM-active analgesic drugs. This common basis for improgan, opioid, and cannabinoid antinociception in the RVM supports the idea that improgan functions as a specific analgesic agent.
The capability of the adult brain to generate new hippocampal neurons after brain insults like stroke is decreasing during the aging process. Recent evidence further indicates that the proliferative properties of the precursor cells change in the aged brain. We therefore analyzed the early proliferative response of distinct precursor cell populations in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus in 3 and 16 months old transgenic nestin-green-fluorescent protein mice 4 days after ischemic cortical infarcts. A detailed immunocytochemical analysis of proliferating precursors revealed a significant infarct-induced activation of the earliest radial glia-like precursor cells (type 1 cells) and the more differentiated precursor cell subtypes (type 2b cells) in young mice. In contrast the proliferation of early neuronal precursor cells (type 2a cells) was stimulated in the aged brain. Additional long-term experiments further demonstrated that this differential proliferative response of distinct precursor cells is associated with an enhanced number of newborn neurons in the young DG after stroke whereas this increase in neurogenesis was absent in the aged brain. However, our study demonstrates that even precursor cells in the aged hippocampus possess the ability to respond to remote cortical infarcts.
Previous studies have demonstrated that electrical stimulation (ES) enhances axonal regeneration following central and peripheral nerve injury. However, the effect of ES on peripheral remyelination after nerve damage has been investigated less, and the mechanism underlying its action remains unclear. In the present study, neuron/Schwann cell (SC) co-cultures in vitro and crush-injured sciatic nerves in rats were subjected to 1 h of continuous ES (20 Hz, 100 micros, 3 V). Electron microscopy and nerve morphometry were performed to investigate the extent of regenerated nerve myelination. The expression profiles of P0, Par-3 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in vitro and in vivo were examined by western blotting. We reported that 20 Hz ES increased the number of regenerated and myelinated axons at 4 and 8 weeks after injury. P0 level in the ES-treated groups, as well as myelin sheath thickness, were enhanced compared with the controls. The earlier peak Par-3 in the ES-treated groups indicated earlier initiation of SC myelination. Moreover, the similar results were achieved in the cell co-culture. Additionally, brief ES significantly elevated BDNF expression in co-cultured cells and nerve tissues. In conclusion, ES of the site of nerve injury potentiates axonal regrowth and myelin maturation during peripheral nerve regeneration. Further, the therapeutic actions of ES on myelination that is mediated via enhanced BDNF signals, which driving the promyelination effect on SCs at the onset of myelination.
In a natural acoustic environment, sound stimuli often occur in a contextual acoustic stream. The aim of the present study was to determine how the frequency tuning of auditory cortical neurons is affected by an acoustic context. A forward masking paradigm was used to determine the frequency receptive fields of rat auditory cortex neurons under quiet and sequential sound conditions. The frequency receptive fields of a cortical neuron were modulated dynamically by a preceding sound stimulus. At a fixed interstimulus interval (ISI), if the preceding sound level was constant, the receptive fields of most neurons were modulated to the greatest extent when the preceding sound frequency was at or near the characteristic frequency of the neuron; if the preceding sound frequency was constant, the modulation was increased with increasing sound stimulus level. When both the frequency and the level of the preceding sound were fixed, the modulation decreased with increasing interstimulus interval. The results indicate that the frequency tuning of auditory cortical neurons is plastic and dynamically modulated in a reverberant acoustical environment, and the degree of modulation depends on both the frequency tuning of the neuron and the contextual acoustical stream.
Cocaine exposure during pregnancy can impact brain development and have long-term behavioral consequences. The present study examined the lasting consequences of prenatal cocaine (PN-COC) exposure on the performance of cognitive tasks and dendritic spine density in adult male and female rats. From gestational day 8 to 20, dams were treated daily with 30 mg/kg (ip) of cocaine HCl or saline. At 62 days of age, offspring were tested consecutively for anxiety, locomotion, visual memory and spatial memory. PN-COC exposure significantly increased anxiety in both sexes. Object recognition (OR) and placement (OP) tasks were used to assess cognitive function. Behavioral tests consisted of an exploration trial (T1) and a recognition trial (T2) that were separated by an inter-trial delay of varying lengths. Male PN-COC subjects displayed significantly less time investigating new objects or object locations during T2 in both OR and OP tasks. By contrast, female PN-COC subjects exhibited impairments only in OR and only at the longest inter-trial delay interval. In addition, gestational cocaine increased dendritic spine density in the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens in both genders, but only females had increased spine density in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. These data reveal that in-utero exposure to cocaine results in enduring alterations in anxiety, cognitive function and spine density in adulthood. Moreover, cognitive deficits were more profound in males than in females.
The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene contains multiple 5' promoters which generate alternate transcripts. Previously, we found that pan-BDNF mRNA and protein are reduced in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) from patients with schizophrenia. In this study, we determined which of the four most abundant and best characterized BDNF alternate transcripts, I-IX, II-IX, IV-IX, and VI-IX are altered in schizophrenia. Using a cohort from the NIMH, USA, we found that BDNF II-IX mRNA was significantly reduced in the DLPFC of patients with schizophrenia, and we replicated this finding using a second cohort from Sydney, Australia. Moreover, we show that BDNF protein expression [including prepro ( approximately 32 kDa), pro ( approximately 28 kDa) and mature ( approximately 14 kDa) BDNF] is reduced in the DLPFC of patients with schizophrenia. We next determined the regional specificity of the BDNF mRNA reduction by measuring BDNF transcripts in the parietal cortex and hippocampus and found no significant changes. The effect of antipsychotics on BDNF alternate transcript expression was also examined and we found no relationship between BDNF mRNA expression and antipsychotic use. As schizophrenic patients are often prescribed antidepressants which can up-regulate expression of BDNF, we investigated the relationship between antidepressant treatment and BDNF transcript expression. All four BDNF transcripts were significantly up-regulated in schizophrenic patients treated with antidepressants. Moreover, we found significant reductions in BDNF transcripts II-IX and IV-IX in the parietal cortex and VI-IX in the hippocampus of patients with schizophrenia who did not have a history of treatment with antidepressants. This suggests that down-regulation of at least one out of four major BDNF transcripts occurs in various brain regions of patients with schizophrenia, particularly in the DLPFC which appears to have the most robust BDNF deficit in schizophrenia.
Inflammatory tolerance is the down-regulation of inflammation upon repeated stimuli, which is well-established to occur in peripheral immune cells. However, less is known about inflammatory tolerance in the brain although it may provide an important protective mechanism from detrimental consequences of prolonged inflammation, which appears to occur in many psychiatric and neurodegenerative conditions. Array analysis of 308 inflammatory molecules produced by mouse primary astrocytes after two sequential stimulations with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) distinguished three classes, tolerant, sensitized and unaltered groups. For many of these inflammatory molecules, inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) increased tolerance and reduced sensitization. Focusing on LPS-tolerance in interleukin-6 (IL-6) production, we found that microglia exhibited a strong tolerance response that matched that of macrophages, whereas astrocytes exhibited only partial tolerance. The astrocyte semi-tolerance was found to be regulated by GSK3. GSK3 inhibitors or knocking down GSK3 levels promoted LPS-tolerance and astrocytes expressing constitutively active GSK3 did not develop LPS-tolerance. These findings identify the critical role of GSK3 in counteracting IL-6 inflammatory tolerance in cells of the CNS, supporting the therapeutic potential of GSK3 inhibitors to reduce neuroinflammation by promoting tolerance.
Presynaptic CB(1) cannabinoid receptors are frequently targets of endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) released from postsynaptic neurons. It is known that the glutamatergic afferent input to a neuron can trigger endocannabinoid production and that the released endocannabinoid can suppress the glutamatergic input. We tested the hypothesis that activation of the glutamatergic input to a neuron leads to an endocannabinoid-mediated suppression of the GABAergic afferent input to the same neuron. Spontaneous postsynaptic currents (sPSCs) were recorded with patch-clamp techniques in Purkinje cells in mouse cerebellar brain slices. Activation of the climbing fiber-mediated glutamatergic input to Purkinje cells led to a suppression of the sPSCs by 34+/-3%. This suppression was mostly due to suppression of GABAergic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (sIPSCs), because 93% of the sPSCs recorded in Purkinje cells were GABAergic sIPSCs. Blockade of ionotropic, but not metabotropic glutamate receptors, prevented the suppression. The climbing fiber activation led to an increase in calcium concentration in the Purkinje cells, and this increase was necessary for the suppression of sPSCs, because the suppression did not occur when the calcium increase was prevented by BAPTA. No sPSC suppression was observed in the presence of the CB(1) antagonist rimonabant or the diacylglycerol lipase inhibitor orlistat. In a further series of experiments GABAergic sIPSCs were recorded: these sIPSCs were also suppressed after climbing fiber activation, and the suppression was sensitive to the CB(1) antagonist SLV319. Finally, the GABAergic synaptic transmission between molecular layer interneurons and Purkinje cells was directly studied on simultaneously patch-clamped neuron pairs. Climbing fiber activation led to suppression of the interneuron --&gt; Purkinje cell synaptic transmission. The results point to a novel form of endocannabinoid-mediated heterosynaptic plasticity. The endocannabinoid production in a neuron is triggered by its glutamatergic synaptic input and is dependent on an increase in intracellular calcium concentration. The produced endocannabinoid, in turn, suppresses the GABAergic synaptic input to the neuron by activating CB(1) cannabinoid receptors.
Previous data of our laboratory have shown that the Amazonian rodents Proechimys do not present spontaneous seizures in different models of epilepsy, suggesting endogenous inhibitory mechanisms. Here, we describe a remarkably different Proechimy's cytoarchitecture organization of the hippocampal cornu Ammonis 2 (CA2) subfield. We identified a very distinctive Proechimy's CA2 sector exhibiting disorganized cell presentation of the pyramidal layer and atypical dispersion of the pyramidal-like cells to the stratum oriens, strongly contrasting to the densely packed CA2 cells in the Wistar rats. Studies showed that CA2 is the only cornu ammonis (CA) subfield resistant to the extensive pyramidal neural loss in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) associated to hippocampal sclerosis. Thus, in order to investigate this region, we used Nissl and Timm staining, stereological approach to count neurons and immunohistochemistry to neuronal nuclei (NeuN), parvalbumin (PV), calbindin (CB) and calretinin (CR). We did not notice statistically significant differences in the total number of neurons of the CA2 region between Proechimys and Wistar. However, Proechimys rodents presented higher CA2 volume than Wistar rats. Furthermore, no significant difference in the optical density of parvalbumin-immunoreactivity was found between subject groups. On the other hand, Proechimys presented significant higher density of calbindin and calretinin-immunoreactivity when compared to Wistar rats. In this context, this unique CA2 subfield seen in Proechimys opens up a new set of possibilities to explore the contribution of CA2 neurons in normal and pathological brain circuits.
Fathers play a substantial role in infant care in a small but significant number of mammalian species, including humans. However, the neural circuitry controlling paternal behavior is much less understood than its female counterpart. In order to characterize brain areas activated by paternal care, male California mice were separated from their female mate and litter for 3 h and then exposed to a pup or a control object (a glass pebble with the approximate size and oblong shape of a newborn pup) for 10 min. All males receiving a pup showed a strong paternal response towards it, whereas males receiving a pebble interacted with it only occasionally. Despite the clear behavioral differences, exposure to a pup did not increase Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LIR) compared to a pebble in brain areas previously found to be associated with parental care, including the medial preoptic nucleus and medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Pup exposure did, however, significantly increase Fos-LIR in the lateral habenula (LHb) and in predominantly serotonergic neurons in the caudal dorsal raphe nucleus (DRC), as compared to pebble exposure. Both the LHb and DRC are known to be involved in the behavioral responses to strong emotional stimuli; therefore, these areas might play a role in controlling parental behavior in male California mice.
Using extracellular single-unit recordings in nonanesthetized, head-restrained mice, we examined spontaneous and evoked discharges of noradrenaline-containing locus coeruleus (NA-LC) neurons across the sleep-waking cycle. The neurons were all characterized by triphasic broad action potentials. They discharged as either slow (&lt;6 Hz) tonic, single spikes or phasic clusters of spikes specific to wakefulness (W), the discharge rate being highest during active waking and significantly lower during quiet waking. They remained totally silent during both slow-wave sleep (SWS) and paradoxical (or rapid eye movement (REM)) sleep. The phasic unit activity was related to abrupt activation of electromyographic activity occurring either spontaneously or elicited by alerting sensory stimuli. At the transition from waking to sleep, they ceased firing before the onset of cortical synchronization (deactivation), the first sign of electroencephalographic sleep, a significant decrease in firing rate preceding the onset of unit activity of sleep-specific neurons in the basal forebrain (BFB)/preoptic (POA) hypothalamus, as described previously [Takahashi K, Lin JS, Sakai K (2009) Neuroscience 161:269-292]. At the transition from SWS to waking, they fired before the onset of both cortical activation and a significant decrease in activity of sleep-specific neurons. These findings support the previous view that the NA-LC system is involved in both tonic and phasic processes of arousal, and further support our previous proposals that initiation of sleep is caused by decreased activity of waking-promoting neurons (disfacilitation) and that NA-LC neurons play an important role in the sleep/waking switch, that is from waking to sleep and from sleep to waking [Takahashi K, Lin JS, Sakai K (2009) Neuroscience 161:269-292].
Although respiratory complications significantly contribute to morbidity/mortality in advanced myelin disorders, little is known concerning mechanisms whereby dysmyelination impairs ventilation, or how patients compensate (i.e. plasticity). To establish a model for studies concerning mechanisms of ventilatory impairment/compensation, we tested the hypotheses that respiratory function progressively declines in a model of CNS dysmyelination, the Long Evans shaker rat (les). The observed impairment is associated with abnormal inspiratory neural output. Minimal myelin staining was found throughout the CNS of les rats, including the brainstem and cervical bulbospinal tracts. Ventilation (via whole-body plethysmography) and phrenic motor output were assessed in les and wild-type (WT) rats during baseline, hypoxia (11% O(2)) and hypercapnia (7% CO(2)). Hypercapnic ventilatory responses were similar in young adult les and WT rats (2 months old); in hypoxia, rats exhibited seizure-like activity with sustained apneas. However, 5-6 month old les rats exhibited decreased breathing frequencies, mean inspiratory flow (V(T)/T(I)) and ventilation (V (E)) during baseline and hypercapnia. Although phrenic motor output exhibited normal burst frequency and amplitude in 5-6 month old les rats, intra-burst activity was abnormal. In WT rats, phrenic activity was progressive and augmenting; in les rats, phrenic activity was decrementing with asynchronized, multipeaked activity. Thus, although ventilatory capacity is maintained in young, dysmyelinated rats, ventilatory impairment develops with age, possibly through discoordination in respiratory motor output. This study is the first reporting age-related breathing abnormalities in a rodent dysmyelination model, and provides the foundation for mechanistic studies of respiratory insufficiency and therapeutic interventions.
Ethanol exposure during postnatal days (PN) 4-6 in rats alters cerebellar development resulting in significant loss of Purkinje cells. There is little knowledge, however, on what happens to the neurons that survive. In this study, rat pups were treated with a daily dose of ethanol (either 3.6 or 4.5 g/kg body weight) delivered by intragastric intubation on PN4, PN4-6, or PN7-9. Then the interactions between climbing fibers and Purkinje cells were examined on PN14 using confocal microscopy. Mid-vermal cerebellar sections were stained with antibodies to calbindin-D28k (to visualize Purkinje cells) and vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGluT2, to visualize climbing fibers). Confocal z-stack images were obtained from Lobule 1 and analyzed with Imaris software to quantify the staining of the two antibodies. The VGluT2 immunostaining was significantly reduced in the PN4 and PN4-6 ethanol groups for the 4.5 g/kg dose level, compared to controls, indicating that the cerebellar circuitry was significantly altered following developmental ethanol exposure. Not only were there fewer Purkinje cells following ethanol exposure, but the surviving neurons had significantly fewer VGluT2-labeled synapses. These alterations in the synaptic integrity were both dose dependent and temporally dependent.
The five known Na-coupled HCO(3)(-) transporters (NCBTs) of the solute carrier 4 (SLC4) family play important roles in pH regulation and transepithelial HCO(3)(-) transport. Nearly all of the NCBTs have multiple splice variants. One particular NCBT, the electroneutral Na/HCO(3)(-) cotransporter NBCn2 (SLC4A10), which is predominantly expressed in brain, has three known splice variants-NBCn2-A, -B, and -C-as well as a potential variant-D. It is important to know the tissue-specific expression of the splice variants for understanding the physiological roles of NBCn2 in central nervous system. In the present study, we developed three novel rabbit polyclonal antibodies against NBCn2: (1) anti-ABCD, which recognizes all four variants; (2) anti-BD, which recognizes NBCn2-B and -D; (3) anti-CD, which recognizes NBCn2-C and -D. By western blotting, we examined the expression and distribution of NBCn2 splice variants in five brain regions: cerebral cortex, subcortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, and medulla. The expression pattern revealed with anti-ABCD is distinct from those revealed with anti-BD and anti-CD. Moreover, by using immunoprecipitation in combination with western blotting, we demonstrate that NBCn2-D does indeed exist and that it is predominantly expressed in subcortex, to a lesser extent in medulla, but at very low levels in cortex, cerebellum, and hippocampus. NBCn2-A may be the dominant variant in mouse brain as a whole, and may also dominate in cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and hippocampus. Immunohistochemistry with anti-ABCD shows that NBCn2 is highly expressed in choroid plexus, cortex, molecular layer of cerebellum, hippocampus, and some specific regions of the brainstem.
The most intractable feature of drug addiction is the high rate of relapse, even following extended periods of abstinence from drug-taking. Evidence suggests that allowing rats extended access to cocaine self-administration leads to behavioral characteristics in these animals that are consistent with the development of addiction in humans. In the current study, rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine over a total of 22 daily sessions, the final seven of which were long-access (LgA) sessions of 6 h duration. Assessments of reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior were made following reintroduction to the drug-taking environment and noncontingent priming with either conditioned stimulus (CS) or cocaine in both extinguished and abstinent subject groups. Three separate groups of rats were treated with either saline or D-serine (100 mg/kg i.p.) administered 2 h prior to, or immediately following, each extinction training session. Saline-treated LgA rats were resistant to the effects of extinction training to reduce noncontingent priming of reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior with either CS or cocaine. In contrast, treatment with D-serine either before or immediately following the sessions resulted in a significant enhancement in the ability of extinction training to reduce cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. These results suggest that D-serine can act to enhance the consolidation of extinction learning in LgA rats, and is therefore a promising adjunctive agent along with behavioral therapy for the treatment of cocaine addiction.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of mature and older individuals. Since all aged individuals do not develop PD, predisposing conditions may exist that pair with the stress placed on the basal ganglia during aging to produce the symptoms of PD. In this project we used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to test the hypothesis that a sensitization stage and a precipitating stage underlie idiopathic PD. To induce the sensitization stage, pregnant C57BL/6J mice were treated with MPTP (10 mg/kg/day) during gestation days 8-12 to target the emerging fetal nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. For the precipitating stage, the 3-months old offspring were administered MPTP for 7 days, to simulate the changes that occur during aging. The weights and motor activity of the offspring, high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) striatal dopamine and its metabolites and Western blot for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were determined. Offspring exposed to prenatal MPTP showed lower birth weights that eventually recovered. Prenatal MPTP also reduced motor activity by 10-30%, striatal TH by 38%, dopamine by 14%, homovanillic acid by 16.5% and 3-methoxytyramine by 66%. The postnatal MPTP was more potent in the prenatal MPTP-exposed offspring. MPTP at 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg, dose-relatedly, reduced striatal TH by 9.4%, 48.6% and 82.4% in the prenatal-phosphate buffered saline (PBS) mice and by 48%, 78.7% and 92.7% in the prenatal-MPTP groups. More importantly, postnatal MPTP at 10 mg/kg that showed slight effects on DA, DOPAC, HVA and 3-MT in the prenatal-PBS offspring, showed 69.9%, 80.0%, 48.4% and 65.4% reductions in the prenatal-MPTP mice. The study may identify a new model for PD, and the outcome suggests that some cases of idiopathic PD may have a fetal basis in which early subtle nigrostriatal impairments occurred and PD symptoms are precipitated later by deteriorating changes in the nigrostriatum, that would not caused symptoms in individuals with normal nigrostriatal system.
Orexin (Orx or hypocretin) is critically important for maintaining wakefulness, since in its absence, narcolepsy with cataplexy occurs. In this role, Orx-containing neurons can exert their influence upon multiple targets through the brain by release of Orx but possibly also by release of other neurotransmitters. Indeed, evidence was previously presented to suggest that Orx terminals could utilize glutamate (Glu) in addition to Orx as a neurotransmitter. Using fluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy, we investigated whether Orx varicosities contain the presynaptic markers for synaptic release of Glu or GABA and come into contact with postsynaptic markers for excitatory synapses within the locus coeruleus of the rat brain. We found that a proportion of the Orx+ varicosities were immunostained for the vesicular transporter for Glu, VGluT2. None were immunostained for vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGluT1) or VGluT3 or for the vesicular transporter for GABA, vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT). Among the Orx+ varicosities, 4% of all and 28% of large varicosities contained VGluT2. A similar proportion of the large Orx+ varicosities contained synaptophysin (Syp), a presynaptic marker for synaptic vesicles. Orx+ varicosities also contacted elements immunostained for postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD)-95, a postsynaptic marker for glutamatergic synapses. We thus conclude that synaptic release of Glu occurs from Orx terminals within the locus coeruleus and can thus be important for the engagement of noradrenergic neurons in stimulating and maintaining arousal.
We have suggested that in the lamprey, a medullary region called the paratrigeminal respiratory group (pTRG), is essential for respiratory rhythm generation and could correspond to the pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC), the hypothesized kernel of the inspiratory rhythm-generating network in mammals. The present study was performed on in vitro brainstem preparations of adult lampreys to investigate whether some functional characteristics of the respiratory network are retained throughout evolution and to get further insights into the recent debated hypotheses on respiratory rhythmogenesis in mammals, such as for instance the &quot;group-pacemaker&quot; hypothesis. Thus, we tried to ascertain the presence and role of neurokinins (NKs) and burst-generating ion currents, such as the persistent Na(+) current (I(NaP)) and the Ca(2+)-activated non-specific cation current (I(CAN)), described in the pre-Btzinger complex. Respiratory activity was monitored as vagal motor output. Substance P (SP) as well as NK1, NK2 and NK3 receptor agonists (400-800 nM) applied to the bath induced marked increases in respiratory frequency. Microinjections (0.5-1 nl) of SP as well as the other NK receptor agonists (1 microM) into the pTRG increased the frequency and amplitude of vagal bursts. Riluzole (RIL) and flufenamic acid (FFA) were used to block I(NaP) and I(CAN), respectively. Bath application of either RIL or FFA (20-50 microM) depressed, but did not suppress respiratory activity. Coapplication of RIL and FFA at 50 microM abolished the respiratory rhythm that, however, was restarted by SP microinjected into the pTRG. The results show that NKs may have a modulatory role in the lamprey respiratory network through an action on the pTRG and that I(NaP) and I(CAN) may contribute to vagal burst generation. We suggest that the &quot;group-pacemaker&quot; hypothesis is tenable for the lamprey respiratory rhythm generation since respiratory activity is abolished by blocking both I(NaP) and I(CAN), but is restored by enhancing network excitability.
The way we grasp an object varies depending on how we want to use that object, and this knowledge can be used to predict the object-related behavior of others. In this study, we assessed the neural correlates that determine the action intention of another person based on observed prehensile movements. Fourteen right-handed volunteers watched video clips of a person performing right-handed transitive grasping gestures that were either aimed at displacing or using a tool-object. Clips showing the grasping and displacement of neutral shapes served as a control condition. By discrimination of the actor's intention, three roughly symmetrical foci were activated in the anterior, middle, and caudal segments of the intraparietal sulci, and in the fusiform gyri and parts of the lateral occipital complex. Anterior intraparietal activation has been associated with the representation of object goals (object specific), and the present findings extend its involvement to functional goals (use-specific). Activation in the middle intraparietal region during intention discrimination was very similar to the activation elicited in a saccadic localizer task, suggesting a relation with spatial attention and eye movements. The caudal intraparietal region has been related with visuospatial guidance of reaching, and its activation during action intention discrimination indicates that the visuospatial properties of the observed reaching movement contribute to understanding of actions. As these parietal regions are strongly linked with motor behavior, our results appear to support the motor simulation hypothesis for action understanding with the preferential recruitment of the mirror-neuron system. This could at least be the case when no contextual information other than the visual properties of the movement is provided to discriminate the intention of an observed hand action.
Transient global brain ischemia results in an immediate inhibition of protein translation upon reperfusion. During early brain reperfusion protein synthesis is inhibited by alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (eIF2alpha) phosphorylation by the PKR-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK). Normally, PERK is held in an inactive, monomeric state by the binding of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone GRP78 to the lumenal end of PERK. The prevailing view is that ER stress leads to the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen. GRP78 dissociates from PERK to bind these accumulated unfolded proteins, leading to PERK activation, phosphorylation of eIF2alpha, and inhibition of translation. To determine if an increase in unfolded nascent proteins following transient brain ischemia contributes to PERK activation, protein synthesis was blocked by intracerebral injection of anisomycin prior to induction of ischemia. Anisomycin inhibited protein synthesis by over 99% and reduced newly synthesized proteins in the ER to approximately 20% of controls. With an ER nearly devoid of newly synthesized proteins, PERK was still activated and was able to phosphorylate eIF2alpha in CA1 neurons during reperfusion. These data strongly argue that PERK activation is independent of the large increase in unfolded nascent proteins within the ER following transient global brain ischemia.
Neuronal precursors generated in the subventricular zone (SVZ) migrate through the rostral migratory stream (RMS) to the olfactory bulb (OB). Although, the mechanisms regulating this migration remain largely unknown. Studies have shown that molecular factors, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) emanating from the OB, may function as chemoattractants drawing neuroblasts toward their target. To better understand the role of BDNF in RMS migration, we used an acute slice preparation from early postnatal mice to track the tangential migration of GAD65-GFP labeled RMS neuroblasts with confocal time-lapse imaging. By quantifying the cell dynamics using specific directional and motility criteria, our results showed that removal of the OB did not alter the overall directional trajectory of neuroblasts, but did reduce their motility. This suggested that additional guidance factors present locally within the RMS region also contribute to this migration. Here we report that BDNF and its high affinity receptor, tyrosine kinase receptor type 2 (TrkB), are indeed heterogeneously expressed within the RMS at postnatal day 7. By altering BDNF levels within the entire pathway, we showed that reduced BDNF signaling changes both neuroblast motility and direction, while increased BDNF levels changes only motility. Together these data reveal that during this early postnatal period BDNF plays a complex role in regulating both the motility and direction of RMS flow, and that BDNF comes from sources within the RMS itself, as well as from the olfactory bulb.
Guanine nucleotide-binding protein beta3 (GNB3) is an isoform of the beta subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein second messenger complex that is commonly associated with transmembrane receptors. The presence of GNB3 in photoreceptors, and possibly bipolar cells, has been confirmed in murine, bovine and primate retinas [Lee RH, Lieberman BS, Yamane HK, Bok D, Fung BK (1992) J Biol Chem 267:24776-24781; Peng YW, Robishaw JD, Levine MA, Yau KW (1992) Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 89:10882-10886; Huang L, Max M, Margolskee RF, Su H, Masland RH, Euler T (2003) J Comp Neurol 455:1-10]. Studies have indicated that a mutation in the GNB3 gene causes progressive retinopathy and globe enlargement (RGE) in chickens. The goals of this study were to (1) examine the expression pattern of GNB3 in wild-type and RGE mutant chickens, (2) characterize the types of bipolar cells that express GNB3 and (3) examine whether the expression of GNB3 in the retina is conserved across vertebrate species. We find that chickens homozygous for the RGE allele completely lack GNB3 protein. We find that the pattern of expression of GNB3 in the retina is highly conserved across vertebrate species, including teleost fish (Carassius auratus), frogs (Xenopus laevis), chickens (Gallus domesticus), mice (Mus musculata), guinea-pigs (Cavia porcellus), dogs (Canis familiaris) and non-human primates (Macaca fasicularis). Regardless of the species, we find that GNB3 is expressed by Islet1-positive cone ON-bipolar cells and by cone photoreceptors. In some vertebrates, GNB3-immunoreactivity was observed in both rod and cone photoreceptors. A protein-protein alignment of GNB3 across different vertebrates, from fish to humans, indicates a high degree (&gt;92%) of sequence conservation. Given that analogous types of retinal neurons express GNB3 in different species, we propose that the functions and the mechanisms that regulate the expression of GNB3 are highly conserved.
mTOR, the mammalian target of rapamycin, is a serine-threonine kinase known to regulate cell proliferation and growth. mTOR has also been implicated in neuronal synaptic plasticity as well as in pain transmission in models of chemically induced and neuropathic pain. To date, the role of mTOR as a modulator of inflammatory pain has not been examined. In this study, we investigated the role of mTOR in Sprague-Dawley rats using the carrageenan model of inflammatory pain. mRNA of Ras homolog enriched in brain (Rheb), a GTPase that positively regulates mTOR activation, was significantly increased 2 h following carrageenan injection. Four hours after induction of inflammation phosphorylation (p) of p70S6 kinase (S6K), ribosomal protein S6 (S6) and eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1 (4E-BP1) was increased, indicating mTOR activation. Inhibition of spinal mTOR with intrathecal (i.t.) injection of rapamycin (0.1-3 microg) led to a dose-dependent decrease in carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia and a reduction of mechanical allodynia. In vitro studies confirmed rapamycin inhibition of the mTOR pathway. Carrageenan-induced activation of the mTOR pathway in rats was localized predominantly to dorsal horn neurons in the superficial lamina. Taken together, these data show that the mTOR pathway is activated in dorsal horn neurons during inflammatory pain, and that inhibition of spinal mTOR attenuates inflammation-induced thermal and tactile hypersensitivity. Hence, our study indicates that spinal mTOR is an important regulator of spinal sensitization and suggests that targeting mTOR may provide a new avenue for pain therapy.
The nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) constitutes the cough reflex arc and is thought to be one of the main sites of codeine's action. We have previously demonstrated using the guinea-pig brainstem slice that codeine inhibits the solitary tract-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in the second-order NTS neurons through activating the presynaptic K(+) channels. For further understanding of modulation of synaptic transmission by the antitussive, the effects of codeine (0.3-3.0 mM) on spontaneous EPSCs (sEPSCs) and miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) were investigated in the NTS neurons of guinea-pigs. Codeine decreased the frequency and amplitude of sEPSCs. This action of codeine was mimicked by specific mu and kappa receptor agonists, and blocked by micro and kappa receptor antagonists. An agonist of delta receptors was ineffective on sEPSCs. The inhibitory effect of codeine on sEPSCs persisted under perfusion of a K(+) channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine. In the presence of tetrodotoxin or Cd(2+) which blocks, respectively, the action potential-induced or voltage-dependent Ca(2+) entry-induced transmitter release, codeine still had an inhibitory effect on the frequency of mEPSCs without any considerable effect on their amplitude. The present study demonstrates that codeine depresses spontaneous excitatory synaptic transmission in the NTS neurons via presynaptic mu and kappa receptors that do not couple with K(+) and Ca(2+) channels. These results suggest inhibitory modulation of the local circuit activity of NTS neurons by codeine, resulting in suppression of cough reflex.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease. There are a limited number of therapeutic options available for the treatment of AD. Curcuminoids (a mixture of bisdemethoxycurcumin, demethoxycurcumin and curcumin) is the main chemical constituent found in turmeric, a well known curry spice, having potential in the treatment of AD. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of curcuminoid mixture and individual constituents on spatial learning and memory in an amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide-infused rat model of AD and on the expression of PSD-95, synaptophysin and camkIV. Curcuminoid mixture showed a memory-enhancing effect in rats displaying AD-like neuronal loss only at 30 mg/kg, whereas individual components were effective at 3-30 mg/kg. A shorter duration treatment with test compounds showed that the curcuminoid mixture and bisdemethoxycurcumin increased PSD-95 expression in the hippocampus at 3-30 mg/kg, with maximum effect at a lower dose (3 mg/kg) with respective values of 470.5 and 587.9%. However, after a longer duration treatment, two other compounds (demethoxycurcumin and curcumin) also increased PSD-95 to 331.7 and 226.2% respectively at 30 mg/kg. When studied for their effect on synaptophysin in the hippocampus after the longer duration treatment, the curcuminoid mixture and all three individual constituents increased synaptophysin expression. Of these, demethoxycurcumin was the most effective showing a 350.1% increase (P&lt;0.01) at 30 mg/kg compared to the neurotoxin group. When studied for their effect on camkIV expression after longer treatment in the hippocampus, only demethoxycurcumin at 30 mg/kg increased levels to 421.2%. These compounds salvaged PSD-95, synaptophysin and camkIV expression levels in the hippocampus in the rat AD model, which suggests multiple target sites with the potential of curcuminoids in spatial memory enhancing and disease modifying in AD.
The biological basis for the selective vulnerability of neurons in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is elusive. Aggrecan-based perineuronal nets (PNs) of the extracellular matrix have been considered to contribute to neuroprotection in the cerebral cortex. In the present study, we investigated the organization of the aggrecan-based extracellular matrix in subcortical regions known to be preferentially affected by tau pathology in AD. Immunocytochemistry of aggrecan core protein was combined with detection of neurofibrillary degeneration. The results show that many regions affected by tau pathology in AD, such as the basal nucleus of Meynert, the dorsal thalamus, hypothalamic nuclei, raphe nuclei, and the locus coeruleus were devoid of a characteristic aggrecan-based extracellular matrix. Regions composed of nuclei with clearly different intensity of tau pathology, such as the amygdala, the thalamus and the oculomotor complex, showed largely complementary distribution patterns of neurofibrillary tangles and PNs. Quantification in the rostral interstitial nucleus of the longitudinal fascicle potentially affected by tau pathology in AD revealed that tau pathology was not accompanied by loss of aggrecan-based PNs. Neuro-fibrillary tangles in net-associated neurons extremely rarely occurred in the pontine reticular formation. We conclude that the low vulnerability of neurons ensheathed by PNs previously described for cortical areas in AD represents a more general phenomenon that also applies to subcortical regions. The aggrecan-based extracellular matrix of PNs may thus, be involved in neuroprotection.
Taste buds signal the presence of chemical stimuli in the oral cavity to the central nervous system using both early transduction mechanisms, which allow single cells to be depolarized via receptor-mediated signaling pathways, and late transduction mechanisms, which involve extensive cell-to-cell communication among the cells in the bud. The latter mechanisms, which involve a large number of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides, are less well understood. Among neurotransmitters, multiple lines of evidence suggest that norepinephrine plays a yet unknown role in the taste bud. This study investigated the expression pattern of adrenergic receptors in the rat posterior taste bud. Expression of alpha1A, alpha1B, alpha1D, alpha2A, alpha2B, alpha2C, beta1, and the beta2 adrenoceptor subtypes was observed in taste buds using RT-PCR and immunocytochemical techniques. Taste buds also expressed the biosynthetic enzyme for norepinephrine, dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH), as well as the norepinephrine transporter. Further, expression of the epinephrine synthetic enzyme, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), was observed suggesting a possible role for this transmitter in the bud. Phenotyping adrenoceptor expression patterns with double labeling experiments to gustducin, synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25), and neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) suggests they are prominently expressed in subsets of cells known to express taste receptor molecules but segregated from cells known to have synapses with the afferent nerve fiber. Alpha and beta adrenoceptors co-express with one another in unique patterns as observed with immunocytochemistry and single cell reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). These data suggest that single cells express multiple adrenergic receptors and that adrenergic signaling may be particularly important in bitter, sweet, and umami taste qualities. In summary, adrenergic signaling in the taste bud occurs through complex pathways that include presynaptic and postsynaptic receptors and likely play modulatory roles in processing of gustatory information similar to other peripheral sensory systems such as the retina, cochlea, and olfactory bulb.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are divided into sporadic and familial forms. For clinical imaging, T2-weighted gradient-echo sequences have been shown to be more sensitive than conventional sequences. Recently more advanced imaging techniques such as high-field and susceptibility-weighted MR imaging have been employed for the evaluation of CCMs. Furthermore, diffusion tensor imaging and functional MR imaging have been applied to the preoperative and intraoperative management of these lesions. In this paper, the authors attempt to provide a concise review of the emerging imaging methods used in the clinical diagnosis and treatment of CCMs.




Although interest in the art of dissection and vivisection has waxed and waned throughout the ages, the past century has seen it accepted as commonplace in medical schools across the country. No other practice in medicine has contributed more to the understanding of neuroanatomy and the neurosciences as dissection of the human cadaver, the origins of which are widely documented to have been in Alexandrian Greece. This article chronicles the fascinating and often controversial use of dissection and vivisection in these fields through the ages, beginning with Herophilus of Alexandria, among the first systematic dissectors in the history of Western medicine. The authors comment on its role in the development of modern neurosurgery and conclude with remarks about use of this educational tool today in the United States.




Jacob Chandy, who passed away in 2007 at the age of 97, was born into a deeply religious Christian family in Kerala, South India. After obtaining his medical education at the Madras Medical College, Madras, he serendipitously came to work with Dr Paul Harrison, a renowned medical missionary, in the Gulf state of Bahrain. Harrison urged Chandy to pursue training in the fledgling specialty of neurosurgery in North America. Chandy received his neurosurgical training at the Montreal Neurological Institute with Wilder Penfield and in Chicago with Theodore Rasmussen. At Harrison's urging, Chandy decided to return to India after completing his training to work at the Christian Medical College in Vellore. Thus, it was in 1949 that Chandy established the first neurosurgery department in south Asia in Vellore. He initiated the first neurosurgical training program in India at the Christian Medical College in 1957, with a distinct North American neurosurgical tradition. He went on to train nearly 20 neurosurgeons, many of whom set up new departments of neurosurgery in their home states. Chandy also had several other remarkable achievements to his credit. Despite the pressures of clinical practice, he insisted on fostering both basic and clinical neurosciences within his department, an arrangement that persists to this day in the Department of Neurological Sciences at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. As the Principal (Dean) of the Christian Medical College, Chandy displayed his skills as a medical educator and administrator. In this role, he was instrumental in starting specialty training programs in several other medical and surgical disciplines. His greatest legacies survive in the form of the department that he founded and his trainees and their students who have helped to establish neurosurgery all over the country.
Non-competitive NMDA-receptor-antagonist drugs such as dizocilpine (MK801) induce behavioral changes and neurotoxicity that have made an impact in different fields of neuroscience. New approaches in research use transgenic mice to elucidate cellular mechanisms and circuits involved in the effects of these drugs. However, the neurodegeneration induced by these drugs has been extensively studied in rats, but the data in mice is limited. Therefore it is important to characterize if the neurotoxic pattern in mice corresponds to that of rats. A comparative analysis of the neurodegeneration induced by MK801 (10mg/kg) between Wistar rats, and CD-1, CF-1, and C57BL/6-129/Sv mice of both sexes, at different survival times (15, 24, 32, 48, 56 and 72 h) was analysed with the amino-cupric-silver and fluoro-jade B techniques. To compare different administration patterns, groups of mice received subchronic treatments with different doses (final doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg). Results showed that mice treated with MK801 presented different neurotoxic profiles, such as excitotoxic-like cell death in the retrosplenial cortex, terminal degeneration in CA1 and apoptotic-like degeneration in the olfactory bulb. Unlike rats, mice subjected to the same treatment failed to show neurodegeneration in corticolimbic areas such as piriform cortex and dentate gyrus. The amount of degeneration was lower in mice, and the subchronic administration of MK801 did not change the neurotoxic pattern. Additionally, mice lacked the sexually dimorphic response to MK801 toxicity observed in rats. Altogether these results indicate important species dissimilarities. Neurotoxicological studies aimed to explore pathways and mechanisms of MK801 toxicity should consider these differences when using mice as rodent models.

A 65-year-old-woman complained of lumbago from the end of March 2008. Three weeks later, she visited a local clinic because of high fever, and she was given a diagnosis of urinary tract infection. Although levofloxacin was given, her condition did not improve and she was referred to the urology department of our hospital. Two days after hospitalization, she rapidly developed respiratory failure. Chest CT revealed bilateral pleural effusion, interlobular septal thickening, diffuse ground-glass opacities and mediastinal lymphadenopathy. We suspected scrub typhus because we noticed a localized necrotic skin lesion on her left lower leg. When minocycline was administered, both her clinical condition and radiographic imaging promptly improved. Because lung involvement with scrub typhus is very rare in Japan, we report this case of scrub typhus with various lung findings.

There have been significant advances in our understanding of mammalian color vision over the past 15 years. This paper reviews a number of topics that have been central to these recent efforts, including: (1) the extent and nature of ultraviolet vision in mammals, (2) the evolutionary loss of short-wavelength-sensitive cones in some mammals, (3) the possible roles of rod signals in mammalian color vision, (4) the evolution of mammalian color vision, and (5) recent laboratory investigations of animal color vision. Successes in linking opsin genes and photopigments to color vision have been key to the progress made on each of these issues.

In this study, we examined changes in central (anterior-preoptic hypothalamus) and peripheral (temporal muscle and facial skin) temperatures in freely moving rats following intravenous administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) at low doses (1 and 10 g/kg) at thermoneutral conditions (28C). Recordings were made with high temporal resolution (5-s bin) and the effects of LPS were compared with those induced by a tail-pinch, a standard arousing somato-sensory stimulus. At each dose, LPS moderately elevated brain, muscle, and skin temperatures. In contrast to rapid, monophasic and relatively short hyperthermic responses induced by a tail-pinch, LPS-induced increases in brain and muscle temperatures occurred with ~40 min onset latencies, showed three not clearly defined phases, were slightly larger with the 10 m/kg dose, and maintained for the entire 4-hour post-injection recording duration. Based on dynamics of brain-muscle and skin-muscle temperature differentials, it appears that the hyperthermic response induced by LPS at the lowest dose originates from enhanced peripheral heat production, with no evidence of brain metabolic activation and skin vasoconstriction. While peripheral heat production also appears to determine the first phase of brain and body temperature elevation with LPS at 10 g/kg, a further prolonged increase in brain-muscle differentials (onset at ~100 min) suggests metabolic brain activation as a factor contributing to brain and body hyperthermia. At this dose, skin temperature increase was weaker than in temporal muscle, suggesting vasoconstriction as another contributor to brain/body hyperthermia. Therefore, although both LPS at low doses and salient sensory stimuli moderately increase brain and body temperatures, these hyperthermic responses have important qualitative differences, reflecting unique underlying mechanisms.
It is now clear that a number of paediatric emergencies with a neurological presentation, including hemiparesis, visual loss, seizures and coma, commonly have a vascular basis which may not be obvious on CT scan. Although many children do well, as there is significant mortality as well as morbidity for childhood stroke, in addition to a high risk for recurrence, making a diagnosis in the acute phase important. Venography and arteriography (including the neck vessels if the intracranial vessels are normal) are usually indicated despite the problems i.e. contrast CT requires a high dose of radiation while emergency MR usually requires anaesthesia and conventional arteriography carries a small risk of stroke. Surgical decompression may be life-saving in ischaemic as well as haemorrhagic stroke. It is unusual for children with anterior circulation stroke to be triaged quickly enough (&lt;4.5 h) for thrombolysis but this may occasionally be appropriate in posterior circulation occlusion associated with coma, where the time window is longer (&lt;12 h). Anticoagulation carries relatively low risk and may be of benefit for children with venous sinus thrombosis (acutely and when at risk subsequently) or extracranial dissection. Aspirin to attempt to reduce the recurrence risk is appropriate in the medium term for the majority of patients with arterial ischaemic stroke. Iron and B vitamin deficiencies should be excluded or treated.
Primary dysmenorrhea (PDM) is the most prevalent gynecological disorder for women in the reproductive age. PDM patients suffer from lower abdominal pain that starts with the onset of the menstrual flow. Prolonged nociceptive input to the central nervous system can induce functional and structural alterations throughout the nervous system. In PDM, a chronic viscero-nociceptive drive of cyclic nature, indications of central sensitization and altered brain metabolism suggest a substantial central reorganization. Previously, we hypothesized that disinhibition of orbitofrontal networks could be responsible for increased pain and negative affect in PDM. Here, we further tested this hypothesis. We used an optimized voxel-based morphometry (VBM) approach to compare total and regional gray matter (GM) increases and decreases in 32 PDM patients with 32 healthy age and menstrual cycle matched (peri-ovulatory phase) controls. Abnormal decreases were found in regions involved in pain transmission, higher level sensory processing, and affected regulation while increases were found in regions involved in pain modulation and in regulation of endocrine function. Moreover, GM changes in regions involved in top-down pain modulation and in generation of negative affect were related to the severity of the experienced PDM pain. Our results demonstrate that abnormal GM volume changes are present in PDM patients even in the absence of pain. These changes may underpin a combination of impaired pain inhibition, increased pain facilitation and increased affect. Our findings highlight that longer lasting central changes may occur not only in sustained chronic pain conditions but also in cyclic occurring pain conditions.
In patients with distal symmetric polyneuropathy we assessed non-nociceptive Abeta- and nociceptive Adelta-afferents to investigate their role in the development of neuropathic pain. We screened 2240 consecutive patients with sensory disturbances and collected 150 patients with distal symmetric polyneuropathy (68 with pain and 82 without). All patients underwent the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory to rate ongoing, paroxysmal and provoked pains, a standard nerve conduction study (NCS) to assess Abeta-fibre function, and laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) to assess Adelta-fibre function. Patients with pain had the same age (P&gt;0.50), but a longer delay since symptom onset than those without (P&lt;0.01). Whereas the LEP amplitude was significantly lower in patients with pain than in those without (P&lt;0.0001), NCS data did not differ between groups (P&gt;0.50). LEPs were more severely affected in patients with ongoing pain than in those with provoked pain (P&lt;0.0001). Our findings indicate that the impairment of Abeta-fibres has no role in the development of ongoing or provoked pain. In patients with ongoing pain the severe LEP suppression and the correlation between pain intensity and LEP attenuation may indicate that this type of pain reflects damage to nociceptive axons. The partially preserved LEPs in patients with provoked pain suggest that this type of pain is related to the abnormal activity arising from partially spared and sensitised nociceptive terminals. Because clinical and neurophysiological abnormalities followed similar patterns regardless of aetiology, pain should be classified and treated on mechanism-based grounds.



Over the last 40 years the proliferation of the biopsychosocial (BPS) model across clinical and theoretical research has shown that psychosocial factors can be shown to be causes, co-factors, or sequelae of many illnesses. Scientific presuppositions about the BPS model have been grounded firmly in psychobiological, psycho-behavioural, sociobiological, and socio-behavioural processes. According to the allostatic load model, stressful factors can be psychological ones or any other factor that is able to modify the stress-response system; these might include genetic factors or life experiences. Personality profiles, in particular, seem to be predictive of responses to different stressors. Stress responses preceding or following illness are clearly related, from a psychobiological point of view, to different personality traits, which themselves correlate to specific defence mechanisms. Neural processes underlying these mechanisms interact with the biological substrate of somatic illnesses. Recent advances in brain imaging with regard to neurobiological and behavioural interactions of empathy and alexithymia support the crucial role of the (psycho) therapeutic relationship across the whole of medical practice. Psychotherapies operate as biological factors on mind, brain, and body; indeed it is necessary to reconsider the doctor-patient relationship as a psychotherapeutic process. The basic methodological triad of observation (outer viewing), introspection (inner viewing), and dialogue (inter viewing) becomes essential in medical practice and in scientific research. Psychoanalytic processes such as transference, resistance, the therapeutic alliance, and attachment have been reconsidered from a neuroscientific perspective and reconceived as moments of meeting of the procedural memory and are therefore considered relevant to the relationship with patients in primary care. Indeed, they are useful to an ethical approach to understanding the meaning of illness, and they also influence the results of treatment projects. Because all these aspects impact upon illness duration and quality of life, affecting both the individual concerned and his or her family, the economic consequences of this psychosomatic approach are important in both general and specialist medicine. Medicine is becoming, and will become even more in the future, an integrated science; human illness and the maintenance of good health may be better understood if all medical disciplines are considered as a whole. The domain of psychosomatic medicine has now extended to coincide with that of medical practice. There is increasing evidence, not only in psychiatry, but in all medical fields, that care of the mental well-being of a person is essential for effective care of the body. Not only mens sana in corpore sano, but also corpus sanus in mente sana.
Since the advent of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), subsequent cognitive and neuropsychiatric effects of this procedure have become well-chronicled. Yet, thermolitic lesion of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is still a valid option when DBS cannot be applied, and little has been published regarding its impact on cognition and mood. We examined the cognitive and neuropsychiatric functions of 10 consecutive patients with advanced PD undergoing simultaneous bilateral subthalamotomies. With 24 months of follow-up, the patients, three of whom were on anticholinergics prior to surgery, showed no deterioration in cognitive assessments including verbal fluency. Hypoactive behaviors (depression and apathy) showed lasting improvement, while hyperactive behaviors (euphoria and disinhibition) transiently increased after surgery. Improvement in hypoactive behaviors correlated with improvement in hypokinetic movements, and enhanced hyperactive behaviors followed the course of post-operative hyperkinetic movements. Such correlations may support the role of the STN in modulating limbic connections between the basal ganglia and frontal cortex. The results of this proof-of-concept pilot study suggest the need for larger, long-term, randomized controlled studies to assess motor, neuropsychiatric, behavioral and radiologic correlations after subthalamotomies.
The most common mutation related to Parkinson's disease (PD) is the p.G2019S mutation in the LRRK2 gene. Global population frequencies and crude estimates of haplotype conservation suggest most carriers are related. A total of 671 Norwegian PD patients and 215 of their family members were screened for the LRRK2 p.G2019S mutation. Twenty-one PD cases and 44 family members were positive for the mutation and all could be traced back to 10 different families. A genealogical study employed data from the Norwegian National Family Record Centre, local parish registers and population censuses. A common ancestor couple (living between 1580 and 1650) was found in six families, and two other families were associated by intermarriage. The remaining two families could not be traced back to either of these ancestors, though chromosome 12q12 haplotype analysis showed p.G2019S carriers shared alleles for 15 markers in the LRRK2 region. The study provides support for a common ancestor in Norwegian families with LRRK2 p.G2019S parkinsonism. The mutation was probably introduced to Norway through tradesmen from Europe. The extended pedigree that now links modern day carriers may help in mapping penetrance modifiers.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and atypical parkinsonian disorders (APD), including multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and corticobasal degeneration (CBD), are a group of neurodegenerative diseases sharing many similar signs and symptoms but distinguished by their particular clinical features, treatment response, prognosis and mortality. The differential diagnosis may be challenging, especially in early disease stages. Considering the importance of an accurate diagnosis both for clinical management and for research, new diagnostic tools are needed. In this study, we investigated 56 PD, 42 MSA, 39 PSP, 9 CBD patients, and 24 healthy controls. After screening the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteome using surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS), we identified 4 proteins (ubiquitin [mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) 8590], beta2-microglobulin [m/z 11730], and 2 secretogranin 1 [chromogranin B] fragments [m/z 7260 and m/z 6250]) that differentiated healthy controls and PD patients from patients with APD. However, they could not differentiate PD patients from controls. As none of these changes were APD subgroup-specific, they most likely reflect the intensity and/or extent of the neurodegenerative process in general.

In most organs of the body, immunological reactions involve the drainage of antigens and antigen presenting cells (APCs) along defined lymphatic channels to regional lymph nodes. The CNS is considered to be an immunologically privileged organ with no conventional lymphatics. However, immunological reactions do occur in the CNS in response to infections and in immune-mediated disorders such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Here, we review evidence that cervical lymph nodes play a role in B and T cell mediated immune reactions in the CNS. Then we define the separate pathways by which interstitial fluid (ISF) and CSF drain to cervical lymph nodes. ISF and solutes drain from the brain along the 100-150nm-wide basement membranes in the walls of capillaries and arteries. In humans, this perivascular pathway is outlined by the deposition of insoluble amyloid (Abeta) in capillary and artery walls in cerebral amyloid angiopathy in Alzheimer's disease. The failure of APCs to migrate to lymph nodes along perivascular lymphatic drainage pathways may be a major factor in immunological privilege of the brain. Lymphatic drainage of CSF is predominantly through the cribriform plate into nasal lymphatics. Lymphatic drainage of ISF and CSF and the specialised cervical lymph nodes to which they drain play significant roles in the induction of immunological tolerance and of adaptive immunological responses in the CNS. Understanding the afferent and efferent arms of the CNS lymphatic system will be valuable for the development of therapeutic strategies for diseases such as MS.
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor encephalitis is a newly defined type of autoimmune encephalitis. Two girls (age 3 years, case 1, and 7 years, case 2) with relapsing NMDA receptor encephalitis each had the classic clinical features of encephalopathy, movement disorders, psychiatric symptoms, seizures, insomnia, and mild autonomic dysfunction. Both patients had persistent neuropsychiatric disability, despite immune therapies. Positron emission tomography (PET) scans were performed during clinical relapse at 6 weeks (case 1) and 5 months (case 2). In both cases, the scans demonstrated reduced fluorodeoxyglucose metabolism in the cerebral cortex, with the temporal regions being most affected. PET imaging was more sensitive than magnetic resonance imaging in these patients. In contrast, the one previous report of acute NMDA receptor encephalitis indicated cortical hypermetabolism. Thus, NMDA receptor encephalitis may be associated with variable PET findings, possibly dependent upon the timing of the study, or other factors. Future studies should investigate whether cortical hypometabolism is associated with a relapsing course, and whether it is predictive of a poorer outcome in NMDA receptor encephalitis.
The pathophysiology of stroke-like episodes in MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes) remains unresolved. Possible mechanisms include mitochondrial angiopathy, cytopathy, or both, collectively resulting in cellular energy depletion. To clarify disease mechanisms, axonal excitability properties were investigated in a 10-year-old child with MELAS. Serial assessments during a stroke-like episode revealed reversible depolarization of the axonal membrane consistent with disruption of energy-dependent processes. Axonal parameters correlated with the clinical assessment of central dysfunction and biochemical measures of acidosis. Novel axonal excitability techniques have established acute, reversible ischemic-like depolarization that may serve as a surrogate marker of central events that develop during stroke-like episodes in MELAS.
Previous findings in rats suggest that the rostral basolateral amygdala (rBLA) and prelimbic prefrontal cortex (plPFC) are likely components of cue reinstatement circuitry based on bilateral inactivation of each site alone. In the present investigation, we examined whether the rBLA and plPFC interact to regulate reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior elicited by reexposure to a combination of discrete and contextual cocaine-paired cues. After establishing stable baseline responding under a second-order schedule of cocaine reinforcement and cue presentation, rats underwent response-extinction training in which cocaine and cocaine-paired cues were withheld. To test the interaction, rats with asymmetric cannulae placements in the rBLA and plPFC received vehicle or lidocaine infusions prior to reinstatement testing during which cocaine-paired cues were presented, in the absence of cocaine availability, under a second-order schedule. Asymmetric inactivation of the rBLA and plPFC significantly attenuated reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior relative to vehicle treatment. As expected, inactivation of the rBLA or plPFC in rats with unilateral cannulae placements did not disrupt reinstatement relative to vehicle treatment. Findings propose critical intrahemispheric interaction between the rBLA and plPFC in regulating reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior elicited by reexposure to drug-paired cues.
Neurotensin is known to have antipsychotic-like behavioral and neurochemical effects, but its participation in fear memory has not been fully elucidated. Here, we report that a lack of type 1 neurotensin receptor (Ntsr1) increases the behavioral fear response elicited by weak fear memory. Adult Ntsr1-knockout (KO) mice and their wild-type (WT) littermates were compared in contextual fear conditioning. The mice were exposed twice for 3min to the context 24 and 48h after conditioning (first and second exposure, respectively), and freezing response of mice at the exposure was measured to evaluate fear memory. Ntsr1-KO mice showed a higher freezing rate than WT mice at both first and second exposures under the condition where a relatively weak unconditioned stimulus (footshock) was applied and thus elicited a relatively lower freezing rate. The difference in the first exposure between Ntsr1-KO and WT mice disappeared under the condition where a more intense unconditioned stimulus was used. The enhancement of freezing response in Ntsr1-KO mice at second exposure was abolished by propranolol, a beta-adrenergic blocker that suppresses fear memory reconsolidation, and suppressed by MK-801, an NMDA receptor antagonist. These results suggest that Ntsr1 plays inhibitory roles in weak fear memory.
Microinjections of the inhibitory GABA-A receptor agonist muscimol into the shell region of the nucleus accumbens (AcbSh) have been reported to induce large increases in food intake, but the effect of these injections on motivational processes is less clear. In the current study, bilateral injections of saline, muscimol (50ng/side) or d-amphetamine (10mug/side) were made into the AcbSh of rats trained to lever press on a progressive ratio schedule for food reward. Injections of both muscimol and amphetamine were found to produce a large increase in the breaking point relative to saline injections. This result suggests that inactivation of the AcbSh does not simply drive ingestive behavior, but also affects motivational processes assessed by the progressive ratio schedule. Breaking points were also increased by injections of amphetamine into the AcbSh.
18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a selective antagonist of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors, has been shown to reduce the self-administration of several drugs of abuse. Recently, this agent has also been shown to attenuate sucrose reward, decrease sucrose intake and prevent the development of sucrose-induced obesity in rats. The present experiments were designed to determine whether the latter effect was due to an 18-MC-induced conditioned taste aversion to sucrose. Both 18-MC (20mg/ kg, i.p.) and control agent, lithium chloride (100mg/kg, i.p.), reduced sucrose intake 24h after association with sucrose; however, only lithium chloride reduced sucrose intake 72h later. Consistent with previous data, 18-MC appears to have proactive effect for 24h and it does not induce a conditioned taste aversion.
Monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL) and fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) degrade the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide (AEA), respectively. Pharmacological inhibition of these enzymes in the periphery may elucidate the role of endocannabinoids in controlling nociceptive transmission. We compared effects of the MGL inhibitor JZL184, the FAAH inhibitor URB597, and the endocannabinoid uptake inhibitor VDM11, administered locally in the paw, on behavioral hypersensitivities produced by capsaicin, the pungent ingredient in hot chili peppers. Intradermal capsaicin (10 microg i.pl.) produced nocifensive behavior, thermal hyperalgesia, and mechanical allodynia in rats. JZL184 (100 microg i.pl.) suppressed capsaicin-induced nocifensive behavior and thermal hyperalgesia without altering capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia. Effects of JZL184 were blocked by either the CB(1) antagonist AM251 (80 microg i.pl.) or the CB(2) antagonist AM630 (25 microg i.pl.). URB597 (75 microg i.pl.) suppressed capsaicin-induced mechanical allodynia without altering capsaicin-evoked thermal hyperalgesia or nocifensive behavior. Effects of URB597 were blocked by AM251 (80 microg i.pl.), but not by AM630 (25 microg i.pl.). VDM11 (100 microg i.pl.) suppressed capsaicin-evoked hypersensitivity for all three dependent measures (nocifensive behavior, thermal hyperalgesia, and mechanical allodynia), suggesting an additive effect following putative elevation of both AEA and 2-AG. The VDM11-induced suppression of capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior and thermal hyperalgesia was blocked by either AM251 (80 microg i.pl.) or AM630 (25 microg i.pl.), as observed with JZL184. The VDM11-induced suppression of capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia was blocked by AM251 (25 microg i.pl.) only, as observed with URB597. Thus, peripheral inhibition of enzymes hydrolyzing 2-AG and AEA suppresses capsaicin-evoked behavioral sensitization with distinct patterns of pharmacological specificity and in a non-overlapping and modality-specific manner. Modulation of endocannabinoids in the periphery suppressed capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior and thermal hyperalgesia through either CB(1) or CB(2) receptor mechanisms but suppressed capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia through CB(1) mechanisms only. Inhibition of endocannabinoid transport was more effective in suppressing capsaicin-induced sensitization compared to inhibition of either FAAH or MGL alone. These studies are the first to unveil the effects of pharmacologically increasing peripheral endocannabinoid levels on capsaicin-induced behavioral hypersensitivities. Our data suggest that 2-AG, the putative product of MGL inhibition, and AEA, the putative product of FAAH inhibition, differentially suppress capsaicin-induced nociception through peripheral cannabinoid mechanisms.
Beside the therapeutic improvement over first-generation antipsychotics, the fact that prescription of atypical agents is also associated to the emergence of severe metabolic derangement in patients is not a mystery anymore. Body weight gain, dyslipidemia, adiposity, impaired glucose homeostasis, insulin and leptin resistance and new-onset type II diabetes are all part of a syndromic cluster of vast medical concern. Thus, clinical reports and rodent models of atypical antipsychotic-associated metabolic impairment have growth in parallel as separate territories. This review focuses on the attempt to take a snapshot of the present developing moment and to describe to what extent clinical data are reflected by the findings derived from animal studies. This aim is pursued through different steps that, starting from the criteria necessary to characterize the &quot;atypicality&quot; of atypical drugs, then explore the consistency among clinical and animal-based data. The endpoint of this survey consists in the analysis of the potential mechanisms underlying the metabolic derangement induced by this class of drugs. It is, indeed, our opinion that some atypical antipsychotics should be viewed as potent obesogenic factors that can be exploited as valuable tools to shed light into the elusive dilemma of obesity. For this reason, recently identified obesogenic and diabetogenic mechanisms are the background on which the present work is built and some novel forthcoming lines of investigation suggested.


Vision is generally considered the dominant sensory modality; self-contained and independent of other senses. In this article, we will present recent results that contradict this view, and show that visual perception can be strongly altered by sound and touch, and such alterations can occur even at early stages of processing, as early as primary visual cortex. We will first review the behavioral evidence demonstrating modulation of visual perception by other modalities. As extreme examples of such modulations, we will describe two visual illusions induced by sound, and a visual illusion induced by touch. Next, we will discuss studies demonstrating modulation of activity in visual areas by stimulation of other modalities, and discuss possible pathways that could underpin such interactions. This will be followed by a discussion of how crossmodal interactions can affect visual learning and adaptation. We will review several studies showing crossmodal effects on visual learning. We will conclude with a discussion of computational principles governing these crossmodal interactions, and review several recent studies that demonstrate that these interactions are statistically optimal.
Large fluctuations have received considerable attention as they encode information on the fine-scale dynamics. Large deviation relations known as fluctuation theorems also capture crucial nonequilibrium thermodynamical properties. Here we report that, using the technique of uniformization, the thermodynamic large deviation functions of continuous-time Markov processes can be obtained from Markov chains evolving in discrete time. This formulation offers theoretical and numerical approaches to explore large deviation properties. In particular, the time evolution of autonomous and nonautonomous processes can be expressed in terms of a single Poisson rate. In this way the uniformization procedure leads to a simple and efficient way to simulate stochastic trajectories that reproduce the exact fluxes statistics. We illustrate the formalism for the current fluctuations in a stochastic pump model.
Beyond their motor impairments, the cerebellar Lurcher mutant mice show an alteration of the anxiety-related behaviors we called &quot;behavioral disinhibition&quot;. This is characterized by a low avoidance towards the open arms of the elevated plus-maze device paradoxically combined with a dramatic blood corticosterone level rise induced by the exposure to the experimental conditions. The present study was aimed at determining if the disinhibition of the mutants could be caused by their stress-induced high corticosterone rate. For this purpose, we compared the behaviors of Lurcher and control mice in the elevated plus-maze test after injection of either 2-methyl-1.2-di-3-pyridil-1-propanone (metyrapone; 75 mg/kg), a corticosterone synthesis inhibitor, or vehicle alone (Tween 80, 5%). Our results showed that metyrapone, although efficiently reducing their blood corticosterone rate, provoked only modest modifications of the anxiety-related behaviors in mice of both genotypes. As a result, the behavioral distance between the Lurcher and control mice slightly decreased, without being totally abolished. Thus, it seems that the behavioral disinhibition of the mutants is caused only in part by their stress-provoked high corticosterone level. As a complementary hypothesis, we propose that the behavioral disturbances observed in the Lurcher mice also might arise from dysfunctions of the neural pathways connecting the cerebellum with some limbic structures known to be highly involved in the regulation of emotions.
Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) can readily report on changes in blood volume and oxygenation. However, it has proved more problematic to measure real-time changes in blood flow and oxygen consumption. Here we report the development of a novel method using NIRS to measure local oxygen consumption in human muscle. The method utilizes the blood volume changes induced by the muscle pump during rhythmically contracting exercising skeletal muscle. We found that the saturation of the blood during the contraction phase was lower than that during the relaxation phase. The calculated oxygen drop was then divided by the contraction time to generate a value for the muscle oxygen consumption in the optical region of interest. As a test we measured the muscle oxygen consumption in the human vastus lateralis during exercise on a cycle ergometer by 11 trained male athletes (32 +/- 11 years old) at 40% and 110% peak aerobic power. We saw an increase from 13.78 micromol 100 g(-1) min(-1) to 19.72 micromol 100 g(-1) min(-1) with the increase in power. The measurements are theoretically exempt from usual NIRS confounders such as myoglobin and adipose tissue and could provide a useful tool for studying human physiology.
The complex interplay of neural, metabolic, myogenic and mechanical mechanisms that regulate blood flow in skeletal muscle (MBF) is still incompletely understood. For the first time, a method is presented for high time-resolution recording of MBF from a purely muscular artery in physiological conditions. Ultrasound perivascular flow probes were implanted (n = 15) mono- or bilaterally around the masseteric branch of the facial artery in nine rabbits and tested up to 16 days after implant. Reliable and stable recordings were achieved in 50% of implants. Blood flow was observed to increase from a resting level of 0.2-0.3 ml min(-1) up to 4.0-6.0 ml min(-1) during spontaneous masticatory activity. In addition, within single masticatory cycles marked back flow transients could be observed (peak flow = -10 ml min(-1)) during powerful masticatory strokes but not during mild mastication. The possibility of (1) surgically removing the sympathetic supply to the relevant vascular bed and of (2) bilaterally monitoring the perfusion of masseter muscles thus allowing to use one side as control side for different types of interventions makes this model a useful tool for disentangling the different mechanisms involved in the control of MBF.
Recent findings from developmental neuroscience suggest that the adolescent brain is too immature to exert control over impulsive drives, such as sensation seeking, that increase during adolescence. Using a discounting of delayed reward paradigm, this research examines the ability to delay gratification as a potential source of control over risk-taking tendencies that increase during adolescence. In addition, it explores the role of experience resulting from risk taking as well as future time perspective as contributors to the development of this ability. In a nationally representative sample (n = 900) of young people aged 14-22, a structural equation analysis shows that risk taking as assessed by use of three popular drugs (tobacco, marijuana, and alcohol) is inversely related to the ability to delay gratification. The relation is robust across gender, age, and different levels of sensation seeking. In addition, high sensation seekers exhibit dramatic age-related increase in delay of gratification, lending support to the hypothesis that engaging in risky behavior provides experience that leads to greater patience for long-term rewards. The findings support the conclusion that a complete understanding of the development of self-control must consider individual differences not easily explained by universal trends in brain maturation.
The subventricular zone (SVZ) is a dynamic cellular niche with unique neurogenic properties that are, as of yet, not fully understood. Astrocytes residing in the SVZ have been shown to spawn migratory neuroblasts via transitory amplifying progenitor cells. These migratory neuroblasts play a role in maintaining the olfactory circuitry in healthy brains and potentially have restorative properties after brain injury. Therefore, it is imperative to understand the basic nature of these neurogenic astrocytes in order to gain a more cohesive picture of SVZ adult neurogenesis. However, one of the obstacles in this line of research is to specifically genetically modify SVZ astrocytes. Viral vector systems, based on adeno-associated viruses and lentiviruses, are flexible gene transfer systems that allow long-term transgene expression in a host cell. Electroporation allows for the transient expression of larger transgenes; whereas the cre/loxP system provides a lifetime of inherently stable genetic modulation. The benefits and drawbacks of these transduction methods and the application of various astrocyte-specific promoters are discussed with regard to their efficiency and accuracy when transducing adult SVZ astrocytes in the mouse brain. In vivo studies that manipulate gene expression in SVZ astrocytes will be essential to fully dissect and understand the complex molecular and cellular properties of the SVZ in the upcoming years.

To examine the impact of integrated treatment programs (those with substance use treatment and pregnancy-, parenting-, or child-related services) on maternal mental health, we compiled a database of studies of integrated programs published between 1990 and 2007 with outcome data on maternal mental health. There were 18 cohort studies, 3 randomized trials, and 2 quasi-experimental studies. Of the five studies comparing integrated to nonintegrated programs, three studies provided enough information to allow for them to be combined in a meta-analysis. The average effect size was 0.23 (95% CI = 0.15 to 0.31, SE = 0.04), p &lt; .001. There was no statistically significant heterogeneity among the studies, Q = 5.66, p = .059. This meta-analysis is the first systematic quantitative review of studies evaluating the impact of integrated programs on maternal mental health. Findings suggest that integrated programs may be associated with a small advantage over nonintegrated programs in improving maternal mental health. This review highlights the need for further research with improved methodology, study quality, and reporting to improve our understanding of how best to meet the mental health needs of mothers with substance abuse issues.
Previous research has shown that asymmetry of brain activity is decreased in older adults. This study investigates whether cortical gray matter asymmetry also shows age-related differences, and whether gray matter asymmetry differs between cognitively stable persons and persons who have shown profound age-related declines in cognitive functioning. In addition, we have examined whether prodromal dementia affects the study outcome. The gray matter volumes of seven prefrontal and temporal regions of interest were delineated on T1-weighted MRI scans in 70 adults aged between 52 and 84 years. Statistical analyses were conducted with and without participants who developed dementia within 6 years after the MRI scan session. It was found that asymmetry did not differ over the age range of 52-84 years of age. This result did not change when data from participants who were diagnosed with dementia within 6 years after MRI assessment were excluded from the analysis. In addition, no gray matter asymmetry differences were found between cognitively stable participants and participants who showed cognitive decline. We conclude that alterations in gray matter asymmetry may not be part of the healthy aging process.
Normal aging has been shown to impact performance during human eyeblink classical conditioning, with older adults showing lower conditioning levels than younger adults. Previous findings showed younger adults can acquire both delay and trace conditioning concurrently, but it is not known whether older adults can learn under the same conditions. Present results indicated older adults did not produce a significantly greater number of conditioned responses during acquisition, but their ability to time eyeblink responses prior to the unconditioned stimulus was preserved. The decline in eyeblink conditioning that typically accompanies aging has been extended to concurrent presentations of delay and trace conditioning trials.
Low scores across a battery of tests are common in healthy people and vary by demographic characteristics. The purpose of the present article was to present the base rates of low scores for the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, fourth edition (WISC-IV; D. Wechsler, 2003). Participants included 2,200 children and adolescents between 6 and 16 years of age from the WISC-IV U.S. standardization sample. Measures considered in the base rates analyses included the 10 core subtests and the 4 index scores. Analyses were conducted for the entire standardization sample as well as stratified by different classifications of intelligence and different years of parental education. In the total sample, it is uncommon to have 6 or more subtest scores or 2 or more Index scores &lt;or= 9th percentile. The prevalence of low scores typically increased with lesser intelligence and fewer years of parental education (e.g., children with below-average intelligence were 75 times more likely than children with above-intelligence to have at least one impaired subtest score). Consistent with existing studies of the base rates of low scores, some low scores on the WISC-IV were common in children and adolescents, and the frequency was related to a child's level of intelligence and parental education.
A large and growing number of studies support the notion that arousing positive emotional states expand, and that arousing negative states constrict, the scope of attention on both the perceptual and conceptual levels. However, these studies have predominantly involved the manipulation or measurement of conscious emotional experiences (e.g., subjective feelings of happiness or anxiety). This raises the question: Do cues that are merely associated with benign versus threatening situations but do not elicit conscious feelings of positive or negative emotional arousal independently expand or contract attentional scope? Integrating theoretical advances in affective neuroscience, positive psychology, and social cognition, the authors propose that rudimentary intero- and exteroceptive stimuli may indeed become associated with the onset of arousing positive or negative emotional states and/or with appraisals that the environment is benign or threatening and thereby come to moderate the scope of attention in the absence of conscious emotional experience. Specifically, implicit &quot;benign situation&quot; cues are posited to broaden, and implicit &quot;threatening situation&quot; cues to narrow, the range of both perceptual and conceptual attentional selection. An extensive array of research findings involving a diverse set of such implicit affective cues (e.g., enactment of approach and avoidance behaviors, incidental exposure to colors signaling safety vs. danger) is marshaled in support of this proposition. Potential alternative explanations for and moderators of these attentional tuning effects, as well as their higher level neuropsychological underpinnings, are also discussed along with prospective extensions to a range of other situational cues and domains of social cognitive processing.

In the explicitly cued task-switching paradigm, two cues per task allow separation of costs associated with switching cues from costs of switching tasks. Whilst task-switch costs have become controversial, cue-switch costs are robust. The processes that contribute to cue-switch costs are under-specified in the literature: they could reflect perceptual priming of cue properties, or priming of control processes that form relevant working memory (WM) representations of task demands. Across two experiments we manipulated cue-transparency in an attention-switching design to test the contrasting hypotheses of cue-switch costs, and show that such costs emerge from control processes of establishing relevant WM representations, rather than perceptual priming of the cue itself. When the cues were maximally transparent, cue-switch costs were eradicated. We discuss the results in terms of recent theories of cue encoding, and provide a formal definition of cue-transparency in switching designs and its relation to WM representations that guide task performance.
Specialized, bimodal neural systems integrate visual and tactile information in the space near the hand. Here, we show that visuo-tactile representations allow attention to influence early perceptual processing, namely, figure-ground assignment. Regions that were reached toward were more likely than other regions to be assigned as foreground figures, and hand position competed with image-based information to bias figure-ground assignment. Our findings suggest that hand position allows attention to influence visual perceptual processing and that visual processes typically viewed as unimodal can be influenced by bimodal visuo-tactile representations.
Cultural differences in emotion perception have been reported mainly for facial expressions and to a lesser extent for vocal expressions. However, the way in which the perceiver combines auditory and visual cues may itself be subject to cultural variability. Our study investigated cultural differences between Japanese and Dutch participants in the multisensory perception of emotion. A face and a voice, expressing either congruent or incongruent emotions, were presented on each trial. Participants were instructed to judge the emotion expressed in one of the two sources. The effect of to-be-ignored voice information on facial judgments was larger in Japanese than in Dutch participants, whereas the effect of to-be-ignored face information on vocal judgments was smaller in Japanese than in Dutch participants. This result indicates that Japanese people are more attuned than Dutch people to vocal processing in the multisensory perception of emotion. Our findings provide the first evidence that multisensory integration of affective information is modulated by perceivers' cultural background.
In a study that builds on recent cognitive neuroscience research on body perception and social psychology research on social relations, we tested the hypothesis that synchronous multisensory stimulation leads to self-other merging. We brushed the cheek of each study participant as he or she watched a stranger's cheek being brushed in the same way, either in synchrony or in asynchrony. We found that this multisensory procedure had an effect on participants' body perception as well as social perception. Study participants exposed to synchronous stimulation showed more merging of self and the other than participants exposed to asynchronous stimulation. The degree of self-other merging was determined by measuring participants' body sensations and their perception of face resemblance, as well as participants' judgment of the inner state of the other, closeness felt toward the other, and conformity behavior. The results of this study show how multisensory integration can affect social perception and create a sense of self-other similarity.
Remembering painful incidents has important adaptive value but may also contribute to clinical symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder and chronic pain states. Because glucocorticoids are known to impair memory retrieval processes, we investigated whether cortisol affects recall of previously experienced pain in healthy young men. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study, 20 male participants were presented pictures, half of them combined with a heat-pain stimulus. The next day, the same pictures were shown in the absence of pain. Cortisol (20 mg) administered 1h before retention testing reduced recall of explicit contextual pain memory, whereas it did not affect pain threshold or pain tolerance.





It has been suggested that anxious individuals are more prone to feel that negative outcomes are particularly extreme and to interpret ambiguous outcomes as negative compared to nonanxious individuals. Previous studies have demonstrated that the feedback negativity (FN) component of event-related brain potential (ERP) is sensitive to outcome evaluation and outcome expectancy. Hence, we predicted that the FN should be different between high trait-anxiety (HTA) and low trait-anxiety (LTA) individuals. To test our hypothesis, the ERPs were recorded during a simple monetary gambling task. The FN was measured as a difference wave created across conditions. We found that the amplitude of the FN indicating negative versus positive outcomes was significantly larger for LTA individuals compared to HTA individuals. However, there was no significant difference in the FN between groups in response to ambiguous versus positive outcomes. The results indicate that there is a relationship between the FN and individual differences in anxiety. We suggest that these results reflect the impact of anxiety on outcome expectation. Our results challenge the reinforcement learning theory of error-related negativity, which proposes that ERN and FN reflect the same cognitive process.
Target selection can be based on spatial or dimensional/featural mechanisms operating in a location-independent manner. We investigated whether dimension-based attention affects processing in early visual stages. Subjects searched for a singleton target among an 8-item array, with the search display preceded by an identical cue array with a dimensionally non-predictive, but spatially predictive singleton. Reaction times (RTs) were increased for changes in the target-defining dimension but not for featural changes within a dimension. This RT effect was mirrored by modulations of the P1 and anterior transition N2 (tN2). Current density reconstructions revealed increased activity in dorsal occipital cortex and decreased activity in left frontopolar cortex owing to repeated dimensional pop-out identities. These findings strengthen dimension-based theories of visual attention by indicating dimension-, rather than feature-, specific influences within the first 110 ms of visual processing.
Approach motivation has been reliably associated with relative left prefrontal brain activity as measured with electroencephalography (EEG). Motivation researchers have increasingly used the line bisection task, a behavioral measure of relative cerebral asymmetry, as a neural index of approach motivation-related processes. Despite its wide adoption, however, the line bisection task has not been confirmed as a valid measure of the precise pattern of activity linked to approach motivation. In two studies, we demonstrate that line bisection bias is specifically related to baseline, approach-related, prefrontal EEG alpha asymmetry (Study 1) and is heightened by the same situational factors that heighten the same approach-related prefrontal EEG alpha asymmetry (Study 2). Results support the line bisection task as an efficient and unobtrusive behavioral neuroscience measure of approach motivation.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were obtained from an identity priming task, where a green target had to be selected against a superimposed red distractor. Several priming conditions were realized in a mix of control (CO), negative priming (NP), and positive priming (PP) trials. PP and NP effects in reaction times (RTs) were significant. ERP results conceptually replicate earlier findings of left-posterior P300 reduction in PP and NP trials compared to CO. This ERP effect may reflect the detection of prime-probe similarity corresponding to the concept of a retrieval cue. A novel finding concerned amplitude increase of the frontal late positive complex (LPC) in the order NP, CO, and PP. NP therefore seemed to induce brain activity related to cognitive control and/or memory processes, with reduced LPC amplitude indicating effortful processing. Overall, retrieval-based explanations of identity NP are supported.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of instructions and expertise upon neuronal changes during observation of sequential finger movements. Professional pianists and musically nave subjects observed these movements with the aim of either replicating or recognizing them at a later stage. A non-linear measure of functional coupling was used to investigate EEG activity. In the 10-13 Hz frequency band and in musically nave subjects, functional coupling during observation for replica was greater within central and neighboring areas than during observation for recognition. An opposite pattern was found in the 4-8 Hz frequency band. In the 10-13 Hz band and in areas including the parietal cortex, functional coupling in musically nave subjects was greater compared to professional pianists under observation for replica. Results are discussed in the light of recent findings from the cognitive and behavioral neuroscience literature.

We have previously described an action-potential and Ca(2+)-dependent form of adenosine release in the molecular layer of cerebellar slices. The most likely source of the adenosine is the parallel fibres, the axons of granule cells. Using microelectrode biosensors, we have therefore investigated whether cultured granule cells (from postnatal day 7-8 rats) can release adenosine. Although no purine release could be detected in response to focal electrical stimulation, purine (adenosine, inosine or hypoxanthine) release occurred in response to an increase in extracellular K(+) concentration from 3 to 25mM coupled with addition of 1mM glutamate. The mechanism of purine release was transport from the cytoplasm via an ENT transporter. This process did not require action-potential firing but was Ca(2+)dependent. The major purine released was not adenosine, but was either inosine or hypoxanthine. In order for inosine/hypoxanthine release to occur, cultures had to contain both granule cells and glial cells; neither cellular component was sufficient alone. Using the same stimulus in cerebellar slices (postnatal day 7-25), it was possible to release purines. The release however was not blocked by ENT blockers and there was a shift in the Ca(2+) dependence during development. This data from cultures and slices further illustrates the complexities of purine release, which is dependent on cellular composition and developmental stage.
Behavioural and neuroimaging studies suggest that spontaneous and task-related thought processes share common cognitive mechanisms and neural bases. Lateral rostral prefrontal cortex (RPFC) is a brain region that has been implicated both in spontaneous thought and in high-level cognitive control processes, such as goal/subgoal integration and the manipulation of self-generated thoughts. We therefore propose that the recruitment of lateral RPFC may follow a U-shaped function of cognitive demand: relatively high in low-demand situations conducive to the emergence of spontaneous thought, and in high-demand situations depending on processes supported by this brain region. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate brain activity while healthy participants performed two tasks, each with three levels of cognitive demands, in a block design. The frequency of task-unrelated thoughts, measured by questionnaire, was highest in the low cognitive demand condition. Low and high cognitive demand conditions were each compared to the intermediate level. Lateral RPFC and superior parietal cortex were recruited in both comparisons, with additional activations specific to each contrast. These results suggest that RPFC is involved both when (a) task demands are low, and the mind wanders, and (b) the task requires goal/subgoal integration and manipulation of self-generated thoughts.
Theories of learning have historically taken, as their starting point, the assumption that learning processes have universal applicability. This position has been argued on grounds of parsimony, but has received two significant challenges: first, from the observation that some kinds of learning, such as spatial learning, seem to obey different rules from others, and second, that some kinds of learning take place in processing modules that are separate from each other. These challenges arose in the behavioural literature but have since received considerable support from neurobiological studies, particularly single neuron studies of spatial learning, confirming that there are indeed separable (albeit highly intercommunicating) processing modules in the brain, which may not always interact (within or between themselves) according to classic associative principles. On the basis of these neurobiological data, reviewed here, it is argued that rather than assuming universality of associative rules, it is more parsimonious to assume sets of locally operating rules, each specialized for a particular domain. By this view, although almost all learning is associative in one way or another, the behavioural-level characterization of the rules governing learning may vary depending on which neural modules are involved in a given behaviour. Neurobiological studies, in tandem with behavioural studies, can help reveal the nature of these modules and the local rules by which they interact.
Reading skills at age 7-8 years were examined in a community-representative sample of 21 screened and clinically examined children with language delay (LD) followed prospectively from 2.5 years of age. The present study aimed to (1) determine whether these children with a history of LD had deficits in basic reading skills, i.e. decoding and comprehension, compared to the age norms of standardized tests, (2) analyze if there was a relationship between reading outcome and neuropsychiatric diagnosis by comparing three subgroups of children, LD pure, LD+ASD (autism spectrum disorder) and LD+ADHD, and, (3) determine what language measures at age 6 years were associated with the 7-8-year reading outcome. Both decoding and comprehension of single word reading were significantly below the norm for the whole LD group, where children with LD+ASD scored lowest, and children with LD highest. However, the differences between the three groups did not reach significance. Two reader groups were identified according to the results of word decoding and comprehension, respectively, resulting in the same 7 children. ANOVA revealed that the only differences on the 6-year language tests between the two groups were found on color naming and word memory. This study has shown that children with LD and subsequently identified neurodevelopmental problems such as ASD and ADHD experience continued deficits, demonstrated also in reading skills and that the picture of the reading problems seemed to resemble those of typically developing children.

Many studies have dealt with the interrelationships between both olfactory and trigeminal systems but a poorly explored question concerns the role of each system in the detection processes, especially in the just noticeable difference (JND). The aim of this study was to investigate variations in JNDs for three odorants in relation to their trigeminal component, i.e. low, middle, high. The results indicated that the higher the trigeminal component, the lower the JND, suggesting a better capacity to perceive intensity changes for pungent odorants than for relatively pure odorants.
The idea that each brain function is undertaken by a small part of focal brain was established in 19th century. Since then, trials to reveal an individual function in each area have been continued. Although intraoperative electric stimulation/suppression has been considered to be the most secure way of exploration of brain function, this method has several limitations due to its invasive nature. On the other hand, recent advancement of explorative measure with high sensitivity has enabled measurement of physical phenomenon accompanied with change of brain function from outside of the skull. These methods can be applied to normal subjects using their capability of repetitive and multiple measurements and have provided new findings. Combination of several techniques knowing characteristics and limitation of each method will provide new insight into the brain.
Panic attacks are psychopathological phenomena with a strong emotional activation that often induces subsequent anticipatory anxiety and phobic avoidance. Impairment in emotional processing in patients with Panic Disorder (PD) has been hypothesized. Emotional Intelligence (EI) involves the individual abilities to perceive, understand and manage emotions in order to cope with changes in internal and external environment. We examined EI in 42 patients with PD with Agoraphobia compared to 49 healthy controls and investigated if clinical severity of Agoraphobia is related to EI performance. We assessed EI by Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test and Agoraphobia by Mobility Inventory for Agoraphobia. Patients with PD and Agoraphobia showed lower Strategic EI ability than healthy controls, in both Understanding and Managing emotion abilities, and a general propensity to attribute negative emotional valence to different stimuli. These preliminary results suggest that impaired mechanisms of understanding and integrating emotions may be involved in the phenomenology of PD. These features might be the target of psychological interventions in PD. On the contrary, Emotional Intelligence did not appear to affect the clinical severity of Agoraphobia.


Malnutrition is a predictor of increased mortality in chronic hemodialysis (HD) patients. Various factors may contribute to malnutrition in these patients including energy and protein intake, inflammation, and comorbidity. To determine the importance of these factors in malnutrition of chronic HD patients, we studied 112 chronic HD patients in two centers was evaluated with the Dialysis Malnutrition Score (DMS) and anthropometric and biochemical indices. Seventy six (67.8%) patients were classified as malnourished. According to DMS score, poor protein intake (r= -0.34, P&lt; 0.01), comorbidities (r= -0.24, P&lt; 0.05), poor energy intake (r= - 0.18, P&lt; 0.005), and inflammation (r= -0.16, P&lt; 0.05) were significant predictors of malnutrition in descending order of importance. Multiple regression analysis showed that only poor protein intake was the explanatory variable of anthropometric measurements decline including body mass index, triceps skin fold thick-ness, mid arm circumference, mid arm muscle circumference, fat free mass, fat mass, albumin, creatinine and transferrine. None of the mentioned factors predicted the decrease of biochemical markers. We conclude that the frequency of malnutrition is high in our population and poor protein intake is the primary contributing factor for this condition. Therefore, providing enough protein may be a simple and effective way in preventing malnutrition in these patients.

The N1 auditory event-related potential (ERP) is reduced in chronic schizophrenia, as is the P2 to attended tones. N1 reduction may be endophenotypic for schizophrenia, being reduced in twins of schizophrenic patients and showing heritability. Results in family members, however, are equivocal, with abnormally small N1 (consistent with an endophenotype) and abnormally large N1 (inconsistent with an endophenotype) reported. P2 has been little studied in schizophrenia or family members. One crucial step in establishing endophenotypes is to rule out causal chronicity factors. We examined schizophrenia patients within 1 year of first hospitalization (most within 2 wk), chronically ill patients, and matched controls to examine N1 and P2 reductions and disease stage. Two active target detection oddball tasks were used, one with 97-dB tones against 70-dB white masking noise, the second with 97-dB tones without noise. Results from 8 samples are reported: first-hospitalized patients and matched controls and chronic patients and matched controls for the 2 tasks. N1 and P2 were measured from the standard stimuli. N1 and P2 were significantly reduced in chronic patients, as expected, and reduced in first-hospitalized patients. Because N1 and P2 are reduced even at the first hospitalization for schizophrenia, they may serve as viable electrophysiological endophenotypes for the disorder. However, deficit early in the disease is necessary but not sufficient to establish these ERPs as endophenotypes. Deficits must next be demonstrated in at least a subset of unaffected family members, a crucial criterion for an endophenotype.


The current study examined characteristics of coping patterns adopted by college students in mainland China. In particular, it examined the coping strategies adopted by subjects with schizotypal personality (SPD) features compared to those without SPD features, and compared the relative effectiveness of their coping. Four types of coping flexibility were identified among the college sample (n=427), including active-inflexible, passive-inflexible, active-inconsistent, and passive-inconsistent styles. The passive-inconsistent style was related to the worst outcomes. When comparing subjects with SPD features with those without SPD features, subjects with SPD features endorsed significantly more emotion-focused strategies in uncontrollable situations than those without SPD features. The SPD group experienced higher levels of trait anxiety, depression, paranoid ideation and general health problems. The SPD group also generally perceived more, less controllable stress than the non-SPD group and randomly used all four categories of coping strategies.

Childhood uptake of lead from exposure to atmospheric leaded gasoline in the United States has been studied using mainly blood lead levels. Since reliable blood lead techniques were used only after the peak use of leaded gasoline, the prior exposure history is unclear. The well-documented decline in blood lead levels after the mid-1970s could represent the continuation of a historic steady decline in exposure from many sources. Alternatively, the post-1970s decline might represent the declining phase of a unimodal rise and fall corresponding closely to usage of leaded gasoline. To assess these possibilities, lead concentration and 207Pb/206Pb isotope ratios were measured in the enamel of permanent molar teeth formed between 1936 and 1993 in mainly African-American donors who grew up in the Cleveland area. Tooth enamel preserves the lead concentration and isotope ratio that prevails during tooth formation. Historical trends in enamel lead concentration were significantly correlated with surrogates of atmospheric lead exposure: lead in sediments of two dated Lake Erie cores, and lead consumed in gasoline. About two-thirds of the total lead uptake into enamel in this period was attributable to leaded gasoline, and the remainder to other sources (e.g. paint). Enamel 207Pb/206Pb isotope ratios were similar to those of one lake sediment. Multivariate analysis revealed significant correlation in neighborhoods with higher levels of traffic, and including lake sediment data, accounted for 53% of the variation in enamel lead levels. Enamel lead concentration was highly correlated with reported African-American childhood blood levels. The extrapolated peak level of 48microg/dL (range 40 to 63) is associated with clinical and behavioral impairments, which may have implications for adults who were children during the peak gasoline lead exposure. In sum, leaded gasoline emission was the predominant source of lead exposure of African-American Cleveland children during the latter two-thirds of the 20th century.
Till now truncation mutations of voltage-gated sodium channel alpha subunit type I (SCN1A) gene were mostly found in severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy (SMEI) patients. In this research we first identified two novel de novo truncation mutations (S662X and M145fx148) in two patients whose phenotypes were quite milder compared with SMEI patients. One patient was diagnosed as generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+); the other had focal seizures. Both patients had good response to anti-epileptic therapy (valproate or the combination of valproate and topiramate). Our findings extended the utility of the SCN1A gene testing and further confirmed the complex relationship between genotype and phenotype of SCN1A mutations. Further work is needed to optimize the protocol for specific genetic testing in children with epilepsy.
Nerve conduction studies are an integral component of the evaluation of a peripheral neuropathy. While routine in nature, they require attention to detail. This article focuses on operator and machine errors that can affect the correct interpretation of nerve conduction data and the nature of a neuropathy.
Inflammatory neuropathies are acquired disorders of peripheral nerves and occasionally of the central nervous system that can affect individuals at any age. The course can be monophasic, relapsing, or progressive. Inflammatory neuropathies are classified as acute or chronic. The acute form reaches a nadir by 4 weeks and the chronic form over 8 weeks or greater. The most common example of an acute inflammatory neuropathy is acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (AIDP), which is part of the Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). The most common chronic inflammatory neuropathy is chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculopathy (CIDP). Other chronic inflammatory neuropathies are multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) and the Lewis-Sumner syndrome. The Fisher syndrome and Bickerstaff brainstem encephalitis occur acutely and have clinical overlap with AIDP.
Requests for an evaluation for a peripheral neuropathy are common in the clinic and electrodiagnostic laboratory. Lists of types of neuropathies are long as are diagnostic tests. An approach to the evaluation of peripheral neuropathies is valuable as it permits full characterization of the neuropathy after which the lists of possible types and tests becomes much shorter and manageable. In this article, the author presents such an approach, focusing on the clinical aspects.
Laboratory testing to help determine the cause of a peripheral neuropathy can be challenging. A rational approach, as opposed to a shotgun approach, is advocated for efficiency and expense. The author reviews a spectrum of tests and provides a basis for when to order and not to order.

Status epilepticus (SE) is an acute neurologic emergency that requires prompt recognition and initiation of treatment. Recognition can be difficult because SE comes in many forms and has been defined differently over the past decade. We present the general consensus definition of SE and how to use the definition, including a modified operational definition, to guide management. Furthermore, evaluation of the child who presents in SE is important to determine the etiology and identify underlying causes that may require additional treatment. Evaluation may include measurement of electrolytes, lumbar puncture, drug levels, electroencephalography, and/or neuroimaging. Recent data are presented that update the current practice parameter guidelines and also indicate that neuroimaging is important in cases of new-onset SE and can help significantly in the diagnosis and management.
We present a case of an atypical clival meningeal melanoma treated with a multidisciplinary staged transcrusal and transsphenoidal endoscopic surgical approach. A 45-year-old woman presented with a 15-month history of visual symptoms, neck pain, and unsteadiness. Magnetic resonance imaging of the head revealed a clival mass with both intracranial and extracranial involvement. Endoscopic clival biopsy suggested a melanocytic tumor. Extensive imaging and dermatological workup did not demonstrate a primary source. A multidisciplinary staged surgical resection included a transcrusal approach to resect the intracranial component, followed by transsphenoidal endoscopic resection of the extracranial component. Postoperatively, she received adjuvant radiation. At 1 year following surgery, the patient retains full preservation of hearing, facial nerve function, and extraocular movements. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of a combined surgical approach for a primary clival meningitic melanoma.


Ephrin-B plays an important role in neural progenitor cells to regulate self-renewal and differentiation. Cellular and embryological evidence suggest this function of ephrin-B is mediated through a PDZ-dependent reverse signaling mechanism. Here, we have genetically investigated the function of PDZ-RGS3, a proposed downstream signaling mediator of ephrin-B function, and found that knockout of PDZ-RGS3 caused early cell cycle exit and precocious differentiation in neural progenitor cells of the developing cerebral cortex, reminiscent of the phenotype observed in ephrin-B1 knockout mice. This resulted in a loss of cortical neural progenitor cells during cortical neurogenesis and led to impairment in the production of late born cortical neurons. These results reveal an essential role of PDZ-RGS3 in maintaining the balance between self-renewal and differentiation of neural progenitor cells and provide genetic evidence linking PDZ-RGS3 to ephrin-B reverse signaling. As ephrin-B molecules are often differentially expressed in different types of neural progenitor/stem cells during development or in adult life, deletion of PDZ-RGS3 can achieve a uniform loss of function of the ephrin-B/regulator of G protein-signaling (RGS) pathway, thereby providing a genetic tool useful for dissecting the mechanisms and functions of the ephrin-B/RGS reverse signaling pathway in neural progenitor/stem cell regulation.
Proper development of the mammalian brain requires that neural progenitor cells balance self-renewal and differentiation under precise temporal and spatial regulation, but the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. In this study, we identify G subunit as a positive regulator of mammalian neurogenesis, working with the regulator of G protein signaling (RGS)-mediated ephrin-B signaling pathway as two opposing forces to maintain a balance between self-renewal and differentiation in the developing mouse cerebral cortex. Multiple G(i) subunits are expressed by cortical neural progenitor cells during the course of cortical neurogenesis. Activation of G(i) signaling, through in utero electroporation-mediated expression of wild-type and constitutively active G(i) subunits, counteracts the function of ephrin-B in cortical neural progenitors to induce differentiation. Genetic knock-in of an RGS-insensitive G184SG(i2) causes early cell cycle exit and a reduction of cortical neural progenitor cells and leads to a defect in the production of late born cortical neurons, similar to what is observed in mutant mice with deficiency in ephrin-B reverse signaling pathway. This study reveals a role of G subunit in mammalian neurogenesis and uncovers a developmental mechanism, coordinated by the G and ephrin-B signaling pathways, for control of the balance between self-renewal and differentiation in neural progenitor cells.
Purpose: The purpose of the study was the quantitative analysis of the working memory representation of dynamic objects related to gaze movement behavior. Methods: Eighteen subjects participated in a virtual street-crossing paradigm. The primary task was collisions avoidance. To investigate the representation format, during a sub-task subjects were asked to reconstruct the traffic scene from memory. Results: The distribution of cars positioned during the sub-task reveals a task-dependent (i.e., collision-relevant) representation of about four cars. In contrast, analysis of gaze behavior did not show a preference for collision-prone cars. Conclusion: Subjects avoided collisions efficiently by applying a gaze strategy adequate to create a representation that fulfills the demands of the task. Collision-prone cars are more likely to be represented in memory, but not more likely to be fixated.



A problem that has troubled both neo-Darwinists and neo-Lamarckians is whether instincts involve knowledge. This paper discusses the contributions to this problem of the evolutionary biologist August Weismann and the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein. Weismann discussed an empirical homunculus fallacy: Lamarck's theory mistakenly presupposes a homunculus in the germ cells. Wittgenstein discussed a conceptual homunculus fallacy which applies to Lamarck's theory: it is mistaken to suppose that knowledge is stored in the brain or DNA. The upshot of these two fallacies is that instincts arise through a neo-Darwinian process but are not cognitions in the sense that they involve (the recollection of stored) knowledge. Although neo-Lamarckians have rightly argued that learning processes may contribute to the development of instincts, their ideas about the role of knowledge in the evolution and development of instincts are mistaken.
Noninvasive brain stimulation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation can modify decision-making behaviors in healthy subjects. The same type of noninvasive brain stimulation can suppress drug craving in substance user patients, who often display impaired decision-making behaviors. We discuss the implications of these studies for the cognitive neurosciences and their translational applications to the treatment of addictions. We propose a neurocognitive model that can account for our findings and suggests a promising therapeutic role of brain stimulation in the treatment of substance abuse and addictive behavior disorders.
Mirror neurons in the Rhesus monkey and the mirror neuron system (MNS) in the human brain respond to actions that are executed by self and observed in another animal or person (i.e., imitated). The status of the MNS in humans is unclear, with some positive and some negative findings using electroencephalography and functional neuroimaging. We suggest that the fronto-parietal MNS may be disparate nodes or modules of a (poorly understood) self-referential processing system that is important in drug abuse and addiction. We then discuss some theories of the etiology of these disorders that emphasize the self. A modular approach to human brain organization and function (as opposed to strict localizationist or extreme globalist models) may resolve some issues surrounding the MNS and drug abuse.
In young adult rats, unilateral lesions of the sensorimotor cortex lead to neuronal structural plasticity and synaptogenesis in the contralateral motor cortex, which is connected to the lesion site by transcallosal fibers. The contralesional neural plasticity varies with lesion size and results from the convergence of denervation-induced reactive plasticity and behavioral asymmetries. It was unknown whether similar effects occur in older animals. Furthermore, the coordination of synaptic responses with that of perisynaptic astrocytes had not been investigated. In this study, middle-aged rats (14-16 months old) were given sham-operations or unilateral ischemic lesions of the sensorimotor cortex. Fifty days later, numerical densities of neurons and synapses and morphological characteristics of astrocytic processes in layer V of the contralesional motor cortex were measured using stereological light and electron microscopy methods. Lesions resulted in behavioral asymmetries, but no significant synapse addition in the contralesional motor cortex. Synapse number per neuron was negatively correlated with lesion size and reduced opposite larger lesions compared with smaller ones. Astrocytic changes were also lesion size-dependent. Astrocytic hypertrophy was observed only after smaller lesions and was associated with greater coverage and greater numbers of synapses. These findings are consistent with those in younger rats indicating an inverse relationship between lesion size and adaptive neuronal restructuring in denervated cortex. However, they indicate that the synaptogenic reaction to this lesion is relatively limited in older animals. Finally, the results indicate that structural plasticity of perisynaptic astrocytes parallels, and could play a role in shaping, synaptic responses to postischemic denervation.
The central effects of histamine are mediated by H(1), H(2) and H(3) receptors. The H(3) receptor inhibits histamine release in brain. Therefore, H(3) receptor inverse agonists, by suppressing this brake, enhance histamine neuron activity. The histaminergic system plays a major role in cognition and H(3) receptor inverse agonists are expected to be a potential therapeutics for cognitive deficits of Alzheimer's disease (AD). They are eagerly awaited inasmuch as other treatments of the disease, such as tacrine or memantine, also enhance, through different mechanisms, histaminergic neurotransmission. An important loss of histaminergic neurons has been observed in AD. In contrast, levels of the histamine metabolite in the CSF of AD patients show that their global activity is decreased by only 25%. This indicates that activating histamine neurons in AD can be envisaged.

Bisphenol-A (BPA) and methoxychlor (MXC), two endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) with estrogenic and antiandrogenic effects, disrupt the reproductive system. BPA has profound effects on luteinizing hormone (LH) surge amplitude, and MXC has profound effects on on LH surge timing in sheep. The neural mechanisms involved in the differential disruption of the LH surge by these two EDCs remain to be elucidated. We tested the hypothesis that the differential effects of BPA and MXC on LH surge system involved changes in hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and estrogen receptors (ESR), ESR1 and ESR2, mRNA expression. Pregnant sheep were given daily injections of cottonseed oil (controls), MXC, or BPA (5mg/kg/day) from day 30 to 90 of gestation (term 147d). Offspring from these animals were euthanized as adults, during the late follicular phase following synchronization of estrus with prostaglandin F(2alpha), just before the expected onset of preovulatory LH surge and changes in mRNA expression of hypothalamic GnRH, ESR1, and ESR2 quantified following in situ hybridization. GnRH mRNA expression was significantly lower in both groups of EDC-treated females compared to controls. ESR1 expression was increased in prenatal BPA- but not MXC-treated females in medial preoptic area relative to controls. In contrast, ESR2 expression was reduced in the medial preoptic area of both EDC-treated groups. Differences in expression of ESR1/ESR2 receptors may contribute to the differential effects of BPA and MXC on the LH surge system. These findings provide support that prenatal exposure to EDCs alters the neural developmental trajectory leading to long-term reproductive consequences in the adult female.
Expansion of a polyglutamine tract in Huntingtin (Htt) leads to the degeneration of medium spiny neurons in Huntington's disease (HD). Furthermore, the HTT gene has been functionally linked to iron (Fe) metabolism, and HD patients show alterations in brain and peripheral Fe homeostasis. Recently, we discovered that expression of mutant HTT is associated with impaired manganese (Mn) uptake following overexposure in a striatal neuronal cell line and mouse model of HD. Here we test the hypothesis that the transferrin receptor (TfR)-mediated Fe uptake pathway is responsible for the HD-associated defects in Mn uptake. Western blot analysis showed that TfR levels are reduced in the mutant STHdh(Q111/Q111) striatal cell line, whereas levels of the Fe and Mn transporter, divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), are unchanged. To stress the Fe transport system, we exposed mutant and wild-type cells to elevated Fe(III), which revealed a subtle impairment in net Fe uptake only at the highest Fe exposures. In contrast, the HD mutant line exhibited substantial deficits in net Mn uptake, even under basal conditions. Finally, to functionally evaluate a role for Fe transporters in the Mn uptake deficit, we examined Mn toxicity in the presence of saturating Fe(III) levels. Although Fe(III) exposure decreased Mn neurotoxicity, it did so equally for wild-type and mutant cells. Therefore, although Fe transporters contribute to Mn uptake and toxicity in the striatal cell lines, functional alterations in this pathway are insufficient to explain the strong Mn resistance phenotype of this HD cell model.
Diethylene glycol (DEG) is an industrial chemical, the misuse of which has led to numerous epidemic poisonings worldwide. The mechanism of its toxicity has not been defined as to the precise relationship between the metabolism of DEG and target organ toxicity. The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanism for the acute toxicity of DEG, and the effect of the alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor 4-methylpyrazole (fomepizole), by determining the relationship between accumulation of DEG or its metabolites and the resulting kidney and liver toxicity. Rats were treated by oral gavage with water, 2 g/kg DEG (low dose), 10 g/kg DEG (high dose), or 10 g/kg DEG + fomepizole, and blood and urine were collected over 48 h. Rats treated with high-dose DEG had metabolic acidosis, increased BUN and creatinine, and marked kidney necrosis, noted by histopathology. A minor degree of liver damage was noted at the high dose. After low and high doses of DEG, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA) was the primary metabolite in the urine, with only minor amounts of urinary diglycolic acid (DGA). Small amounts of ethylene glycol (EG), but not oxalate or glycolate, were observed in the urine. Treatment with fomepizole blocked the formation of HEAA and DGA and the development of metabolic acidosis and the kidney and liver toxicity. These results indicate that the mechanism for the target organ toxicity results from metabolites of DEG, and not DEG itself nor formation of EG from DEG, and that fomepizole may be a useful antidote for treating DEG poisoning.
To establish axonal connections growth cones must navigate multiple intermediate targets before reaching their final target. During this journey growth cones are guided by extracellular repulsive and attractive signals. Although initially identified as repulsive molecules, members of the semaphorin family include both attractants and repellents. How a navigating growth cone responds to a specific semaphorin is not absolute but instead depends on the biological context in which this cue is encountered. Here we review recent breakthroughs in our understanding of the extrinsic signals and molecular processes that control growth cone responses to class 3 semaphorins (Sema3s) at a well-characterized intermediate target, the spinal cord midline.
In this review paper a modified cognitive neurophysiological model of Aaron T. Beck's cognitive formulation of anxiety and depression is proposed that provides an elaborated account of the cognitive and neural mediational processes of cognitive therapy (CT). Empirical evidence consistent with this model is discussed that indicates the effectiveness of cognitive therapy could be associated with reduced activation of the amygdalohippocampal subcortical regions implicated in the generation of negative emotion and increased activation of higher-order frontal regions involved in cognitive control of negative emotion. Future cognitive neuroscience research is needed on the unique brain substrates affected by CT and their role in facilitating symptom change. This future research would have important implications for improving the efficiency and efficacy of this treatment approach.
Emerging data indicate that traumatic injury to the brain or spinal cord activates B lymphocytes, culminating in the production of antibodies specific for antigens found within and outside the central nervous system (CNS). Here, we summarize what is known about the effects of CNS injury on B cells. We outline the potential mechanisms for CNS trauma-induced B cell activation and discuss the potential consequences of these injury-induced B cell responses. On the basis of recent data, we hypothesize that a subset of autoimmune B cell responses initiated by CNS injury are pathogenic and that targeted inhibition of B cells could improve recovery in cases of brain and spinal cord injury.
Activation of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the nucleus accumbens is critical for goal-directed behaviors including cocaine seeking. Studies in cocaine-experienced rodents have revealed three major categories of neuroadaptations that influence the ability of glutamate inputs to activate MSNs: changes in synaptic AMPA receptor levels, changes in extracellular non-synaptic glutamate levels and changes in MSN intrinsic membrane excitability. Most studies have focused on one of these adaptations. This review will consider the possibility that they are causally related and speculate about how time-dependent changes in their interactions may regulate MSN output during early and late withdrawal from repeated cocaine exposure.
Current treatment of glioblastoma in the elderly includes surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, but the prognosis remains extremely poor, and its optimal management is still debated. Longer survival after extensive resection compared with biopsy only has been reported, although the survival advantage remains modest. Radiation in the form of standard (60 Gy in 30 fractions over 6 weeks) and abbreviated courses of radiotherapy (30-50 Gy in 6-20 fractions over 2-4 weeks) has been employed in elderly patients with glioblastoma, showing survival benefits compared with supportive care alone. Temozolomide is an alkylating agent recently employed in older patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. The addition of concomitant and/or adjuvant chemotherapy with temozolomide to radiotherapy, which is currently the standard treatment in adults with glioblastoma, is emerging as an effective therapeutic option for older patients with favorable prognostic factors. The potential benefits on survival, improvement in quality of life and toxicity of different schedules of radiotherapy plus temozolomide need to be addressed in future randomized studies.
Known and unpublished data regarding hyperbaric pressure (HP) effects on voltage dependent-Ca2+ channels (VDCCs) were reviewed in an attempt to elucidate their role in the development of high-pressure neurological syndrome (HPNS). Most postulated effects from studies performed in the last two decades (e.g., depressed maximal current) rely on indirect findings, derived from extracellular [Ca2+] manipulation or by observing Ca(2+)-dependent processes. More recent experiments have tried to directly measure Ca2+ currents under high pressure conditions, some of which are potentially challenging previous indirect findings on one hand, but support findings from work done on neuronal behavior on the other. Additional support for some of the recent findings is provided by computer simulation of pressure effects on a spinal motor neuron activity. HP effect on different types of VDCCs seems to be selective - i.e., HP may suppress, facilitate or not change their activity. Thus, the specific distribution of the various types of the channels in each synaptic terminal or throughout the neuron will determine their function and will influence the neuronal network behavior under HP. Further research is needed in order to fully understand the HPNS etiology.
BK virus-associated nephropathy (BKVN) occurs in up to 5% of kidney transplants and is a significant cause of graft loss. Four major subtypes of BKV have been described, with the vast majority of individuals persistently infected with BKV Type I (&gt;80% of the population). Sequencing of BKV isolates subcloned from BKVN patients revealed a high percentage of variants in the urine (40%) in the VP1 subtyping region. In vitro analysis of several viral variants revealed that all variants recovered from the urine of BKVN patients produced infectious viral particles and were replication competent in cell culture while some of the variants induced cytopathic changes in infected cells when compared to the major BKV subtype, VP1 Type I. These results suggest that rare BKV VP1 variants are more frequently associated with disease and that some variants could be more cytopathic than others in renal transplant recipients.

Decapping is a critical step in the control of mRNA stability and the regulation of gene expression. Two major decapping enzymes involved in mRNA turnover have been identified, each functioning in one of the two exonucleolytic mRNA decay pathways in eukaryotic cells. The Dcp2 protein cleaves capped mRNA and initiates 5' to 3' degradation; the scavenger decapping enzyme, DcpS, hydrolyzes the cap structure generated by the 3' to 5' decay pathway. Consistent with the important role of decapping in gene expression, cap hydrolysis is exquisitely controlled by multiple regulators that influence association with the cap and the catalytic step. In this review, we will discuss the functions of the two different decapping enzymes, their regulation by cis-elements and trans-factors, and the potential role of the decapping enzymes in human neurological disorders.
Organisms adapt their behavior and physiology to environmental conditions through processes of phenotypic plasticity. In one well-studied example, the division of labor among worker honey bees involves a stereotyped yet plastic pattern of behavioral and physiological maturation. Early in life, workers perform brood care and other in-hive tasks and have large internal nutrient stores; later in life, they forage for nectar and pollen outside the hive and have small nutrient stores. The pace of maturation depends on colony conditions, and the environmental, physiological, and genomic mechanisms by which this occurs are being actively investigated. Here we review current knowledge of the mechanisms by which a key environmental variable, nutritional status, influences worker honey bee division of labor. These studies demonstrate that changes in individual nutritional status and conserved food-related molecular and hormonal pathways regulate the age at which individual bees begin to forage. We then outline ways in which systems biology approaches, enabled by the sequencing of the honey bee genome, will allow researchers to gain deeper insight into nutritional regulation of honey bee behavior, and phenotypic plasticity in general.


Cognitive function is multidimensional and complex, and research in multiple species indicates it is considerably impacted by age and gonadal hormone milieu. One domain of cognitive function particularly susceptible to age-related decrements is spatial memory. Gonadal hormones can alter spatial memory, and they are potent modulators of brain microstructure and function in many of the same brain areas affected by aging. In this paper, we review decades of animal and human literature to support a tertiary model representing interactions between gonadal hormones, spatial cognition and age given that: 1) gonadal hormones change with age, 2) age impacts spatial learning and memory, and 3) gonadal hormones impact spatial learning and memory. While much has been discovered regarding these individual tenets, the compass for future aging research points toward clarifying the interactions that exist between these three points, and understanding mediating variables. Indeed, identifying and aligning the various components of the complex interactions between these tenets, including evaluations using basic science, systems, and clinical perspectives, is the optimal approach to attempt to converge the many findings that may currently appear contradictory. In fact, as discoveries are being made it is becoming clear that the findings across studies that appear contradictory are not contradictory at all. Rather, there are mediating variables that are influencing outcome and affecting the extent, and even the direction, of the effects that gonadal hormones have on cognition during aging. These mediating variables are just starting to be understood. By aligning basic scientific discoveries with clinical interpretations, we can maximize the opportunities for discoveries and subsequent interventions to allow individuals to &quot;optimize their aging&quot; and find their own map to cognitive health as aging ensues.



Anopheles gambiae is the principal Afrotropical vector for human malaria, in which olfaction mediates a wide range of both adult and larval behaviors. Indeed, mosquitoes depend on the ability to respond to chemical cues for feeding, host preference, and mate location/selection. Building upon previous work that has characterized a large family of An. gambiae odorant receptors (AgORs), we now use behavioral analyses and gene silencing to examine directly the role of AgORs, as well as a newly identified family of candidate chemosensory genes, the An. gambiae variant ionotropic receptors (AgIRs), in the larval olfactory system. Our results validate previous studies that directly implicate specific AgORs in behavioral responses to DEET as well as other odorants and reveal the existence of at least two distinct olfactory signaling pathways that are active in An. gambiae. One system depends directly on AgORs; the other is AgOR-independent and requires the expression and activity of AgIRs. In addition to clarifying the mechanistic basis for olfaction in this system, these advances may ultimately enhance the development of vector control strategies, targeting olfactory pathways in mosquitoes to reduce the catastrophic effects of malaria and other mosquito-borne diseases.
Fragile X syndrome is caused by the absence of functional fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), an RNA binding protein. The molecular mechanism of aberrant protein synthesis in fmr1 KO mice is closely associated with the role of FMRP in mRNA transport, delivery, and local protein synthesis. We show that GFP-labeled Fmr1 and CaMKIIalpha mRNAs undergo decelerated motion at 0-40 min after group I mGluR stimulation, and later recover at 40-60 min. Then we investigate targeting of mRNAs associated with FMRP after neuronal stimulation. We find that FMRP is synthesized closely adjacent to stimulated mGluR5 receptors. Moreover, in WT neurons, CaMKIIalpha mRNA can be delivered and translated in dendritic spines within 10 min in response to group I mGluR stimulation, whereas KO neurons fail to show this response. These data suggest that FMRP can mediate spatial mRNA delivery for local protein synthesis in response to synaptic stimulation.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are innate immune receptors that have recently emerged as regulators of neuronal survival and developmental neuroplasticity. Adult TLR3-deficient mice exhibited enhanced hippocampus-dependent working memory in the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and contextual fear-conditioning tasks. In contrast, TLR3-deficient mice demonstrated impaired amygdala-related behavior and anxiety in the cued fear-conditioning, open field, and elevated plus maze tasks. Further, TLR3-deficient mice exhibited increased hippocampal CA1 and dentate gyrus volumes, increased hippocampal neurogenesis, and elevated levels of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. In addition, levels of activated forms of the kinase ERK and the transcription factor CREB were elevated in the hippocampus of TLR3-deficient mice, suggesting that constitutive TLR3 signaling negatively regulates pathways known to play important roles in hippocampal plasticity. Direct activation of TLR3 by intracerebroventricular infusion of a TLR3 ligand impaired working memory, but not reference memory. Our findings reveal previously undescribed roles for TLR3 as a suppressor of hippocampal cellular plasticity and memory retention.
Previous work from our laboratory has established that cellular signaling processes of endogenous morphine are mediated by cognate G protein coupled receptor (GPCR) proteins, designated (3) and (4) opiate receptors. (3) and (4) opiate receptors are structurally unique &quot;short&quot; 6 transmembrane helical (TMH) domain GPCRs that are selectively responsive to endogenous morphine, not to families of endogenous opioid peptides, and are uniquely coupled to activation of constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS). Based on high resolution predictive measures, it appears likely that domestic poultry express a  opiate receptor mRNA encoding potentially two novel GPCRs with similar biochemical characteristics as described for (3) and (4) opiate receptors as well as traditional (1) opioid receptors. The biological indications of these novel  opiate receptors are discussed within the context of this short review.
Cutaneous tissue inflammation during the first postnatal week is known to alter long-term development of spinal cord nociceptive circuitry and to alter behavioral responses to noxious stimuli in adult animals. The impact of neonatal inflammation on descending projections arising from supraspinal sites that modulate spinal nociceptive processing is unknown. In the present study, we investigated if altered behavioral responses to pain in adult animals after neonatal inflammation are associated with changes in descending modulation of nocifensive responses elicited from the rostroventromedial medulla (RVM) in lightly anesthetized rats. Compared to handled control animals, hindpaw injection of 0.25% carrageenan (CG) at postnatal day 3 produced adult basal hypoalgesia and increased hyperalgesia 24 h after reinflammation with Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) in awake animals. These effects were specific to the neonatally treated hindpaw, partially replicating previous findings, but were absent in lightly anesthetized animals. However, focal electrical stimulation of the RVM in lightly anesthetized CG treated animals produced significantly greater descending inhibition of nocifensive responses to noxious thermal stimuli applied to the hindpaws and the tail. These effects were partially replicated by intra-RVM microinjection of AMPA. No differences in the efficacy of RVM stimulation between CG and control animals were observed 24h after reinflammation with CFA. These findings indicate that neonatal tissue injury and inflammation produces lasting alterations in descending modulatory systems that modify nociceptive processing. Taken together with previous studies, these results indicate that changes in pain sensitivity following neonatal tissue injury involve long-term alterations in spinal and supraspinal circuitry.
Previous work indicates an essential role of the basolateral amygdala in stimulus-reward learning and the dorsal hippocampus in spatial learning and memory. The goal of the present, experiments was to examine the involvement of the amygdala and hippocampus in performance of tasks requiring stimulus-reward and spatial/relational learning and memory processes in the retrograde direction. Accordingly, this series of experiments tested the effects of temporary, inactivations directed at the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala or dorsal hippocampus on the, expression of a conditioned place preference (CPP) task or a spatial navigation water task. The results, of Experiments 1a and b showed that inactivations of the amygdala impaired the expression of a, previously acquired CPP but did not impair the expression of a learned spatial response required for, accurate performance of a spatial navigation task. The results of Experiments 2a and b showed that, inactivations of the dorsal hippocampus impaired expression of a learned response required for the, accurate performance of a spatial navigation task but did not impair the learned response required for, the expression of a CPP. Taken together, the results showed a functional dissociation between the, effects of amygdala or hippocampal dysfunction on the expression of these different classes of tasks.
Cocaine is a highly addictive drug that exerts its effects by increasing the levels of released dopamine in the striatum, followed by stable changes in gene transcription, mRNA translation, and metabolism within medium spiny neurons in the striatum. The multiple changes in gene and protein expression associated with cocaine addiction suggest the existence of a mechanism that facilitates a coordinated cellular response to cocaine. Here, we provide evidence for a key role of miRNAs in cocaine addiction. We show that Argonaute 2 (Ago2), which plays an important role in miRNA generation and execution of miRNA-mediated gene silencing, is involved in regulation of cocaine addiction. Deficiency of Ago2 in dopamine 2 receptor (Drd2)-expressing neurons greatly reduces the motivation to self-administer cocaine in mice. We identified a distinct group of miRNAs that is specifically regulated by Ago2 in the striatum. Comparison of miRNAs affected by Ago2 deficiency with miRNAs that are enriched and/or up-regulated in Drd2-neurons in response to cocaine identified a set of miRNAs that are likely to play a role in cocaine addiction.
This paper presents some considerations about the use of adequate statistical techniques in the framework of the neuroelectromagnetic brain mapping. With the use of advanced EEG/MEG recording setup involving hundred of sensors, the issue of the protection against the type I errors that could occur during the execution of hundred of univariate statistical tests, has gained interest. In the present experiment, we investigated the EEG signals from a mannequin acting as an experimental subject. Data have been collected while performing a neuromarketing experiment and analyzed with state of the art computational tools adopted in specialized literature. Results showed that electric data from the mannequin's head presents statistical significant differences in power spectra during the visualization of a commercial advertising when compared to the power spectra gathered during a documentary, when no adjustments were made on the alpha level of the multiple univariate tests performed. The use of the Bonferroni or Bonferroni-Holm adjustments returned correctly no differences between the signals gathered from the mannequin in the two experimental conditions. An partial sample of recently published literature on different neuroscience journals suggested that at least the 30% of the papers do not use statistical protection for the type I errors. While the occurrence of type I errors could be easily managed with appropriate statistical techniques, the use of such techniques is still not so largely adopted in the literature.
In experimental visual neuroscience brief presentations of visual stimuli are often required. Accurate knowledge of the durations of visual stimuli and their signal shapes is important in psychophysical experiments with humans and in neuronal recordings with animals. In this study we measure and analyze the changes in luminance of visual stimuli on standard computer monitors. Signal properties of the two most frequently used monitor technologies, cathode ray tube (CRT) and liquid crystal display (LCD) monitors, are compared, and the effects of the signal shapes on the stated durations of visual stimuli are analyzed. The fundamental differences between CRT and LCD signals require different methods for the specification of durations, especially for brief stimulus presentations. In addition, stimulus durations on LCD monitors vary over different monitor models and are not even homogeneous with respect to different luminance levels on a single monitor. The use of LCD technology for brief stimulus presentation requires extensive display measurements prior to the experiment.
Researchers performing multi-site recordings are often interested in identifying the directionality of functional connectivity and estimating lags between sites. Current techniques for determining directionality require spike trains or involve multivariate autoregressive modeling. However, it is often difficult to sample large numbers of spikes from multiple areas simultaneously, and modeling can be sensitive to noise. A simple, model-independent method to estimate directionality and lag using local field potentials (LFPs) would be of general interest. Here we describe such a method using the cross-correlation of the instantaneous amplitudes of filtered LFPs. The method involves four steps. First, LFPs are band-pass filtered; second, the instantaneous amplitude of the filtered signals is calculated; third, these amplitudes are cross-correlated and the lag at which the cross-correlation peak occurs is determined; fourth, the distribution of lags obtained is tested to determine if it differs from zero. This method was applied to LFPs recorded from the ventral hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex in awake behaving mice. The results demonstrate that the hippocampus leads the mPFC, in good agreement with the time lag calculated from the phase locking of mPFC spikes to vHPC LFP oscillations in the same dataset. We also compare the amplitude cross-correlation method to partial directed coherence, a commonly used multivariate autoregressive model-dependent method, and find that the former is more robust to the effects of noise. These data suggest that the cross-correlation of instantaneous amplitude of filtered LFPs is a valid method to study the direction of flow of information across brain areas.
Experiments often involve multiple analyses, such as assays of neurotransmitters and proteins, and this can require different initial sample preparations. Typically, this is accomplished by using different animals or different tissue samples from the same animal. Either approach renders comparisons between assays more variable and greatly increases the effort and/or cost. Using tissue collected from rat striatum and molecules of special relevance to studies of Parkinson's disease, we show that tissue sonication in water prior to aliquoting into the appropriate concentrated solutions (e.g. HClO(4) and lysis buffers) permits several types of measurements to be made from the same initial samples. Dopamine and its metabolite homovanillic acid, serotonin and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, tyrosine hydroxylase and its phosphorylation at Ser19 and Ser31, and the dopamine transporter were unaffected. However, phospho-Akt levels fell slightly and phospho-ERK1/2 tended to drop. We also present a simple technique to preserve phosphorylation state of proteins such as ERK1/2 by perfusing animals through the heart with a phosphatase inhibitor, NaF. Dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) levels were raised with both techniques, however. The general principles reported here are likely to apply to other brain regions, facilitate multiple comparisons of variables, increase efficiency, and decrease costs.

Holographic microscopy is increasingly recognized as a promising tool for the study of the central nervous system. Here we present a &quot;holographic module&quot;, a simple optical path that can be combined with commercial scanheads for simultaneous imaging and uncaging with structured two-photon light. The present microscope is coupled to two independently tunable lasers and has two principal configurations: holographic imaging combined with galvo-steered uncaging and holographic uncaging combined with conventional scanning imaging. We applied this flexible system for simultaneous two-photon imaging and photostimulation of neuronal cells with complex light patterns, opening new perspectives for the study of brain function in situ and in vivo.
Thalamic neurochemical abnormalities may underlie psychotic symptoms and auditory event-related potential (ERP) abnormalities in schizophrenia. We investigated this hypothesis in subjects at risk of psychosis using magnetic resonance spectroscopy and electroencephalography (EEG). Reduced thalamic glutamate plus glutamine and N-acetyl aspartate levels were associated with abnormal frontal ERPs, supporting a thalamic basis for filtering impairments.
We investigated whether the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) polymorphism influenced neurochemical metabolism in 26 individuals with autism spectrum disorder. Individuals with the S/S genotype of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism showed significantly lower levels of N-acetylaspartate/creatine in the right medial prefrontal cortex compared with those with the S/L genotype.
Whole embryo culture (WEC) technique has been developed in 1950's by New and his colleagues, and applied for developmental biology (1). Although development and growth of mammalian embryos are critically dependent on the function of the placenta, WEC technique allows us to culture mouse and rat embryos ex vivo condition during limited periods corresponding to midgestation stages during embryonic day (E) 6.5-E12.5 in the mouse or E8.5-E14.5 in the rat (2, 3, 4). In WEC, we can directly target desired areas of embryos using fine glass capillaries because embryos can be manipulated under the microscope. Therefore, rodent WEC is very useful technique when we want to study dynamic developmental processes of postimplanted mammalian embryos. Up to date, several types of WEC systems have been developed (1). Among those, the rotator-type bottle culture system is most popular and suitable for long-term culture of embryos at midgestation, i.e., after E9.5 and E11.5 in the mouse and rat, respectively (1). In this video protocol, we demonstrate our standard procedures of rat WEC after E12.5 using a refined model of the original rotator system, which was designed by New and Cockroft (5, 6), and introduce various applications of WEC technique for studies in mammalian developmental biology.
Potassium fluxes integrate mitochondria into cellular activities, controlling their volume homeostasis and structural integrity in many pathophysiological mechanisms. The outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) is thought to play a passive role in this process because K(+) is believed to equilibrate freely between the cytosol and mitochondrial intermembrane space. By patch clamping mitochondria isolated from the central nervous systems of adult mitoCFP transgenic mice, we discovered the existence of I(OMMKi), a novel voltage-dependent inwardly rectifying K(+) conductance located in the OMM. I(OMMKi) is regulated by osmolarity, potentiated by cAMP, and activated at physiological negative potentials, allowing K(+) to enter the mitochondrial intermembrane space in a controlled regulated fashion. The identification of I(OMMKi) in the OMM supports the notion that a membrane potential could exist across this membrane in vivo and suggests that the OMM possesses regulated pathways for K(+) uptake.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) mediates reuptake of released dopamine and is the target for psychostimulants, such as cocaine and amphetamine. DAT undergoes marked constitutive endocytosis, but little is known about the fate and sorting of the endocytosed transporter. To study DAT sorting in cells lines, we fused the one-transmembrane segment protein Tac to DAT, thereby generating a transporter (TacDAT) with an extracellular antibody epitope suited for trafficking studies. TacDAT was functional and endocytosed constitutively in HEK293 cells. According to an ELISA-based assay, TacDAT intracellular accumulation was increased by the lysosomal protease inhibitor leupeptin and by monensin, an inhibitor of lysosomal degradation and recycling. Monensin also reduced TacDAT surface expression consistent with partial recycling. In both HEK293 cells and in the dopaminergic cell line 1Rb3An27, constitutively internalized TacDAT displayed primary co-localization with the late endosomal marker Rab7, less co-localization with the &quot;short loop&quot; recycling marker Rab4, and little co-localization with the marker of &quot;long loop&quot; recycling endosomes, Rab11. Removal by mutation of N-terminal ubiquitination sites did not affect this sorting pattern. The sorting pattern was distinct from a bona fide recycling membrane protein, the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor, that co-localized primarily with Rab11 and Rab4. Constitutively internalized wild type DAT probed with the fluorescently tagged cocaine analogue JHC 1-64, exhibited the same co-localization pattern as TacDAT in 1Rb3An27 cells and in cultured midbrain dopaminergic neurons. We conclude that DAT is constitutively internalized and sorted in a ubiquitination-independent manner to late endosomes/lysosomes and in part to a Rab4 positive short loop recycling pathway.
Feedback plays an interesting role in perceptual learning. The complex pattern of empirical results concerning the role of feedback in perceptual learning rules out both a pure supervised mode and a pure unsupervised mode of learning and leads some researchers to the proposal that feedback may change the learning rate through top-down control but does not act as a teaching signal in perceptual learning (M. H. Herzog &amp; M. Fahle, 1998). In this study, we tested the predictions of an augmented Hebbian reweighting model (AHRM) of perceptual learning (A. Petrov, B. A. Dosher, &amp; Z.-L. Lu, 2005), in which feedback influences the effective rate of learning by serving as an additional input and not as a direct teaching signal. We investigated the interactions between feedback and training accuracy in a Gabor orientation identification task over six training days. The accelerated stochastic approximation method was used to track threshold contrasts at particular performance accuracy levels throughout training. Subjects were divided into 4 groups: high training accuracy (85% correct) with and without feedback, and low training accuracy (65%) with and without feedback. Contrast thresholds improved in the high training accuracy condition, independent of the feedback condition. However, thresholds improved in the low training accuracy condition only in the presence of feedback but not in the absence of feedback. The results are both qualitatively and quantitatively consistent with the predictions of the augmented Hebbian learning model and are not consistent with pure supervised error correction or pure Hebbian learning models.

The endogenous opioid system represents one of the principal systems in the modulation of pain. This has been demonstrated in studies of placebo analgesia and stress-induced analgesia, where anti-nociceptive activity triggered by pain itself or by cognitive states is blocked by opioid antagonists. The aim of this study was to characterize the effect of opioid receptor blockade on the physiological processing of painful thermal stimulation in the absence of cognitive manipulation. We therefore measured BOLD (blood oxygen level dependent) signal responses and intensity ratings to non-painful and painful thermal stimuli in a double-blind, cross-over design using the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. On the behavioral level, we observed an increase in intensity ratings under naloxone due mainly to a difference in the non-painful stimuli. On the neural level, painful thermal stimulation was associated with a negative BOLD signal within the pregenual anterior cingulate cortex, and this deactivation was abolished by naloxone.
The biophysical mechanisms that give rise to direction selectivity in the retina remain uncertain. Current evidence suggests that the directional signal first arises within the dendrites of starburst amacrine cells (SBACs). Two models have been proposed to explain this phenomenon, one based on mutual inhibitory interactions between SBACs, and the other positing an intrinsic dendritic mechanism requiring a voltage-gradient depolarizing towards the dendritic tips. We tested these models by recording current and voltage responses to visual stimuli in SBACs. In agreement with previous work, we found that the excitatory currents in the SBACs were directional, and remained directional when GABA receptors were blocked. Contrary to the mutual-inhibitory model, stimuli that produce strong directional signals in ganglion cells failed to reveal a significant inhibitory input to SBACs. Suppression of the tonic excitatory conductance, proposed to generate the dendritic voltage-gradient required for the dendrite autonomous model, failed to eliminate the directional signal in SBACs. However, selective block of tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channels did reduce the strength of the directional excitatory signal in the SBACs. These results indicate that current models of direction-selectivity in the SBACs are inadequate, and suggest that voltage-gated excitatory channels, specifically tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channels, are important elements in directional signaling. This is the first physiological evidence that tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channels play a role in retinal information processing.
In everyday life, many people believe that two heads are better than one. Our ability to solve problems together appears to be fundamental to the current dominance and future survival of the human species. But are two heads really better than one? We addressed this question in the context of a collective low-level perceptual decision-making task. For two observers of nearly equal visual sensitivity, two heads were definitely better than one, provided they were given the opportunity to communicate freely, even in the absence of any feedback about decision outcomes. But for observers with very different visual sensitivities, two heads were actually worse than the better one. These seemingly discrepant patterns of group behavior can be explained by a model in which two heads are Bayes optimal under the assumption that individuals accurately communicate their level of confidence on every trial.
The aim of the present experiment was to directly assess the role of the glutamatergic hippocampal-lateral septal (HPC-LS) neurotransmission in tone and contextual fear conditioning. We found that pretraining infusion of glutamatergic acid into the lateral septum promotes tone conditioning and concomitantly disrupts contextual conditioning. Infusion of glutamatergic antagonist, on the contrary, promotes contextual conditioning to the detriment of tone fear conditioning. These findings highlight the direct contribution of the glutamatergic HPC-LS neurotransmission to the adaptive selection among environmental stimuli of those that best predict the occurrence of the aversive event.

The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) serves as a major output of this structure and plays a critical role in the expression of conditioned fear. By combining cell- and tissue-specific pharmacogenetic inhibition with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we identified circuits downstream of CeA that control fear expression in mice. Selective inhibition of a subset of neurons in CeA led to decreased conditioned freezing behavior and increased cortical arousal as visualized by fMRI. Correlation analysis of fMRI signals identified functional connectivity between CeA, cholinergic forebrain nuclei, and activated cortical structures, and cortical arousal was blocked by cholinergic antagonists. Importantly, inhibition of these neurons switched behavioral responses to the fear stimulus from passive to active responses. Our findings identify a neural circuit in CeA that biases fear responses toward either passive or active coping strategies.
In the precedence effect, sounds emanating directly from the source are localized preferentially over their reflections. Although most studies have focused on the delay between the onset of a sound and its echo, humans still experience the precedence effect when this onset delay is removed. We tested in barn owls the hypothesis that an ongoing delay, equivalent to the onset delay, is discernible from the envelope features of amplitude-modulated stimuli and may be sufficient to evoke this effect. With sound pairs having only envelope cues, owls localized direct sounds preferentially, and neurons in their auditory space-maps discharged more vigorously to them, but only if the sounds were amplitude modulated. Under conditions that yielded the precedence effect, acoustical features known to evoke neuronal discharges were more abundant in the envelopes of the direct sounds than of the echoes, suggesting that specialized neural mechanisms for echo suppression were unnecessary.
A central goal in sensory neuroscience is to fully characterize a neuron's input-output relation. However, strong nonlinearities in the responses of sensory neurons have made it difficult to develop models that generalize to arbitrary stimuli. Typically, the standard linear-nonlinear models break down when neurons exhibit stimulus-dependent modulations of their gain or selectivity. We studied these issues in optic-flow processing neurons in the fly. We found that the neurons' receptive fields are fully described by a time-varying vector field that is space-time separable. Increasing the stimulus strength, however, strongly reduces the neurons' gain and selectivity. To capture these changes in response behavior, we extended the linear-nonlinear model by a biophysically motivated gain and selectivity mechanism. We fit all model parameters directly to the data and show that the model now characterizes the neurons' input-output relation well over the full range of motion stimuli.
Cerebellar motor learning is required to obtain procedural skills. Studies have provided supportive evidence for a potential role of kinase-mediated long-term depression (LTD) at the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse in cerebellar learning. Recently, phosphatases have been implicated in the induction of potentiation of Purkinje cell activities in vitro, but it remains to be shown whether and how phosphatase-mediated potentiation contributes to motor learning. Here, we investigated its possible role by creating and testing a Purkinje cell-specific knockout of calcium/calmodulin-activated protein-phosphatase-2B (L7-PP2B). The selective deletion of PP2B indeed abolished postsynaptic long-term potentiation in Purkinje cells and their ability to increase their excitability, whereas LTD was unaffected. The mutants showed impaired &quot;gain-decrease&quot; and &quot;gain-increase&quot; adaptation of their vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) as well as impaired acquisition of classical delay conditioning of their eyeblink response. Thus, our data indicate that PP2B may indeed mediate potentiation in Purkinje cells and contribute prominently to cerebellar motor learning.
The pervasiveness of decision-making in every area of human endeavor highlights the importance of understanding choice mechanisms and their detailed relationship to underlying neurobiological function. This review surveys the recent and productive application of game-theoretic probes (economic games) to mental disorders. Such games typically possess concrete concepts of optimal play, thus providing quantitative ways to track when subjects' choices match or deviate from optimal. This feature equips economic games with natural classes of control signals that should guide learning and choice in the agents that play them. These signals and their underlying physical correlates in the brain are now being used to generate objective biomarkers that may prove useful for exposing and understanding the neurogenetic basis of normal and pathological human cognition. Thus, game-theoretic probes represent some of the first steps toward producing computationally principled, objective measures of cognitive function and dysfunction useful for the diagnosis, treatment, and understanding of mental disorders.
Investigations of the cellular substrate for cerebellar learning have focused largely on a single form of plasticity, kinase-dependent long-term depression (LTD). In this issue of Neuron, Schonewille et al. provide evidence that calcineurin, a protein phosphatase required for long-term potentiation (LTP) and other cellular processes, may be just as important.
To better understand the involvement of the progressive increase in low-frequency bands in the intrinsic maintenance of the alert state, we assessed the effects of time on the processes expressed in broad-band event-related potentials (ERPs) at play during a test of sustained attention. In this test, the fixed sustained attention to response task (SART) paradigm, a predictable series of single digits are presented (1-9) and subjects are required to make a response to each number (go trials) with the exception of the number 3 (no-go trial). Our results show that vigilance decline, reflected by significant changes in performance and spectral power, is accompanied by specific effects of time on the P2 and Late Positive 1 (LP1) components. The digit 2 is an upcoming cue for the critical target trial, which serves as an important marker for alert response during the task. From this perspective, the amplitude decrease of the P2 (on digit 2 exclusively) with time-on-task could be the concomitant in ERPs of the failures to observe and to attend the critical digit 3. The increase in the amplitude of the later positive component (LP1) from the first period to the last period, could be viewed as a measure of resource allocation, of the higher redeployment of effort towards the task. The progressive deterioration of vigilance level, which results in performance decline and low-frequency activity increase, could thus be a direct consequence of the failure to maintain an intrinsic alert state with time-on-task, despite the larger resource allocation deployed by the participant towards task completion.
Confinement studies are performed to simulate the psychological effects that may be experienced on a long-term space flight. A general psycho-physiological model assumes that mood and cognitive functioning are impaired during confinement as a result of an absence of physical activity. The aim of the MARS500 study initiated by the Institute of Biomedical Problems (IBMP) and the European Space Agency (ESA) is to gather data, knowledge and experience to help prepare for a real mission to Mars. A test run with 105 days of isolation was performed prior to 520 days of isolation. Psycho-physiological data of this study are presented here. We hypothesized that exercise, as it has been shown in laboratory settings, would be able to prevent and counteract mood changes during isolation. Electrocortical data (EEG) and a self report on current psychological and physical state were recorded several times prior to and after exercise during the isolation period. Data revealed a clear effect of exercise on mood and electrocortical activity. Moreover, it was shown that mood and brain cortical activity decreased during the first 11 weeks of isolation and reached baseline again in the last week of isolation. A correlation analysis revealed a significant relation between mood data and electrocortical activity. We conclude (1) that confinement is accompanied by psycho-physiological changes and (2) that exercise is a suitable method to counteract psycho-physiological deconditioning during confinement.

Elevated anti-Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) antibody levels are present in serum of Multiple sclerosis (MS) patients but literature lacks of studies comparing anti-EBV antibody levels between MS and other neurological diseases. We evaluate anti-VCA IgG and IgM, anti-EBNA1 IgG, anti-Cytomegalovirus IgG and IgM titres in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 267 MS, 50 Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) and 88 Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) patients. We found increased titres of anti-EBV-IgG in serum and CSF of MS subjects as compared to CIDP and ALS patients thus providing additional evidence for a possible involvement of EBV in MS.
Research on multiple sclerosis (MS) frequently requires typing for allele HLA-DRB1*1501, which the complexities of the HLA system can restrict to specialised histocompatibility laboratories. To overcome this limitation, we have implemented a simple, robust and highly specific method for DRB1*1501 detection. One single-tube polymerase-chain reaction (PCR) per DNA sample allows for detecting DR2 individuals. The spare PCR products of these are then sequenced to identify allele DRB1*1501 by comparison with the official, publicly accessible HLA database. This approach, much simpler than previously available methods, should facilitate research on MS by making accurate identification of DRB1*1501 accessible to neuroscience laboratories.
We report a 43 year old man who developed progressive weakness of all extremities with fasciculation over four months. Neurological examination was consistent with an anterior horn syndrome. CSF examination showed elevated opening pressure and a lymphocytic pleocytosis. The diagnosis of sarcoidosis was confirmed by muscle and lacrimal gland biopsies. He was treated with the combination of corticosteroids and intravenous immunoglobulin with almost complete resolution of his symptoms a few weeks after discharge. We hypothesize that meningeal granulomatous inflammation compressed the exiting anterior roots which resulted in motor dysfunction with preservation of peripheral sensory fibers.
Spiking in primary motor cortex (MI) exhibits a characteristic beta frequency periodicity, but the functional relevance of this rhythmic firing is controversial. We simultaneously recorded multiple single units and local field potentials in MI in two monkeys (Macaca mulatta) during continuous, self-paced movements to serially presented targets. We find that the appearance of each new target evokes precisely timed spiking in MI at a characteristic latency but that the exact timing of this response varies depending on its relationship to the phase of the ongoing beta range oscillation. As a result of this interaction between evoked spiking and endogenous beta periodicity, we find that the amount of information about target location encoded in the spiking of MI neurons is not simply a function of elapsed time but depends also on oscillatory phase. Our results suggest that periodicity may be an important feature of the early stages of sensorimotor processing in the cortical motor system.
NMDA receptors are typically excited by a combination of glutamate and glycine. Here we describe excitatory responses in CNS myelin that are gated by a glycine agonist alone and mediated by NR1/NR3 &quot;NMDA&quot; receptor subunits. Response properties include activation by d-serine, inhibition by the glycine-site antagonist CNQX, and insensitivity to the glutamate-site antagonist d-APV. d-Serine responses were abrogated in NR3A-deficient mice. Our results suggest the presence of functional NR1/NR3 receptors in CNS myelin.
Impulse control suppresses actions that are inappropriate in one context, but may be beneficial in others. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) mediates this process by providing a top-down signal to inhibit competing responses, although the mechanism by which the mPFC acquires this ability is unknown. To that end, we examined synaptic changes in the mPFC associated with learning to inhibit an incorrect response. Rats were trained in a simple response inhibition task to withhold responding until a signal was presented. We then measured synaptic plasticity of excitatory synapses in the mPFC, using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, in brain slices prepared from trained rats. Response inhibition training significantly increased the relative contribution of AMPA receptors to the overall EPSC in prelimbic, but not infralimbic, neurons of the mPFC. This potentiation of synaptic transmission closely paralleled the acquisition and extinction of response inhibition. Using a retrograde fluorescent tracer, we observed that these plastic changes were selective for efferents projecting to the ventral striatum, but not the dorsal striatum or amygdala. Therefore, we suggest that response inhibition is encoded by a selective strengthening of a subset of corticostriatal projections, uncovering a synaptic mechanism of impulse control. This information could be exploited in therapeutic interventions for disorders of impulse control, such as addiction, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, and schizophrenia.
Low intensity electric fields have been suggested to affect the ongoing neuronal activity in vitro and in human studies. However, the physiological mechanism of how weak electrical fields affect and interact with intact brain activity is not well understood. We performed in vivo extracellular and intracellular recordings from the neocortex and hippocampus of anesthetized rats and extracellular recordings in behaving rats. Electric fields were generated by sinusoid patterns at slow frequency (0.8, 1.25 or 1.7 Hz) via electrodes placed on the surface of the skull or the dura. Transcranial electric stimulation (TES) reliably entrained neurons in widespread cortical areas, including the hippocampus. The percentage of TES phase-locked neurons increased with stimulus intensity and depended on the behavioral state of the animal. TES-induced voltage gradient, as low as 1 mV/mm at the recording sites, was sufficient to phase-bias neuronal spiking. Intracellular recordings showed that both spiking and subthreshold activity were under the combined influence of TES forced fields and network activity. We suggest that TES in chronic preparations may be used for experimental and therapeutic control of brain activity.
In the current theory of learning, the reward prediction error (RPE), the difference between expected and received reward, is thought to be a key factor in reward-based learning, working as a teaching signal. The activity of dopamine neurons is known to code RPE, and the release of dopamine is known to modify the strength of synaptic connectivity in the target neurons. A fundamental interest in current neuroscience concerns the origin of RPE signals in the brain. Here, we show that a group of rat striatal neurons show a clear parametric RPE coding similar to that of dopamine neurons when tested under probabilistic pavlovian conditioning. Together with the fact that striatum and dopamine neurons have strong direct and indirect fiber connections, the result suggests that the striatum plays an important role in coding RPE signal by cooperating with dopamine neurons.
Overproduction of beta-amyloid (Abeta) is a pathologic feature of Alzheimer's disease, leading to cognitive impairment. Here, we investigated the impact of cell-specific receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) on Abeta-induced entorhinal cortex (EC) synaptic dysfunction. We found both a transient depression of basal synaptic transmission and inhibition of long-term depression (LTD) after the application of Abeta in EC slices. Synaptic depression and LTD impairment induced by Abeta were rescued by functional suppression of RAGE. Remarkably, the rescue was only observed in slices from mice expressing a defective form of RAGE targeted to microglia, but not in slices from mice expressing defective RAGE targeted to neurons. Moreover, we found that the inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta (interleukin-1beta) and stress-activated kinases [p38 MAPK (p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase) and JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase)] were significantly altered and involved in RAGE signaling pathways depending on RAGE expression in neuron or microglia. These findings suggest a prominent role of microglial RAGE signaling in Abeta-induced EC synaptic dysfunction.
Misexpression and cytosolic retention of peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) within Schwann cells (SCs) is associated with a genetically heterogeneous group of demyelinating peripheral neuropathies. PMP22 overproducer C22 and spontaneous mutant Trembler J (TrJ) mice display neuropathic phenotypes and affected nerves contain abnormally localized PMP22. Nutrient deprivation-induced autophagy is able to suppress the formation of PMP22 aggregates in a toxin-induced cellular model, and improve locomotor performance and myelination in TrJ mice. As a step toward therapies, we assessed whether pharmacological activation of autophagy by rapamycin (RM) could facilitate the processing of PMP22 within neuropathic SCs and enhance their capacity to myelinate peripheral axons. Exposure of mouse SCs to RM induced autophagy in a dose- and time-dependent manner and decreased the accumulation of poly-ubiquitinated substrates. The treatment of myelinating dorsal root ganglion (DRG) explant cultures from neuropathic mice with RM (25 nm) improved the processing of PMP22 and increased the abundance and length of myelin internodes, as well as the expression of myelin proteins. Notably, RM is similarly effective in both the C22 and TrJ model, signifying that the benefit overlaps among distinct genetic models of PMP22 neuropathies. Furthermore, lentivirus-mediated shRNA knockdown of the autophagy-related gene 12 (Atg12) abolished the activation of autophagy and the increase in myelin proteins, demonstrating that autophagy is critical for the observed improvement. Together, these results support the potential use of RM and other autophagy-enhancing compounds as therapeutic agents for PMP22-associated demyelinating neuropathies.
It is generally accepted that acute painful experience is influenced by context information shaping expectation and modulating attention, arousal, stress, and mood. However, little is known about the nature, duration, and extent of this effect, particularly regarding the negative expectation. We used a standardized longitudinal pain paradigm and painful heat test stimuli in healthy participants over a time course of 8 consecutive days, inducing nociceptive habituation over time. Thirty-eight healthy volunteers were randomly assigned to two different groups. One group received the information that the investigators expected the pain intensity to increase over time (context group). The other group was not given any information (control group). All participants rated the pain intensity of the daily standardized pain paradigm on a visual analog scale. In agreement with previous studies the pain ratings in the control group habituated over time. However, the context group reported no change of pain ratings over time. Functional imaging data showed a difference between the two groups in the right parietal operculum. These data suggest that a negative context not only has an effect on immediate pain but can modulate perception of pain in the future even without experience/conditioning. Neuronally, this process is mediated by the right opercular region.
Normal termination of signaling is essential to reset signaling cascades, especially those such as phototransduction that are turned on and off with great rapidity. Genetic approaches in Drosophila led to the identification of several proteins required for termination, including protein kinase C (PKC), NINAC (neither inactivation nor afterpotential C) p174, which consists of fused protein kinase and myosin domains, and a PDZ (postsynaptic density-95/Discs Large/zona occludens-1) scaffold protein, INAD (inactivation no afterpotential D). Here, we describe a mutation affecting a poorly characterized but evolutionarily conserved protein, Retinophilin (Retin), which is expressed primarily in the phototransducing compartment of photoreceptor cells, the rhabdomeres. Retin and NINAC formed a complex and were mutually dependent on each other for expression. Loss of retin resulted in an age-dependent impairment in termination of phototransduction. Mutations that affect termination of the photoresponse typically lead to a reduction in levels of the major rhodopsin (Rh1) to attenuate signaling. Consistent with the slower termination in retin(1), the mutant photoreceptor cells exhibited increased endocytosis of Rh1 and a decline in Rh1 protein. The slower termination in retin(1) was a consequence of a cascade of defects, which began with the reduction in NINAC p174 levels. The diminished p174 concentration caused a decrease in INAD. Because PKC requires interaction with INAD for protein stability, this leads to reduction in PKC levels. The decline in PKC was age dependent and paralleled the onset of the termination phenotype in retin(1) mutant flies. We conclude that the slower termination of the photoresponse in retin(1) resulted from a requirement for the Retin/NINAC complex for stability of INAD and PKC.
Noradrenergic signaling in the CNS plays an essential role in circuits involving attention, mood, memory, and stress as well as providing pivotal support for autonomic function in the peripheral nervous system. The high-affinity norepinephrine (NE) transporter (NET) is the primary mechanism by which noradrenergic synaptic transmission is terminated. Data indicate that NET function is regulated by insulin, a hormone critical for the regulation of metabolism. Given the high comorbidity of metabolic disorders such as diabetes and obesity with mental disorders such as depression and schizophrenia, we sought to determine how insulin signaling regulates NET function and thus noradrenergic homeostasis. Here, we show that acute insulin treatment, through the downstream kinase protein kinase B (Akt), significantly decreases NET surface expression in mouse hippocampal slices and superior cervical ganglion neuron boutons (sites of synaptic NE release). In vivo manipulation of insulin/Akt signaling, with streptozotocin, a drug that induces a type 1-like diabetic state in mice, also results in aberrant NET function and NE homeostasis. Notably, we also demonstrate that Akt inhibition or stimulation, independent of insulin, is capable of altering NET surface availability. These data suggest that aberrant states of Akt signaling such as in diabetes and obesity have the potential to alter NET function and noradrenergic tone in the brain. Furthermore, they provide one potential molecular mechanism by which Akt, a candidate gene for mood disorders such as schizophrenia and depression, can impact brain monoamine homeostasis.
Sensitivity to visual motion is a fundamental property of neurons in the visual cortex and has received wide attention in terms of mathematical models. A key feature of many popular models for cortical motion sensors is the use of pairs of functions that are related by a 90 degrees phase shift. This phase relationship, known as quadrature, is the hallmark of the motion energy model and played an important role in the development of a class of model dubbed elaborated Reichardt detectors. For decades, the literature has supported a link between quadrature and the observation that motion detectors and human observers often prefer a 1/4 cycle displacement of an apparent motion stimulus that consists of a pair of sinusoidal gratings. We show that there is essentially no link between quadrature and this preference. Quadrature is neither necessary nor sufficient for a motion sensor to prefer 1/4 cycle displacement, and motion energy is not maximized for a 1/4 cycle step. Other properties of motion sensors are the key: the opponent subtraction of two oppositely tuned stages that individually have sinusoidal displacement tuning curves. Thus, psychophysical and neurophysiological data revealing a preference at or near 1/4 cycle displacement do not offer specific support for common quadrature or energy-based motion models. Instead, they point to a broader class of model.
Tip links are extracellular filaments that connect pairs of hair cell stereocilia and convey tension to mechanosensitive channels. Recent evidence suggests that tip links are formed by calcium-dependent interactions between the N-terminal domains of cadherin-23 (CDH23) and protocadherin-15 (PCDH15). Mutations in either CDH23 or PCDH15 cause deafness in mice and humans, indicating the molecules are required for normal inner ear function. However, there is little physiological evidence to support a direct role for CDH23 and PCDH15 in hair cell mechanotransduction. To investigate the contributions of CDH23 and PCDH15 to mechanotransduction and tip-link formation, we examined outer hair cells of mouse cochleas during development and after chemical disruption of tip links. We found that tip links and mechanotransduction with all the qualitative properties of mature transduction recovered within 24 h after disruption. To probe tip-link formation, we measured transduction currents after extracellular application of recombinant CDH23 and PCDH15 fragments, which included putative interaction domains (EC1). Both fragments inhibited development and regeneration of transduction but did not disrupt transduction in mature cells. PCDH15 fragments that carried a mutation in EC1 that causes deafness in humans did not inhibit transduction development or regeneration. Immunolocalization revealed wild-type fragments bound near the tips of hair cell stereocilia. Scanning electron micrographs revealed that hair bundles exposed to fragments had a reduced number of linkages aligned along the morphological axis of sensitivity of the bundle. Together, the data provide direct evidence implicating CDH23 and PCDH15 proteins in the formation of tip links during development and regeneration of mechanotransduction.
The mother-infant interaction that occurs immediately postpartum period has important consequences including changes in protein expression in the astrocytes within cingulate cortex area 2 (Cg2). Because increased expression of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) has been associated with increased neuronal activity we used immediate early gene expression to evaluate the effects of parturition plus interaction with pups during and immediately after delivery to investigate patterns of neural activation in a number of brain areas including Cg2. In the first experiment, we compared levels of immunoreactivity of two immediate early genes: c-Fos and egr-1, among three groups of animals: Cycling, Late Pregnant, and rats perfused 1.5 h postpartum. The average number of Fos and egr-1-ir cells/section were calculated for the Parietal Cortex (ParCx), nucleus accumbens (NAc), medial amygdala (MEA), medial preoptic area (MPOA), supraoptic area (SON) and Cg2. In a second experiment, Fos-ir induction was compared between cycling rats and rats at hour 3 postpartum. Contrary to our hypothesis no changes in expression of either immediate early gene were observed in Cg2. In Experiment 1 however, an upregulation in both early genes was seen in the ParCx, and, of Fos-ir only in the MPOA of postpartum animals. A decrease in Fos-ir was seen in the NAc of late pregnant animals and no significant differences were seen in either immediate early gene expression within the MEA. Interestingly, areas that showed a significant increase in neuronal activation project to Cg2. The possibility of an interaction between these changes and glial cells in Cg2 is discussed.
Extinction of drug-seeking is an integral part of addiction treatment, and can profoundly reverse or ameliorate the harmful consequences of drug use. These consequences may be the most deleterious during adolescence. The studies presented here build from recent evidence that adolescent rats are more resistant to extinction training than adults, and therefore may require unique treatment strategies. We used unbiased place-conditioning in male rats to show that passive, un-explicit extinction pairings resulted in delayed extinction in 40-day-old adolescents relative to 80-day-old adults. However, explicit-pairing of a previously cocaine-associated context with the absence of drug produces extinction in adolescents as rapidly as in adults. These data suggest that successful extinction of drug-paired associations in adolescents may be facilitated by stronger acquisition of a new (extinction) memory. Drug-paired associations are largely controlled by the prelimbic prefrontal cortex (plPFC) and its influence on the nucleus accumbens (NAc). This pathway mediates the motivational salience attributed to incoming stimuli through the D1 dopamine receptor. D1 receptors on plPFC outputs to the accumbens are transiently overproduced during adolescence. Since D1 receptors are selectively responsive to potent stimuli, we hypothesized that the adolescent plPFC hinders competition between potent drug-paired associations and the subtler, drug-free information necessary for extinction. To harness this unique profile of the adolescent plPFC, we aimed to increase the salience of unrewarded extinction memories by activating plPFC D1 receptors during extinction training. In a second study, extinction of drug-cue associations was facilitated in adolescents by elevating dopamine and norepinephrine in the PFC during extinction training with atomoxetine. In a third study, direct microinjection of the D1 receptor agonist SKF38393 mimicked this effect, also facilitating extinction in adolescent subjects. Furthermore, pharmacological intervention attenuated subsequent drug-primed reinstatement of cocaine-conditioned preferences. We establish a potential direction for distinct strategies to treat this vulnerable population.

Isoflurane preconditioning neuroprotection in experimental stroke is male-specific. The role of androgens in the ischemic sensitivity of isoflurane preconditioned male brain and whether androgen effects are androgen receptor dependent were assessed. Male C57BL/6 mice were implanted with flutamide (androgen receptor antagonist), or castrated and implanted with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, flutamide, letrozole (aromatase inhibitor), or vehicle 7-13 days before preconditioning. P450 estrogen aromatase wild-type and knockout mice were also evaluated. All mice were preconditioned for 4 h with 0% (sham preconditioning) or 1% isoflurane (isoflurane preconditioning) and recovered for 24 h. Mice then underwent 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion and were evaluated 22 h later for infarct volume. For neurobehavioral outcomes, sham and isoflurane preconditioned castrated male+/-dihydrotestosterone groups underwent 1 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 9 days of reperfusion. Isoflurane preconditioning neuroprotection relative to infarct volume outcomes were testosterone and dihydrotestosterone dose-specific and androgen receptor-dependent. Relative to long-term neurobehavioral outcomes, front paw sensorimotor function improved in isoflurane preconditioned mice regardless of androgen status while androgen replacement independently improved sensorimotor function. In contrast, isoflurane preconditioning improved cognitive function in castrates lacking endogenous androgens, but this improvement was absent in androgen replaced mice. Our findings suggest that androgen availability during isoflurane preconditioning may influence infarct volume and neurobehavioral outcomes in male mice following experimental stroke.
Acid-sensing ion channel 3 (ASIC3) is a proton-gated, voltage-insensitive Na(+) channel that is expressed primarily in peripheral sensory neurons and plays an important role in pain perception, particularly as a pH sensor following cardiac ischemia. We previously reported that ASIC3 currents are not affected by zinc at nanomolar concentrations. In this study, we examined the potential role of micromolar zinc in the regulation of ASIC3. In CHO cells expressing ASIC3, we found that ASIC3 currents triggered by dropping the pH from 7.4 to 6.0 were inhibited by pretreatment with zinc in a concentration-dependent manner; the half-maximum inhibitory concentration of zinc was 61 muM. ASIC currents activated by a relatively small drop in pH from 7.4 to 7.2 or 7.0 were also subject to inhibition by zinc. The inhibition was fast and pH independent, and occurred within a relatively narrow range of zinc concentrations between 30 and 300 muM. Further, increasing extracellular Ca(2+) concentrations from 2 to 10 mM failed to affect inhibition of ASIC3 currents by zinc. Experimentally elevating intracellular zinc levels did not affect the inhibition of ASIC3 currents by equal concentrations of extracellular zinc, and modification of cysteine or histidine residues had no effect on the inhibition of ASIC3 currents by zinc. These collective results suggest that zinc is an important regulator of ASIC3 at physiological concentrations, that zinc inhibits ASIC3 in a pH- and Ca(2+)-independent manner, and that inhibition of ASIC3 currents is dependent upon the interaction of zinc with extracellular domain(s) of ASIC3.
How prosodic information is processed at the neural level during silent sentence reading is an unsolved issue. In this study, we investigate whether and how the processing of prosodic constraints can be distinguished from the processing of semantic constraints by measuring changes in event-related electroencephalogram (EEG) power. We visually presented Chinese sentences containing verb-noun combinations that were semantically congruent or incongruent and that had normal or abnormal rhythmic patterns and asked participants to judge whether the sentences were semantically and rhythmically acceptable. In Chinese, the rhythmic pattern refers to the combination of words with different syllable lengths. While the [1+1] pattern is normal for a verb-noun combination, the [2+1] pattern is abnormal. With the critical nouns, we found that the violation of semantic constraints was associated with the low beta (16-20 Hz) decrease in the early window (0-200 ms post onset) and the alpha (10-15 Hz) and low beta decrease in the later window (400-657 ms) while the processing of the abnormal rhythmic pattern was associated with the theta (4-6 Hz) and the alpha increase in the early window and the alpha and upper beta (20-24 Hz) decrease in the later window. These findings suggest that although the processing of semantic constraints and the processing of rhythmic pattern may partially share neuro-cognitive processes, as reflected by the similar decreases in alpha band power, they can nevertheless be differentiated in EEG responses during sentence reading.
Afferent nerve fibers of the somatosensory system are a molecularly diverse cell population that detects a varied range of environmental stimuli, converting these external cues ultimately into a sensory percept. Afferents mediating detection of thermal stimuli express a repertoire of temperature sensitive ion channels of the TRP family which endow these nerves with the ability to respond to the breadth of temperatures in the environment. The cold and menthol receptor TRPM8 is responsible for detection of cold and, unlike other thermosensors, detects both innocuous and noxious temperatures. How this single molecule can perform such diverse functions is currently unknown, but expression analyses in adult tissues shows that TRPM8 neurons are a molecularly diverse population and it is likely that this diversity underlies differential functionality. To determine how this phenotype is established, we examined the developmental time course of TRPM8 expression using a mouse transgenic line in which GFP expression is driven by the TRPM8 transcriptional promoter (Trpm8(GFP)). We find that Trpm8(GFP) expression begins prior to embryonic day 15.5 (E15.5) after which expression reaches levels observed in adult neurons. By E18.5, central axons of Trpm8(GFP) neurons reach the spinal cord dorsal horn, but anatomical localization and in vivo measurements of neural activity suggest that fully functional cold circuits are not established until after the first postnatal week. Additionally, Trpm8(GFP) neurons undergo a transition in neurochemical phenotype, ultimately reaching adult expression of markers such TRPV1, CGRP, peripherin, and NF200 by postnatal day 14. Thus, based on immunochemical, anatomical and functional criteria, active cold neural circuits are fully established by the second week postnatal, thereby suggesting that important extrinsic or intrinsic mechanisms are active prior to this developmental stage.
The role of voltage-gated sodium channels in the transmission of neuropathic pain is well recognized. For instance, genetic evidence recently indicate that the human Nav1.7 sodium channel subtype plays a crucial role in the ability to perceive pain sensation and may represent an important target for analgesic/anti-hyperalgesic drugs. In this study a newly synthesized tocainide congener, named NeP1, was tested in vitro on recombinant hNav1.4 and hNav1.7 channels using patch-clamp technique and, in vivo, in two rat models of persistent neuropathic pain obtained either by chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve or by oxaliplatin treatment. NeP1 efficiently blocked hNav1.4 and hNav1.7 channels in a dose- and use-dependent manner, being by far more potent than tocainide. Importantly, the new compound displayed a remarkable use-dependent effect, which likely resulted from a very high affinity for inactivated compared to closed channels. In both models of neuropathic pain, NeP1 was greatly more potent than tocainide in reverting the reduction of pain threshold in vivo. In oxaliplatin-treated rats, NeP1 even produced greater and more durable anti-hyperalgesia than the reference drug tramadol. In addition, in vivo and in vitro studies suggest a better toxicological and pharmacokinetic profile for NeP1 compared to tocainide. Overall, these results indicate NeP1 as a new promising lead compound for further development in the treatment of chronic pain of neuropathic origin.
The neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) has been implicated in a range of mammalian reproductive and social behaviors including parent-offspring bonding and partner preference formation between socially monogamous mates. Its role in mediating non-reproductive social relationships in rodents, however, remains largely unexplored. We examined whether OT facilitates same-sex social preferences between female meadow voles-a species that forms social nesting groups in short, winter-like day lengths. In contrast to results from studies of opposite-sex attachment between prairie vole mates, we found that neither OT nor dopamine neurotransmission was required for baseline levels of social partner preference formation or expression. OT enhanced preference formation beyond baseline levels-an effect that was counteracted by treatment with an oxytocin receptor antagonist (OTA). Oxytocin receptor (OTR) density correlated with social behavior in brain regions not known to be associated with opposite-sex affiliation, including the lateral septum and central amygdala. In addition, voles housed in short day lengths (SD) exhibited higher levels of OTR binding in the central amygdala, and voles exposed to high concentrations of estradiol exhibited less binding in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and increased binding in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. These results suggest that same-sex social behavior shares common elements with other mammalian social behaviors affected by OT, but that the specific neural pathways through which OT exerts its influence are likely distinct from those known for sexual attachments.
Reactivity to environmental stressors influences vulnerability to neurological and psychiatric illnesses, but little is known about molecular mechanisms that control this reactivity. Since mice with forebrain-specific glucocorticoid receptor overexpression (GRov mice) display anxiety-like behaviors in novel environments and have difficulty adjusting to change in memory tasks, we hypothesized that these may be facets of a broader phenotype of altered reactivity to environmental demands. Male GRov and wild-type mice were tested in a multiple-trial object interaction test comprising environmental and object habituation and spatial and object novelty trials. Half the mice received restraint stress before testing. GRov mice exhibited more locomotor activity and, without stress, more object interaction than wild-type mice. Following acute stress, GRov mice no longer showed increased object exploration. While stress dampened responses to object novelty in both groups, GRov mice were particularly impaired in discrimination of spatial novelty post-stress. These data demonstrate that GRov leads to increased environmental reactivity, responsiveness to salience, and vulnerability to stress-induced cognitive deficits. They implicate forebrain glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in fine-tuning interactions with the environment and the interplay of emotional salience, coping abilities, and cognitive function.
Cocaine administration increases AMPA GluR1 expression and receptor-mediated activation of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Functionality is determined, however, by surface availability of these receptors in transmitter- and VTA-region-specific neurons, which may also be affected by cocaine. To test this hypothesis, we used electron microscopic immunolabeling of AMPA GluR1 subunits and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the enzyme needed for dopamine synthesis, in the cortical-associated parabrachial (PB) and in the limbic-associated paranigral (PN) VTA of adult male C57BL/6 mice receiving either a single injection (acute) or repeated escalating-doses for 14 days (chronic) of cocaine. Acute cocaine resulted in opposing VTA-region-specific changes in TH-containing dopaminergic dendrites. TH-labeled dendrites within the PB VTA showed increased cytoplasmic GluR1 immunogold particle density consistent with decreased AMPA receptor-mediated glutamatergic transmission. Conversely, TH-labeled dendrites within the PN VTA showed greater surface expression of GluR1 with increases in both synaptic and plasmalemmal GluR1 immunogold density after a single injection of cocaine. These changes diminished in both VTA subregions after chronic cocaine administration. In contrast, non-TH-containing, presumably GABAergic dendrites showed VTA-region-specific changes only after repeated cocaine administration such that synaptic GluR1 decreased in the PB, but increased in the PN VTA. Taken together, these findings provide ultrastructural evidence suggesting that chronic cocaine not only reverses the respective depression and facilitation of mesocortical (PB) and mesolimbic (PN) dopaminergic neurons elicited by acute cocaine, but also differentially affects synaptic availability of these receptors in non-dopaminergic neurons of each region. These adaptations may contribute to increased cocaine seeking/relapse and decreased reward that is reported with chronic cocaine use.
Embryonic and neonatal neocortical neurons already express functional N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors before they form synapses. To elucidate the role of NMDA receptors in neuronal migration in the developing neocortex, we visualized radially migrating neurons by transferring the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene into the ventricular zone (VZ) of the mouse neocortex using in utero electroporation at E15.5. Two days later, we prepared neocortical slices and examined the EGFP-positive cells using time-lapse imaging in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist Cerestat. The EGFP-positive cells generated in the VZ in the control slices exhibited a multipolar morphology, but within several hours they became bipolar (with a leading process and an axon-like process) and migrated toward the pial surface. By contrast, many of the multipolar cells in the Cerestat-treated slices failed to extend either process and become bipolar, and frequently changed direction, although they ultimately reached their destination even after Cerestat-treatment. To identify the molecules responding for mediating NMDA signaling during neuronal migration and the changes in morphology observed above, we here focused on Src family kinases (SFKs), which mediate a variety of neuronal functions including migration and neurite extension. We discovered that the activity of Src and Fyn was reduced by Cerestat. These findings suggest that NMDA receptors are involved in neuronal migration and morphological changes into a bipolar shape, and in the activation of Src and Fyn in the developing neocortex.
DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer), a receptor for the axon guidance cue netrin-1, is highly expressed by mesencephalic dopaminergic (DA) neurons during development; however, the contribution of DCC to DA development remains largely uncharacterized. DA neurons in ventral mesencephalic nuclei also express UNC5 homologue netrin receptors from late embryogenesis to adulthood, raising the possibility that DA axons could be attracted or repelled by netrins. Examining newborn dcc null mice, we report that loss of DCC function results in profound alterations of DA circuitry, including DA progenitor cell migration defects, reduced numbers of DA cells in midbrain nuclei, an anomalous DA ventral commissure, malformed DA innervation of the ventral striatum, and reduced DA innervation of the cerebral cortex. Caspase-3 activation was detected in inappropriately localized DA cells, consistent with apoptosis contributing to reduced cell numbers. Dcc heterozygous mice express reduced levels of DCC protein. Although less severely disrupted than dcc nulls, newborn and adult dcc heterozygotes also have fewer DA neurons in ventral mesenscephalic nuclei. Despite the reduced numbers of DA neurons, newborn dcc heterozygotes and nulls exhibit similar DA innervation density as wild-type littermates in the nucleus accumbens core, and adult dcc heterozygotes exhibit increased DA innervation in medial prefrontal cortex. A trend towards increased innervation of medial prefrontal cortex was detected in newborn dcc heterozygotes, but did not reach statistical significance, suggesting that the increase in adult heterozygotes results from enhanced DA arborization during postnatal development. Consistent with the hypothesis that DCC regulates DA axonal projections, disrupting DCC function in culture inhibits netrin-1 induced DA axon extension and axon branching. Furthermore, disrupting DCC function in isolated DA neurons grown as micro-island cultures reduces the number of autaptic synapses per cell. We conclude that DCC regulates appropriate precursor cell migration, axon guidance, and terminal arborization by DA neurons.
Persistent postoperative pain is a very common phenomenon which severely affects the lives of patients who develop it following common surgical procedures. Opioid analgesics are of limited efficacy in the treatment of persistent pain states because of side effects including antinociceptive tolerance. We have previously shown that surgical incision injury and morphine tolerance share similar mechanisms, including a CNS role of spinal cord glia. We therefore hypothesized that prior chronic morphine exposure would inhibit the resolution of postoperative allodynia through increased glial ionized calcium-binding adaptor protein 1 (Iba1) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) protein expression and mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation. To test this hypothesis, rats were implanted with s.c. osmotic minipumps on day zero, releasing saline or morphine for 7 days preceding or 7 days preceding and following paw incision surgery, which was completed on day seven. Thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia were assessed postoperatively every 3 days. Chronic morphine attenuated the resolution of postoperative thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia through day 20. However, no changes in Iba1 or GFAP expression were observed in the spinal cord dorsal horn between groups. Assessment of MAPK protein phosphorylation revealed that chronic morphine administration enhanced both p38 and extracellular receptor kinase (pERK) phosphorylation compared to saline on day 20. p-p38 and pERK immunofluorescence were only observed to colocalize with a marker of microglial cells and not with markers of astrocytes or neurons. Together, these data demonstrate that chronic morphine administration attenuates the resolution of postoperative allodynia in association with microglial p38 and extracellular receptor kinase (ERK) phosphorylation, independent of changes in Iba1 and GFAP expression.
Although the major mode of transmission for serotonin in the brain is volume transmission, previous anatomical studies have demonstrated that serotonergic axons do form synaptic contacts. The olfactory glomeruli of the olfactory bulb of mammals receive a strong serotonergic innervation from the dorsal and medial raphe nuclei. In the present report, we investigate the synaptic connectivity of these serotonergic axons in the glomerular neuropil of the rat olfactory bulb. Our study shows that serotonergic axons form asymmetrical synaptic contacts on dendrites within the glomerular neuropil. Analyzing the neurochemical nature of the synaptic targets, we have found that 55% of the synapses were on GABA-immunopositive profiles and 45% on GABA-immunonegative profiles. These data indicate that barely half of the contacts were found in GABA-immunonegative profiles and half of the synapses in GABA-positive dendrites belonging to type 1 periglomerular cells. Synaptic contacts from serotonergic axons on dendrites of principal cells cannot be excluded, since some of the GABA-immunonegative postsynaptic profiles contacted by serotonergic axons had the typical ultrastructural features of bulbar principal cell dendrites. Altogether, our results suggest a complex action of the serotonergic system in the modulation of the bulbar circuitry.
Neuronal-glial-vascular units now have been regarded as the basic functional elements of the CNS; however, their pathophysiological changes in the neurodegenerative condition are poorly defined. Herein we addressed these issues in the hippocampus of an Alzheimer's disease mouse model which was established by ovariectomy and then followed with 8 weeks of d-galactose injection. Immunolocalization of glial fibrillary acidic protein showed that reactive astrogliosis destroyed astrocytic domain organization in the hippocampus of model mice. Electron microscopy further demonstrated microarchitectural damage of neuronal-glial units and gliovascular units in the CA1 stratum radiatum of model group. Moreover, model mice had decreased expressions of glutamate transporter 1, glutamate/aspartate transporter, glutamine synthetase and connexin 43, but an increased expression of water channel protein aquaporin-4 in the hippocampus as revealed by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting analysis. These results highlight that disruptions in structural integrity of the neuronal-glial-vascular units and associated functions including glutamate clearance, water transport and astrocyte syncytium contribute to the neurodegeneration induced by long-term ovarian hormone deprivation and systemic d-galactose exposure.
Estrogen (17beta-estradiol) plays key regulatory roles in a variety of physiological and biological processes. Several lines of evidence also support its role as a protective factor in Alzheimer's disease; however, the basis of this effect is unclear. Here we show that an early-onset Alzheimer's disease transgenic mouse model expressing the double-mutant form of human amyloid precursor protein (APP); Swedish (K670N/M671L) and Indiana (V717F) undergoing treatment with 17beta-estradiol show significantly lower levels of APP processing through beta-secretase and enhanced alpha-secretase processing resulting in marked reductions of APP-CTFbeta, Abeta42 and plaque burden, along with increased levels of the non-amyloidogenic sAPPalpha. Moreover, 17beta-estradiol resulted in elevated brain levels of transthyretin, which inhibits aggregation of Abeta into plaques; though the insulin-degrading enzyme, which breaks down Abeta, was significantly reduced. These results illustrate a multifaceted effect of 17beta-estradiol on the biochemical basis of Alzheimer's disease, through effects on APP processing, Abeta levels and factors that affect its clearance and aggregation. Overall, these results support the need for further long-term longitudinal studies to elucidate consequences of menopause as well as hormone therapy on Alzheimer's disease, and explore its potential as a therapeutic avenue for the disease.
Excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) belongs to the family of the Na(+)-dependent glutamate carriers. Although the association between defective EAAC1 function and neurologic disease has been repeatedly studied, EAAC1 regulation is not yet fully understood. We have reported that in C6 glioma cells both the activity and membrane targeting of EAAC1 require the integrity of actin cytoskeleton. Here we show that, in the same model, EAAC1 partially co-localizes with actin filaments at the level of cell processes. Moreover, perinuclear spots in which EAAC1 co-localizes with the actin binding protein alpha-adducin are observed in some cells and, consistently, faint co-immunoprecipitation bands between EAAC1 and alpha-adducin are detected. Co-localization and partial co-immunoprecipitation of EAAC1 and adducin are still detectable after cell treatment with phorbol esters, a condition that leads to a protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent increase of EAAC1 expression on the membrane and to the phosphorylation of adducin. A co-immunoprecipitation band was also detected in protein extracts of rat hippocampus. The amount of adducin co-immunoprecipitated with EAAC1 increases after the treatment of C6 cells with retinoic acid, a differentiating agent that induces EAAC1 overexpression in this cell model. Moreover, in clones of C6 cells transfected with a hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged adducin, the bands of EAAC1 immunoprecipitated by an anti-HA antiserum were proportional to EAAC1 expression. These results suggest the existence of a pool of EAAC1 transporters associated with the actin binding protein alpha-adducin in a PKC-insensitive manner.
How fast can we correct a planned movement following an unexpected target jump? Subjects, starting in an upright standing position, were required to point to a target that randomly and unexpectedly jumps forward to a constant spatial location. Rapid motor corrections in the upper and lower limbs, with latency responses of less than 100 ms, were revealed by contrasting electromyographic activities in perturbed and unperturbed trials. The earliest responses were observed primarily in the anterior section of the deltodus anterior (shoulder) and the tibialis anterior (leg) muscles. Our findings indicate that visual on-going movement corrections may be accomplished via fast loops at the level of the upper and lower limbs and may not require cortical involvement.
Twisted gastrulation (TWSG1), an extracellular regulator of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling, is critical for embryonic brain development. Mice deficient in TWSG1 have abnormal forebrain development manifesting as holoprosencephaly. The expression and potential roles of TWSG1 in postnatal brain development are less well understood. We show that Twsg1 is expressed in the adult mouse brain in the choroid plexus (CP), hippocampus, and other regions, with the strongest expression observed in CP. TWSG1 was also detected in a human fetal brain at mid-gestation, with highest levels in the epithelium of CP. Bmp1, Bmp2, Bmp4-Bmp7 as well as BmprIA and BmprII, but not BmprIB, were expressed in CP. BMP antagonists Chordin (Chrd) and Noggin were not detected in CP, however Chrd-like 1 and brain-specific Chrd-like (Brorin) were expressed. Electrophysiological study of synaptic plasticity revealed normal paired-pulse facilitation and long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of hippocampus in Twsg1(-/-) mice. Among the homozygous mutants that survive beyond the first 2 weeks, the prevalence of hydrocephalus was 4.3%, compared to 1.5% in a wild type colony (P=0.0133) between 3 and 10 weeks of life. We detected a high level of BMP signaling in CP in wild type adult mice that was 17-fold higher than in the hippocampus (P=0.005). In contrast, transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) signaling was predominant in the hippocampus. Both BMP signaling and the expression of BMP downstream targets Msx1 and Msx2 were reduced in CP in Twsg1(-/-) mice. In summary, we show that Twsg1 is expressed in the adult mouse and human fetal CP. We also show that BMP is a branch of TGFbeta superfamily that is dominant in CP. This presents an interesting avenue for future research in light of the novel roles of CP in neural progenitor differentiation and neuronal repair, especially since TWSG1 appears to be the main regulator of BMP present in CP.
Upon the death of their hair cell synaptic partners, bipolar cochlear spiral ganglion neurons either die or retract their peripheral nerve fibers. Efforts to induce the regrowth of the peripheral neurites have had to rely on limited knowledge of the mechanisms underlying spiral ganglion neurite regeneration and have been restricted by the impracticality of undertaking large numbers of manual analyses of neurite growth responses. Here we have used dissociated cultures of postnatal mouse spiral ganglia to assess the effects of the Rho kinase inhibitor H-1152 on neurite growth and to determine the utility of automated high content analysis for evaluating neurite length from spiral ganglion neurons in vitro. In cultures of postnatal mouse spiral ganglion, greater than 95% of the neurons develop bipolar, monopolar or neurite-free morphologies in ratios dependent on whether the initial medium composition contains leukemia inhibitory factor or bone morphogenetic protein 4. Cultures under both conditions were maintained for 24 h, then exposed for 18 h to H-1152. None of the cultures exposed to H-1152 showed decreased neuronal survival or alterations in the ratios of different neuronal morphologies. However, as measured manually, the population of neurite lengths was increased in the presence of H-1152 in both types of cultures. High content analysis using the Arrayscan VTi imager and Cellomics software confirmed the rank order differences in neurite lengths among culture conditions. These data suggest the presence of an inhibitory regulatory mechanism(s) in the signaling pathway of Rho kinase that slows the growth of spiral ganglion neurites. The automated analysis demonstrates the feasibility of using primary cultures of dissociated mouse spiral ganglion for large scale screens of chemicals, genes or other factors that regulate neurite growth.
At present, exposure of a rodent to the odour of a predator is one of the most common animal models of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Despite this, the model remains incompletely characterized, particularly in regard to within subject assessment of major PTSD-like behaviours. In an attempt to redress this situation, we have extensively characterized the two broad categories of behaviour that are considered to characterize PTSD, that is sensitized behaviours such as social withdrawal and hypervigilance and conditioned behaviours such as avoidance of trauma linked cues. Specifically, we determined the presence and duration of both conditioned and sensitized behaviours, in the same cohort of animals, after three exposures to predator odour. Conditioned fear was assessed on the basis of inhibition of locomotor activity upon return to context 2, 7, 14, 21, and 28 days after the last odour exposure session. To assess the impact on sensitization behaviours, we monitored acoustic startle responses and social interaction behaviour 4, 9, 16, 23, and 30 days after the last exposure session. In addition to examining the behavioural consequences associated with odour exposure, we also determined the key brain regions that were activated using DeltaFosB immunohistochemistry. Our results show that the two groups of behaviours thought to characterize PTSD (conditioned and sensitized) do not travel together in the predator odour model, with clear evidence of enduring changes in conditioned fear but little evidence of changes in social interaction or acoustic startle. With regard to associated patterns of activity in the brain, we observed that odour-exposed animals exhibited significantly higher numbers of FosB-positive nuclei in only the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a finding that can be viewed as being consistent with the observed behavioural changes.
Atypical protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms play important roles in many neural processes, including synaptic plasticity and neurodegenerative diseases. Although atypical PKCs are expressed throughout the brain, there are no reports concerning their expression in central neural regions associated with respiratory motor control. Therefore, we explored the neuroanatomical distribution of atypical PKCs in identified phrenic motor neurons, a motor pool that plays a key role in breathing. Diaphragm injections of cholera toxin B were used to retrogradely label and identify phrenic motor neurons; immunohistochemistry was used to localize atypical PKCs in and near labeled motor neurons (i.e. the phrenic motor nucleus). Atypical PKC expression in the phrenic motor nucleus appears specific to neurons; aPKC expression could not be detected in adjacent astrocytes or microglia. Strong atypical PKC labeling was observed within cholera toxin B labeled phrenic motor neurons. Documenting the expression of atypical PKCs in phrenic motor neurons provides a framework within which to assess their role in respiratory motor control, including novel forms of respiratory plasticity known to occur in this region.
Calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) has a key role in migraine and recently CGRP receptor antagonists have demonstrated clinical efficacy in the treatment of migraine. However, it remains unclear where the CGRP receptors are located within the CGRP signaling pathway in the human trigeminal system and hence the potential antagonist sites of action remain unknown. Therefore we designed a study to evaluate the localization of CGRP and its receptor components calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CLR) and receptor activity modifying protein (RAMP) 1 in the human trigeminal ganglion using immunohistochemistry and compare with that of rat. Antibodies against purified CLR and RAMP1 proteins were produced and characterized for this study. Trigeminal ganglia were obtained at autopsy from adult subjects and sections from rat trigeminal ganglia were used to compare the immunostaining pattern. The number of cells expressing CGRP, CLR and RAMP1, respectively, were counted. In addition, the glial cells of trigeminal ganglion, particularly the satellite glial cell, were studied to understand a possible relation. We observed immunoreactivity for CGRP, CLR and RAMP1, in the human trigeminal ganglion: 49% of the neurons expressed CGRP, 37% CLR and 36% RAMP1. Co-localization of CGRP and the receptor components was rarely found. There were no CGRP immunoreactions in the glial cells; however some of the glial cells displayed CLR and RAMP1 immunoreactivity. Similar results were observed in rat trigeminal ganglia. We report that human and rat trigeminal neurons store CGRP, CLR and RAMP1; however, CGRP and CLR/RAMP1 do not co-localize regularly but are found in separate neurons. Glial cells also contain the CGRP receptor components but not CGRP. Our results indicate, for the first time, the possibility of CGRP signaling in the human trigeminal ganglion involving both neurons and satellite glial cells. This suggests a possible site of action for the novel CGRP receptor antagonists in migraine therapy.
The surround suppression of the receptive field is important for basic visual information processing, such as orientation specificity. To date, the effects of aging on the strength of surround suppression are not clear. To address this issue, we carried out extracellular single-unit studies of the receptive field properties of cells in the primary visual cortex (area V1) in young and old rhesus (Macaca mulatta) monkeys. When presented with the oriented central stimulus, we found that cells in old animals showed reduced orientation and direction selectivity compared with those in young animals. When presented with the oriented central stimulus together with the optimal surround stimulus, more selective cells {orientation bias (OB) &gt;/=0.1; a bias of 0.1 is significant at the P&lt;0.005 level} in animals of both ages showed reduced orientation selectivity compared with the experiment that presented only the oriented central stimulus. When presented with the optimal central stimulus together with the oriented surround stimulus, cells in old animals showed reduced orientation and direction selectivity compared with young animals. Moreover, broadly tuned cells (OB&lt;0.1) in old animals exhibited significantly reduced suppression indices that quantified the strength of the surround suppression of the receptive field, when compared with those in young animals. These results suggest that aging may seriously affect the surround suppression of the receptive field of V1 cells. Thus, the decreased strength of surround suppression of the receptive field may be one possible reason for the decreased stimulus selectivity of V1 cells previously found in the senescent brain. This work will contribute to an understanding of the physiological mechanisms mediating surround suppression of the receptive field.
Alternative splicing is an important mechanism for expanding proteome diversity from a limited number of genes, especially in higher vertebrates. Brain-specific splicing factors play an important role in establishing specific patterns of alternative splicing in the brain and thereby contribute to its complex architecture and function. Nova proteins are splicing factors that are expressed specifically in the central nervous system, where they regulate a large number of pre-mRNAs encoding synaptic proteins that are important for the balance of neuronal excitation and inhibition. Since this balance is interrupted in epileptic seizures, we explored whether LiCl/pilocarpine- or kainate-induced epileptic seizures would induce changes in the levels of Nova mRNAs in the rat brain. We found that the muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine, but not the glutamatergic agonist, kainate, induced a significant downregulation of Nova2 mRNA and upregulation of all three Nova1 mRNA isoforms in the striatum. Treatment with the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, at the onset of pilocarpine-induced seizures inhibited the seizures and the changes in Nova mRNA levels. Therefore it seems likely that pilocarpine stimulation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors was a prerequisite for the observed changes, while the contribution of other striatal neurotransmitter systems activated by seizures could not be excluded. We propose that the LiCl/pilocarpine seizure model could serve as a valuable tool for studying mechanisms of Nova-regulated alternative splicing in rat striatum.
It has been reported that an early activation of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) in astroglial cells occurs simultaneously in peripheral nerves and spinal cord from the G93A SOD1 mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), an invariably fatal neurodegenerative disorder. In ALS, the contribute to the pathological process of different cell types varies according to the disease stage, with a florid immune response in spinal cord at end stage disease. In this study, we have mapped in different anatomical sites the process of disease-induced functional perturbation from a pre-symptomatic stage using a marker of cellular distress expressed in neurons and glial cells, the activating transcription factor 3 (ATF-3), and applied large-scale gene expression analysis to define the pattern or transcriptional changes occurring in spinal cord from the G93A SOD1 rat model of ALS in parallel with ATF-3 neuronal activation. From the disease onset onward, transgenic lumbar spinal cord displayed ATF-3 transcriptional regulation and motor cells immunostaining in association with the over-expression of genes promoting cell growth, the functional integrity of cell organelles and involved in the modulation of immune responses. While spinal cord from the pre-symptomatic rat showed no detectable ATF-3 transcriptional regulation, ATF-3 activation was appreciated in large size neurofilament-rich, small size non-peptidergic and parvalbumin-positive neurons within the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), and in ventral roots Schwann cells alongside macrophages infiltration. This pattern of peripheral ATF-3 activation remained detectable throughout the disease process. In the G93A SOD1 rat model of ALS, signs of roots and nerves subtle distress preceded overt clinical-pathological changes, involving both glial cells and neurons that function as receptors of peripheral sensory stimuli from the muscle. In addition, factors previously described to be linked to ATF-3 activation under various experimental conditions of stress, become switched on in spinal cord from the end-stage transgenic rat model of ALS.
The mammalian main olfactory bulb (MOB) receives a dense noradrenergic innervation from the pontine nucleus locus coeruleus that is important for neonatal odor preference learning and odor processing in mature animals. Modulation of GABAergic granule cells (GCs) is thought to play a key role in the net functional impact of norepinephrine (NE) release in the MOB, yet there are few direct studies of the influence of NE on these cells. In the present study we investigated noradrenergic modulation of GC excitability using electrophysiological approaches in rat MOB slices. A moderate concentration of NE (10 microM) and the alpha1 receptor agonist phenylephrine (10 microM) depolarized and increased spontaneous or current injection-evoked spiking in GCs. By contrast, low NE concentrations (0.1-1.0 microM) or the alpha2 receptor agonist clonidine (Clon, 10 microM) hyperpolarized and decreased the discharge of GCs. The effects of NE (10 microM) were blocked by antagonism of alpha1 and alpha2 receptors. Inhibitory effects of low NE concentrations were blocked or converted to excitatory responses by alpha2 receptor blockade, whereas excitatory effects of the moderate NE concentration were converted to inhibitory responses after alpha1 receptor blockade. NE (10 microM) and phenylephrine elicited inward currents that reversed near the potassium equilibrium potential. The effects of NE and phenylephrine were associated with increased membrane input resistance. Clonidine elicited an outward current associated with decreased membrane input resistance that reversed near the potassium equilibrium potential. These results indicate that alpha1 and alpha2 receptor activation exert opposing effects on GC excitability. Low concentrations of NE acting via alpha2 receptors suppress GC excitability, while higher concentrations of NE acting at alpha1 receptors increase GC excitability. These findings are consistent with recent findings that alpha1 and alpha2 receptor activation increase and decrease, respectively, GABAergic inhibition of mitral cells. The differential affinities of alpha1 and alpha2 noradrenergic receptor subtypes may allow for differential modulation of GABA release and olfactory processing as a function of the level of NE release, which in turn, is regulated by behavioral state.
Amyloid beta fragment 25-35 (Abeta(25-35)) is the neurotoxic domain of the full-length Abeta(1-42) and causes memory impairments in rodents. Recent research suggests that agmatine, decarboxylated arginine, has a neuroprotective role. This study investigated the effects of a single bilateral i.c.v. infusion of aggregated Abeta(25-35) (30 nmol) in a battery of behavioural tests conducted during the period 4-6 (Experiment 1) and 4-14 (Experiment 2) weeks post-Abeta(25-35) infusion, and evaluated the protective effect of agmatine (40 mg/kg) administered i.p. 30 min prior to Abeta(25-35) infusion and once daily for a further nine consecutive days. In Experiment 1, Abeta(25-35) rats with saline treatment were not impaired in the elevated plus maze and open field and mildly impaired in the reference memory version of the water maze task, but performed poorly in the working memory version of the water maze task and the object recognition memory task, relative to the control rats that received the i.c.v. infusion of Abeta(35-25) (inactive peptide) and saline treatment. By contrast, Abeta(25-35) rats with agmatine treatment did not show performance impairments in the working memory version of the water maze task and the object recognition memory task. In Experiment 2, Abeta(25-35) rats with saline treatment were significantly impaired in the standard radial arm maze task, but only displayed no or very mild impairments in the delayed non-match to position and reference memory versions of the radial arm maze task, T-maze, object recognition memory task, both the reference and working memory versions of the water maze task, elevated plus maze and open field. By contrast, Abeta(25-35) rats with agmatine treatment were not impaired in the standard radial arm maze and performed even better than the controls in the reference memory version of the task. These results demonstrate that agmatine is able to protect against Abeta(25-35)-induced memory deficits.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of imagining an action implicating the body axis in the kinesthetic and visual motor imagery modalities upon the balance control system. Body sway analysis (measurement of center of pressure, CoP) together with electromyography (EMG) recording and verbal evaluation of imagery abilities were obtained from subjects during four tasks, performed in the upright position: to execute bilateral plantar flexions; to imagine themselves executing bilateral plantar flexions (kinesthetic modality); to imagine someone else executing the same movement (visual modality), and to imagine themselves singing a song (as a control imagery task). Body sway analysis revealed that kinesthetic imagery leads to a general increase in CoP oscillation, as reflected by an enhanced area of displacement. This effect was also verified for the CoP standard deviation in the medial-lateral direction. An increase in the trembling displacement (equivalent to center of pressure minus center of gravity) restricted to the anterior-posterior direction was also observed to occur during kinesthetic imagery. The visual imagery task did not differ from the control (sing) task for any of the analyzed parameters. No difference in the subjects' ability to perform the imagery tasks was found. No modulation of EMG data were observed across imagery tasks, indicating that there was no actual execution during motor imagination. These results suggest that motor imagery performed in the kinesthetic modality evokes motor representations involved in balance control.
MK801 is a prototypical non-competitive NMDA receptor-antagonist that induces behavioural changes and reversible toxicity at low doses, while at higher doses triggers neuronal death that mainly affects the retrosplenial cortex (RSC) and to a lesser extent other structures such as the posterolateral cortical amygdaloid nucleus (PLCo). The mechanism of MK801-induced neurodegeneration remains poorly understood. In this study we analysed the participation of GABA-ergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission in MK801-induced neuronal death. We used a single i.p. injection of MK801 (2.5 mg/kg) that induced moderate neuronal death in the RSC and PLCo of female rats, and combined this treatment with the i.p., i.c.v., or intra-RSC infusion of drugs that are selective agonists or antagonists of the GABA-ergic or glutamatergic neurotransmission. We found that neuronal death in the RSC, but not the PLCo, was significantly reduced by the i.p. injection of thiopental, and the i.c.v. application of muscimol, both GABA-A agonists. MK801-toxicity in RSC was abrogated by intra-RSC infusion of muscimol, but the GABA antagonist picrotoxin had no effect. HPLC-analysis showed that levels of glutamate, but not GABA, in the RSC decreased after i.p. treatment with MK801. Intra-RSC infusion of MK801 did not enhance toxicity triggered by the i.p. injection of MK801, indicating that toxicity is not due to direct blockade of NMDA receptors in RSC neurons. MK801-toxicity in the RSC was abrogated by i.c.v. and intra-RSC infusions of the AMPA/kainate antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX). Interestingly, i.c.v. application of neither muscimol or DNQX inhibited MK801-toxicity in the PLCo, suggesting that the mechanism of neuronal death in the RSC and the PLCo might be different. 1-naphthylacetyl spermine trihydrochloride (NASPM), which blocks Ca2+ permeable AMPA/kainate receptors, also reduced MK801-induced toxicity in the RSC. Intra-RSC infusion of AMPA or kainic acid alone promoted death of RSC neurons and was reminiscent of the degeneration induced by the i.p. treatment with MK801. Collectively, these experiments provide evidence for an AMPA/kainate-dependent mechanism of excitotoxicity in the death of RSC neurons after i.p. treatment with MK801.
We identified ventrolateral medullary nuclei in which thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) regulates glucose metabolism by modulating autonomic activity. Immunolabeling revealed dense prepro-TRH-containing fibers innervating the rostroventrolateral medulla (RVLM) and nucleus ambiguus (Amb), which contain, respectively, pre-sympathetic motor neurons and vagal motor neurons. In anesthetized Wistar rats, microinjection of the stable TRH analog RX77368 (38-150 pmol) into the RVLM dose-dependently and site-specifically induced hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. At 150 pmol, blood glucose reached a peak of 180+/-18 mg% and insulin increased 4-fold. The strongest hyperglycemic effect was induced when RX77368 was microinjected into C1 area containing adrenalin cells. Spinal cord transection at cervical-7 abolished the hyperglycemia induced by RVLM RX77368, but not the hyperinsulinemic effect. Bilateral vagotomy prevented the rise in insulin, resulting in a prolonged hyperglycemic response. The hyperglycemic and hyperinsulinemic effects of the TRH analog in the RVLM was peptide specific, since angiotensin II or a substance P analog at the same dose had weak or no effects. Microinjection of RX77368 into the Amb stimulated insulin secretion without influencing glucose levels. In conscious type 2 diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats, intracisternal injection of RX77368 induced a remarkably amplified hyperglycemic effect with suppressed insulin response compared to Wistar rats. RX77368 microinjected into the RVLM of anesthetized GK rats induced a significantly potentiated hyperglycemic response and an impaired insulin response, compared to Wistar rats. These results indicate that the RVLM is a site at which TRH induces sympathetically-mediated hyperglycemia and vagally-mediated hyperinsulinemia, whereas the Amb is mainly a vagal activating site for TRH. Hyperinsulinemia induced by TRH in the RVLM is not secondary to the hyperglycemic response. The potentiated hyperglycemic and suppressed hyperinsulinemic responses in diabetic GK rats indicate that an unbalanced &quot;sympathetic-over-vagal&quot; activation by TRH in brainstem RVLM contributes to the pathophysiology of impaired glucose homeostasis in type 2 diabetes.
There is evidence that the kappa opioid system plays an important role in cocaine addiction and that chronic cocaine administration and withdrawal from chronic cocaine alter kappa opioid receptor (KOPr) density. The present study employed in situ [(35)S]guanosine 5'-O-[gamma-thio]triphosphate acid (GTPgammaS) binding autoradiography to measure KOPr-stimulated activation of G-protein in the caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens core and shell, lateral hypothalamus, basolateral amygdala, substantia nigra compacta, substantia nigra reticulata and ventral tegmental area (VTA), in response to chronic cocaine administration or acute and chronic withdrawal from chronic cocaine. Male Fischer rats were injected i.p. with saline or cocaine three times daily at 1 h intervals in an escalating-dose paradigm for 14 days (from 3x15 mg/kg/injection on days 1-3 up to 3x30 mg/kg/injection on days 10-14). Identically treated separate groups were withdrawn from cocaine or saline for 24 h or 14 days. No significant change in KOPr agonist U-69593-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS was found in the seven regions studied 30 min or 14 days after chronic 14 days escalating-dose binge cocaine administration. However there was an increase in KOPr -stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in the VTA (P&lt;0.01) of rats withdrawn for 24 h from chronic cocaine. Our results show a cocaine withdrawal induced increase of KOPr signaling in the VTA, and suggest that the KOPr may play a role in acute withdrawal from cocaine.
Oscillatory activity at both the single and multiunit levels has been reported in most central nervous system structures, and is postulated as a key factor in information processing and coding. Rats provide an excellent model for oscillation-based information processing, since tactile perception of the environment is achieved by rhythmic movements of their whiskers and information-related rhythmic activity has been identified in the thalamus and cortex. However, rhythmic activity related to information processing has never been reported in the sensory trigeminal complex (STC), the first brain stem relay station for whisker-related tactile information. In the present work, we demonstrate the existence of neural oscillations in the vibrissae-related neurons of the nuclei principalis (Pr5), oralis (Sp5o), interpolaris (Sp5i) and caudalis (Sp5c). Rhythmic activity was associated with the main task of each nucleus, prominent in nuclei responsible for tactile vibrissae information processing (up to 17% oscillating neurons in Pr5 and 26% in Sp5i) and less conspicuous in those concerned with pain (8% oscillating neurons in Sp5o and in Sp5c). The higher percentage of oscillating neurons and higher frequencies in Sp5i than in Pr5 suggests an active role for rhythmic activity in integrating multivibrissa inputs. Oscillations are generated within the brainstem; data obtained from decorticated animals suggest the existence of a differential cortical control of the rhythmic processes in STC nuclei. Corticofugal activity modifies oscillation frequency and synchronization strength of the rhythmic activity mainly during tactile stimulation of the vibrissae.
In the intermediate nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (INLL), some neurons display a form of spectral integration in which excitatory responses to sounds at their best frequency are inhibited by sounds within a frequency band at least one octave lower. Previous work showed that this response property depends on low-frequency-tuned glycinergic input. To identify all sources of inputs to these INLL neurons, and in particular the low-frequency glycinergic input, we combined retrograde tracing with immunohistochemistry for the neurotransmitter glycine. We deposited a retrograde tracer at recording sites displaying either high best frequencies (&gt;75 kHz) in conjunction with combination-sensitive inhibition, or at sites displaying low best frequencies (23-30 kHz). Most retrogradely labeled cells were located in the ipsilateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) and contralateral anteroventral cochlear nucleus. Consistent labeling, but in fewer numbers, was observed in the ipsilateral lateral nucleus of the trapezoid body (LNTB), contralateral posteroventral cochlear nucleus, and a few other brainstem nuclei. When tracer deposits were combined with glycine immunohistochemistry, most double-labeled cells were observed in the ipsilateral MNTB (84%), with fewer in LNTB (13%). After tracer deposits at combination-sensitive recording sites, a striking result was that MNTB labeling occurred in both medial and lateral regions. This labeling appeared to overlap the MNTB labeling that resulted from tracer deposits in low-frequency recording sites of INLL. These findings suggest that MNTB is the most likely source of low-frequency glycinergic input to INLL neurons with high best frequencies and combination-sensitive inhibition. This work establishes an anatomical basis for frequency integration in the auditory brainstem.



Relay neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) receive direct visual input predominantly from a single retinal ganglion cell (RGC), in addition to indirect input from other sources including interneurons, thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN), and the visual cortex. To address the extent of influence of these indirect sources on the response properties of the LGN neurons, we fit a Generalized Linear Model (GLM) to the spike responses of cat LGN neurons driven by spatially homogeneous spots that were rapidly modulated by a pseudorandom luminance sequence. Several spot sizes were used to probe the spatial extent of the indirect visual effects. Our extracellular recordings captured both the LGN spikes and the incoming RGC input (S potentials), allowing us to divide the inputs to the GLM into two categories: the direct RGC input and the indirect input to which we have access through the luminance of the visual stimulus. For spots no larger than the receptive field center, the effect of the indirect input is negligible, while for larger spots its effect can, on average, account for 5% of the variance of the data and for as much as 25% in some cells. The polarity of the indirect visual influence is opposite to that of the linear receptive field of the neurons. We conclude that the indirect source of response modulation of the LGN relay neurons arises from inhibitory sources, compatible with thalamic interneurons or TRN.




Decision-making often involves choices between different stimuli, each of which is associated with a different physical action. A growing consensus suggests that the brain makes such decisions by assigning a value to each available option and then comparing them to make a choice. An open question in decision neuroscience is whether the brain computes these choices by comparing the values of stimuli directly in goods space or instead by first assigning values to the associated actions and then making a choice over actions. We used a functional MRI paradigm in which human subjects made choices between different stimuli with and without knowledge of the actions required to obtain the different stimuli. We found neural correlates of the value of the chosen stimulus (a postdecision signal) in ventromedial prefrontal cortex before the actual stimulus-action pairing was revealed. These findings provide support for the hypothesis that the brain is capable of making choices in the space of goods without first transferring values into action space.

The Fas receptor (also known as CD95 and APO-1) is a member of the tumor necrosis factor alpha-family of death receptors that mediate T-cell responses. Here, we show that Fas receptor signaling requires a functional T-cell receptor (TCR) complex. Fas receptor directly binds to and activates TCR components in a stimulus-dependent manner. Fas receptor stimulation does not activate canonical downstream TCR pathways, but instead the TCR complex is required specifically for Fas-mediated calcium release. Importantly, null mutations in Lck, ZAP70, and the TCR alpha- and beta-chains abrogate Fas signaling. Our results reveal a direct role for the TCR complex in mediating Fas-specific signaling events critical for T-cell homeostasis.
Changes in neuronal activity are accompanied by the release of vasoactive mediators that cause microscopic dilation and constriction of the cerebral microvasculature and are manifested in macroscopic blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional MRI (fMRI) signals. We used two-photon microscopy to measure the diameters of single arterioles and capillaries at different depths within the rat primary somatosensory cortex. These measurements were compared with cortical depth-resolved fMRI signal changes. Our microscopic results demonstrate a spatial gradient of dilation onset and peak times consistent with &quot;upstream&quot; propagation of vasodilation toward the cortical surface along the diving arterioles and &quot;downstream&quot; propagation into local capillary beds. The observed BOLD response exhibited the fastest onset in deep layers, and the &quot;initial dip&quot; was most pronounced in layer I. The present results indicate that both the onset of the BOLD response and the initial dip depend on cortical depth and can be explained, at least in part, by the spatial gradient of delays in microvascular dilation, the fastest response being in the deep layers and the most delayed response in the capillary bed of layer I.
Galanin receptors type 1 (GalR1) and/or type 2 (GalR2) represent unique pharmacological targets for treatment of seizures and epilepsy. Previous studies have shown that the endogenous peptide ligand galanin exerts powerful anticonvulsant effect through activation of these two G protein-coupled receptors, which are highly expressed in the temporal lobe of rodent brain. Here we report the characterization of a putative GalR2-positive allosteric modulator CYM2503. CYM2503 potentiated the galanin-stimulated IP1 accumulation in HEK293 cells stably expressing GalR2 receptor, whereas it exhibited no detectable affinity for the (125)I galanin-binding site of GalR2 receptor, an effect consistent with that of a positive allosteric modulator. In the rat Li-pilocarpine status epilepticus model, CYM2503, injected intraperitoneally, increased the latency to first electrographic seizure and the latency to first stage 3 behavioral seizure, decreased the latency to the establishment of status epilepticus, and dramatically decreased the mortality. In a Li-pilocarpine seizure model in mice, CYM2503 increased the latency to first electrographic seizure and decreased the total time in seizure. CYM2503 also attenuated electroshock-induced seizures in mice. Thus, CYM2503 provides a starting point for the development of anticonvulsant therapy using the galanin R2 receptor as target.


Dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) signalling is implicated in limbic seizure propagation and seizure-induced neurodegeneration. D2R-/- mice display increased susceptibility to kainic acid (KA) seizures and seizure-induced apoptosis of hippocampal neurons. Here we further investigated the molecular pathways of KA-induced apoptosis in the D2R-/- hippocampus. Immunoblotting experiments showed a marked induction of caspase 3 in the D2R-/- but not in the wild-type hippocampus, 24 h after the administration of KA. The activation of the Akt/glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) pathway that has been implicated in neuronal apoptosis was also studied at the same time. No difference in Akt phosphorylation in the hippocampus was detected between the two genotypes, whereas GSK-3beta phosphorylation was markedly downregulated in D2R-/- mice. Our results suggest that GSK-3beta activation participates, independently of Akt, in the KA-induced apoptosis in the D2R-/- hippocampus.


The feeling of controlling events through one's actions is fundamental to human experience, but its neural basis remains unclear. This 'sense of agency' (SoA) can be measured quantitatively as a temporal linkage between voluntary actions and their external effects. We investigated the brain areas underlying this aspect of action awareness by using theta-burst stimulation to locally and reversibly disrupt human brain function. Disruption of the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), a key structure for preparation and initiation of a voluntary action, was shown to reduce the temporal linkage between a voluntary key-press action and a subsequent electrocutaneous stimulus. In contrast, disruption of the sensorimotor cortex, which processes signals more directly related to action execution and sensory feedback, had no significant effect. Our results provide the first direct evidence of a pre-SMA contribution to SoA.
Laxatives have been used for health purposes for over 2000 years, and for much of that time abuse or misuse of laxatives has occurred. Individuals who abuse laxatives can generally be categorized as falling into one of four groups. By far the largest group is made up of individuals suffering from an eating disorder such as anorexia or bulimia nervosa. The prevalence of laxative abuse has been reported to range from approximately 10% to 60% of individuals in this group. The second group consists of individuals who are generally middle aged or older who begin using laxatives when constipated but continue to overuse them. This pattern may be promulgated on certain beliefs that daily bowel movements are necessary for good health. The third group includes individuals engaged in certain types of athletic training, including sports with set weight limits. The fourth group contains surreptitious laxative abusers who use the drugs to cause factitious diarrhoea and may have a factitious disorder. Normal bowel function consists of the absorption of nutrients, electrolytes and water from the gut. Most nutrients are absorbed in the small intestine, while the large bowel absorbs primarily water. There are several types of laxatives available, including stimulant agents, saline and osmotic products, bulking agents and surfactants. The most frequently abused group of laxatives are of the stimulant class. This may be related to the quick action of stimulants, particularly in individuals with eating disorders as they may erroneously believe that they can avoid the absorption of calories via the resulting diarrhoea. Medical problems associated with laxative abuse include electrolyte and acid/base changes that can involve the renal and cardiovascular systems and may become life threatening. The renin-aldosterone system becomes activated due to the loss of fluid, which leads to oedema and acute weight gain when the laxative is discontinued. This can result in reinforcing further laxative abuse when a patient feels bloated and has gained weight. Treatment begins with a high level of suspicion, particularly when a patient presents with alternating diarrhoea and constipation as well as other gastrointestinal complaints. Checking serum electrolytes and the acid/base status can identify individuals who may need medical stabilization and confirm the severity of the abuse. The first step in treating laxative misuse once it is identified is to determine what may be promoting the behaviour, such as an eating disorder or use based on misinformation regarding what constitutes a healthy bowel habit. The first intervention would be to stop the stimulant laxatives and replace them with fibre/osmotic supplements utilized to establish normal bowel movements. Education and further treatment may be required to maintain a healthy bowel programme. In the case of an eating disorder, referral for psychiatric treatment is essential to lessen the reliance on laxatives as a method to alter weight and shape.

Kafka's writings are frequently interpreted as representing the historical period of modernism in which he was writing. Little attention has been paid, however, to the possibility that his writings may reflect neural mechanisms in the processing of self during hypnagogic (i.e., between waking and sleep) states. Kafka suffered from dream-like, hypnagogic hallucinations during a sleep-deprived state while writing. This paper discusses reasons (phenomenological and neurobiological) why the self projects an imaginary double (autoscopy) in its spontaneous hallucinations and how Kafka's writings help to elucidate the underlying cognitive and neural mechanisms. I further discuss how the proposed mechanisms may be relevant to understanding paranoid delusions in schizophrenia. Literature documents and records cognitive and neural processes of self with an intimacy that may be otherwise unavailable to neuroscience. To elucidate this approach, I contrast it with the apparently popularizing view that the symptoms of schizophrenia result from what has been called an operative (i.e., pre-reflective) hyper-reflexivity. The latter approach claims that pre-reflective self-awareness (diminished in schizophrenia) pervades all conscious experience (however, in a manner that remains unverifiable for both phenomenological and experimental methods). This contribution argues the opposite: the &quot;self&quot; informs our hypnagogic imagery precisely to the extent that we are not self-aware.
Gliomas are morbid brain tumors that are extremely resistant to available chemotherapy and radiology treatments. Some studies have suggested that calcium-activated potassium channels contribute to the high proliferative potential of tumor cells, including gliomas. However, other publications demonstrated no role for these channels or even assigned them antitumorogenic properties. In this work we characterized the expression and functional contribution to proliferation of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels in human glioblastoma cells. Quantitative RT-PCR detected transcripts for the big conductance (BK), intermediate conductance (IK1), and small conductance (SK2) K(+) channels in two glioblastoma-derived cell lines and a surgical sample of glioblastoma multiforme. Functional expression of BK and IK1 in U251 and U87 glioma cell lines and primary glioma cultures was verified using whole-cell electrophysiological recordings. Inhibitors of BK (paxilline and penitrem A) and IK1 channels (clotrimazole and TRAM-34) reduced U251 and U87 proliferation in an additive fashion, while the selective blocker of SK channels UCL1848 had no effect. However, the antiproliferative properties of BK and IK1 inhibitors were seen at concentrations that were higher than those necessary to inhibit channel activity. To verify specificity of pharmacological agents, we downregulated BK and IK1 channels in U251 cells using gene-specific siRNAs. Although siRNA knockdowns caused strong reductions in the BK and IK1 current densities, neither single nor double gene silencing significantly affected rates of proliferation. Taken together, these results suggest that Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels do not play a critical role in proliferation of glioma cells and that the effects of pharmacological inhibitors occur through their off-target actions.


To examine the neural basis of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) signal, we have developed a rodent model in which functional MRI data and in vivo intracortical recording can be performed simultaneously. The combination of MRI and electrical recording is technically challenging because the electrodes used for recording distort the MRI images and the MRI acquisition induces noise in the electrical recording. To minimize the mutual interference of the two modalities, glass microelectrodes were used rather than metal and a noise removal algorithm was implemented for the electrophysiology data. In our studies, two microelectrodes were separately implanted in bilateral primary somatosensory cortices (SI) of the rat and fixed in place. One coronal slice covering the electrode tips was selected for functional MRI. Electrode shafts and fixation positions were not included in the image slice to avoid imaging artifacts. The removed scalp was replaced with toothpaste to reduce susceptibility mismatch and prevent Gibbs ringing artifacts in the images. The artifact structure induced in the electrical recordings by the rapidly-switching magnetic fields during image acquisition was characterized by averaging all cycles of scans for each run. The noise structure during imaging was then subtracted from original recordings. The denoised time courses were then used for further analysis in combination with the fMRI data. As an example, the simultaneous acquisition was used to determine the relationship between spontaneous fMRI BOLD signals and band-limited intracortical electrical activity. Simultaneous fMRI and electrophysiological recording in the rodent will provide a platform for many exciting applications in neuroscience in addition to elucidating the relationship between the fMRI BOLD signal and neuronal activity.
The On-Off direction-selective ganglion cell (DSGC) in mammalian retinas responds most strongly to a stimulus moving in a specific direction. The DSGC initiates spikes in its dendritic tree, which are thought to propagate to the soma with high probability. Both dendritic and somatic spikes in the DSGC display strong directional tuning, whereas somatic PSPs (postsynaptic potentials) are only weakly directional, indicating that spike generation includes marked enhancement of the directional signal. We used a realistic computational model based on anatomical and physiological measurements to determine the source of the enhancement. Our results indicate that the DSGC dendritic tree is partitioned into separate electrotonic regions, each summing its local excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs to initiate spikes. Within each local region the local spike threshold nonlinearly amplifies the preferred response over the null response on the basis of PSP amplitude. Using inhibitory conductances previously measured in DSGCs, the simulation results showed that inhibition is only sufficient to prevent spike initiation and cannot affect spike propagation. Therefore, inhibition will only act locally within the dendritic arbor. We identified the role of three mechanisms that generate directional selectivity (DS) in the local dendritic regions. First, a mechanism for DS intrinsic to the dendritic structure of the DSGC enhances DS on the null side of the cell's dendritic tree and weakens it on the preferred side. Second, spatially offset postsynaptic inhibition generates robust DS in the isolated dendritic tips but weak DS near the soma. Third, presynaptic DS is apparently necessary because it is more robust across the dendritic tree. The pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms together can overcome the local intrinsic DS. These local dendritic mechanisms can perform independent nonlinear computations to make a decision, and there could be analogous mechanisms within cortical circuitry.
Working memory (WM) is the part of the brain's memory system that provides temporary storage and manipulation of information necessary for cognition. Although WM has limited capacity at any given time, it has vast memory content in the sense that it acts on the brain's nearly infinite repertoire of lifetime long-term memories. Using simulations, we show that large memory content and WM functionality emerge spontaneously if we take the spike-timing nature of neuronal processing into account. Here, memories are represented by extensively overlapping groups of neurons that exhibit stereotypical time-locked spatiotemporal spike-timing patterns, called polychronous patterns; and synapses forming such polychronous neuronal groups (PNGs) are subject to associative synaptic plasticity in the form of both long-term and short-term spike-timing dependent plasticity. While long-term potentiation is essential in PNG formation, we show how short-term plasticity can temporarily strengthen the synapses of selected PNGs and lead to an increase in the spontaneous reactivation rate of these PNGs. This increased reactivation rate, consistent with in vivo recordings during WM tasks, results in high interspike interval variability and irregular, yet systematically changing, elevated firing rate profiles within the neurons of the selected PNGs. Additionally, our theory explains the relationship between such slowly changing firing rates and precisely timed spikes, and it reveals a novel relationship between WM and the perception of time on the order of seconds.


We have developed a caged IP(3) analogue for two-photon photolysis in living animals. This probe is a cell permeable version and was coloaded with a fluorescent Ca(2+) dye into astrocytes in layer 1 of the somatosensory cortex of anesthetized mice. Two-photon irradiation of single cells at 720 nm produced rapid and robust increases in intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations monitored using two-photon microscopy at 950 nm. The photoevoked intracellular Ca(2+) waves were similar in magnitude to intrinsic signals in wild type mice. These waves did not propagate to other cells beyond the targeted astrocyte. In contrast, we observed intercellular astrocytic Ca(2+) waves in two mouse models of familial Alzheimer's disease. These data suggest that Alzheimer's might perturb gliotransmission but not IP(3) signaling per se in mouse models of the disease.
Semagacestat (LY450139) is a novel -secretase inhibitor currently in late-stage development by Eli Lilly and Company as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Semagacestat is currently being studied in two phase III clinical trials.
Thiopalmitoylation (i.e., the covalent attachment of palmitic acid via a thioester linkage to cysteine residues in the polypeptide backbone) is a common post-translational modification of proteins. Several proteins that have been identified as putative autoantigens in a variety of T-cell mediated autoimmune diseases are thiopalmitoylated, and thus, we have hypothesized that endogenous thiopalmitoylated peptides released during tissue breakdown may play a role in the development and chronicity of autoimmune diseases. To investigate this, we have studied the effect of thiopalmitoylation on the immunogenic and neuritogenic properties of P0, the major peripheral nervous system (PNS) myelin protein, which is thiopalmitoylated at cysteine 153, and described as a candidate autoantigen in Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS), a human inflammatory demyelinating disease of the PNS. This paper describes the synthesis of palmitoylated peptide P0(180-199) and P0(152-171) by on-resin acylation using specific cysteine side-chain protecting groups: Mmt (labile in diluted acid) and StBu (labile in the presence of tributylphosphine). Our results show that the thiol protecting group had to be adjusted to the peptide sequence: Mmt was efficiently used for P0(180-199) thioacylation, but it was not suitable for thiopalmitoylation of P0(152-171) because of a premature deprotection of the Boc protecting group on the epsilon-NH(2) Lys in the presence of 2% TFA, leading to dipalmitoylation. Palmitoylated P0(152-171) was successfully obtained by using StBu as the thiol protecting group. We could show by circular dichroism that palmitoylation has no influence on the structuration of the peptide in solution but palmitoylation increased the stability of the peptide in the presence of serum. Using EAN (experimental autoimmune neuritis), the rat model of GBS, we have compared the immunological properties of palm and non-palm P0 peptides and showed that thiopalmitoylation has indeed a great influence on their neuritogenic and immunogenic properties. This study provides further support for our hypothesis concerning the role of thiopalmitoylation in the development and chronicity of inflammatory demyelinating diseases and confirms that thiopalmitoylation of peptides may provide a simple means to increase MHC class II restricted responses.

The spatial organization of transmembrane receptors is a critical step in signal transduction and receptor trafficking in cells. Transmembrane receptors engage in lateral homotypic and heterotypic cis-interactions as well as intercellular trans-interactions that result in the formation of signalling foci for the initiation of different signalling networks. Several aspects of ligand-induced receptor clustering and association with signalling proteins are also influenced by the lipid composition of membranes. Thus, lipid microdomains have a function in tuning the activity of many transmembrane receptors by positively or negatively affecting receptor clustering and signal transduction. We review the current knowledge about the functions of clustering of transmembrane receptors and lipid-protein interactions important for the spatial organization of signalling at the membrane.
Of the five mammalian muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors, M(5) is the only subtype expressed in midbrain dopaminergic neurons, where it functions to potentiate dopamine release. We have identified a direct physical interaction between M(5) and the AP-3 adaptor complex regulator AGAP1. This interaction was specific with regard to muscarinic receptor (MR) and AGAP subtypes, and mediated the binding of AP-3 to M(5). Interaction with AGAP1 and activity of AP-3 were required for the endocytic recycling of M(5) in neurons, the lack of which resulted in the downregulation of cell surface receptor density after sustained receptor stimulation. The elimination of AP-3 or abrogation of AGAP1-M(5) interaction in vivo decreased the magnitude of presynaptic M(5)-mediated dopamine release potentiation in the striatum. Our study argues for the presence of a previously unknown receptor-recycling pathway that may underlie mechanisms of G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) homeostasis. These results also suggest a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of dopaminergic dysfunction.
A proposed tangential flow ultrafiltration method was compared to the widely used ultracentrifugation method for efficiency and efficacy in concentrating, size selecting, and minimizing the aggregation state of a silver nanoparticle (AgNP) colloid while probing the AgNPs' SERS-based sensing capabilities. The ultrafiltration method proved to be more efficient and more effective and was found to tremendously boost the SERS-based sensing capabilities of these AgNPs through the increased number of homogeneous SERS hot spots available for a biotarget molecule within a minimal focal volume. Future research studies and applications addressing the physiochemical properties or biological impact of AgNPs would greatly benefit from ultrafiltration for its ability to generate monodisperse colloidal nanoparticles, to eliminate excess toxic chemicals from nanoparticle synthesis, and to obtain minimum levels of aggregation during nanoparticle concentration.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain. The NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors (NMDAR) is known to mediate many physiological neural functions. However, excessive activation of NMDARs contributes to neuronal damage in various acute and chronic neurological disorders. To avoid unwanted adverse side effects, blockade of excessive NMDAR activity must therefore be achieved without affecting its physiological function. Memantine, an adamantane derivative, has been used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease with an excellent clinical safety profile. We previously showed that memantine preferentially blocked neurotoxicity mediated by excessive NMDAR activity while relatively sparing normal neurotransmission, in part because of its uncompetitive antagonism with a fast off-rate. Here, using rat autaptic hippocampal microcultures, we show that memantine at therapeutic concentrations (1-10 microM) preferentially blocks extrasynaptic rather than synaptic currents mediated by NMDARs in the same neuron. We found that memantine blocks extrasynaptic NMDAR-mediated currents induced by bath application of 100 microM NMDA/10 microM glycine with a twofold higher potency than its blockade of the NMDAR component of evoked EPSCs (EPSCs(NMDAR)); this effect persists under conditions of pathological depolarization in the presence of 1 mm extracellular Mg(2+). Thus, our findings provide the first unequivocal evidence to explain the tolerability of memantine based on differential extrasynaptic/synaptic receptor blockade. At therapeutic concentrations, memantine effectively blocks excessive extrasynaptic NMDAR-mediated currents, while relatively sparing normal synaptic activity.
Inhibitory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus in mediated by a wide variety of different interneuron classes which are assumed to play different roles in network activity. Activation of presynaptic kainate receptors (KARs) has been shown to reduce inhibitory transmission but the interneuron class(es) at which they act is only recently beginning to emerge. Using paired recordings we show that KAR activation causes a decrease in presynaptic release from cholecystokinin (CCK)- but not parvalbumin-containing interneurons and that this decrease is observed when pyramidal cells, but not interneurons, are the postsynaptic target. We also show that although the synchronous release component is reduced, the barrage of asynchronous GABA release from CCK interneurons during sustained firing is unaffected by KAR activation. This indicates that presynaptic KARs preserve and act in concert with asynchronous release to switch CCK interneurons from a phasic inhibition mode to produce prolonged inhibition during periods of intense activity.
Direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs) fire robustly for stimuli moving along one direction of motion and are strongly inhibited by stimuli moving in the opposite, or null, direction. In contrast to direction-selective neurons in primary visual cortex, a role for neural activity in the development of direction-selective retinal circuits has not been established. Direction-selective responses are detected at eye opening, before which spontaneous correlated activity known as retinal waves provide directional input to ganglion cells. Indeed, we observed a significant bias in wave propagation along the nasal over temporal direction. Using simultaneous calcium imaging and cell-attached recordings from three genetically labeled DSGC types in mice, we observed that all three DSGC types fire action potentials during retinal waves. However, we found that the direction of wave propagation did not influence DSGC spiking. These results indicate that the mechanisms guiding the formation of the asymmetric inhibition underlying direction selectivity in the retina are not dependent upon the directional properties of retinal waves.
A thorough knowledge of the intrinsic circuit properties of the entorhinal cortex (EC) and the temporal dynamics these circuits support is essential for understanding how information is exchanged between the hippocampus and neocortex. Using intracellular and extracellular recordings in the anesthetized rat and anatomical reconstruction of single cells, we found that EC5 and EC2 principal neurons form large axonal networks mainly within their layers, interconnected by the more vertically organized axon trees of EC3 pyramidal cells. Principal cells showed layer-specific unique membrane properties and contributed differentially to theta and gamma oscillations. EC2 principal cells were most strongly phase modulated by EC theta. The multiple gamma oscillators, present in the various EC layers, were temporally coordinated by the phase of theta waves. Putative interneurons in all EC layers fired relatively synchronously within the theta cycle, coinciding with the maximum power of gamma oscillation. The special wiring architecture and unique membrane properties of EC neurons may underlie their behaviorally distinct firing patterns in the waking animal.
At the vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ), acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering is stimulated by motor neuron-derived glycoprotein Agrin and requires a number of intracellular signal or structural proteins, including AChR-associated scaffold protein Rapsyn. Here, we report a role of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), a well known transcription factor involved in a variety of immune responses, in regulating AChR clustering at the NMJ. We found that downregulating the expression of RelA/p65 subunit of NF-kappaB or inhibiting NF-kappaB activity by overexpression of mutated form of IkappaB (inhibitor kappaB), which is resistant to proteolytic degradation and thus constitutively keeps NF-kappaB inactive in the cytoplasma, impeded the formation of AChR clusters in cultured C2C12 muscle cells stimulated by Agrin. In contrast, overexpression of RelA/p65 promoted AChR clustering. Furthermore, we investigated the mechanism by which NF-kappaB regulates AChR clustering. Interestingly, we found that downregulating the expression of RelA/p65 caused a marked reduction in the protein and mRNA level of Rapsyn and upregulation of RelA/p65 enhanced Rapsyn promoter activity. Mutation of NF-kappaB binding site on Rapsyn promoter prevented responsiveness to RelA/p65 regulation. Moreover, forced expression of Rapsyn in RelA/p65 downregulated muscle cells partially rescued AChR clusters, suggesting that NF-kappaB regulates AChR clustering, at least partially through the transcriptional regulation of Rapsyn. In line with this notion, genetic ablation of RelA/p65 selectively in the skeletal muscle caused a reduction of AChR density at the NMJ and a decrease in the level of Rapsyn. Thus, NF-kappaB signaling controls AChR clustering through transcriptional regulation of synaptic protein Rapsyn.
Synaptic efficacy requires that presynaptic and postsynaptic specializations align precisely and mature coordinately. The underlying mechanisms are poorly understood, however. We propose that adenomatous polyposis coli protein (APC) is a key coordinator of presynaptic and postsynaptic maturation. APC organizes a multiprotein complex that directs nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) localization at postsynaptic sites in avian ciliary ganglion neurons in vivo. We hypothesize that the APC complex also provides retrograde signals that direct presynaptic active zones to develop in register with postsynaptic nAChR clusters. In our model, the APC complex provides retrograde signals via postsynaptic neuroligin that interacts extracellularly with presynaptic neurexin. S-SCAM (synaptic cell adhesion molecule) and PSD-93 (postsynaptic density-93) are scaffold proteins that bind to neuroligin. We identify S-SCAM as a novel component of neuronal nicotinic synapses. We show that S-SCAM, PSD-93, neuroligin and neurexin are enriched at alpha3*-nAChR synapses. PSD-93 and S-SCAM bind to APC and its binding partner beta-catenin, respectively. Blockade of selected APC and beta-catenin interactions, in vivo, leads to decreased postsynaptic accumulation of S-SCAM, but not PSD-93. Importantly, neuroligin synaptic clusters are also decreased. On the presynaptic side, there are decreases in neurexin and active zone proteins. Further, presynaptic terminals are less mature structurally and functionally. We define a novel neural role for APC by showing that the postsynaptic APC multiprotein complex is required for anchoring neuroligin and neurexin at neuronal synapses in vivo. APC human gene mutations correlate with autism spectrum disorders, providing strong support for the importance of the association, demonstrated here, between APC, neuroligin and neurexin.
Expressed metabotropic group 1 glutamate mGluR5 receptors and nucleotide P2Y1 receptors (P2Y1Rs) show promiscuous ion channel coupling in sympathetic neurons: their stimulation inhibits M-type [Kv7, K(M)] potassium currents and N-type (Ca(V)2.2) calcium currents (Kammermeier and Ikeda, 1999; Brown et al., 2000). These effects are mediated by G(q) and G(i/o) G-proteins, respectively. Via their C-terminal tetrapeptide, these receptors also bind to the PDZ domain of the scaffold protein NHERF2, which enhances their coupling to G(q)-mediated Ca(2+) signaling (Fam et al., 2005; Paquet et al., 2006b). We investigated whether NHERF2 could modulate coupling to neuronal ion channels. We find that coexpression of NHERF2 in sympathetic neurons (by intranuclear cDNA injections) does not affect the extent of M-type potassium current inhibition produced by either receptor but strongly reduced Ca(V)2.2 inhibition by both P2Y1R and mGluR5 activation. NHERF2 expression had no significant effect on Ca(V)2.2 inhibition by norepinephrine (via alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, which do not bind NHERF2), nor on Ca(V)2.2 inhibition produced by an expressed P2Y1R lacking the NHERF2-binding DTSL motif. Thus, NHERF2 selectively restricts downstream coupling of mGluR5 and P2Y1Rs in neurons to G(q)-mediated responses such as M-current inhibition. Differential distribution of NHERF2 in neurons may therefore determine coupling of mGluR5 receptors and P2Y1 receptors to calcium channels.
Many extracellular and intrinsic factors regulate oligodendrocyte development, but their signaling pathways remain poorly understood. Although the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-dependent pathway is implicated in oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) lineage progression, its molecular targets involved in myelinogenesis are mostly unidentified. We have analyzed mechanisms by which p38MAPK regulates oligodendrocyte development and demonstrate that p38MAPK inhibition prevents OPC lineage progression and inhibits MBP (myelin basic protein) promoter activity and Sox10 function. In white-matter tissue, differential levels of MAPK phosphorylation are observed in oligodendrocyte lineage cells. Phosphorylated p38MAPK was found in CC1- and CNP-expressing differentiated oligodendrocytes of the adult brain and was temporally associated with a decline in the levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in cells of this lineage. PDGF stimulates the phosphorylation of ERK, p38MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38MAPK inhibition was associated with increased ERK, JNK, and c-Jun phosphorylation. In the presence of PDGF, simultaneous inhibition of p38MAPK and either MAPK kinase (MEK) or JNK significantly alleviates the repression of myelin gene expression and lineage progression induced by p38MAPK inhibition alone. Dominant-negative c-Jun reverses the inhibition of myelin promoter activity by active MEK1 or dominant-negative p38MAPKalpha mutants, and phosphorylated c-Jun was detected at the MBP promoter after p38MAPK inhibition, indicating c-Jun as a negative mediator of p38MAPK action. Our findings indicate that p38MAPK activity in the brain supports myelin gene expression through distinct mechanisms via positive and negative regulatory targets. We show that oligodendrocyte differentiation involves p38-mediated Sox10 regulation and cross talk with parallel ERK and JNK pathways to repress c-Jun activity.
The memory deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease result to a great extent from hippocampal network dysfunction. The coordination of this network relies on theta (symbol) oscillations generated in the medial septum. Here, we investigated in rats the impact of hippocampal amyloid beta (Abeta) injections on the physiological and cognitive functions that depend on the septohippocampal system. Hippocampal Abeta injections progressively impaired behavioral performances, the associated hippocampal theta power, and theta frequency response in a visuospatial recognition test. These alterations were associated with a specific reduction in the firing of the identified rhythmic bursting GABAergic neurons responsible for the propagation of the theta rhythm to the hippocampus, but without loss of medial septal neurons. Such results indicate that hippocampal Abeta treatment leads to a specific functional depression of inhibitory projection neurons of the medial septum, resulting in the functional impairment of the temporal network.




The direct and indirect pathways of the basal ganglia have been proposed to oppositely regulate locomotion and differentially contribute to pathological behaviors. Analysis of the distinct contributions of each pathway to behavior has been a challenge, however, due to the difficulty of selectively investigating the neurons comprising the two pathways using conventional techniques. Here we present two mouse models in which the function of striatonigral or striatopallidal neurons is selectively disrupted due to cell type-specific deletion of the striatal signaling protein dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein Mr 32kDa (DARPP-32). Using these mice, we found that the loss of DARPP-32 in striatonigral neurons decreased basal and cocaine-induced locomotion and abolished dyskinetic behaviors in response to the Parkinson's disease drug L-DOPA. Conversely, the loss of DARPP-32 in striatopallidal neurons produced a robust increase in locomotor activity and a strongly reduced cataleptic response to the antipsychotic drug haloperidol. These findings provide insight into the selective contributions of the direct and indirect pathways to striatal motor behaviors.
Increasing evidence supports the notion that spinal cord microglia activation plays a causal role in the development of neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury; yet the mechanisms for microglia activation remain elusive. Here, we provide evidence that NADPH oxidase 2 (Nox2)-derived ROS production plays a critical role in nerve injury-induced spinal cord microglia activation and subsequent pain hypersensitivity. Nox2 expression was induced in dorsal horn microglia immediately after L5 spinal nerve transection (SNT). Studies using Nox2-deficient mice show that Nox2 is required for SNT-induced ROS generation, microglia activation, and proinflammatory cytokine expression in the spinal cord. SNT-induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia were similarly attenuated in Nox2-deficient mice. In addition, reducing microglial ROS level via intrathecal sulforaphane administration attenuated mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in SNT-injured mice. Sulforaphane also inhibited SNT-induced proinflammatory gene expression in microglia, and studies using primary microglia indicate that ROS generation is required for proinflammatory gene expression in microglia. These studies delineate a pathway involving nerve damage leading to microglial Nox2-generated ROS, resulting in the expression of proinflammatory cytokines that are involved in the initiation of neuropathic pain.
Adult rats were trained to detect the occurrence of a two-element sound sequence in a background of nine other nontarget sound pairs. Training resulted in a modest, enduring, static expansion of the cortical areas of representation of both target stimulus sounds. More importantly, once the initial stimulus A in the target A-B sequence was presented, the cortical &quot;map&quot; changed dynamically, specifically to exaggerate further the representation of the &quot;anticipated&quot; stimulus B. If B occurred, it was represented over a larger cortical area by more strongly excited, more coordinated, and more selectively responding neurons. This biasing peaked at the expected time of B onset with respect to A onset. No dynamic biasing of responses was recorded for any sound presented in a nontarget pair. Responses to nontarget frequencies flanking the representation of B were reduced in area and in response strength only after the presentation of A at the expected time of B onset. This study shows that cortical areas are not representationally static but, to the contrary, can be biased moment by moment in time as a function of behavioral context.
In the gustatory systems of mammals and flies, different populations of sensory cells recognize different taste modalities, such that there are cells that respond selectively to sugars and others to bitter compounds. This organization readily allows animals to distinguish compounds of different modalities but may limit the ability to distinguish compounds within one taste modality. Here, we developed a behavioral paradigm in Drosophila melanogaster to evaluate directly the tastes that a fly distinguishes. These studies reveal that flies do not discriminate among different sugars, or among different bitter compounds, based on chemical identity. Instead, flies show a limited ability to distinguish compounds within a modality based on intensity or palatability. Taste associative learning, similar to olfactory learning, requires the mushroom bodies, suggesting fundamental similarities in brain mechanisms underlying behavioral plasticity. Overall, these studies provide insight into the discriminative capacity of the Drosophila gustatory system and the modulation of taste behavior.
Kalirin-7 (Kal7), a major isoform of Kalirin in the adult rodent hippocampus, is exclusively localized to the postsynaptic side of mature excitatory synapses in hippocampal neurons. Kal7 interacts with multiple PDZ domain-containing proteins through its unique PDZ binding motif. Overexpression of Kal7 increases spine density and spine size, whereas reduction of endogenous Kal7 expression by small hairpin RNA (shRNA) causes a decrease in synapse number and spine density in cultured hippocampal neurons. Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons of Kal7 knockout (Kal7KO) mice show decreased spine density, spine length, synapse number, and postsynaptic density (PSD) size in their apical dendrites; are deficient in long-term potentiation (LTP); and exhibit decreased frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current (sEPSC). Kal7 plays a key role in estrogen-mediated spine/synapse formation in hippocampal neurons. Kal7 is also an essential determinant of dendritic spine formation following chronic cocaine treatment. Kal7 plays a key role in excitatory synapse formation and function.
Estrogens are well-known regulators of the immune responses. Most of their effects are mediated by two receptors: estrogen receptor (ER)alpha and ERbeta. Up to date the presence of intracellular ER in human immune cells represents a controversial issue, while their surface membrane expression has scarcely been explored. In this study we investigated the intracellular and cell surface expression of ERalpha and ERbeta in human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) by flow and static cytometry as well as by Western Blot. To this aim we used five different commercial antibodies recognizing distinct ER epitopes. We observed that CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes and NK cells contain intracellular ERalpha and ERbeta, being the ERalpha46 isoform the most represented ER. However, significant differences could be observed among the antibodies studied in terms of immunoreactivity and specificity. Importantly, we also found a cell surface expression of ERalpha46 isoform. We also observed that a membrane-impermeant form of E2 induced a rapid phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), a significant proliferation of T lymphocytes, and IFN-gamma production by NK cells, thus suggesting the expression of a functional mERalpha. In conclusion our data could provide new insights as concerns the estrogen-related mechanisms of immune system modulation. They also suggest the need for a reappraisal of the experimental conditions for the characterization of the ER expression.
Predicting off-targets by computational methods is getting increasing importance in early drug discovery stages. We herewith present a computational method based on binding site three-dimensional comparisons, which prompted us to investigate the cross-reaction of protein kinase inhibitors with synapsin I, an ATP-binding protein regulating neurotransmitter release in the synapse. Systematic pair-wise comparison of the staurosporine-binding site of the proto-oncogene Pim-1 kinase with 6,412 druggable protein-ligand binding sites suggested that the ATP-binding site of synapsin I may recognize the pan-kinase inhibitor staurosporine. Biochemical validation of this hypothesis was realized by competition experiments of staurosporine with ATP-gamma(35)S for binding to synapsin I. Staurosporine, as well as three other inhibitors of protein kinases (cdk2, Pim-1 and casein kinase type 2), effectively bound to synapsin I with nanomolar affinities and promoted synapsin-induced F-actin bundling. The selective Pim-1 kinase inhibitor quercetagetin was shown to be the most potent synapsin I binder (IC50 = 0.15 microM), in agreement with the predicted binding site similarities between synapsin I and various protein kinases. Other protein kinase inhibitors (protein kinase A and chk1 inhibitor), kinase inhibitors (diacylglycerolkinase inhibitor) and various other ATP-competitors (DNA topoisomerase II and HSP-90alpha inhibitors) did not bind to synapsin I, as predicted from a lower similarity of their respective ATP-binding sites to that of synapsin I. The present data suggest that the observed downregulation of neurotransmitter release by some but not all protein kinase inhibitors may also be contributed by a direct binding to synapsin I and phosphorylation-independent perturbation of synapsin I function. More generally, the data also demonstrate that cross-reactivity with various targets may be detected by systematic pair-wise similarity measurement of ligand-annotated binding sites.

Chronic stress is a risk factor for many psychopathological conditions, including depression and anxiety disorders. Cognitive impairments associated with prefrontal cortical dysfunction are a major component of such illnesses. Using an attentional set-shifting test (AST), we have previously shown that elevating noradrenergic activity in rat medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) can facilitate cognitive set-shifting, and that chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) caused set-shifting deficits. It is not known, however, if noradrenergic modulatory function is compromised by chronic stress, perhaps contributing to the stress-induced cognitive deficit. Thus, the first study investigated whether acutely elevating noradrenergic activity in mPFC still enhances cognitive function after chronic stress. As previously demonstrated, CUS impaired cognitive set-shifting on the AST. This deficit was abolished by acute systemic administration of the alpha(2)-adrenergic autoreceptor antagonist, atipamezole. Microdialysis revealed no differences in extracellular norepinephrine (NE) levels in mPFC of CUS-exposed and unstressed control rats at baseline or during behavioral testing, and comparable increases after atipamezole. In the second experiment, rats were treated chronically with the selective NE reuptake blocker, desipramine, during the CUS treatment through behavioral testing. Again, CUS impaired cognitive set-shifting in vehicle-treated rats, and chronic desipramine treatment prevented such deficits. Acute blockade of post-synaptic alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors in mPFC prior to testing blocked the beneficial effect of desipramine on cognitive set-shifting. These results suggest that desipramine restores cognitive set-shifting capability that has been compromised by chronic stress by activating alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors in the mPFC. Thus, noradrenergic modulatory capability in mPFC remains intact after CUS, and this represents one possible substrate by which antidepressants may exert their beneficial effects in the treatment of depression.
Studies have shown a genetic susceptibility to develop schizophrenia, alcohol use disorders and nicotine dependence. Brain areas related to reward and reinforcement show high expression of the cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript (CART). Nicotine and alcohol are also able to modulate CART expression in the hypothalamic areas. In this study, we evaluated whether CART variants would influence the predisposition of schizophrenia subjects to alcohol use disorders and nicotine dependence. Clinical and genetic data were obtained from 190 unrelated Caucasian schizophrenia subjects collected at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health. We found no association of CART variants with alcohol use disorders or nicotine dependence. We found a trend for allelic association of rs11575893 with the heaviness of smoking behaviour (p=0.057). Our results indicate that genetic variants in the CART gene may not play a major role in the vulnerability of schizophrenia subjects to concurrent alcohol use disorders and nicotine dependence. Additional association studies in independent samples can evaluate whether CART gene is playing a role in the schizophrenia comorbidity with alcohol use disorders and nicotine dependence.
Uniparental disomy (UPD) refers to the situation in which both homologues of a chromosomal region/segment have originated from only one parent. This can involve the entire chromosome or only a small segment. As a consequence of UPD, or uniparental duplication/deficiency of part of a chromosome, there are two types of developmental risk: aberrant dosage of genes regulated by genomic imprinting and homozygosity of a recessive mutation. UPD models generated by reciprocal and Robertsonian translocation heterozygote intercrosses have been a powerful tool to investigate genomic imprinting in mice, whereas novel UPD patients such as those with cystic fibrosis and Prader-Willi syndrome, triggered the clarification of recessive diseases and genomic imprinting disorders in human. Newly developed genomic technologies as well as conventional microsatellite marker methods have been contributing to the functional and mechanistic investigation of UPD, leading to not only the acquisition of clinically valuable information, but also the further clarification of diverse genetic processes and disease pathogenesis.
Inappropriate activation of the IGF (insulin-like growth factor) system has been implicated in the growth and progression of a number of tumor types. Recent evidence indicates a possible role for the IGF system in modulating/mediating tumor cell response to hypoxia, a common occurrence in solid tumors, and particularly in malignant gliomas, causing tumor cells either to die, or to mount a pleiotropic adaptive response that is mainly orchestrated through activation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor HIF1. Experimental evidence suggests possible links between IGF- and HIF1-dependent signaling pathways, as well as a role for activated STAT3 in mediating their activities. Interestingly, igf2 is among the target genes transactivated by HIF1, thereby providing the missing link in a hypothetical autocrine self-amplifying circuit. The present study investigates the presence of the IGF-HIF1-VEGF axis in the human glioma cell line U-87 MG, and characterizes its molecular effectors. Our results show that exogenous IGF-I causes IGF1R and STAT3 activation, and increases HIF1alpha protein levels and HIF1 trascriptional activity, inducing VEGF release; a similar response, mediated by IGF-II release, is observed following HIF1alpha stabilization. The existence of an autocrine loop is confirmed by its down-regulation following inactivation of IGF1R (using the IGF1R-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor NVP-AEW541), STAT3 (transfecting the cells with an expression vector encoding a dominant negative form of STAT3), or HIF1 (using the small molecule inhibitor YC-1). The ability of NVP-AEW541 to block this circuit could be beneficial in suppressing the growth and angiogenic potential of hypoxic glial tumors.


A series of analogues of the pyrazole lead 1 were synthesized in which the heterocyclic core was replaced with an imidazole. A number of potent antagonists were identified and structure-activity relationships (SAR) were investigated both with respect to activity at the P2X(7) receptor and in vitro metabolic stability. Compound 10 was identified as a potent P2X(7) antagonist with reduced in vitro metabolism and high solubility.
A novel class of small molecule NPY Y5 antagonists based around an azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane scaffold was identified through modification of a screening hit. Structure-activity relationships and efforts undertaken to achieve a favourable pharmacokinetic profile in rat are described.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) permits neural crest cells to delaminate from the epithelial ectoderm and to migrate extensively in the embryonic environment. In this study, we have identified ATF4, a basic-leucine-zipper transcription factor, as one of the neural crest EMT regulators. Although ATF4 alone was not sufficient to drive the formation of migratory neural crest cells, ATF4 cooperated with Sox9 to induce neural crest EMT by controlling the expression of cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix adhesion molecules. This was likely, at least in part, by inducing the expression of Foxd3, which encodes another neural crest transcription factor. We also found that the ATF4 protein level was strictly regulated by proteasomal degradation and p300-mediated stabilization, allowing ATF4 protein to accumulate in the nuclei of neural crest cells undergoing EMT. Thus, our results emphasize the importance of the regulation of protein stability in the neural crest EMT.
In the zebrafish retinotectal system, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) project topographically along anterior-posterior (A-P) and dorsal-ventral (D-V) axes to innervate their primary target, the optic tectum. In the nevermind (nev) mutant, D-V positional information is not maintained by dorsonasal retinal axons as they project through the optic tract to the tectum. Here we present a detailed phenotypic analysis of the retinotectal projection in nev and show that dorsonasal axons do eventually find their correct location on the tectum, albeit after taking a circuitous path. Interestingly, nev seems to be specifically required for retinal axons but not for several non-retinal axon tracts. In addition, we find that nev is required both cell autonomously and cell nonautonomously for proper lamination of the retina. We show that nev encodes Cyfip2 (Cytoplasmic FMRP interacting protein 2) and is thus the first known mutation in a vertebrate Cyfip family member. Finally, we show that CYFIP2 acts cell autonomously in the D-V sorting of dorsonasal RGC axons in the optic tract. CYFIP2 is a highly conserved protein that lacks known domains or structural motifs but has been shown to interact with Rac and the fragile-X mental retardation protein, suggesting intriguing links to cytoskeletal dynamics and RNA regulation.
Little is known about how, during its formidable expansion in development and evolution, the cerebral cortex is able to maintain the correct balance between excitatory and inhibitory neurons. In fact, while the former are born within the cortical primordium, the latter originate outward in the ventral pallium. Therefore, it remains to be addressed how these two neuronal populations might coordinate their relative amounts in order to build a functional cortical network. Here, we show that Tbr2-positive cortical intermediate (basal) neuronal progenitors (INPs) dictate the migratory route and control the amount of subpallial GABAergic interneurons in the subventricular zone (SVZ) through a non-cell-autonomous mechanism. In fact, Tbr2 interneuron attractive activity is moderated by Cxcl12 chemokine signaling, whose forced expression in the Tbr2 mutants can rescue, to some extent, SVZ cell migration. We thus propose that INPs are able to control simultaneously the increase of glutamatergic and GABAergic neuronal pools, thereby creating a simple way to intrinsically balance their relative accumulation.
Wallerian degeneration in the dorsal columns (DC) after spinal cord injury (SCI) is associated with microglial activation and prolonged oligodendrocyte (OL) apoptosis that may contribute to demyelination and dysfunction after SCI. But, there is an increase in OL lineage cells after SCI that may represent a reparative response, and there is evidence for remyelination after SCI. To assess the role of axonal degeneration per se in OL apoptosis and proliferation, we cut the L2-S2 dorsal roots producing massive axonal degeneration and microglial activation in the DC, and found no evidence of OL loss or apoptosis. Rather, the numbers of OL-lineage cells positive for NG2 and APC (CC1) increased, and BrdU studies suggested new OL formation. We then tested contusion SCI (cSCI) that results in comparable degeneration in the DC rostral to the injury, microglial activation, and apoptosis of DC OLs by eight days. NG2+ cell proliferation and oligodendrogenesis was seen as after rhizotomy. The net result of this combination of proliferation and apoptosis was a reduction in DC OLs, confirming earlier studies. Using an antibody to oxidized nucleic acids, we found rapid and prolonged RNA oxidation in OLs rostral to cSCI, but no evidence of oxidative stress in DC OLs after rhizotomy. These results suggest that signals associated with axonal degeneration are sufficient to induce OL proliferation, and that secondary injury processes associated with the central SCI, including oxidative stress, rather than axonal degeneration per se, are responsible for OL apoptosis.
The golli myelin basic proteins are expressed in oligodendroglial precursor cells (OPCs) where they play a role in regulating Ca(2+) homeostasis. During depolarization, they influence process outgrowth and migration through their action on voltage-operated Ca(2+) channels (VOCCs). To identify ion channels that are modulated by golli, we examined the electrophysiological properties of VOCCs in OPCs in the white matter of golli knock-out and control mice. OPCs exhibited two distinct Ca(2+) channels, which were distinguished by their voltage dependence and pharmacological profiles and which exhibited many of the hallmarks of LVA/T-type and HVA/L-type Ca(2+) channels. The density of high-voltage-activated (HVA) currents was reduced in OPCs recorded in golli-KO tissue, while low-voltage-activated (LVA) currents remained unaltered in these cells. These data indicate that golli exerts an exclusive influence on L-type Ca(2+) channels in OPCs. Oligodendrocytes (OLs) also displayed LVA and HVA currents, although the density of these currents was much reduced at this developmental stage. These currents were not altered in golli-KO OLs showing the influence of golli on L-type Ca(2+) channels is restricted to a specific time-window during the course of oligodendroglial development. The actions of golli on OPC L-type Ca(2+) channels were accompanied by changes in process morphology, including a reduction in process complexity and the appearance of enlarged varicosities that decorated these cellular processes. These data on L-type Ca(2+) channels and process development provide in situ evidence for the influence of golli on VOCCs, and offer an explanation for the hypomyelination observed in the brains of golli-KO mice.
We previously demonstrated that transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), while having no effect alone, enhances nitric oxide (NO) production in primary, purified mouse astrocytes induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), by recruiting a latent population of astrocytes to respond, thereby enhancing the total number of cells that express Nos2. In this investigation, we evaluated the molecular signaling pathway by which this occurs. We found that purified murine primary astrocytes express mRNA for TGFbetaRII as well as the TGFbetaRI subunit activin-like kinase 5 (ALK5), but not ALK1. Immunofluorescence microscopy confirmed the expression of TGFbetaRII and ALK5 protein in astrocytes. Consistent with ALK5 signaling, Smad3 accumulated in the nucleus of astrocytes as early as 30 min after TGF-beta1 (3 ng/mL) treatment and persisted upto 32 hr after TGF-beta1 administration. Addition of ALK5 inhibitors prevented TGF-beta1-mediated Smad3 nuclear accumulation and NO production when given prior to the Nos2 induction stimuli, but not after. Finally, astrocyte cultures derived from Smad3 null mutant mice did not exhibit a TGF-beta1-mediated increase in iNOS expression. Overall, this data suggests that ALK5 signaling and Smad3 nuclear accumulation is required for optimal enhancement of LPS plus IFNgamma-induced NO production in astrocytes by TGF-beta1.
RNA-binding protein TDP-43 has been associated with multiple neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar dementia. We have engineered pan-neuronal expression of human TDP-43 protein in Caenorhabditis elegans, with the goal of generating a convenient in vivo model of TDP-43 function and neurotoxicity. Transgenic worms with the neuronal expression of human TDP-43 exhibit an 'uncoordinated' phenotype and have abnormal motorneuron synapses. Caenorhabditis elegans contains a single putative ortholog of TDP-43, designated TDP-1, which we show can support alternative splicing of CFTR in a cell-based assay. Neuronal overexpression of TDP-1 also results in an uncoordinated phenotype, while genetic deletion of the tdp-1 gene does not affect movement or alter motorneuron synapses. By using the uncoordinated phenotype as a read-out of TDP-43 overexpression neurotoxicty, we have investigated the contribution of specific TDP-43 domains and subcellular localization to toxicity. Full-length (wild-type) human TDP-43 expressed in C. elegans is localized to the nucleus. Deletion of either RNA recognition domain (RRM1 or RRM2) completely blocks neurotoxicity, as does deletion of the C-terminal region. These deleted TDP-43 variants still accumulate in the nucleus, although their subnuclear distribution is altered. Interestingly, fusion of TDP-1 C-terminal sequences to TDP-43 missing its C-terminal domain restores normal subnuclear localization and toxicity in C. elegans and CFTR splicing in cell-based assays. Overexpression of wild-type, full-length TDP-43 in mammalian cells (differentiated M17 cells) can also result in cell toxicity. Our results demonstrate that in vivo TDP-43 neurotoxicity can result from nuclear activity of overexpressed full-length protein.
We investigated the ability of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) to activate PPARgamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha) in the brain, liver and brown adipose tissue (BAT) of the NLS-N171-82Q transgenic mouse model of Huntington's disease (HD). In the striatum of the HD mice, the baseline levels of PGC-1alpha, NRF1, NRF2, Tfam, COX-II, PPARdelta, CREB and ERRalpha mRNA and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), were significantly reduced. Administration of the creatine analog beta guanidinopropionic acid (GPA) reduced ATP and PCr levels and increased AMPK mRNA in both the cerebral cortex and striatum. Treatment with GPA significantly increased expression of PGC-1alpha, NRF1, Tfam and downstream genes in the striatum and cerebral cortex of wild-type (WT) mice, but there was no effect on these genes in the HD mice. The striatum of the untreated HD mice showed microvacuolation in the neuropil, as well as gliosis and huntingtin aggregates, which were exacerbated by treatment with GPA. GPA treatment produced a significant increase in mtDNA in the cerebral cortex and striatum of WT mice, but not in HD mice. The HD mice treated with GPA had impaired activation of liver PGC-1alpha and developed hepatic steatosis with accumulation of lipids, degeneration of hepatocytes and impaired activation of gluconeogenesis. The BAT in the HD mice showed vacuolation due to accumulation of neutral lipids, and age-dependent impairment of UCP-1 activation and temperature regulation. Impaired activation of PGC-1alpha, therefore, plays an important role in the behavioral phenotype, metabolic disturbances and pathology of HD, which suggests the possibility that agents that enhance PGC-1alpha function will exert therapeutic benefits in HD patients.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), a negative regulator of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, is widely involved in the regulation of protein synthesis. Here we show that the PTEN protein is enriched in cell bodies and axon terminals of purified motor neurons. We explored the role of the PTEN pathway by manipulating PTEN expression in healthy and diseased motor neurons. PTEN depletion led to an increase in growth cone size, promotion of axonal elongation and increased survival of these cells. These changes were associated with alterations of downstream signaling pathways for local protein synthesis as revealed by an increase in pAKT and p70S6. Most notably, this treatment also restores beta-actin protein levels in axonal growth cones of SMN-deficient motor neurons. Furthermore, we report here that a single injection of adeno-associated virus serotype 6 (AAV6) expressing siPTEN into hind limb muscles at postnatal day 1 in SMNDelta7 mice leads to a significant PTEN depletion and robust improvement in motor neuron survival. Taken together, these data indicate that PTEN-mediated regulation of protein synthesis in motor neurons could represent a target for therapy in spinal muscular atrophy.
Understanding the development of nociceptive circuits is important for the proper treatment of pain and administration of anesthesia to prenatal, newborn, and infant organisms. The spinothalamic tract (STT) is an integral pathway in the transmission of nociceptive information to the brain, yet the stage of development when axons from cells in the spinal cord reach the thalamus is unknown. Therefore, the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold was used to characterize the STT at several stages of development in the mouse, a species in which the STT was previously unexamined. One-week-old, 2-day-old and embryonic-day-18 mice did not differ from adults in the number or distribution of retrogradely labeled STT neurons. Approximately 3,500 neurons were retrogradely labeled from one side of the thalamus in each age group. Eighty percent of the labeled cells were located on the side of the spinal cord contralateral to the injection site. Sixty-three percent of all labeled cells were located within the cervical cord, 18% in thoracic cord, and 19% in the lumbosacral spinal cord. Retrogradely labeled cells significantly increased in diameter over the first postnatal week. Arborizations and boutons within the ventrobasal complex of the thalamus were observed after the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine was injected into the neonatal spinal cord. These data indicate that, whereas neurons of the STT continue to increase in size during the postnatal period, their axons reach the thalamus before birth and possess some of the morphological features required for functionality.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder affecting 1.5% of all above 55 years of age. Sleep related complaints are commonly reported in patients with PD and may form an important determinant of their quality of life. Interactions among genetic and environmental factors may play an important role in the development of and also explain the difference in sleep disturbances in these groups. The aim of our study was to compare the prevalence and distribution of various sleep disorders in patients with familial PD versus those with sporadic PD. Consecutive patients with sporadic and familial PD were evaluated with detailed clinical history; examination and questionnaire on sleep related problems over a two year period. The study included a total of 134 patients, 104 had sporadic PD and 30 had familial PD. Insomnia and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorders (RBD) were significantly common in sporadic group (26.9%and 25%) as compared to familial group (3.3%and 0%, P=0.006 and 0.002) despite comparable disease severity scores and duration of disease (P=0.116). Clinical RBD and other sleep disturbances are much less common in patients with familial PD as compared with those with sporadic PD.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a technique with significant potential to advance our understanding of multiple brain systems. However, when human subjects undergo fMRI studies they are typically conscious whereas pre-clinical fMRI studies typically utilize anesthesia, which complicates comparisons across studies. Therefore, we have developed an apparatus suitable for imaging conscious rhesus monkeys. In order to minimize subject stress and spatial motion, each subject was acclimated to the necessary procedures over several months. The effectiveness of this process was then evaluated, in fully trained subjects, by quantifying objective physiological measures. These physiological metrics were stable both within and across sessions and did not differ from when these same subjects were immobilized using standard primate handling procedures. Subject motion and blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) fMRI measurements were then evaluated by scanning subjects under three different conditions: the absence of stimulation, presentation of a visual stimulus, or administration of intravenous (i.v.) cocaine (0.3mg/kg). Spatial motion differed neither by condition nor along the three principal axes. In addition, maximum translational and rotational motion never exceeded one half of the voxel size (0.75 mm) or 1.5 degrees, respectively. Furthermore, the localization of changes in blood oxygenation closely matched those reported in previous studies using similar stimuli. These findings document the feasibility of fMRI data collection in conscious rhesus monkeys using these procedures and allow for the further study of the neural effects of psychoactive drugs.
The forced swim test (FST) is a commonly used procedure of preclinical screening of drugs for the antidepressant activity. It has high predictive validity for a large group of antidepressant drugs blocking serotonin and noradrenaline reuptakes and improvement of immobility time evaluation in the FST is an important problem of preclinical psychopharmacology. Here a new automated version of the FST was developed. This version includes 4 inventions: (1) transmitted lighting instead of reflected lighting, (2) mouse silhouette tracking, (3) automated choice of immobility threshold and (4) the permutation test of drug's effect. Experiment was carried out on adult males of C57BL/6J and BALB/cJ mouse strains. The mice were treated with tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (15 and 30 mg/kg, i.p.). Mouse was placed in water tank, its movements were recorded by a rater and the silhouette alterations were automatically tracked. The sequence of silhouette alterations was scanned for immobility bouts with a threshold algorithm. Threshold was gradually altered and the value which maximized the difference between control and treated groups was chosen. The immobility values obtained with the procedure were compared with the permutation test. The data obtained with this procedure did not differ from those obtained by the rater. Imipramine dose dependently attenuated immobility time in C57BL/6 mice without any effect on BALB/c mice. The new procedure has been implemented in the EthoStudio software. It provides an objective automated evaluation of immobility time in the FST.
In vivo electrophysiological recordings from cell bodies of primary sensory neurons are used to determine sensory function but are commonly performed blindly and without access to voltage- (patch-clamp) electrophysiology or optical imaging. We present a procedure to visualize and patch-clamp the neuronal cell body in the dorsal root ganglion, in vivo, manipulate its chemical environment, determine its receptive field properties, and remove it either to obtain subsequent molecular analyses or to gain access to deeper lying cells. This method allows the association of the peripheral transduction capacities of a sensory neuron with the biophysical and chemical characteristics of its cell body.
One of the challenges in neuroscience is the detection of directionality between signals reflecting neural activity. To reveal the directionality of coupling and time delays between interacting multi-scale signals, we use a combination of a data-driven technique called empirical mode decomposition (EMD) and partial directed coherence (PDC) together with the instantaneous causality test (ICT). EMD is used to separate multiple processes associated with different frequency bands, while PDC and ICT allow to explore directionality and characteristic time delays, respectively. We computationally validate our approach for the cases of both stochastic and chaotic oscillatory systems with different types of coupling. Moreover, we apply our approach to the analysis of the connectivity in different frequency bands between local field potentials (LFPs) bilaterally recorded from the left and right of subthalamic nucleus (STN) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We reveal a bidirectional coupling between the left and right STN in the beta-band (10-30 Hz) for an akinetic PD patient and in the tremor band (3-5 Hz) for a tremor-dominant PD patient. We detect a short time delay, most probably reflecting the inter-hemispheric transmission time. Additionally, in both patients we observe a long time delay of approximately a mean period of the beta-band activity in the akinetic PD patient or the tremor band activity in the tremor-dominant PD patient. These long delays may emerge in subcortico-thalamic loops or longer pathways, comprising reflex loops, respectively. We show that the replacement of EMD by conventional bandpass filtering complicates the detection of directionality and leads to a spurious detection of time delays.
Stimulation is extensively used in neuroscience research in diverse fields ranging from cognitive to clinical. Studying the effect of electrical and magnetic stimulation on neuronal activity is complicated by large stimulation-derived artifacts on the recording electrodes, which mask the spiking activity. Multiple studies have suggested a variety of solutions for the removal of artifacts and were typically directed at specific stimulation setups. In this study we introduce a generalized framework for stimulus artifacts removal, the Stimulus Artifact Removal Graphical Environment (SARGE). The framework provides an encapsulated environment for a multi-stage removal process, starting from the stimulus pulse detection, through estimation of the artifacts and their removal, and finally to signal reconstruction and the assessment of removal quality. The framework provides the user with subjective graphical and objective quantitative tools for assessing the resulting signal, and the ability to adjust the process to optimize the results. This extendable publicly available framework supports different types of stimulation, stimulation patterns and shapes, and a variety of artifact estimation methods. We exemplify the removal of artifacts generated by electrical micro- and macro-stimulation and magnetic stimulation and different stimulation protocols. The use of different estimation methods, such as averaging and function fitting is demonstrated, and the differences between them are discussed. Finally, the quality of removal is assessed and validated using quantitative measures and combined experimental-simulation studies. The framework marks a shift from &quot;algorithm&quot; and &quot;data&quot; centric approach to a &quot;workflow&quot; centric approach, thus introducing an innovative concept to the artifact removal process.
Over the past several years, optogenetic techniques have become widely used to help elucidate a variety of neuroscience problems. The unique optical control of neurons within a variety of organisms provided by optogenetics allows researchers to probe neural circuits and investigate neuronal function in a highly specific and controllable fashion. Recently, optogenetic techniques have been introduced to investigate synaptic transmission in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. For synaptic transmission studies, although quantitative, this technique is manual and very low-throughput. As it is, it is difficult to apply this technique to genetic studies. In this paper, we enhance this new tool by combining it with microfluidics technology and computer automation. This allows us to increase the assay throughput by several orders of magnitude as compared to the current standard approach, as well as improving standardization and consistency in data gathering. We also demonstrate the ability to infuse drugs to worms during optogenetic experiments using microfluidics. Together, these technologies will enable high-throughput genetic studies such as those of synaptic function.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an animal model for studying multiple sclerosis (MS). Calpain has been implicated in many inflammatory and neurodegenerative events that lead to disability in EAE and MS. Thus, treating EAE animals with calpain inhibitors may block these events and ameliorate disability. To test this hypothesis, acute EAE Lewis rats were treated dose dependently with the calpain inhibitor calpeptin (50-250 microg/kg). Calpain activity, gliosis, loss of myelin, and axonal damage were attenuated by calpeptin therapy, leading to improved clinical scores. Neuronal and oligodendrocyte death were also decreased, with down-regulation of proapoptotic proteins, suggesting that decreases in cell death were due to decreases in the expression or activity of proapoptotic proteins. These results indicate that calpain inhibition may offer a novel therapeutic avenue for treating EAE and MS.
Astrocytes play a diverse role in central nervous system (CNS) injury. Production of the serine protease inhibitors (serpins) plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and protease nexin-1 (PN-1) by astrocytes may counterbalance excessive serine protease activity associated with CNS pathologies such as ischemic stroke. Knowledge regarding the regulation of these genes in the brain is limited, so the objective of the present study was to characterize the effects of injury-related factors on serpin expression in human astrocytes. Native human astrocytes were exposed to hypoxia or cytokines, including interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), IL-10, transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), and TGF-beta for 0-20 hr. Serpin mRNA expression and protein secretion were determined by real-time RT-PCR and ELISA, respectively. Localization of PAI-1 and PN-1 in human brain tissue was examined by immunohistochemistry. Hypoxia and all assayed cytokines induced a significant increase in PAI-1 expression, whereas prolonged treatment with IL-1beta or TNF-alpha resulted in a significant down-regulation. The most pronounced induction of both PAI-1 and PN-1 was observed following early treatment with TGF-alpha. In contrast to PAI-1, the PN-1 gene did not respond to hypoxia. Positive immunoreactivity for PAI-1 in human brain tissue was demonstrated in reactive astrocytes within gliotic areas of temporal cortex. We show here that human astrocytes express PAI-1 and PN-1 and demonstrate that this astrocytic expression is regulated in a dynamic manner by injury-related factors.
The dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) plays important roles in regulating motor coordination, working memory, learning, and reward. In the mammalian brain, D1R is localized predominantly in dendritic spines. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the transport, sorting, and targeting of D1R to dendritic spines are largely unknown. Here, we characterize the interaction between D1R and N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) and show that the interaction is mediated by aa 387-401 of the D1R C-terminal tail. Interfering D1R and NSF interaction by coexpressing GFP-D1R aa 387-401 fusion protein reduces D1R membrane localization and inhibits D1R mediated cAMP accumulation. Treatment of hippocampal neurons with Tat-D1R aa 387-401 decreases the synaptic localization of D1R and the cell surface expression of D1R, but not the cell surface expression of alpha7 nicotinic receptor. Our data indicate that the interaction between NSF and D1R is important for the membrane localization of D1R.
During embryonic development of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the adhesion molecule neuronal cadherin (N-cadherin) is expressed by Schwann cell precursors and associated with axonal growth cones. N-cadherin expression levels decrease as precursors differentiate into Schwann cells. In this study, we investigated the distribution of N-cadherin in the developing postnatal and adult rat peripheral nervous system. N-cadherin was found primarily in ensheathing glia throughout development, concentrated at neuron-glial or glial-glial contacts of the sciatic nerve, dorsal root ganglia (DRG), and myenteric plexi. In the sciatic nerve, N-cadherin decreases with age and progress of myelination. In adult animals, N-cadherin was found exclusively in nonmyelinating Schwann cells. The distribution of N-cadherin in developing E17 DRG primary cultures is similar to what was observed in vivo. Functional studies of N-cadherin in these cultures, using the antagonist peptide INPISGQ, show a disruption of the attachment between Schwann cells, but no interference in the initial or long-term contact between Schwann cells and axons. We suggest that N-cadherin acts primarily in the adhesion between glial cells during postnatal development. It may form adherents/junctions between nonmyelinating glia, which contribute to the stable tubular structure encapsulating thin caliber axons and thus stabilize the nerve structure as a whole.
Mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene are linked to glutamate excitotoxicity in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS), but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. We investigated whether nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation is involved in glutamate excitotoxicity by using motor neuron-neuroblastoma hybrid cells that expressed a mutant (G93A) SOD1 (mtSOD1) or wild-type SOD1 (wtSOD1). MtSOD1 cells were more vulnerable to glutamate excitotoxicity than wtSOD1 cells and showed higher NF-kappaB activity, higher nuclear cRel expression, and lower nuclear RelA expression under basal conditions. Glutamate treatment increased NF-kappaB activation along with nuclear expressions of RelA and cRel in wtSOD1 cells but induced only weak nuclear RelA expression in mtSOD1 cells. Suppression of NF-kappaB activation using transfection of the superrepressive mutant form of IkappaBalpha (mIkappaBalpha) inhibited nuclear RelA expression in both types of SOD1 cells, which increased glutamate excitotoxicity in wtSOD1 cells but not in mtSOD1 cells. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry confirmed stronger RelA immunoreactivity in the nuclei of motor neurons of spinal cord in wild-type SOD1 transgenic mice than in those in SOD1 G93A transgenic mice. In addition, we found that glutamate treatment decreased XIAP expression and increased caspase-3 activity in mtSOD1 cells and mIkappaBalpha-overexpressing wtSOD1 cells. Our results suggest that glutamate excitotoxicity in motor neurons of SOD1-linked fALS is attributable, at least in part, to the impairment of IkappaBalpha-dependent RelA activation and subsequent apoptosis mediated by XIAP inhibition and caspase-3 activation.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system fulfills a pivotal role in regulating intracellular protein turnover. Impairment of this system is implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by ubiquitin- containing proteinaceous deposits. UBB(+1), a mutant ubiquitin, is one of the proteins accumulating in the neuropathological hallmarks of tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease, and polyglutamine diseases. In vitro, UBB(+1) properties shift from a proteasomal ubiquitin-fusion degradation substrate at low expression levels to a proteasome inhibitor at high expression levels. Here we report on a novel transgenic mouse line (line 6663) expressing low levels of neuronal UBB(+1). In these mice, UBB(+1) protein is scarcely detectable in the neuronal cell population. Accumulation of UBB(+1) commences only after intracranial infusion of the proteasome inhibitors lactacystin or MG262, showing that, at these low expression levels, the UBB(+1) protein is a substrate for proteasomal degradation in vivo. In addition, accumulation of the protein serves as a reporter for proteasome inhibition. These findings strengthen our proposition that, in healthy brain, UBB(+1) is continuously degraded and disease-related UBB(+1) accumulation serves as an endogenous marker for proteasomal dysfunction. This novel transgenic line can give more insight into the intrinsic properties of UBB(+1) and its role in neurodegenerative disease.
The role of P/Q- and T-type calcium channels in the rhythmic oscillatory behaviour of inferior olive (IO) neurons was investigated in mutant mice. Mice lacking either the CaV2.1 gene of the pore-forming alpha1A subunit for P/Q-type calcium channel, or the CaV3.1 gene of the pore-forming alpha1G subunit for T-type calcium channel were used. In vitro intracellular recording from IO neurons reveals that the amplitude and frequency of sinusoidal subthreshold oscillations (SSTOs) were reduced in the CaV2.1-/- mice. In the CaV3.1-/- mice, IO neurons also showed altered patterns of SSTOs and the probability of SSTO generation was significantly lower (15%, 5 of 34 neurons) than that of wild-type (78%, 31 of 40 neurons) or CaV2.1-/- mice (73%, 22 of 30 neurons). In addition, the low-threshold calcium spike and the sustained endogenous oscillation following rebound potentials were absent in IO neurons from CaV3.1-/- mice. Moreover, the phase-reset dynamics of oscillatory properties of single neurons and neuronal clusters in IO were remarkably altered in both CaV2.1-/- and CaV3.1-/- mice. These results suggest that both alpha1A P/Q- and alpha1G T-type calcium channels are required for the dynamic control of neuronal oscillations in the IO. These findings were supported by results from a mathematical IO neuronal model that incorporated T and P/Q channel kinetics.
Patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD) will typically experience a range of motor and nonmotor symptoms during the course of their illness, each of which will affect a particular individual to varying degrees. However, patients' perceptions of troublesome symptoms often differ from the clinician's view, and these discrepancies can hamper effective management of PD. In this study, we have assessed 265 consecutive PD patients by asking them to rank their three most troublesome symptoms in the last 6 months, so to gain further insight from the impact of illness on patients' quality of life. Patients were divided into early (&lt;6 years) and late PD groups (&gt;/=6 years) from symptom onset. The division at 6 years was based on the mean time from symptom onset to the development of motor complications. In the early PD group, the 5 most prevalent complaints (ranked in descending order) are slowness, tremor, stiffness, pain, and loss of smell and/or taste. In the advanced PD group, fluctuating response to their medication (most common: wearing-off phenomenon followed by dyskinesia), mood changes, drooling, sleep problems (most common: middle and late night insomnia followed by daytime sleepiness), and tremor were the top 5. Our findings provide further evidence for the diversity of experience in PD and suggest that as the disease advances the most troublesome issues that patients perceive are the lack of response to medication and the nonmotor aspects of the disease, highlighting the importance of assessment and patient-centered management in the follow-up of these patients.
Chronic levodopa treatment for Parkinson's disease often results in the development of abnormal involuntary movement, known as L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LIDs). Studies suggest that LIDs may be associated with aberrant corticostriatal plasticity. Using in vivo extracellular recordings from identified Type I and Type II medium spiny striatal neurons, chronic L-dopa treatment was found to produce abnormal corticostriatal information processing. Specifically, after chronic L-dopa treatment in dopamine-depleted rats, there was a transition from a cortically evoked long-term depression (LTD) to a complementary but opposing form of plasticity, long-term potentiation, in Type II &quot;indirect&quot; pathway neurons. In contrast, LTD could still be induced in Type I neurons. Interestingly, the one parameter that correlated best with dyskinesias was the inability to de-depress established LTD in Type I medium spiny striatal neurons. Taken as a whole, we propose that the induction of LIDs is due, at least in part, to an aberrant induction of plasticity within the Type II indirect pathway neurons combined with an inability to de-depress established plastic responses in Type I neurons. Such information is critical for understanding the cellular mechanisms underlying one of the major caveats to L-dopa therapy.
Dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) is a rare autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by CAG repeat expansion. Previous studies demonstrated that the onset of DRPLA is closely associated with CAG repeat length. However, the natural history of DRPLA has not yet been evaluated. We here retrospectively investigated the factors that determine the disease milestones and prognosis in 183 Japanese patients genetically diagnosed with DRPLA. We determined the age at onset, age at which each of the subsequent clinical manifestations appeared, age at becoming wheelchair-bound, and age at death. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the patients with CAG repeats larger than the median length of 65 repeats developed each of the clinical features of DRPLA at a younger age than those with &lt;65 repeats. The patients became wheelchair-bound at a median age of 33 years (n = 61; range, 3-77 years) and died at a median age of 49 years (n = 23; range, 18-80 years). The ages at becoming wheelchair-bound and at death strongly correlated with the expanded CAG repeat length. Moreover, the patients with &gt;or=65 CAG repeats showed a more severe long-term disability and a poorer prognosis. In contrast, the rate of progression after the onset did not correlate with CAG repeat length. The CAG repeat length may have a considerable effect on not only the disease onset but also the disease milestones and prognosis in DRPLA patients. These effects of CAG repeat length may be relevant in designing future clinical therapeutic trials.
Perhaps the most important unmet need in Parkinson's disease (PD) is the ability to slow or prevent progression of the neurodegeneration that underlies the motor and nonmotor features of this disorder. Pramipexole, a dopamine agonist used for the symptomatic treatment of PD, has demonstrated neuroprotective properties in laboratory studies. The PRamipexole On Underlying Disease (PROUD) study is a randomized, double-blind clinical trial evaluating the ability of pramipexole to modify disease progression using a delayed-start design. PD patients (n = 535) with mean age 62.5 years, mean duration since diagnosis of 4.4 months, and mean total Unified Parkinson's disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) score of 24.5 were recruited. In Phase I, patients were randomly assigned to be titrated to 1.5 mg pramipexole or placebo and maintained on study drug for 6-9 months. In Phase II, all patients were titrated to 1.5 mg pramipexole and maintained on study drug until the end of the study at 15 months. No rescue medication was allowed in the protocol. The primary endpoint is the change in total UPDRS score (parts I-III) from baseline to 15 months. A range of secondary endpoints separately assess UPDRS subscales, quality of life, depression, and impulse control disorders. A sub-study examined dopamine transporter uptake scans at baseline and 15 months. The results of PROUD will provide insight into the potential for early versus delayed treatment with pramipexole to modify motor outcome at 15 months in recently diagnosed PD patients.
While the use of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for the treatment of neurological disorders has risen substantially over the last decade, it is often difficult to compare the results from different studies due to the lack of consistent reporting of key study parameters. We present guidelines to standardize the reporting of clinical studies of DBS for Parkinson's disease (PD). These guidelines provide a minimal set of required data elements to facilitate the interpretation and comparison of results across published clinical studies. The guidelines, summarized in the format of a checklist, may also have utility in the planning of clinical studies of DBS for PD as well as other neurological and psychiatric disorders.
Symptoms of cognitive impairment during smoking withdrawal can be ameliorated by nicotine replacement. To define brain mechanisms contributing to this therapeutic effect, we conducted a functional connectivity analysis of resting-state fMRI in 17 abstinent smokers following nicotine replacement in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. We found that individual differences in cognitive withdrawal symptom improvements after nicotine replacement were associated with increased inverse coupling between executive control and default mode brain networks. Furthermore, improvements in withdrawal symptoms were negatively correlated with altered functional connectivity within the default mode network, and with connectivity between the executive control network and regions implicated in reward processing. These findings demonstrate that nicotine administration in abstinent smokers modulates dynamic interactions between large-scale cognitive brain networks in the resting state. We specifically highlight the role of midline and prefrontal network regions in the neurocognitive response to nicotine pharmacotherapy and suggest that altered functional connectivity patterns of these networks reflect their engagement in reward and salience processing during smoking withdrawal. Individual differences in resting brain functional connectivity may predict therapeutic outcomes in nicotine addiction and other conditions associated with cognitive impairments.
This study demonstrates that infants who are born prematurely and who have experienced at least 40days of intensive or special care have increased brain neuronal responses to noxious stimuli compared to healthy newborns at the same postmenstrual age. We have measured evoked potentials generated by noxious clinically-essential heel lances in infants born at term (8 infants; born 37-40weeks) and in infants born prematurely (7 infants; born 24-32weeks) who had reached the same postmenstrual age (mean age at time of heel lance 39.2+/-1.2weeks). These noxious-evoked potentials are clearly distinguishable from shorter latency potentials evoked by non-noxious tactile sensory stimulation. While the shorter latency touch potentials are not dependent on the age of the infant at birth, the noxious-evoked potentials are significantly larger in prematurely-born infants. This enhancement is not associated with specific brain lesions but reflects a functional change in pain processing in the brain that is likely to underlie previously reported changes in pain sensitivity in older ex-preterm children. Our ability to quantify and measure experience-dependent changes in infant cortical pain processing will allow us to develop a more rational approach to pain management in neonatal intensive care.
Active avoidance involving controlling and modifying threatening situations characterizes many forms of clinical pathology, particularly childhood anxiety. Presently our understanding of the neural systems supporting human avoidance is largely based on nonhuman research. Establishing the generality of nonhuman findings to healthy children is a needed first step towards advancing developmental affective neuroscience research on avoidance in childhood anxiety. Accordingly, this investigation examined brain activation patterns to threatening cues that prompted avoidance in healthy youths. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, fifteen youths (ages 9-13) completed a task that alternately required approach or avoidance behaviors. On each trial either a threatening 'Snake' cue or a 'Reward' cue advanced towards a bank containing earned points. Directional buttons enabled subjects to move cues away from (Avoidance) or towards the bank (Approach). Avoidance cues elicited activation in regions hypothesized to support avoidance in nonhumans (amygdala, insula, striatum and thalamus). Results also highlighted that avoidance response rates were positively correlated with amygdala activation and negatively correlated with insula and anterior cingulate activation. Moreover, increased amygdala activity was associated with decreased insula and anterior cingulate activity. Our results suggest that nonhuman neurophysiological research findings on avoidance may generalize to neural systems associated with avoidance in childhood. Perhaps most importantly, the amygdala/insula activation observed suggests that threat-related responses can be maintained even when aversive events are consistently avoided, which may account for the persistence of avoidance-coping in childhood anxiety. The present approach may offer developmental affective neuroscience a conceptual and methodological framework for investigating avoidance in childhood anxiety.
Spatial attention to a visual stimulus that occurs synchronously with a task-irrelevant sound from a different location can lead to increased activity not only in the visual cortex, but also the auditory cortex, apparently reflecting the object-related spreading of attention across both space and modality (Busse et al., 2005). The processing of stimulus conflict, including multisensory stimulus conflict, is known to activate the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), but the interactive influence on the sensory cortices remains relatively unexamined. Here we used fMRI to examine whether the multisensory spread of visual attention across the sensory cortices previously observed will be modulated by whether there is conceptual or object-related conflict between the relevant visual and irrelevant auditory inputs. Subjects visually attended to one of two lateralized visual letter-streams while synchronously occurring, task-irrelevant, letter sounds were presented centrally, which could be either congruent or incongruent with the visual letters. We observed significant enhancements for incongruent versus congruent letter-sound combinations in the ACC and in the contralateral visual cortex when the visual component was attended, presumably reflecting the conflict detection and the need for boosted attention to the visual stimulus during incongruent trials. In the auditory cortices, activity increased bilaterally if the spatially discordant auditory stimulation was incongruent, but only in the left, language-dominant side when congruent. We conclude that a conflicting incongruent sound, even when task-irrelevant, distracts more strongly than a congruent one, leading to greater capture of attention. This greater capture of attention in turn results in increased activity in the auditory cortex.
Evidence suggests that users of ecstasy (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) have behavioural and cognitive deficits and show increased impulsivity. Impulse control impairments have been shown to be common to a number of addictive behaviours and may constitute a risk factor for drug abuse and dependence. The aim of this study was to investigate brain activation during response inhibition and performance monitoring in current recreational drug users who predominantly used ecstasy. Twenty drug users (ten female) and twenty healthy controls were scanned during performance of a response-inhibition GO/NOGO task using functional magnetic resonance imaging. No performance deficits were evident. However, the drug user group revealed elevated frontal and parietal BOLD response during successful inhibitions, and temporal, frontal, and cingulate hyperactivity during commission errors. In addition, the users showed reduced deactivation in the default-mode network during task performance. Whether contributing to or arising from drug use, these results reveal dysregulation in brain regions subserving cognitive control and default-mode processes in current recreational drug users mirroring effects previously observed for &quot;harder&quot; drugs of abuse.
Magnetic resonance imaging techniques have literally revolutionized neuroimaging with an unprecedented ability to explore tissue structure and function. Over the last three decades, the sensitivity and array of imaging techniques available have improved providing ever finer structural information and more sensitive functional techniques. Among these methods, diffusion imaging techniques have facilitated the generation of fiber-tract maps of the brain enabling an examination of issues related to brain structure and neural connectivity. Despite the potential utility of the techniques described, validation has not yet been achieved on biological samples. Recently, using newly developed surface microcoils on small samples at high magnetic fields, we demonstrated the ability of MR microscopy to image individual neurons in mammalian brain tissue. In the present work, we combine MR microscopy with the highest resolution (15microm) fiber tracking yet reported and demonstrate the accuracy of the fiber tract maps with direct histological validation. Thus it becomes possible to delineate fiber structure in tissues at the cellular level. A semi-quantitative approach was used to estimate the cell overlap fraction (cOF) and fiber tract overlap fraction (tOF), with cOFs of 94%, 92% and 100%, and tOFs of 84%, 86% and 100%, in rat cervical, rat lumbar, and pig spinal cord tissue, respectively. These methods provide a way to directly validate fiber tracking techniques with histology so that contemporary tracking techniques may be compared and refined using the microstructural details of a biological template as a ground truth.
Beta amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and impaired glucose metabolism are among the most prevalent pathological characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, separate visualization of these three AD-related pathologies in living humans has not been conducted. Here, we show that positron emission tomography (PET) imaging using the three radiotracers (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B (PIB), 2-(1-{6-[(2-(18)F-fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene) malononitrile (FDDNP), and 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG), in the same subjects, with and without AD, can provide valuable information on the pathological patterns of the distribution of tracers for amyloid plaque, neurofibrillary tangle, and glucose hypometabolism in AD. Voxel-based analysis of PIB-PET in patients with AD compared with normal control subjects showed that patients with AD have highly significant PIB retention in brain regions known to have high amyloid plaque deposition (e.g., frontal, parietal, temporal, and posterior cingulate/precuneus cortices). In contrast, voxel-based analysis of FDDNP-PET showed significantly high FDDNP binding in some brain regions known to have high tangle accumulation in patients with AD compared with age-matched normal subjects (e.g., entorhinal cortex, inferior temporal gyrus, and secondary visual cortex). In addition, because FDDNP binds both plaques and tangles but PIB binds plaques specifically, we examined subtracted PET data (FDDNP minus PIB) acquired from the same patients with AD using an SPM analysis. We found that the hippocampal formation was the most significant brain region in the voxel mapping of FDDNP minus PIB in the same patients with AD. Voxel-based analysis of FDG-PET in the same subjects revealed that brain regions with glucose hypometabolism in patients with AD overlap with regions of high PIB binding. In conclusion, PET imaging using these three radiotracers in the same subjects may contribute toward developing and testing disease-modifying drugs targeting amyloid pathology, tau pathology, and/or energy metabolism.
Signed languages such as American Sign Language (ASL) are natural human languages that share all of the core properties of spoken human languages but differ in the modality through which they are communicated. Neuroimaging and patient studies have suggested similar left hemisphere (LH)-dominant patterns of brain organization for signed and spoken languages, suggesting that the linguistic nature of the information, rather than modality, drives brain organization for language. However, the role of the right hemisphere (RH) in sign language has been less explored. In spoken languages, the RH supports the processing of numerous types of narrative-level information, including prosody, affect, facial expression, and discourse structure. In the present fMRI study, we contrasted the processing of ASL sentences that contained these types of narrative information with similar sentences without marked narrative cues. For all sentences, Deaf native signers showed robust bilateral activation of perisylvian language cortices as well as the basal ganglia, medial frontal, and medial temporal regions. However, RH activation in the inferior frontal gyrus and superior temporal sulcus was greater for sentences containing narrative devices, including areas involved in processing narrative content in spoken languages. These results provide additional support for the claim that all natural human languages rely on a core set of LH brain regions, and extend our knowledge to show that narrative linguistic functions typically associated with the RH in spoken languages are similarly organized in signed languages.
Neurobiological markers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and in serum, previously found to co-vary with destructive personality traits in violent offenders, were explored in a general population sample of 21 patients undergoing knee surgery. Results on the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) and the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) were compared with CSF/serum albumin ratios and serum concentrations of beta-trace protein (betaTP) (as markers for blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability), to CSF/serum albumin ratios between the dopamine and serotonin metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA)/5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (HIAA) and to CSF and serum ratios between activated thyroid hormone (T3) and its precursor T4. Serum betaTP concentrations correlated with CSF/serum albumin ratios (P=0.018), but not with preoperative serum creatinine concentrations. Serum betaTP correlated significantly with Monotony Avoidance and Impulsiveness; CSF HVA/5-HIAA ratios with Irritability and low Cooperativeness. The betaTP is a potential serum marker for the integrity of the BBB that does not necessitate lumbar puncture. Thyroid hormones did not correlate with personality traits. As reported in forensic psychiatric patients, aggressive, unempathic personality traits were thus associated with increased dopaminergic activity in relation to the serotonergic activity and impulsivity to increased BBB permeability also in a general population group.
Dream diaries and reports of daytime waking thought were collected from five schizophrenia patients and matched controls. It was more difficult for blind judges to differentiate the patients' than the controls' dream reports from reports of waking thought, and patients reported shorter but more bizarre dreams than did the controls.
Voltage-gated sodium channels are the primary target of pyrethroids, an important class of synthetic insecticides. Pyrethroids bind to a distinct receptor site on sodium channels and prolong the open state by inhibiting channel deactivation and inactivation. Recent studies have begun to reveal sodium channel residues important for pyrethroid binding. However, how pyrethroid binding leads to inhibition of sodium channel deactivation and inactivation remains elusive. In this study, we show that a negatively charged aspartic acid residue at position 802 (D802) located in the extracellular end of transmembrane segment 1 of domain II (IIS1) is critical for both the action of pyrethroids and the voltage dependence of channel activation. Charge-reversing or -neutralizing substitutions (K, G, or A) of D802 shifted the voltage dependence of activation in the depolarizing direction and reduced channel sensitivity to deltamethrin, a pyrethroid insecticide. The charge-reversing mutation D802K also accelerated open-state deactivation, which may have counteracted the inhibition of sodium channel deactivation by deltamethrin. In contrast, the D802G substitution slowed open-state deactivation, suggesting an additional mechanism for neutralizing the action of deltamethrin. Importantly, Schild analysis showed that D802 is not involved in pyrethroid binding. Thus, we have identified a sodium channel residue that is critical for regulating the action of pyrethroids on the sodium channel without affecting the receptor site of pyrethroids.
The anti-epileptic drug (R)-lacosamide ((2R)-2-(acetylamino)-N-benzyl-3-methoxypropanamide (LCM)) modulates voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) by preferentially interacting with slow inactivated sodium channels, but the observation that LCM binds to collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2) suggests additional mechanisms of action for LCM. We postulated that CRMP-2 levels affects the actions of LCM on VGSCs. CRMP-2 labeling by LCM analogs was competitively displaced by excess LCM in rat brain lysates. Manipulation of CRMP-2 levels in the neuronal model system CAD cells affected slow inactivation of VGSCs without any effects on other voltage-dependent properties. In silico docking was performed to identify putative binding sites in CRMP-2 that may modulate the effects of LCM on VGSCs. These studies identified five cavities in CRMP-2 that can accommodate LCM. CRMP-2 alanine mutants of key residues within these cavities were functionally similar to wild-type CRMP-2 as assessed by similar levels of enhancement in dendritic complexity of cortical neurons. Next, we examined the effects of expression of wild-type and mutant CRMP-2 constructs on voltage-sensitive properties of VGSCs in CAD cells: 1) steady-state voltage-dependent activation and fast-inactivation properties were not affected by LCM, 2) CRMP-2 single alanine mutants reduced the LCM-mediated effects on the ability of endogenous Na(+) channels to transition to a slow inactivated state, and 3) a quintuplicate CRMP-2 alanine mutant further decreased this slow inactivated fraction. Collectively, these results identify key CRMP-2 residues that can coordinate LCM binding thus making it more effective on its primary clinical target.

Protein phosphatases (PPs) regulate many substrates implicated in learning and memory. Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) learning, in which animals associate a novel taste paired with a toxin and subsequently avoid the taste, is dependent on several serine/threonine phosphatase substrates and the PP1-binding protein spinophilin. In order to examine the effects of PP1/2A blockade on CTA acquisition and extinction, rats received bilateral infusions of okadaic acid (OA) (100nM, 1microl/hemisphere) or vehicle (0.15M NaCl) into the amygdala either 5min prior to, or 5min after, a single pairing of sodium saccharin (0.125%, 10-min access) and LiCl or NaCl (0.15M, 3ml/kg i.p.). Two-bottle, 24-h preference tests were conducted for 13days to measure CTA expression and extinction. Rats conditioned with saccharin and LiCl showed a decreased preference for saccharin, and OA administered before (but not after) the pairing of saccharin and LiCl resulted in a significantly stronger CTA that did not extinguish over 13days. The enhancement of the CTA was not due to aversive effects of OA, because rats given OA and a pairing of saccharin and NaCl did not acquire a CTA. Finally, OA administration increased levels of phosphorylated CREB immunoreactivity following a CTA trial. Together, these results suggest a critical role for PP1/2A during normal CTA learning. Because CTA learning was enhanced only when OA was given prior to conditioning, phosphatase activity may be a constraint on learning during the taste-toxin interval but not during acquisition and consolidation processes that occur after toxin administration.
A new pneumatic tactile stimulator, called the TAC-Cell, was developed in our laboratory to non-invasively deliver patterned cutaneous stimulation to the face and hand in order to study the neuromagnetic response adaptation patterns within the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in young adult humans. Individual TAC-Cells were positioned on the glabrous surface of the right hand, and midline of the upper and lower lip vermilion. A 151-channel magnetoencephalography (MEG) scanner was used to record the cortical response to a novel tactile stimulus which consisted of a repeating 6-pulse train delivered at three different frequencies through the active membrane surface of the TAC-Cell. The evoked activity in S1 (contralateral for hand stimulation, and bilateral for lip stimulation) was characterized from the best-fit dipoles of the earliest prominent response component. The S1 responses manifested significant modulation and adaptation as a function of the frequency of the punctate pneumatic stimulus trains and stimulus site (glabrous lip versus glabrous hand).
Larval zebrafish (Danio rerio) have recently been suggested as a high-throughput experimental model of epilepsy-related pathogenetic states. Here we use adult zebrafish to study behavioral symptoms associated with drug-evoked seizures. Experimental epilepsy-like states were evoked in zebrafish by exposure for 20min to three chemoconvulsant drugs: caffeine (250mg/L; 1.3mM), pentylenetetrazole (1.5g/L; 11.0mM) and picrotoxin (100mg/L; 0.17mM). Fish behavior was analyzed using manual and video-tracking methods (Noldus Ethovision XT7). Compared to their respective controls, all three drug-treated groups showed robust seizure-like responses (hyperactivity bouts, spasms, circular and corkscrew swimming) accompanied by elevated whole-body cortisol levels (assessed by ELISA). In contrast, control fish did not display seizure-like behaviors and had significantly lower cortisol levels. Paralleling behavioral and endocrine phenotypes observed in clinical and rodent studies, our data implicates adult zebrafish as an emerging experimental model for epilepsy research.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the alpha7 subtype of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) plays a role in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases, including schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Currently, there are no suitable small molecule radioligands for alpha7 nAChRs in the brain, although [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin has been widely used as a radioligand for alpha7 nAChRs. In the present study, we characterized a new radioligand, 4-[(3)H]methylphenyl 2,5-diazabicyclo[3.2.2]nonane-2-carboxylate ([(3)H]CHIBA-1001), a derivative of the selective alpha7 nAChR agonist SSR180711, in brain membranes from rat, monkey, and human. Scatchard analysis revealed an apparent equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) of 193.4nM in rat brain membranes at 4 degrees C, and the maximal number of binding sites (Bmax) was 346.2fmol/mg protein. The order of drugs for the inhibition of [(3)H]CHIBA-1001 binding to rat brain membranes is SSR180711&gt;A-844606&gt;MG624&gt;epibatidine&gt;DMAB&gt;A-582941, suggesting a similarity of alpha7 nAChR pharmacological profiles. In contrast, alpha-bungarotoxin, MLA, and nicotine were found to be very weak. The distribution of [(3)H]CHIBA-1001 binding to crude membranes from dissected regions of rat, monkey, and human brain was different from that of [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding, suggesting that [(3)H]CHIBA-1001 binding sites may not be identical to [(125)I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding in the brain. In summary, [(3)H]CHIBA-1001 would be a useful radioligand for alpha7 nAChRs in the brains of rodents, non-human primates, and humans.
A series of AMPA receptor positive allosteric modulators has been optimized from poorly penetrant leads to identify molecules with excellent preclinical pharmacokinetics and CNS penetration. These discoveries led to 17i, a potent, efficacious CNS penetrant molecule with an excellent pharmacokinetic profile across preclinical species, which is well tolerated and is also orally bioavailable in humans.
Bioisoteric replacement of the metabolically labile N-methyl amide group of a series of benzoxazinones with small heterocyclic rings has led to novel series of fused tricyclic benzoxazines which are potent 5-HT(1A/B/D) receptor antagonists with and without concomitant human serotonin transporter (hSerT) activity. Optimizing against multiple parameters in parallel identified 6-{2-[4-(2-methyl-5-quinolinyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl}-4H-imidazo[5,1-c][1,4]benzoxazine-3-carboxamide (GSK588045) as a potent 5-HT(1A/B/D) receptor antagonist with a high degree of selectivity over human ether-a-go-go related gene (hERG) potassium channels, favorable pharmacokinetics, and excellent activity in vivo in rodent pharmacodynamic (PD) models. On the basis of its outstanding overall profile, this compound was progressed as a clinical candidate with the ultimate aim to assess its potential as a faster acting antidepressant/anxiolytic with reduced side-effect burden.


Diverse inhibitory pathways shape cortical information processing; however, the relevant interneurons recruited by sensory stimuli and how they impact principal cells are unclear. Here we show that two major interneuron circuits govern dynamic inhibition in space and time within the olfactory cortex. Dendritic-targeting layer 1 interneurons receive strong input from the olfactory bulb and govern early-onset feedforward inhibition. However, this circuit is only transiently engaged during bursts of olfactory bulb input. In contrast, somatic-targeting layer 3 interneurons, recruited exclusively by recurrent excitation from pyramidal cells, produce late-onset feedback inhibition. Our results reveal two complementary interneuron circuits enforcing widespread inhibition, which shifts from the apical dendrites to somata of pyramidal cells during bursts of sensory input.
Electrical synapses between interneurons contribute to synchronized firing and network oscillations in the brain. However, little is known about how such networks respond to excitatory synaptic input. To investigate this, we studied electrically coupled Golgi cells (GoC) in the cerebellar input layer. We show with immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, and electrophysiology that Connexin-36 is necessary for functional gap junctions (GJs) between GoC dendrites. In the absence of coincident synaptic input, GoCs synchronize their firing. In contrast, sparse, coincident mossy fiber input triggered a mixture of excitation and inhibition of GoC firing and spike desynchronization. Inhibition is caused by propagation of the spike afterhyperpolarization through GJs. This triggers network desynchronization because heterogeneous coupling to surrounding cells causes spike-phase dispersion. Detailed network models predict that desynchronization is robust, local, and dependent on synaptic input properties. Our results show that GJ coupling can be inhibitory and either promote network synchronization or trigger rapid network desynchronization depending on the synaptic input.
We report a role for long-distance retrograde neurotrophin signaling in the establishment of synapses in the sympathetic nervous system. Target-derived NGF is both necessary and sufficient for formation of postsynaptic specializations on dendrites of sympathetic neurons. This, in turn, is a prerequisite for formation of presynaptic specializations, but not preganglionic axonal ingrowth from the spinal cord into sympathetic ganglia. We also find that NGF-TrkA signaling endosomes travel from distal axons to cell bodies and dendrites where they promote PSD clustering. Furthermore, the p75 neurotrophin receptor restricts PSD formation, suggesting an important role for antagonistic NGF-TrkA and p75 signaling pathways during retrograde control of synapse establishment. Thus, in addition to defining the appropriate number of sympathetic neurons that survive the period of developmental cell death, target-derived NGF also exerts control over the degree of connectivity between the spinal cord and sympathetic ganglia through retrograde control of synapse assembly.
The remarkable performance of the olfactory system in classifying and categorizing the complex olfactory environment is built upon several basic neural circuit motifs. These include forms of inhibition that may play comparable roles in widely divergent species. In this issue of Neuron, a new study by Stokes and Isaacson sheds light on how elementary types of inhibition dynamically interact.
Electrical synapses and synchrony are nearly synonymous. In this issue of Neuron, Vervaeke et al. broaden this longstanding association. They found that in the Golgi cell network of the cerebellum, electrical synapses synchronize resting activity, and cause surround inhibition and desynchronization in response to excitatory input.
In this issue of Neuron, Sharma et al. report that target-derived NGF exerts long-distance control of postsynaptic assembly. A major advance is the discovery that TrkA signaling endosomes are retrogradely transported to neuronal dendrites and directly trigger the clustering of postsynaptic density proteins.
During the computations performed by the nervous system, its 'wiring diagram'--the map of its neurons and synaptic connections--is dynamically modified and supplemented by multiple actions of neuromodulators that can be so complex that they can be thought of as constituting a biochemical network that combines with the neuronal network to perform the computation. Thus, the neuronal wiring diagram alone is not sufficient to specify, and permit us to understand, the computation that underlies behaviour. Here I review how such modulatory networks operate, the problems that their existence poses for the experimental study and conceptual understanding of the computations performed by the nervous system, and how these problems may perhaps be solved and the computations understood by considering the structural and functional 'logic' of the modulatory networks.
Neuronal networks assemble the cellular components needed for sensory, motor and cognitive functions. Any rational intervention in the nervous system will thus require an understanding of network function. Obtaining this understanding is widely considered to be one of the major tasks facing neuroscience today. Network analyses have been performed for some years in relatively simple systems. In addition to the direct insights these systems have provided, they also illustrate some of the difficulties of understanding network function. Nevertheless, in more complex systems (including human), claims are made that the cellular bases of behaviour are, or will shortly be, understood. While the discussion is necessarily limited, this issue will examine these claims and highlight some traditional and novel aspects of network analyses and their difficulties. This introduction discusses the criteria that need to be satisfied for network understanding, and how they relate to traditional and novel approaches being applied to addressing network function.
In the cerebellar cortex, interneurons of the molecular layer (stellate and basket cells) provide GABAergic input to Purkinje cells, as well as to each other and possibly to other interneurons. GABAergic inhibition in the molecular layer has mainly been investigated at the interneuron to Purkinje cell synapse. In this study, we used complementary subtractive strategies to quantitatively assess the ratio of GABAergic synapses on Purkinje cell dendrites versus those on interneurons. We generated a mouse model in which the GABAA receptor alpha1 subunit (GABAARalpha1) was selectively removed from Purkinje cells using the Cre/loxP system. Deletion of the alpha1 subunit resulted in a complete loss of GABAAR aggregates from Purkinje cells, allowing us to determine the density of GABAAR clusters in interneurons. In a complementary approach, we determined the density of GABA synapses impinging on Purkinje cells using alpha-dystroglycan as a specific marker of inhibitory postsynaptic sites. Combining these inverse approaches, we found that synapses received by interneurons represent approximately 40% of all GABAergic synapses in the molecular layer. Notably, this proportion was stable during postnatal development, indicating synchronized synaptogenesis. Based on the pure quantity of GABAergic synapses onto interneurons, we propose that mutual inhibition must play an important, yet largely neglected, computational role in the cerebellar cortex.
The cerebellum in transgenic mice expressing pseudorabies virus immediate-early protein IE180 (TgIE96) was substantially diminished in size, and its histoarchitecture was severely disorganized, resulting in severe ataxia. TgIE96 mice can therefore be used as an experimental model to study the involvement of cerebellar circuits in different learning tasks. The performance of three-month-old TgIE96 mice was studied in various behavioral tests, including associative learning (classical eyeblink conditioning), object recognition, spatial orientation (water maze), startle response and prepulse inhibition, and passive avoidance, and compared with that of wild-type mice. Wild-type and TgIE96 mice presented similar reflexively evoked eyeblinks, and acquired classical conditioned eyelid responses with similar learning curves for both trace and delay conditioning paradigms. The two groups of mice also had similar performances during the object recognition test. However, they showed significant differences for the other three tests included in this study. Although both groups of animals were capable of swimming, TgIE96 mice failed to learn the water maze task during the allowed time. The startle response to a severe tone was similar in both control and TgIE96 mice, but the latter were unable to produce a significant prepulse inhibition. TgIE96 mice also presented evident deficits for the proper accomplishment of a passive avoidance test. These results suggest that the cerebellum is not indispensable for the performance of classical eyeblink conditioning and for object recognition tasks, but seems to be necessary for the proper performance of water maze, prepulse inhibition, and passive avoidance tests.

B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) has been known to be secreted from cardiac myocytes and activate its receptor, natriuretic peptide receptor-A (NPR-A), to reduce ventricular fibrosis. However, the function of BNP/NPR-A pathway in the somatic sensory system has been unknown. In the present study, we report a novel function of BNP in pain modulation. Using microarray and immunoblot analyses, we found that BNP and NPR-A were expressed in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of rats and upregulated after intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Immunohistochemistry showed that BNP was expressed in calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-containing small neurons and IB4 (isolectin B4)-positive neurons, whereas NPR-A was present in CGRP-containing neurons. Application of BNP reduced the firing frequency of small DRG neurons in the presence of glutamate through opening large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels (BKCa channels). Furthermore, intrathecal injection of BNP yielded inhibitory effects on formalin-induced flinching behavior and CFA-induced thermal hyperalgesia in rats. Blockade of BNP signaling by BNP antibodies or cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) inhibitor KT5823 [(9S,10R,12R)-2,3,9,10,11,12-hexahydro-10-methoxy-2,9-dimethyl-1-oxo-9,12-epoxy-1H-diindolo[1,2,3-fg:3',2',1'-kl]pyrrolo[3,4-i][1,6]benzodiazocine-10-carboxylic acid methyl ester] impaired the recovery from CFA-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Thus, BNP negatively regulates nociceptive transmission through presynaptic receptor NPR-A, and activation of the BNP/NPR-A/PKG/BKCa channel pathway in nociceptive afferent neurons could be a potential strategy for inflammatory pain therapy.
After CNS injuries, axon growth inhibitors from the myelin and the scar tissue at the injury site are considered major impediments to axon regeneration. The presence of several classes of inhibitors with multiple members in each class suggests functional redundancy in growth inhibition. To test redundancy within the myelin inhibitory pathway, we analyzed raphe spinal serotonergic (5-HT) axon regeneration in mice deficient in two major myelin inhibitors, Nogo and MAG, and their common receptor NgR1 (or NgR). After a complete transection spinal cord injury, there was no significant enhancement of 5-HT axon regeneration beyond the injury site in either Nogo/MAG/NgR1 triple mutants or NgR1 single mutants. Occasional, genotype-independent traversal of 5-HT axons through GFAP-positive tissue bridges at the injury site implicates GFAP-negative lesion areas as especially inhibitory to 5-HT axons. To assess the contribution of class 3 Semaphorins that are expressed by GFAP-negative meningeal fibroblasts at the injury site, we analyzed mice deficient in PlexinA3 and PlexinA4, two key receptors for class 3 Semaphorins, with or without additional NgR1 deletion. No enhanced regeneration of 5-HT or corticospinal axons was detected in PlexinA3/PlexinA4 double mutants or PlexinA3/PlexinA4/NgR1 triple mutants through a complete transection injury. In contrast with previous reports, these data demonstrate that attenuating myelin or Semaphorin-mediated inhibition of axon growth is insufficient to promote 5-HT axon regeneration and further indicate that even attenuating both classes of inhibitory influences is insufficient to promote regeneration of injured axons through a complete transection spinal cord injury.
Neuronal migration involves coordinated extension of the leading process and translocation of the soma, but the relative contribution of different subcellular regions, including the leading process and cell rear, in driving soma translocation remains unclear. By local manipulation of cytoskeletal components in restricted regions of cultured neurons, we examined the molecular machinery underlying the generation of traction force for soma translocation during neuronal migration. In actively migrating cerebellar granule cells in culture, a growth cone (GC)-like structure at the leading tip exhibits high dynamics, and severing the tip or disrupting its dynamics suppressed soma translocation within minutes. Soma translocation was also suppressed by local disruption of F-actin along the leading process but not at the soma, whereas disrupting microtubules along the leading process or at the soma accelerated soma translocation. Fluorescent speckle microscopy using GFP-alpha-actinin showed that a forward F-actin flow along the leading process correlated with and was required for soma translocation, and such F-actin flow depended on myosin II activity. In migrating neurons, myosin II activity was high at the leading tip but low at the soma, and increasing or decreasing this front-to-rear difference accelerated or impeded soma advance. Thus, the tip of the leading process actively pulls the soma forward during neuronal migration through a myosin II-dependent forward F-actin flow along the leading process.
To examine the role of small RNAs in peripheral pain pathways, we deleted the enzyme Dicer in mouse postmitotic damage-sensing neurons. We used a Nav1.8-Cre mouse to target those nociceptors important for inflammatory pain. The conditional null mice were healthy with a normal number of sensory neurons and normal acute pain thresholds. Behavioral studies showed that inflammatory pain was attenuated or abolished. Inflammatory mediators failed to enhance excitability of Nav1.8+ sensory neurons from null mutant mice. Acute noxious input into the dorsal horn of the spinal cord was apparently normal, but the increased input associated with inflammatory pain measured using c-Fos staining was diminished. Microarray and quantitative real-time reverse-transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that Dicer deletion lead to the upregulation of many broadly expressed mRNA transcripts in dorsal root ganglia. By contrast, nociceptor-associated mRNA transcripts (e.g., Nav1.8, P2xr3, and Runx-1) were downregulated, resulting in lower levels of protein and functional expression. qRT-PCR analysis also showed lowered levels of expression of nociceptor-specific pre-mRNA transcripts. MicroRNA microarray and deep sequencing identified known and novel nociceptor microRNAs in mouse Nav1.8+ sensory neurons that may regulate nociceptor gene expression.
Transactivation response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is a principal component of ubiquitinated inclusions in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions and in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mutations in TARDBP, the gene encoding TDP-43, are associated with sporadic and familial ALS, yet multiple neurodegenerative diseases exhibit TDP-43 pathology without known TARDBP mutations. While TDP-43 has been ascribed a number of roles in normal biology, including mRNA splicing and transcription regulation, elucidating disease mechanisms associated with this protein is hindered by the lack of models to dissect such functions. We have generated transgenic (TDP-43PrP) mice expressing full-length human TDP-43 (hTDP-43) driven by the mouse prion promoter to provide a tool to analyze the role of wild-type hTDP-43 in the brain and spinal cord. Expression of hTDP-43 caused a dose-dependent downregulation of mouse TDP-43 RNA and protein. Moderate overexpression of hTDP-43 resulted in TDP-43 truncation, increased cytoplasmic and nuclear ubiquitin levels, and intranuclear and cytoplasmic aggregates that were immunopositive for phosphorylated TDP-43. Of note, abnormal juxtanuclear aggregates of mitochondria were observed, accompanied by enhanced levels of Fis1 and phosphorylated DLP1, key components of the mitochondrial fission machinery. Conversely, a marked reduction in mitofusin 1 expression, which plays an essential role in mitochondrial fusion, was observed in TDP-43PrP mice. Finally, TDP-43PrP mice showed reactive gliosis, axonal and myelin degeneration, gait abnormalities, and early lethality. This TDP-43 transgenic line provides a valuable tool for identifying potential roles of wild-type TDP-43 within the CNS and for studying TDP-43-associated neurotoxicity.
Monoamine neurotransmitters play major roles in regulating a range of brain functions in adults and increasing evidence suggests roles for monoamines in brain development. Here we show that mice lacking the monoamine metabolic enzymes MAO A and MAO B (MAO AB-deficient mice) exhibit diminished proliferation of neural stem cells (NSC) in the developing telencephalon beginning in late gestation [embryonic day (E) 17.5], a deficit that persists in neonatal and adult mice. These mice showed significantly increased monoamine levels and anxiety-like behaviors as adults. Assessments of markers of intermediate progenitor cells (IPC) and mitosis showed that NSC in the subventricular zone (SVZ), but not in the ventricular zone, are reduced in MAO AB-deficient mice. A developmental time course of monoamines in frontal cortical tissues revealed increased serotonin levels as early as E14.5, and a further large increase was found between E17.5 and postnatal day 2. Administration of an inhibitor of serotonin synthesis (parachlorophenylalanine) between E14.5 and E19.5 restored the IPC numbers and SVZ thickness, suggesting the role of serotonin in the suppression of IPC proliferation. Studies of neurosphere cultures prepared from the telencephalon at different embryonic and postnatal ages showed that serotonin stimulates proliferation in wild-type, but not in MAO AB-deficient, NSC. Together, these results suggest that a MAO-dependent long-lasting alteration in the proliferation capacity of NSC occurs late in embryonic development and is mediated by serotonin. Our findings reveal novel roles for MAOs and serotonin in the regulation of IPC proliferation in the developing brain.
Behavioral adaptation depends on the recognition of response errors and processing of this error-information. Error processing is a specific cognitive function crucial for behavioral adaptation. Neurophysiologically, these processes are reflected by an event-related potential (ERP), the error negativity (Ne/ERN). Even though synchronization processes are important in information processing, its role and neurobiological foundation in behavioral adaptation are not understood. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) strongly modulates the establishment of neural connectivity that determines neural network dynamics and synchronization properties. Therefore altered synchronization processes may constitute a mechanism via which BDNF affects processes of error-induced behavioral adaptation. We investigate how variants of the BDNF gene regulate EEG-synchronization processes underlying error processing. Subjects (n=65) were genotyped for the functional BDNF Val66Met polymorphism (rs6265). We show that Val/Val genotype is associated with stronger error-specific phase-locking, compared with Met allele carriers. Posterror behavioral adaptation seems to be strongly dependent on these phase-locking processes and efficacy of EEG-phase-locking-behavioral coupling was genotype dependent. After correct responses, neurophysiological processes were not modulated by the polymorphism, underlining that BDNF becomes especially necessary in situations requiring behavioral adaptation. The results suggest that alterations in neural synchronization processes modulated by the genetic variants of BDNF Val66Met may be the mechanism by which cognitive functions are affected.

Statistical analysis is critical in the interpretation of experimental data across the life sciences, including neuroscience. The nature of the data collected has a critical role in determining the best statistical approach to take. One particularly prevalent type of data is referred to as &quot;clustered data.&quot; Clustered data are characterized as data that can be classified into a number of distinct groups or &quot;clusters&quot; within a particular study. Clustered data arise most commonly in neuroscience when data are compiled across multiple experiments, for example in electrophysiological or optical recordings taken from synaptic terminals, with each experiment providing a distinct cluster of data. However, there are many other types of experimental design that can yield clustered data. Here, we provide a statistical model for intracluster correlation and systematically investigate a range of methods for analyzing clustered data. Our analysis reveals that it is critical to take data clustering into account and suggests appropriate statistical approaches that can be used to account for data clustering.

While intraventricular administration of epidermal growth factor (EGF) expands the proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ), overexpression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is particularly effective in enhancing striatal neurogenesis. We assessed the induction of striatal neurogenesis and consequent functional recovery after chronic infusion of BDNF and EGF in an adult animal model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury. Permanent brain damage was induced in CD-1 (ICR) mice (P7) by applying the ligation of unilateral carotid artery and hypoxic condition. At 6 weeks of age, the mice were randomly assigned to groups receiving a continuous 2-week infusion of one of the following treatments into the ventricle: BDNF, EGF, BDNF/EGF, or phosphate buffered saline (PBS). Two weeks after treatment, immunohistochemical analysis revealed an increase in the number of BrdU(+) cells in the SVZ and striata of BDNF/EGF-treated mice. The number of new neurons co-stained with BrdU and betaIII-tubulin was also significantly increased in the neostriata of BDNF/EGF-treated mice, compared with PBS group. In addition, the newly generated cells were expressed as migrating neuroblasts labeled with PSA-NCAM or doublecortin in the SVZ and the ventricular side of neostriata. The new striatal neurons were also differentiated as mature neurons co-labeled with BrdU(+)/NeuN(+). When evaluated post-surgical 8 weeks, BDNF/EGF-treated mice exhibited significantly longer rotarod latencies at constant speed (48 rpm) and under accelerating condition (4-80 rpm), relative to PBS and untreated controls. In the forelimb-use asymmetry test, BDNF/EGF-treated mice showed significant improvement in the use of the contralateral forelimb. In contrast, this BDNF/EGF-associated functional recovery was abolished in mice receiving a co-infusion of 2% cytosine-b-d-arabinofuranoside (Ara-C), a mitotic inhibitor. Induction of striatal neurogenesis by the intraventricular administration of BDNF and EGF promoted functional recovery in an adult animal model of neonatal HI brain injury. The effect of Ara-C to completely block functional recovery indicates that the effect may be the result of newly generated neurons. Therefore, this treatment may offer a promising strategy for the restoration of motor function for adults with cerebral palsy (CP).
The purpose of this study was to assess olfactory function and olfactory bulb volume in patients with acute major depression in comparison to a normal population. Twenty-one patients diagnosed with acute major depressive disorder and 21 healthy controls matched by age, sex and smoking behavior participated in this study. Olfactory function was assessed in a lateralized fashion using measures of odor threshold, discrimination and identification. Olfactory bulb volumes were calculated by manual segmentation of acquired T2-weighted coronal slices according to a standardized protocol. Patients with acute major depressive disorder showed significantly lower olfactory sensitivity and smaller olfactory bulb volumes. Additionally, a significant negative correlation between olfactory bulb volume and depression scores was detected. Their results provide the first evidence, to our knowledge, of decreased olfactory bulb volume in patients with acute major depression. These results might be related to reduced neurogenesis in major depression that could be reflected also at the level of the olfactory bulb.
Previous studies have shown that the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat strain is more sensitive to stressors and consumes significant quantities of alcohol under basal as well as stressful conditions when compared to other strains. Given that the glutamate neurotransmitter system has been implicated in depression and addiction, the goals of the present study were to investigate the effects of stress and stress-alcohol interactions on N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the rat brain. Thus this study measured the binding of [(3)H] MK-801 to NMDA receptors in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), caudate putamen (CPu), nucleus accumbens (NAc), hippocampus (HIP) and basolateral amygdala (BLA) in WKY rats in comparison to the Wistar (WIS) rat strain. Our results suggested that while voluntary alcohol consumption did not alter NMDA receptors in the PFC, CPu or NAc in either rat strain, it increased NMDA receptors in the HIP and BLA in both strains. In contrast, chronic stress increased NMDA receptors in the PFC, CPu, NAc in WKY rats but not in WIS rats. Chronic stress also decreased NMDA receptors in the HIP and increased NMDA receptors in the BLA in both strains. Alcohol co-treatment with stress increased NMDA receptors in the PFC, CPu and NAc in WKY rats but not in WIS rats. Interestingly, while alcohol co-treatment did not reverse stress induced decreases in NMDA receptors in the HIP, it reduced the binding of NMDA receptors in the BLA to control levels in both strains. Thus it appears that NMDA receptors in the PFC, CPu and NAc may be more sensitive to the effects of stress and could be implicated in the stress-induced alcohol consumption behavior seen in WKY rats. In contrast, NMDA receptors in the HIP and BLA may reflect an adaptive response and may not be responsible for the stress susceptible phenotype of the WKY rat strain.
The current etiopathogenesis of spinal cord injury comprises a growing number of nontraumatic causes, including ischemia generating hypoxic-dysmetabolic conditions. To mimic the metabolic disruption accompanying nontraumatic acute spinal cord injury and to characterize the type and dynamics of cell death in relation to locomotor network function, we used, as a model, the rat neonatal spinal cord preparation in vitro transiently (1 h) exposed to a &quot;pathological medium&quot; (PM), i.e. hypoxic/aglycemic solution containing toxic radicals. PM induced, in the ventrolateral spinal region, pyknosis already detectable after 2 h and stabilized 24 h later (affecting 55% of white matter cells). Glial cells were much more vulnerable than neurons. The amplitude of fictive locomotor patterns recorded from lumbar ventral roots was decreased and periodicity delayed by PM, in keeping with substantial preservation of neuronal networks. Repeated application of PM intensified such a functional impairment. White matter astrocytes and oligodendrocytes displayed nucleolytic pyknosis mainly dependent on caspase-mediated death processes as shown by active caspase-3 and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) positivity. Expression of cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) (the active caspase-3 executor) also grew with similar time course. The caspase-3 inhibitor II counteracted, in a dose-dependent fashion, white matter pyknosis. Our results suggest the important involvement of apoptotic pathways in early glial cell death during the first 24 h after a hypoxic-dysmetabolic insult, associated with impaired locomotor output. Residual locomotor network activity together with distinctive apoptotic damage to white matter cells suggests that early protection against glial destruction may help to prevent subsequent damage extension responsible for paraplegia.
The repulsive guidance molecule, RGMa, and its receptor Neogenin, regulate neuronal cell death during development, but little is known about their expression and roles in the adult CNS. Here, we show that Neogenin is expressed in the adult rodent retina, particularly on retinal ganglion cells. To determine whether the Neogenin/RGMa pathway is important in the fully developed retina, we examined its contribution to damage-induced neurodegeneration. The effects of RGMa on survival of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) were examined in vitro and in vivo. Using cultured whole-mount retinal explants, we showed that the addition of RGMa increased RGC survival and that this effect was mediated by the Neogenin receptor. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that the inhibition of cell death by RGMa resulted from reduced caspase-3 activation. Then, using an in vivo model of RGC apoptosis after optic nerve transection, we demonstrated that intraocular injection of RGMa at 3 and 7 days after axotomy greatly reduced RGC death 14 days postaxotomy. This study provides the first evidence that RGMa is a molecular target for neuroprotection in retinal pathologies, and suggests that targeting &quot;dependence receptors&quot; such as Neogenin has therapeutic potential for the treatment of neuropathologies in the adult CNS.
Human divers exposed to hyperbaric pressure may suffer from cognitive and motor impairments thought to be related to high pressure effects per ce. These effects, termed high pressure neurological syndrome (HPNS), appear at pressure above 1.1 MPa. HPNS involves CNS hyperexcitability that is partially attributed to augmented responses of the glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). NMDAR is blocked by Mg(2+) (physiologically) and by dl-2-Amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5, pharmacologically). We have recently reported that hyperbaric pressure augments rat hippocampus NMDAR synaptic response and generates hyperexcitability. We now test pressure effects on the blockade efficacy of Mg(2+)and AP5. Under high pressure conditions more than double [Mg(2+)](o) and [AP5](o) were needed to achieve similar effects on NMDAR synaptic response's amplitude, decay time, and time integral comparable to control conditions. [Mg(2+)](o) and [AP5](o) concentration-response curves and the concentration for 50% responses' inhibition (IC(50)s) showed similar normalized pattern at control and pressure for each parameter. We conclude that hyperbaric pressure reduces the efficacy of these NMDAR blockers that may be associated with the receptor conformational change(s). This provides additional mechanism for pressure over activation of NMDAR. Taken together with our previous reports, high pressure modification of NMDAR activity significantly contributes to CNS hyperexcitability and possibly for long term vulnerability.
The olfactory bulb receives a large number of centrifugal fibers whose functions remain unclear. To gain insight into the function of the bulbar centrifugal system, the morphology of individual centrifugal axons from olfactory cortical areas was examined in detail. An anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, was injected into rat olfactory cortical areas, including the pars lateralis of the anterior olfactory nucleus (lAON) and the anterior part of the piriform cortex (aPC). Reconstruction from serial sections revealed that the extrabulbar segments of centrifugal axons from the lAON and those from the aPC had distinct trajectories: the former tended to innervate the pars externa of the AON before entering the olfactory bulb, while the latter had extrabulbar collaterals that extended to a variety of targets. In contrast to the extrabulbar segments, no clear differences were found between the intrabulbar segments of axons from the lAON and from the aPC. The intrabulbar segments of centrifugal axons were mainly found in the granule cell layer but a few axons extended into the external plexiform and glomerular layer. Approximately 40% of centrifugal axons innervated both the medial and lateral aspects of the olfactory bulb. The number of boutons found on single intrabulbar segments was typically less than 1000. Boutons tended to aggregate and form complex terminal tufts with short axonal branches. Terminal tufts, no more than 10 in single axons from ipsilateral cortical areas, were localized to the granule cell layer with varying intervals; some tufts formed patchy clusters and others were scattered over areas that extended for a few millimeters. The patchy, widespread distribution of terminals suggests that the centrifugal axons are able to couple the activity of specific subsets of bulbar neurons even when the subsets are spatially separated.
We have previously described a rat model for the contribution of neuroplastic changes in nociceptors to the transition from acute to chronic pain. In this model a prior injury activates protein kinase C epsilon (PKCepsilon), inducing a chronic state characterized by marked prolongation of the hyperalgesia induced by inflammatory cytokines, prototypically prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), referred to as hyperalgesic priming. In this study we evaluated the population of nociceptors involved in priming, by lesioning isolectin B4-positive (IB4(+)) nociceptors with intrathecal administration of a selective neurotoxin, IB4-saporin. To confirm that the remaining, TrkA(+)/IB4(-), nociceptors are still functional, we evaluated if nerve growth factor (NGF) induced hyperalgesia. While pretreatment with IB4-saporin eliminated the acute mechanical hyperalgesia induced by glia-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), NGF and PsiepsilonRACK, a highly selective activator of PKCepsilon, induced robust hyperalgesia. After injection of NGF, GDNF or PsiepsilonRACK, at a time at which hyperalgesia induced by PGE(2) is markedly prolonged (hyperalgesic priming) in control rats, in IB4-saporin-pretreated rats PGE(2) failed to produce this prolonged hyperalgesia. Thus, while PKCepsilon is present in most dorsal root ganglion neurons, where it can contribute to acute mechanical hyperalgesia, priming is restricted to IB4(+)-nociceptors, including those that are TrkA(+). While PKCepsilon activation can induce acute hyperalgesia in the IB4(+) population, it fails to induce priming. We suggest that hyperalgesic priming occurs only in IB4(+) nociceptors, and that in the peripheral terminals of nociceptors separate intracellular pools of PKCepsilon mediate nociceptor sensitization and the induction of hyperalgesic priming.
Endomorphin 2 (EM2) plays essential roles in regulating nociceptive transmission within the spinal dorsal horn, where EM2-immunopositive (EM2-IP) fibers and terminals are densely encountered. However, the origins of these EM2-IP structures are still obscure. Unilateral primary sensory afferents disruption (lumbar 3-6 dorsal roots rhizotomy) significantly decreased the density of EM2-IP fibers and terminals in the superficial laminae (laminae I and II) on the ipsilateral but not contralateral lumbar dorsal horn (LDH). Spinal hemisection at the 7th thoracic (T7) segment down-regulated bilateral EM2 expression, with a higher influence on the ipsilateral side of the LDH. Unilateral L3-6 dorsal roots rhizotomy combined with spinal transection but not with hemisection at T7 level completely obliterated EM2-IP fibers and terminals on the rhizotomized-side of the LDH. Disruption of bilateral (exposure to the primary afferent neurotoxin, capsaicin) primary sensory afferents combined with spinal hemisection at T7 decreased the EM2-IP density bilaterally but could obliterate it on neither side of the LDH. While in capsaicin plus transection rats, EM2 was depleted symmetrically and completely. In the colchicine treated rats, no EM2-IP neuronal cell bodies could be detected in the spinal gray matter. After injecting tetramethyl rhodamine dextran-amine (TMR) into the LDH, some of the TMR retrogradely labeled neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) showed EM2-immunoreactivities. The present results indicate that EM2-IP fibers and terminals in the spinal dorsal horn originate from the ipsilateral primary afferents and bilateral descending fibers from NTS.
In a previous study a linkage region for association to IA patients was found on chromosome 14q22. In this study, we report the findings of a positional candidate gene, Jun dimerization Protein 2 (JDP2), and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of that gene that are associated with intracranial aneurysms in different ethnic populations. We screened the linkage region around chromosome 14q22 and narrowed it down to JDP2. We then genotyped case and control groups of three different ethnic populations: 403 Japanese intracranial aneurysm (IA) cases and 412 controls, 181 Korean IA cases and 181 controls, 379 Dutch cases and 642 Dutch controls. Genotyping was performed using polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing technology. The allele distribution of three SNPs (two intronic: rs741846; P=0.0041 and rs175646; P=0.0014, and one in the untranslated region: rs8215; P=0.019) and their genotype distribution showed significant association in the Japanese IA patients. The allelic and genotypic frequency of one intronic SNP (rs175646; P=0.0135 and P=0.0137, respectively) and the genotypic frequency for the SNP in the UTR region (rs8215; P=0.049) was also significantly different between cases and controls of the Korean cohort. There was no difference in allelic or genotypic frequencies in the Dutch population. These SNPs in JDP2 are associated with intracranial aneurysms, suggesting that variation in or near JDP2 play a role in susceptibility to IAs in East Asian populations.
Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) at carbon-fiber microelectrodes has been used to demonstrate that sub-second changes in catecholamine concentration occur within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell during motivated behaviors, and these fluctuations have been attributed to rapid dopamine signaling. However, FSCV cannot distinguish between dopamine and norepinephrine, and caudal regions of the NAc shell receive noradrenergic projections. Therefore, in the present study, we examined the degree to which norepinephrine contributes to catecholamine release within rostral and caudal portion of NAc shell. Analysis of tissue content revealed that dopamine was the major catecholamine detectable in the rostral NAc shell, whereas both dopamine and norepinephrine were found in the caudal subregion. To examine releasable catecholamines, electrical stimulation was used to evoke release in anesthetized rats with either stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle, a pathway containing both dopaminergic and noradrenergic projections to the NAc, or the ventral tegmental area/substantia nigra, the origin of dopaminergic projections. The catecholamines were distinguished by their responses to different pharmacological agents. The dopamine autoreceptor blocker, raclopride, as well as the monoamine and dopamine transporter blockers, cocaine and GBR 12909, increased evoked catecholamine overflow in both the rostral and caudal NAc shell. The norepinephrine autoreceptor blocker, yohimbine, and the norepinephrine transporter blocker, desipramine, increased catecholamine overflow in the caudal NAc shell without significant alteration of evoked responses in the rostral NAc shell. Thus, the neurochemical and pharmacological results show that norepinephrine signaling is restricted to caudal portions of the NAc shell. Following raclopride and cocaine or raclopride and GBR 12909, robust catecholamine transients were observed within the rostral shell but these were far less apparent in the caudal NAc shell, and they did not occur following yohimbine and desipramine. Taken together, the data demonstrate that catecholamine signals in the rostral NAc shell detected by FSCV are due to change in dopamine transmission.
Synapse loss induced by amyloid beta (Abeta) is thought to be a primary contributor to cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease. Abeta is generated by proteolysis of amyloid precursor protein (APP), a synaptic receptor whose physiological function remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the role of APP in dendritic spine formation, which is known to be important for learning and memory. We found that overexpression of APP increased spine number, whereas knockdown of APP reduced spine density in cultured hippocampal neurons. This spine-promoting effect of APP required both the extracellular and intracellular domains of APP, and was accompanied by specific upregulation of the GluR2, but not the GluR1, subunit of AMPA receptors. In an in vivo experiment, we found that cortical layers II/III and hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons in 1 year-old APP-deficient mice had fewer and shorter dendritic spines than wild-type littermates. In contrast, transgenic mice overexpressing mutant APP exhibited increased spine density compared to control animals, though only at a young age prior to overaccumulation of soluble amyloid. Additionally, increased glutamate synthesis was observed in young APP transgenic brains, whereas glutamate levels were decreased and GABA levels were increased in APP-deficient mice. These results demonstrate that APP is important for promoting spine formation and is required for proper spine development.
G protein-coupled opioid receptors undergo desensitization after prolonged agonist exposure. Recent in vitro studies of mu-opioid receptor (MOR) signaling revealed an involvement of phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3K) in agonist-induced MOR desensitization. Here we document a specific role of the G protein-coupled class IB isoform PI3Kgamma in MOR desensitization in mice and isolated sensory neurons. The tail-withdrawal nociception assay evidenced a compromised morphine-induced tolerance of PI3Kgamma-deficient mice compared to wild-type animals. Consistent with a role of PI3Kgamma in MOR signaling, PI3Kgamma was expressed in a subgroup of small-diameter dorsal root ganglia (DRG) along with MOR and the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) receptor. In isolated DRG acute stimulation of MOR blocked voltage-gated calcium currents (VGCC) in both wild-type and PI3Kgamma-deficient DRG neurons. By contrast, following long-term opioid administration the attenuating effect of MOR was strongly compromised in wild-type DRG but not in PI3Kgamma-deficient DRG. Our results uncover PI3Kgamma as an essential modulator of long-term MOR desensitization and tolerance development induced by chronic opioid treatment in sensory neurons.
Diffuse axonal injury (DAI) is one of the most common and important pathologic features of human traumatic brain injury (TBI), accounting for high mortality and development of persistent post-traumatic neurologic sequelae. Although a relatively high number of therapies have been shown to be effective in experimental models, there are currently few treatments that are effective for improving the prognosis of clinical DAI. A major reason is the failure of current models to validly reproduce the pathophysiological characteristics observed after clinical DAI. In the present study, we employed a specially designed, highly controllable model to induce a sudden rotation in the coronal plane (75 degrees rotation at 1.6x10(4) degrees/s) combined with lateral translation (1.57 cm displacement at 3.4x10(2) cm/s) to the rat's head. We were interested in discovering whether the combined accelerations could reproduce the pathophysiological changes analogous to those seen in human DAI. The axonal injury as assessed with amyloid protein precursor (APP) as a marker was consistently present in all injured rats. The commonly injured brain regions included the subcortical regions, deep white matter, corpus callosum and brain stem. The evolution of APP accumulations in brain sections depicted the detailed progression of axonal pathology. Ultrastructural studies gave further insights into the presence and progression of axonal injury. All injured rats exhibited transient physiological dysfunction, as well as immediate and dramatic neurological impairment that still persisted at 14 days after injury. These results suggest that this model reproduced the major pathophysiological changes analogous to those observed after severe clinical TBI and provides an attractive vehicle for experimental brain injury research.
Experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) is a T cell-mediated autoimmune inflammatory demyelinating disease of the peripheral nervous system and serves as the animal model of human inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathies. MS-275, a potent histone deacetylase inhibitor currently undergoing clinical investigations for various malignancies, has been reported to demonstrate promising anti-inflammatory activities. In our present study, MS-275 administration (3.5 mg/kg i.p.) to EAN rats once daily from the appearance of first neurological signs greatly reduced the severity and duration of EAN and attenuated local accumulation of macrophages, T cells and B cells, and demyelination of sciatic nerves. Further, significant reduction of mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory interleukin-1beta, interferon-gamma, interleukine-17, inducible nitric oxide synthase and matrix metalloproteinase-9 was observed in sciatic nerves of MS-275 treated EAN rats. In lymph nodes, MS-275 depressed pro-inflammatory cytokines as well, but increased expression of anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukine-10 and of foxhead box protein3 (Foxp3), a unique transcription factor of regulatory T cells. In addition, MS-275 treatment increased proportion of infiltrated Foxp3(+) cells and anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages in sciatic nerves of EAN rats. In summary, our data demonstrated that MS-275 could effectively suppress inflammation in EAN, through suppressing inflammatory T cells, macrophages and cytokines, and inducing anti-inflammatory immune cells and molecules, suggesting MS-275 as a potent candidate for treatment of autoimmune neuropathies.
Introspective and self-referential in nature, the human brain's default mode network (DMN) is presumed to influence our behavior in response to the environment in predictive manner [Raichle ME, Gusnard DA (2005) J Comp Neurol 493:167-176; Bar M (2009) Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 364:1235-1243]. In the current study, we hypothesize that the strength of DMN-connectivity contributes to distinct introspective psychological processes in every-day social life such as the intuitive understanding of other people through inner representation of their affective states -e. g. his or her pain. 19 healthy individuals underwent functional MRI scanning, which consisted of a resting-state-scan followed by the presentation of visual stimuli depicting human limbs in painful and non-painful situations. After scanning, participants were asked to evaluate the stimuli in terms of pain intensity perceived from the first person perspective. Independent component analysis (ICA) demonstrated that higher integration of the left medial orbitofrontal cortex (BA 32) into the anterior default mode network (aDMN) was associated with higher post-scan pain ratings. Furthermore, the exposition to the &quot;Pain&quot;-pictures led to relative increases of aDMN-activity compared to &quot;No Pain&quot;-stimuli which were also correlated with the subjective pain intensity. The behaviorally predictive functional architecture during a task-free period supports the notion that the DMN serves as a &quot;memory of the future&quot; [Ingvar DH (1985) Hum Neurobiol 4:127-136] in terms of a neuronal cache, storing &quot;a priori scripts,&quot; which are recalled to deal efficiently with upcoming environmental events. In addition, our results suggest that an individual predisposition to identify oneself with another's pain influences the automatic response of the DMN during the observation of painful situations.
Evidence indicates that accumulation of excitotoxic mediators, such as glutamate, contributes to neuronal damage after an ischaemic insult. It is not clear, however, whether this accumulation is due to excess synaptic release or to impaired uptake. To test a role for synaptic release, here we investigated the neuroprotective potential of the synaptic blocker botulinum neurotoxin E (BoNT/E), that prevents vesicle fusion via the cleavage of the SNARE (soluble NSF-attachment receptor) protein SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa). Focal ischaemia was induced in vivo by infusing the potent vasoconstricting peptide endothelin-1 (ET-1) into the CA1 area of the hippocampus in adult rats; BoNT/E or vehicle were administered into the same site 20 min later. Injection of ET-1 was found to produce a transient and massive increase in glutamate release that was potently antagonized by BoNT/E. To assess whether blocking transmitter release translates into neuroprotection, the extent of the ischaemic damage was determined 24 h and 6 weeks after the insult. We found that BoNT/E administration consistently reduced the loss of CA1 pyramidal neurons at 24 h. The neuroprotective effect of BoNT/E, however, was no longer significant at 6 weeks. These data provide evidence that blockade of synaptic transmitter release delays neuronal cell death following focal brain ischaemia, and underline the importance of assessing long-term neuroprotection in experimental stroke studies.
Serotonin2C (5-HT(2C)) receptors act in the basal ganglia, a group of sub-cortical structures involved in motor behavior, where they are thought to modulate oral activity and participate in iatrogenic motor side-effects in Parkinson's disease and Schizophrenia. Whether abnormal movements initiated by 5-HT(2C) receptors are directly consequent to dysfunctions of the motor circuit is uncertain. In the present study, we combined behavioral, immunohistochemical and extracellular single-cell recordings approaches in rats to investigate the effect of the 5-HT(2C) agonist Ro-60-0175 respectively on orofacial dyskinesia, the expression of the marker of neuronal activity c-Fos in basal ganglia and the electrophysiological activity of substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) neuron connected to the orofacial motor cortex (OfMC) or the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The results show that Ro-60-0175 (1 mg/kg) caused bouts of orofacial movements that were suppressed by the 5-HT(2C) antagonist SB-243213 (1 mg/kg). Ro-60-0175 (0.3, 1, 3 mg/kg) dose-dependently enhanced Fos expression in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens. At the highest dose, it enhanced Fos expression in the subthalamic nucleus, the SNr and the entopeduncular nucleus but not in the external globus pallidus. However, the effect of Ro-60-0175 was mainly associated with associative/limbic regions of basal ganglia whereas subregions of basal ganglia corresponding to sensorimotor territories were devoid of Fos labeling. Ro-60-0175 (1-3 mg/kg) did not affect the electrophysiological activity of SNr neurons connected to the OfMC nor their excitatory-inhibitory-excitatory responses to the OfMC electrical stimulation. Conversely, Ro-60-0175 (1 mg/kg) enhanced the late excitatory response of SNr neurons evoked by the mPFC electrical stimulation. These results suggest that oral dyskinesia induced by 5-HT(2C) agonists are not restricted to aberrant signalling in the orofacial motor circuit and demonstrate discrete modifications in associative territories.
C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) and the natriuretic peptide receptor B (NPR-B) are expressed throughout the hippocampus. We tested whether CNP affected long-term potentiation (LTP) or long-term depression (LTD) in area CA1. Field potentials (FP) were simultaneously recorded in stratum pyramidale (SP) and stratum radiatum (SR) of area CA1 in rat hippocampal slices. To induce LTD and LTP stimulation was applied to SR in area CA1 at 1 and 5 Hz and 30-100 Hz, respectively. CNP (100 nM) increased LTD magnitude while LTP induction was impeded. Thus, in the presence of CNP the threshold for LTP induction was shifted to higher stimulus frequencies, a modulation that showed layer-specific differences in area CA1. Effects of CNP were prevented by the NPR-B antagonist HS-142-1. In the presence of the GABA(A) receptor blocker bicuculline (BMI, 5 microM), CNP-mediated effects were attenuated in SP and SR. Intracellular recordings under this condition revealed that CNP significantly reduced number of action potentials generated during depolarizing current steps. The input resistance of CA1 cells and amplitude of isolated excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSPs) were significantly increased by CNP whereas these changes were not observed in the absence of BMI. 100 Hz stimulation induced stable potentiation of the EPSP amplitude in CA1 pyramidal cells while this effect was strongly attenuated by CNP. This effect was prevented by BMI. Immunohistochemistry indicated that the peptide binds to receptors expressed on pyramidal cells and GAD(65/67)-immunopositive interneurons. 20 Hz stimulation, applied for 30 s, induced LTP in SR and SP. CNP attenuated LTP in SP and reversed LTP into LTD in SR. These effects were mimicked by low-dose dl-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (dl-APV) (10 microM) suggesting partial N-methyl d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor dependency of CNP-mediated effects. Together, our data suggest that CNP is involved in the regulation of bidirectional plasticity in area CA1 potentially by modulating GABA(A)-mediated inhibition and NMDA receptors.
Post weaning isolation-reared rats show deficits in learning and memory, which are also seen in many psychiatric disorders like schizophrenia. The present study utilized behavioral and electrophysiological tests to further characterize cognitive disorders in this rat model, and to explore possible neurobiological mechanisms associated with them. Isolation rearing was performed in male Wistar rats from weaning for 8 weeks. Spatial memory and reversal learning were assessed using Morris water maze (MWM); synaptic plasticity was assessed by recording long-term potentiation (LTP) from thalamus to prefrontal cortex; and potassium ion channel currents were tested using the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of different groups in hippocampal slices by patch clamp. The results of MWM showed that isolation-reared rats performed worse in probe trials and memory retention tests. The LTP tests showed that the prefrontal cortical postsynaptic potential slopes were significantly lower in isolated rats than group housed ones. The patch clamp recording showed that the amplitudes of hippocampal voltage-dependent transient outward K(+) currents (I(A)) were enhanced, and the steady inactivation curve of I(A) was shifted towards positive potential by CSF of isolated rats. These data suggested that isolation rearing can impair the spatial cognition of rats, with the possible mechanisms of affecting prefrontal cortical synaptic plasticity and hippocampal potassium ion channel currents.
Spreading depression (SD) is pronounced depolarization of neurons and glia that travels slowly across brain tissue followed by massive redistribution of ions between intra- and extracellular compartments. There is a relationship between SD and some neurological disorders. In the present study the effects of repetitive SD on neuronal damage in cortical and subcortical regions of juvenile rat brain were investigated. The animals were anesthetized and the electrodes as well as cannula were implanted over the brain. SD-like event was induced by KCl injection. The brains were removed after 2 or 4 weeks after induction of 2 or 4 SD-like waves (with interval of 1 week), respectively. Normal saline was injected instead of KCl in sham group. For stereological study, paraffin-embedded brains were cut in 5 microm sections. The sections were stained with Toluidine Blue to measure the volume-weighted mean volume of normal neurons and the numerical density of dark neurons. The volume-weighted mean volume of normal neurons in the granular layer of the dentate gyrus and layer V of the temporal cortex in SD group were significantly decreased after four repetitive SD. Furthermore, densities of dark neurons in the granular layer of the dentate gyrus (after 2 weeks), the caudate-putamen, and layer V of the temporal cortex (after 4 weeks) were significantly increased in SD group. Repetitive cortical SD in juvenile rats may cause neuronal damage in cortical and subcortical areas of the brain. This may important in pathophysiology of SD-related neurological disorders.
The purposes of this study were to clarify the involvement of P-glycoprotein in the absorption of levosulpiride in knockout mice that lack the Abcb1a/ 1b gene, and to evaluate the relationship between genetic polymorphisms in ABCB1 (exon 12, 21 and 26) and levosulpiride disposition in healthy subjects. The plasma and brain samples were obtained after oral administration (10 microg/g) of levosulpiride to abcb1a/1b(-/-) and wild-type mice (n=3 approximately 6 at each time point). The average brain-to-plasma concentration ratio and blood-brain barrier partitioning of levosulpiride were 2.3- and 2.0-fold higher in Abcb1a/1b(-/-) mice than in wild-type mice, respectively. A total of 58 healthy Korean volunteers receiving a single oral dose of 25 mg levosulpiride participated in this study. The subjects were evaluated for polymorphisms of the ABCB1 exon 12 C1236T, exon 21 G2677A/T (Ala893Ser/Thr) and exon 26 C3435T using polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism. The PK parameters (AUC(0-4h), AUC(0-infinity) and C(max.)) of ABCB1 2677TT and 3435TT subjects were significantly higher than those of subjects with at least one wild-type allele (P&lt;0.05). The results indicate that levosulpiride is a P-glycoprotein substrate in vivo, which is supported by the effects of SNPs 2677G&gt;A/T in exon 21 and 3435C&gt;T in exon 26 of ABCB1 on levosulpiride disposition.
The endocannabinoid and serotonin systems share a high level of overlap in terms of the physiological processes that they regulate, however, little is known about their functional interactions particularly during adolescence, a vulnerable period for both the development of psychosis and for initiation to substance use. In the present study, the effects of cannabinoid treatment on serotonin 5HT1A receptor density and mRNA expression were investigated in two age groups: Adolescent (postnatal day 35) and adult (postnatal day 70) rats were injected with the synthetic cannabinoid HU210 (25, 50 or 100 microg/kg) or vehicle for 1, 4 or 14 days and sacrificed 24 h after the last injection. 5HT1A receptor density was measured in different brain regions using [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT quantitative autoradiography whereas mRNA expression was measured in adjacent brain sections. Higher levels of both serotonin 5HT1A receptor binding and mRNA expression were observed in limbic regions in adolescent control animals compared to adults. 5HT1A receptor density was increased by 23% in the CA1 region of the hippocampus of adult rats treated with 100 microg/kg HU210 for 4 days compared to vehicle treated controls. The same treatment increased mRNA expression by 27% and by 14% in the CA1 region and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus respectively. 5HT1A receptor density was increased by 22% in the CA1 of adult animals treated with 50 microg HU210, by 26% in the dentate gurus of adult rats treated with 100 microg for 14 days. By contrast, 5HT1A receptor density or mRNA expression was not affected in the brain of adolescent animals in any of the brain regions examined. These results suggest that cannabinoid treatment has differential effects on serotonin-related neurochemistry in adolescent compared to adult rats. The effects in the adult brain may compromise hippocampal function and could account for the cognitive deficits seen in habitual heavy cannabis users.
Nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1) is one of the key transcription factors implicated in mitochondrial biogenesis by activating the transcription of mitochondrial transcription factor A (mtTFA) and subunit genes of respiratory enzymes. NRF-1 transactivation activity can be enhanced by interaction with transcription coactivator peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1alpha (PGC-1alpha). The expression of PGC-1alpha, NRF-1 and mtTFA in neurons is known to be tightly regulated by neuronal activity. However, the coupling signaling mechanism is poorly understood. Here, we use primary cultures of rat visual cortical neurons and a rat model of monocular deprivation (MD) to investigate whether AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is implicated in mediating activity-dependent regulation of PGC-1alpha and NRF-1 expression in neurons. We find that KCl depolarization rapidly activates AMPK and significantly increases PGC-1alpha, NRF-1, and mtTFA levels with increased ATP production in neuron cultures. Similarly, pharmacological activation of AMPK with 5'-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide riboside (AICAR) or resveratrol also markedly increases PGC-1alpha and NRF-1 mRNA levels in neuron cultures. All these effects can be completely blocked by an AMPK inhibitor, Compound C. Conversely, 1 week of MD significantly reduces AMPK phosphorylation and activity, dramatically down-regulates PGC-1alpha and NRF-1 expression in deprived primary visual cortex. Administration of resveratrol in vivo significantly activates AMPK activity and attenuates the effects of MD on mitochondria by significant increase in PGC-1alpha and NRF-1 levels, mitochondria amount, and coupled respiration. These results strongly indicate that AMPK is an essential upstream mediator that couples neuronal activity to mitochondrial energy metabolism by regulation of PGC-1alpha-NRF-1 pathway in neurons.
We recently demonstrated that Fos is induced in a subpopulation of cortical neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-immunoreactive neurons in three rodent species both during spontaneous sleep (SS) and recovery sleep (RS) after a period of sleep deprivation (SD); the proportion of cortical Fos(+)/nNOS neurons was significantly correlated with non-REM (NREM) sleep delta energy. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the specificity of this state-dependent activation of cortical nNOS cells. The percentage of nNOS neurons that expressed Fos during SD and RS was determined in nine subcortical brain regions and the cortex of the mouse brain; a significantly greater proportion of Fos(+)/nNOS neurons was observed during RS only in the cortex and in none of the nine subcortical regions. The proportion of calretinin-, calbindin- and parvalbumin-immunoreactive cortical interneurons that expressed Fos during SD and RS was also determined. In contrast to cortical nNOS neurons, a higher percentage of Fos(+)/calbindin neurons was found during SD than RS; there were no differences in the proportions of Fos-expressing parvalbumin or calretinin neurons between these conditions. Since the nNOS and calretinin cortical interneuron populations overlap extensively in the mouse brain, triple-labeling with these two phenotypic markers and Fos was undertaken in mice from the RS group to determine which combination of markers could best identify the rare &quot;sleep-active&quot; cortical interneuron population. The proportions of both Fos(+)/nNOS neurons and Fos(+)/nNOS/calretinin neurons far exceeded the proportion of Fos(+)/calretinin neurons during RS, but the proportions of these two cell types were not significantly different during RS. Thus, functional activation of nNOS neurons during sleep appears to be restricted to the cerebral cortex and cortical nNOS cells and nNOS/calretinin cells collectively define a cortical interneuron population that is activated during sleep.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is a brain area crucial for memory, attention, and decision making. Specifically, the noradrenergic system in this cortex is involved in aversive learning, as well as in the retrieval of these memories. Some evidence suggests that this area has an important role during taste memory, particularly during conditioned taste aversion (CTA), a model of aversive memory. Despite some previous evidence, there is scarce information about the role of adrenergic receptors in the mPFC during formation of aversive taste memory and appetitive/incidental taste memory. The goal of this research was to evaluate the role of mPFC beta-adrenergic receptors during CTA acquisition/consolidation or CTA retrieval, as well as during incidental taste memory formation using the model of latent inhibition of CTA. The results showed that infusions in the mPFC of the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol before CTA acquisition impaired both short- and long-term aversive taste memory formation, and also that propranolol infusions before the memory test impaired CTA retrieval. However, propranolol infusions before pre-exposure to the taste during the latent inhibition procedure had no effect on incidental taste memory acquisition or consolidation. These data indicate that beta-adrenergic receptors in the mPFC have different functions during taste memory formation: they have an important role during aversive taste association as well as during aversive retrieval but not during incidental taste memory formation.
Dopamine receptors (DARs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) are critical for cocaine's actions but the nature of adaptations in DAR function after repeated cocaine exposure remains controversial. This may be due in part to the fact that different methods used in previous studies measured different DAR pools. In the present study, we used a protein crosslinking assay to make the first measurements of DAR surface expression in the NAc of cocaine-experienced rats. Intracellular and total receptor levels were also quantified. Rats self-administered saline or cocaine for 10 days. The entire NAc, or core and shell subregions, were collected one or 45 days later, when rats are known to exhibit low and high levels of cue-induced drug seeking, respectively. We found increased cell surface D1 DARs in the NAc shell on the first day after discontinuing cocaine self-administration (designated withdrawal day 1, or WD1) but this normalized by WD45. Decreased intracellular and surface D2 DAR levels were observed in the cocaine group. In shell, both measures decreased on WD1 and WD45. In core, decreased D2 DAR surface expression was only observed on WD45. Similarly, WD45 but not WD1 was associated with increased D3 DAR surface expression in the core. Taking into account many other studies, we suggest that decreased D2 DAR and increased D3 DAR surface expression on WD45 may contribute to enhanced cocaine-seeking after prolonged withdrawal, although this is likely to be a modulatory effect, in light of the mediating effect previously demonstrated for AMPA-type glutamate receptors.
kappa-Opioid receptor stimulation attenuates psychostimulant-induced increases in extracellular dopamine in the caudate-putamen (CPu) and nucleus accumbens of adult rats, while reducing cocaine-induced locomotor activity and stereotyped behaviors. Because kappa-opioid receptor agonists (e.g., U50,488 or U69,593) often affect the behavior of preweanling rats in a paradoxical manner, the purpose of the present study was to determine whether kappa-opioid receptor stimulation differentially affects dopaminergic functioning in the CPu depending on age. In vivo microdialysis was used to determine whether U50,488 (5 mg/kg) attenuates cocaine-induced dopamine overflow in the dorsal CPu on postnatal day (PD) 17 and PD 85. In the microinjection experiment, cocaine-induced stereotyped behaviors were assessed in adult and preweanling rats after bilateral infusions of vehicle or U50,488 (1.6 or 6.4 microg per side) into the CPu. Results showed that U50,488 attenuated the cocaine-induced increases in CPu dopamine overflow on PD 85, while the same dose of U50,488 did not alter dopamine dialysate levels on PD 17. Cocaine also increased stereotyped behaviors (repetitive motor movements, behavioral intensity scores, and discrete behaviors) at both ages, but adult rats appeared to exhibit more intense stereotypic responses than the younger animals. Consistent with the microdialysis findings, bilateral infusions of U50,488 into the dorsal CPu decreased the cocaine-induced stereotypies of adult rats, while leaving the behaviors of preweanling rats unaffected. These results suggest that the neural mechanisms underlying kappa-opioid/dopamine interactions in the CPu are not fully mature during the preweanling period. This lack of functional maturity may explain why kappa-opioid receptor agonists frequently induce different behavioral effects in young and adult rats.
We investigated changes in behavior and brain glucose metabolism in a rat chronic mild stress (CMS) model of depression. The CMS model has been used to mimic depression in humans by using various chronic mild stressors in a 4 weeks period. In the present study, we have developed a combination of tests examining behavior (open field test) and hedonic measure (sucrose preference test) after exposure to CMS, and compared this to control non-stressed rats. We found that CMS induced behavioral changes, including decreased central and rearing activity, increased grooming and defecation, reduced body weight, and reduced relative sucrose intake. Moreover, our study suggests that CMS administered for 4 weeks activated left auditory cortex, while left piriform cortex, left inferior colliculus, septal nuclei and periaqueductal gray were deactivated. These changes in region of interest are left-right asymmetrical and lateralized in the left hemisphere. And activity deficits of depression are related with changes of brain activity in all brain regions showing significant changes by CMS in glucose metabolism. There are significant correlations for relative sucrose intake in left piriform cortex, left inferior colliculus and left auditory cortex, and for anxiety-related behavioral measures in septal nuclei and periaqueductal gray. There are lack of significant effects in the mean glucose metabolism of both hemispheres in hippocampus and amygdala induced by CMS possibly because of various reasons. Changes in glucose metabolism support the view that these significant brain regions are involved in chronic stress and depressive mood regulation. The results of this study might contribute to the awareness of changes in behavior and brain activity of depression induced by CMS.
A central issue in the pathogenesis of tauopathy is the question of how tau protein dysfunction leads to neurodegeneration. We have previously demonstrated that the absence of tau protein is associated with destabilization of microtubules and impaired neurite outgrowth (Dawson et al., 2001; Rapoport et al., 2002). We now hypothesize that the absence of functional tau protein may render the central nervous system more vulnerable to secondary insults such as the overexpression of mutated beta amyloid precursor protein (APP) and traumatic brain injury. We therefore crossed tau knockout mice (Dawson et al., 2001) to mice overexpressing a mutated human APP (APP(670,671), A(sw)) (Hsiao et al., 1996) and created a mouse model (A(sw)/mTau(-/-)) that provides evidence that the loss of tau function causes degeneration of neuronal processes. The overexpression of APP(670,671) in tau knockout mice, elicits the extensive formation of axonal spheroids. While spheroids are only found associated with Abeta plaques in mice expressing APP(670,671) on an endogenous mouse tau background (Irizarry et al., 1997), A(sw)/mTau(-/-) mice have spheroids not only surrounding Abeta plaques but also in white matter tracks and in the neuropil. Plaque associated and neuropil dystrophic neurites and spheroids are prominent features of Alzheimer's disease (Masliah et al., 1993; Terry, 1996; Stokin et al., 2005), and our current data suggests that loss of tau function may lead to neurodegeneration.
Noradrenaline (NA) is released in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) during salient behavioral phases and thought to modulate PFC-mediated cognitive functions. However, cellular actions of NA in PFC neurons are still not well understood. In the present study, we investigated long-term effects of bath-applied NA (12.5 min) on glutamatergic synaptic transmission in rat PFC pyramidal neurons maintained in vitro. We found that NA concentration-dependently (5 microM&lt; or =[NA]&lt; or =20 microM) induces long-term depression (LTD) of layer I-II to layer V pyramidal neuron glutamatergic synapses. NA acts through alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors, but not beta-adrenoceptors, to induce LTD. This NA-induced LTD depends on concurrent single synaptic activations of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and requires the activation of protein kinase C and postsynaptic Extracellular signal-Regulated Kinases (ERK1/2). Western blot analyses showed that NA (20 microM for 12.5 min) indeed induces transient increases of ERK1/2 phosphorylation in PFC neurons, which is dependent at least in part on the activation of NMDA receptors and alpha1-adrenoceptors. Together, these results demonstrate that NA can lastingly depress glutamatergic synapses in rat PFC neurons through mechanisms involving alpha-adrenoceptors, NMDA receptors, and the activation of postsynaptic ERK1/2.
The cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with synaptic loss, neuritic sprouting and altered neuroplasticity. Compensatory neuritic sprouting might be beneficial, while aberrant sprouting could contribute to the neurodegenerative process. Nogo (or Rtn4) is a major myelin-derived inhibitor of axonal sprouting in adult CNS. Recent evidence has implicated both the Reticulon family of proteins and a receptor for Nogo, NgR, in reducing amyloid-beta production, a key step in AD pathogenesis. To test the hypothesis that Nogo, as an inhibitor of axonal sprouting, modulates disease progression in a mouse model of AD, we introduced an APP transgene (a human APP minigene carrying the Swedish and Indiana mutations under the platelet-derived growth factor subunit B (PDGFB) promoter) into a Nogo null background and characterized the behavioral and neuropathological consequences. We found that deleting Nogo ameliorates learning and memory deficits of APP transgenic mice in the Morris water maze at an early/intermediate stage of the disease. Furthermore, deleting Nogo restored the expression levels of markers for synapto-dendritic complexity and axonal sprouting including synaptophysin, MAP2, GAP43 and neurofilament that are otherwise reduced in APP transgenic mice. Other aspects of disease progression including neuronal loss, astrogliosis, microgliosis and, importantly, Abeta levels and amyloid deposits were not significantly altered by Nogo deletion. These data support the hypothesis that Nogo-mediated inhibition of neuritic sprouting contributes to the disease progression in an APP transgenic model of AD in a way that is mechanistically distinct from what has been proposed for Rtn3 or NgR.
Activity-dependent modulation of excitable responses from neurohypophysial axons and their secretory swellings has long been recognized as an important regulator of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin release during patterned stimulation. Various activity-dependent mechanisms, including action potential broadening, potassium accumulation, and autocrine or paracrine feedback, have been proposed as underlying mechanisms. However, the relevance of any specific mechanism on net excitability in the intact preparation, during different levels of overall activation, and during realistic stimulation with trains of action potentials has remained largely undetermined. Using high-speed optical recordings and potentiometric dyes, we have quantified the dynamics of global excitability under physiologically more realistic conditions, that is in the intact neurohypophysis during trains of stimuli at varying frequencies and levels of overall activity. Net excitability facilitated during stimulation at low frequencies or at low activity. During persistent high-intensity or high-frequency stimulation, net excitability became severely depressed. Depression of excitable responses was strongly affected by manipulations of extracellular potassium levels, including changes to resting [K(+)](out), increases of interstitial spaces with hypertonic solutions and inhibition of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase activity. Application of the GABA(A) receptor blocker bicuculline or manipulations of Ca(2+) influx showed little effect. Numerical simulation of K(+) accumulation on action potentials of individual axons reproduced optically recorded population responses, including the overall depression of action potential (AP) amplitudes, modest AP broadening and the prominent loss of hyperpolarizing undershoots. Hence, extracellular potassium accumulation dominates activity-dependent depression of neurohypophysial excitability under elevated stimulation conditions. The intricate dependence on the short-term stimulation history and its resulting feedback on neurohypophysial excitability renders [K(+)](out) accumulation a surprisingly complex mechanism for regulating axonal excitability and subsequent neuroendocrine release.
The modern cephalopod mollusks (coleoids) are considered the most behaviorally advanced invertebrate, yet little is known about the neurophysiological basis of their behaviors. Previous work suggested that the vertical lobe (VL) of cephalopods is a crucial site for the learning and memory components of these behaviors. We are therefore studying the neurophysiology of the VL in Octopus vulgaris and have discovered a robust activity-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) of the synaptic input to the VL. Moreover, we have shown that the VL and its LTP are involved in behavioral long-term memory acquisition. To advance our understanding of the VL as a learning neural network we explore the possible involvement of neuromodulation in VL function. Here we examine whether the well studied serotonergic modulation in simple models of learning in gastropods mollusks is conserved in the octopus VL. We demonstrate histochemically that the VL is innervated by afferent terminals containing 5-HT immunoreactivity (5-HT-IR). Physiologically, 5-HT has a robust facilitatory effect on synaptic transmission and activity-dependent LTP induction. These results suggest that serotonergic neuromodulation is a part of a reinforcing/reward signaling system conserved in both simple and complex learning systems of mollusks. However, there are notable functional differences. First, the effective concentration of 5-HT in the VL is rather high (100 microM); secondly, only neuropilar regions but not cell bodies in the VL are innervated by terminals containing 5-HT-IR. Thirdly, repetitive or long exposures to 5-HT do not lead to a clear long-term facilitation. We propose that in the octopus VL, while the basic facilitatory properties of molluscan 5-HT system are conserved, the system has adapted to convey signals from other brain areas to reinforce the activity-dependent associations at specific sites in the large connections matrix in the VL.
An enriched environment is known to promote structural changes in the brain and to enhance learning and memory performance in rodents. We previously reported that prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) impaired passive avoidance responses and increased levels of phosphorylated Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (pCaMKII) in the hippocampus of mice. In this study, we examined whether an enriched environment affects the behavioral and neurochemical changes induced in mice prenatally exposed to DES. Male DES-exposed mice were placed in a standard or enriched environment at 3 weeks of age and subjected to behavioral testing after 3 weeks of exposure to these environments. Immunoblot analysis and 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunohistochemistry were then performed. In DES-exposed mice reared in an enriched environment, passive avoidance responses were significantly improved compared to those in mice reared in a standard environment. Moreover, the increase in level of pCaMKII in the hippocampus of DES-exposed mice was reversed by rearing in an enriched environment. Numbers of BrdU-positive cells in the dentate gyrus were significantly increased in normal and DES-exposed mice reared in the enriched environment compared to those in mice reared in the standard environment. These findings suggest that rearing in an enriched environment may mitigate the defects in brain function induced by prenatal exposure to endocrine disrupters such as DES.
Cholinergic transmission through muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) plays a key role in cortical oscillations. Although fast-spiking (FS), parvalbumin-expressing basket cells (BCs) are proposed to be the cellular substrates of gamma oscillations, previous studies reported that FS nonpyramidal cells in neocortical areas are unresponsive to cholinergic modulation. Dentate gyrus (DG) is an independent gamma oscillator in the hippocampal formation. However, in contrast to other cortical regions, the direct impact of mAChR activation on FS BC excitability in this area has not been investigated. Here, we show that bath-applied muscarine or carbachol, two mAChR agonists, depolarize DG BCs in the acute brain slices, leading to action potential firing in the theta-gamma bands in the presence of blockers of ionotropic glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptors at physiological temperatures. The depolarizing action persists in the presence of tetrodotoxin, a voltage-gated Na(+) channel blocker. In voltage-clamp recordings, muscarine markedly reduces background K(+) currents. These effects are mimicked by oxotremorine methiodide, an mAChR-specific agonist, and largely reversed by atropine, a non-selective mAChR antagonist, or pirenzepine, an M(1) receptor antagonist, but not by gallamine, an M(2/4) receptor antagonist. Interestingly, in contrast to M(1)-receptor-mediated depolarization, M(2) receptor activation by the specific agonist arecaidine but-2-ynyl ester tosylate down-regulates GABA release at BC axons-the effect is occluded by gallamine, an M(2) receptor antagonist. Overall, muscarinic activation results in a net increase in phasic inhibitory output to the target cells. Thus, cholinergic activation through M(1)-like receptor enhances BC activity and promotes the generation of nested theta and gamma rhythms, thereby enhancing hippocampal function and associated performance.
This report investigates acute changes in the sensitivity of 5-HT(1A) receptors in dorsal raphe (dr) neurons in response to elevated serotonin. DR neurons were isolated from adult rats and measurements of inhibition of Ca(2+) current by 5-HT were obtained using the whole cell patch clamp technique. During a 10-min application of 5-HT (with normal [Ca(2+)](i) approximately 100 nM) a desensitization occurred. The response to 20 nM 5-HT decreased by 66% relative to control and remained depressed for about 30 min. When the internal [Ca(2+)] was buffered to &lt;1 nM only a weak transient desensitization occurred that was surmountable with higher [5-HT]. Adenylyl cyclase activation with forskolin mimicked the desensitization and selective inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA), but not protein kinase C (PKC), partially antagonized the desensitization induced by 5-HT. To measure the activity of PKA and phosphatase enzymes, dr slices were incubated with the selective agonist dipropyl-5-carboxamidotryptamine (DP-5-CT, 1 microM) for 10 min and the phosphorylation of the PKA substrate Kemptide was followed using ATP-gamma(32)P. DP-5-CT inhibited the cAMP stimulated maximal activity of PKA but raised basal PKA activity, thus increasing the percentage of PKA in the active state (activity ratio), an effect that was prevented by the selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY100635. DP-5-CT also caused a significant inhibition of phosphatase activity. These data support a model in the dr where 5-HT(1A)-receptor stimulation of PKA promotes phosphorylation of a target and phosphatase inhibition leading to heterologous desensitization. The effect would be expected to have physiological consequences for 5-HT-mediated inhibitory post synaptic potentials and the Ca(2+) component of the action potentials of dr neurons.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder manifested by memory loss, confusion and changes in mood. A principal pathology of this debilitating disorder is extracellular deposits of amyloid-beta (Abeta) protein. The &quot;amyloid hypothesis&quot; postulates that a build-up of Abeta protein is responsible for neuronal loss and the ensuing symptoms of AD. One possible mechanism of Abeta clearance, and hence AD therapy, is phagocytosis of Abeta protein by microglial cells. Microglia are the brain's resident immune cells and phagocytosis is one of their innate functions. We are interested in identifying molecules that augment microglial-mediated phagocytosis of Abeta protein. We used the rodent BV-2 microglial cell line which readily phagocytose fluorescent latex beads and synthetic Abeta(1-42) peptide. BV-2 cells treated with the neuroactive drug valproic acid (VPA) showed greatly enhanced phagocytic activity for both latex beads and Abeta. VPA also reduced microglial viability by inducing apoptosis, as previously reported. The relevance of these in vitro results to the treatment of AD is unclear but further investigation into the effects of VPA on the clearance of Abeta through enhanced microglial phagocytosis is warranted.
Dysfunction in brain serotonin (5-HT) system has been implicated in the psychopathology of anxiety, depression, drug addiction, and schizophrenia. The 5-HT(1A) receptors play a central role in the control of 5-HTergic neurotransmission. There are some scarce data showing cross-regulation between 5-HT receptors. Here, we investigated whether interaction exists between 5-HT(1A) receptor and genes encoding key members in brain 5-HT system. Chronic treatment with selective agonist of 5-HT(1A) receptor 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (1.0 mg/kg i.p., 14 days) produced considerable decrease in hypothermic response to acute administration of 8-OH-DPAT in CBA/Lac mice indicating desensitization of 5-HT(1A) receptors. The decrease in 5-HT(1A) gene expression as well as decrease in the expression of gene encoding key enzyme in 5-HT synthesis, tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH-2) in the midbrain, and the expression of the gene encoding 5-HT(2A) receptor in the frontal cortex was shown. There were no significant changes in 5-HT transporter mRNA level in the midbrain. Despite considerable decrease in the expression of the genes encoding tryptophan hydroxylase-2, 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, chronic 8-OH-DPAT treatment failed to produce significant changes in 5-HT(1A)-linked behavior (intermale aggression, open-field behavior, light-dark box, and pinch-induced catalepsy), suggesting compensatory and adaptive effect of genes suppression. The obtained data on the effect of 8-OH-DPAT-induced desensitization of 5-HT(1A) receptors on 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A) and TPH-2 gene expression demonstrated the role of 5-HT(1A) receptor as indirect regulator of gene expression. The results provide the first evidence of receptor-key genes interaction in brain 5-HT system and may have profound implications in understanding the functioning of the brain neurotransmitter systems.
Hyperglycemia is one of the major factors for hemorrhagic transformation after ischemic stroke. In this study, we tested the effect of hydrogen gas on hemorrhagic transformation in a rat focal cerebral ischemia model. Sprague-Dawley rats (n=72) were divided into the following groups: sham; sham treated with hydrogen gas (H(2)); Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion (MCAO); and MCAO treated with H(2) (MCAO+H(2)). All rats received an injection of 50% dextrose (6 ml/kg i.p.) and underwent MCAO 15 min later. Following a 90 min ischemic period, hydrogen was inhaled for 2 h during reperfusion. We measured the level of blood glucose at 0 h, 0.5 h, 4 h, and 6 h after dextrose injection. Infarct and hemorrhagic volumes, neurologic score, oxidative stress (evaluated by measuring the level of 8 Hydroxyguanosine (8OHG), 4-Hydroxy-2-Nonenal (HNE) and nitrotyrosine), and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2/MMP-9 activity were measured at 24 h after ischemia. We found that hydrogen inhalation for 2 h reduced infarct and hemorrhagic volumes and improved neurological functions. This effect of hydrogen was accompanied by a reduction of the expression of 8OHG, HNE, and nitrotyrosine and the activity of MMP-9. Furthermore, a reduction of the blood glucose level from 500+/-32.51 to 366+/-68.22 mg/dl at 4 h after dextrose injection was observed in hydrogen treated animals. However, the treatment had no significant effect on the expression of ZO-1, occludin, collagen IV or aquaporin4 (AQP4). In conclusion, hydrogen gas reduced brain infarction, hemorrhagic transformation, and improved neurological function in rats. The potential mechanisms of decreased oxidative stress and glucose levels after hydrogen treatment warrant further investigation.
It has been suggested that the processing of action-related words involves activation of the motor circuitry. Using fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging), the current study further explored the interaction between action and language by investigating whether the linguistic context, in which an action word occurs, modulates motor circuitry activity related to the processing of action words. To this end, we examined whether the presentation of hand action-related verbs as positive or negative imperatives, for example, &quot;Do grasp&quot; or &quot;Don't write,&quot; modulates neural activity in the hand area of primary motor cortex (M1) or premotor cortex (Pm). Subjects (n = 19) were asked to read silently the imperative phrases, in which both meaningful action verbs and meaningless pseudo-verbs were presented, and to decide whether they made sense (lexical decision task). At the behavioral level, response times in the lexical decision task were significantly longer for negative, compared to positive, imperatives. At the neural level, activity was differentially decreased by action verbs presented as negative imperatives for the premotor and the primary motor cortex of both hemispheres. The data suggest that context (here: positive vs. negative imperatives), in which an action verb is encountered, modulates the neural activity within key areas of the motor system. The finding implies that motor simulation (or motor planning) rather than semantic processing per se may underlie previously observed motor system activation related to action verb processing. Furthermore, the current data suggest that negative imperatives may inhibit motor simulation or motor planning processes.
Ocular exposure to ultraviolet irradiation (UVR) induces photokeratitis, a common environmental concern that inflames ocular tissues and causes pain. The central neural mechanisms that contribute to the sensory aspects of photokeratitis after UVR are not known. In awake male rats, ocular surface application of hypertonic saline evoked eye wipe behavior that was enhanced 2-3 days after UVR and returned to control levels by 7 days. Similarly, under isoflurane anesthesia, hypertonic saline-evoked activity of ocular neurons in superficial laminae at the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/cervical (Vc/C1) region was enhanced 2 days, but not 7 days, after UVR. By contrast, the response of neurons at the interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc) transition region to hypertonic saline was not affected by UVR. The background activity and convergent cutaneous receptive field areas of Vc/C1 or Vi/Vc neurons were not affected by UVR. Aqueous humor protein levels were elevated 2 and 7 days after UVR. UVR enhanced nociceptive behavior, after a latent period, with a time course similar to that of ocular neurons in superficial laminae at the Vc/C1 region. The Vc/C1 region plays a key role in primary hyperalgesia induced by UVR, whereas the Vi/Vc region likely mediates other aspects of ocular function.
This study was focused on determining the possible role of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) on play fighting in juvenile golden hamsters. As no specific neural sites have been proposed, we looked for changes in CRH innervations at the peak of play-fighting activity on postnatal day 35 (P-35) from a week before on P-28. We noted that the increase in play-fighting activity between these two dates was associated with a 100% increase of the density of CRH fibers within the lateral septum. We, then, tested the possible role of CRH receptors on play fighting within the lateral septum through microinjections of alpha-helical CRH, a CRH receptor antagonist (either 0, 30, or 300 ng), directly into the area. The treatments inhibited play-fighting attacks and pins as well as reduced the duration of time that the resident hamsters spent in contact with the intruders, though locomotor activity remained unaffected. The possible source of CRH release in the lateral septum was addressed by quantification of CRH neurons also labeled with a marker of cellular activity, c-Fos, after consummation of play fighting. CRH neurons in the horizontal part of the diagonal band, an area reciprocally connected with the lateral septum, showed a 75% increase in double labeling with c-Fos as compared to controls. Together, these data show that CRH receptors in the lateral septum have a general role on play fighting, not just facilitating its consummation, but also likely enhancing appetitive aspects as well. In addition, this effect is associated with enhanced CRH availability in the area and enhanced neuronal activity within interconnected areas.
Bone-cancer-related pain is one of the most disabling factors in patients suffering from primary bone cancer or bone metastases. Recent studies point toward an important role of proinflammatory cytokines, example tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), for tumor growth and bone-cancer-associated pain. Mechanisms by which TNF, through its receptor subtypes, TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1) and -2 (TNFR2), elicits altered sensation and pain behavior, are still incompletely understood. To look for a potential role of TNF in bone cancer pain, cancer-related pain was analyzed in fibrosarcoma-bearing C57Bl/6J wild type mice after systemic antagonism of TNF. To further clarify the role of TNF receptor (TNFR) in bone-cancer pain, naive and fibrosarcoma-bearing C57Bl/ 6J wild type and transgenic mice with a deficiency of TNFR1 (TNFR1ko), TNFR2 (TNFR2ko), and TNFR1+2 (TNFR1+2ko) were compared regarding cancer-related pain and hyperalgesia, tumor growth, osteoclast activation, and spinal astrogliosis. Systemic antagonism of TNF significantly alleviated tactile hypersensitivity and spontaneous bone-cancer-related pain behavior. Most interestingly, combined deletion of the TNFR1 and TNFR2, but not of either gene alone, almost completely inhibited the development of tactile hypersensitivity, whereas spontaneous pain behavior was transiently increased. Accordingly, spinal astrogliosis was markedly reduced, whereas tumor growth was significantly increased in TNFR1+2ko mice. In contrast, deletion of the TNFR1 or TNFR2 gene alone did not change tumor growth or spinal astrogliosis. Our findings suggest that the combined absence of TNFR1 and TNFR2 is necessary for the attenuation of cancer-related tactile hypersensitivity and concomitant spinal astrogliosis, whereas tumor growth seems to be inhibited by combined TNFR activation. These findings support the hypothesis of cytokine-dependent pain development in cancer pain. Differential targeting of TNFR activation could be an interesting strategy in bone-cancer-related pain conditions.
It has been postulated that chronic administration of antidepressant drugs induces delayed structural and molecular adaptations at glutamatergic forebrain synapses that might underlie mood improvement. To gain further insight into these changes in the cerebral cortex, rats were treated with fluoxetine (flx) for 4 weeks. These animals showed decreased anxiety and learned helplessness. N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunit levels (NR1, NR2A, NR2B, GluR1 and GluR2) were analysed in the forebrain by both western blot of homogenates and immunohistochemistry. Both methods demonstrated an upregulation of NR2A, GluR1 and GluR2 that was especially significant in the retrosplenial granular b cortex (RSGb). However, when analysing subunit content in postsynaptic densities and synaptic membranes, we found increases of NR2A and GluR2 but not GluR1. Instead, GluR1 was augmented in a microsomal fraction containing intracellular membranes. NR1 and GluR2 were co-immunoprecipitated from postsynaptic densities and synaptic membranes. In the immunoprecipitates, NR2A was increased while GluR1 was decreased supporting a change in receptor stoichiometry. The changes of subunit levels were associated with an upregulation of dendritic spine density and of large, mushroom-type spines. These molecular and structural adaptations might be involved in neuronal network stabilization following long-term flx treatment.
Antagonists selectively inhibiting activation of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) receptor reduce motor symptoms in experimental models of Parkinson's disease, and genetic deletion of the ppN/OFQ gene offers partial protection of mid-brain dopamine neurons against the neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MPTP increased ppN/OFQ mRNA expression in the substantia nigra (SN). We have evaluated the temporal relationship of dopamine cell loss to increased ppN/OFQ mRNA expression in the substantia nigra after MPTP treatment, and characterized the cellular locations in which increased ppN/OFQ mRNA expression was observed after MPTP treatment. MPTP increased by about 5-fold the number of neurons expressing ppN/OFQ mRNA in the pars reticulata of SN (SNr) by 24 h after treatment and the elevation remained significant for at least 7 days. This period coincided with the timing of the loss of dopamine neurons from the pars compacta of substantia nigra (SNc) after MPTP. The increased expression of ppN/OFQ mRNA co-localized with a neuronal marker in the SNr. MPTP treatment resulted in a small increase in the numbers of neurons expressing ppN/OFQ in the SNc in mice from one mouse colony but the increase did not reach statistical significance in mice from another colony. No changes in ppN/OFQ-mRNA expression were observed in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the caudate-putamen, the subthalamic nucleus, or in two other brains areas. These results demonstrate that increased N/OFQ expression in the SNr is closely associated with the MPTP-induced loss of dopamine neurons in the SNc in a widely used animal model of Parkinson's disease.
Despite apolipoprotein E's important role in cholesterol transport and metabolism in the brain as well as its influence on Alzheimer's disease, the impact of the human APOE genotype on cholesterol metabolism in brain has not been fully examined. This study was carried out to investigate APOE genotype effects on oxysterols measured. In this study the measurement of cholesterol and several oxysterols in the brains of human APOE epsilon2, epsilon3 and epsilon4 knock-in mice at 8 weeks and 1 year of age using gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) demonstrated no APOE genotype or age effect on total brain cholesterol and the oxysterol 24-hydroxycholesterol. The level of 27-hydroxycholesterol was elevated in 1 year old animals for all APOE genotypes. Interestingly, lathosterol an indicator of cholesterol synthesis was significantly reduced in the 1 year old animals for all APOE genotypes. APOE epsilon4 expressing mice exhibited statistically lower levels of lathosterol compared to APOE epsilon2 in both the young and old mice. Oxidized cholesterol metabolites were significantly lower in APOE epsilon2 mice compared to other genotypes at 8 weeks old. Although minimal differences were observed between APOE E3 and E4 knock-in (KI) mice, these findings indicate that there are some clear APOE genotype specific effects on brain cholesterol synthesis and associated metabolic pathways, particularly in APOE epsilon2 KI mice.
Focused ultrasound-induced opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in the presence of ultrasound contrast agents is a promising strategy for a targeted drug delivery to the brain. The aim of our study was to identify whether brain molecular stress pathways are targeted by ultrasound treatment. Using an upper level of acoustic pressures in combination with microbubbles, which have been previously reported as reliable for BBB opening without causing tissue damage, we found that ultrasound leads to an increased ubiquitinylation of proteins in neuronal (11+/-3 ubiquitin-overexpressing cells per optical field) but not glial cells 6 h post-insonation, increasing to 16 (+/-4) labelled cells after 24 h. No changes in the expression of Hsp70 and Hsc70 were detected over 24 h. Ultrasound treatment was followed by limited apoptosis after 24 h (32+/-6 cleaved-caspase 3-positive cells per optical field) in the insonated areas. Only neurons were identified in the apoptotic population. Although these observations may not be applicable for all acoustic parameters useful for BBB opening, they demonstrate that insonation of the rat brain with the parameters used in our experiments is a useful tool for BBB opening and induces specific cellular stress response restricted to neuronal cells.
Much of mental life consists in thinking about object concepts that are not currently within the scope of perception. The general system that enables multiple representations to be maintained and compared is referred to as &quot;working memory&quot; [Repovs G, Baddeley A (2006) Neuroscience 139:5-21], and involves regions in medial and lateral parietal and frontal cortex [e.g., Smith EE, Jonides J (1999) Science 283:1657-1661]. It has been assumed that the contents of working memory index information in regions of the brain that are critical for processing and storing object knowledge. To study the processes involved in thinking about common object concepts, we used event related fMRI to study BOLD activity while participants made judgments of conceptual similarity over pairs of sequentially presented auditory words. Through a combination of conventional fMRI analysis approaches and multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA), we show that the brain responses associated with the second word in a pair carry information about the conceptual similarity between the two members of the pair. This was the case in frontal and parietal regions involved in the working memory and decision components of the task for both analysis approaches. However, in other regions of the brain, including early visual regions, MVPA permitted classification of semantic distance relationships where conventional averaging approaches failed to show a difference. These findings suggest that diffuse and statistically sub-threshold &quot;scattering&quot; of BOLD activity in some regions may carry substantial information about the contents of mental representations.
Human neuropsychological studies suggest that the amygdala is implicated in social cognition, in which cognition of seen gaze-direction, especially the direct gaze, is essential, and that the perception of gaze direction is modulated by the head orientation of the facial stimuli. However, neural correlates to these issues remain unknown. In the present study, neuronal activity was recorded from the macaque monkey amygdala during performance of a sequential delayed non-matching-to-sample task based on gaze direction. The facial stimuli consisted of two head orientations (frontal; straight to the monkey, profile; 30 degrees rightwards from the front) with different gaze directions (directed toward and averted to the left or right of the monkey). Of the 1091 neurons recorded, 61 responded to more than one facial stimulus. Of these face-responsive neurons, 44 displayed responses selective to the facial stimuli (face neurons). Most amygdalar face neurons discriminated both gaze direction and head orientation, and exhibited a significant interaction between the two types about information. Furthermore, factor analysis on the response magnitudes of the face neurons to the facial stimuli revealed that two factors derived from these facial stimuli were correlated with two head orientations. The overall responses of the face neurons to direct gazes in the profile and frontal faces were significantly larger than that to averted gazes. The results suggest that information of both gaze and head direction is integrated in the amygdala, and that the amygdala is implicated in detection of direct gaze.
The prevalence of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adult men is roughly half that of women. Clinical evidence supports a protective effect of androgens against depressive disorders in men. The developing brain is subject to androgen exposure but a potential role for this in depression during adulthood has not been considered. In order to explore this question we treated newborn male rat pups with the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide to block endogenous androgen action and then conducted behavioral tests prior to puberty. Depression-like behaviors were assessed with the Forced Swim Test (FST) and the Sucrose Preference Test (SPT), and anxiety-like behaviors were assessed with the Open Field Test (OFT) and the Novelty-Suppressed Feeding Test (NSFT). Compared to the vehicle-treated controls, neonatal-flutamide treatment caused a significant increase in depression-like behaviors in preadolescent male rats but did not cause any significant difference in anxiety-like behaviors. In separate experiments, male pups with and without flutamide treatment were injected with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'-monophosphate (BrdU) from postnatal day (PND) 1 to 4 to label newly produced cells or the hippocampi were Golgi-Cox imbedded and pyramidal neurons visualized. Three lines of evidence indicate neonatal flutamide treatment inhibits hippocampal neurogenesis and neuronal dendritic spine formation in preadolescent male rats. Compared to vehicle controls, flutamide treatment significantly decreased (1) the number of microtubule-associated protein-2+ (MAP-2) neurons in the CA1 region, (2) the number of MAP-2+ neurons in the dentate gyrus (DG) region of the hippocampus, and (3) the density of dendritic spines of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region. However, there was no effect of flutamide treatment on the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)+ or GFAP+/BrdU+ cells in the hippocampus. This study suggests that the organizational effect of androgen-induced hippocampal neurogenesis is antidepressant.
Pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease include memory deficits, accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta) plaques, the appearance of neurofibrillary tangles, and dysregulation of calcium homeostasis, which has been linked to mutations in the presenilin gene that code for presenilin (PS) proteins. PSs are a family of multi-pass transmembrane proteins where normal presenilins (PS1 and PS2) are highly localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Several past studies have explored alterations in long-term potentiation (LTP), a proposed molecular correlate of memory, and in behavioral tests of spatial memory in a variety of PS1 models. These reports suggest that calcium plays a role in these alterations, but mechanistic explanations for changes in LTP and in behavioral tests of memory are still lacking. To test the hypothesis that calcium-related mechanisms, such as changes in calcium buffering, are associated with alterations in LTP and memory, we utilized in vitro experimental paradigms of LTP in hippocampal slices obtained from the PS1-M146V transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We also used the in vivo Morris water maze (MWM), a test for hippocampal dependent spatial memory. In addition, we used cellular assays to explore molecular mechanisms. We confirm that PS1 mutations (M146V) enhance LTP. We also find increases in some parameters of the MWM, and alterations in other parameters, such as path length indicating impairment in cognitive functioning in PS1-M146V mice. In addition, these findings are observed in association with increased calbindin D28K expression in the CA1 hippocampus of PS1-M146V mice.
Following unilateral vestibular damage (UVD), vestibular compensation restores both static and dynamic vestibular reflexes. The cerebellar cortex provides powerful GABAergic inhibitory input to the vestibular nuclei which is necessary for compensation. Metabotropic GABA type B (GABA(B)) receptors in the vestibular nuclei are thought to be involved. However, the contribution of GABA(B) receptors may differ between static and dynamic compensation. We tested static and dynamic postural reflexes and gait in young mice, while they compensated for UVD caused by injection of air into the vestibular labyrinth. The effects of an agonist (baclofen), an antagonist (CGP56433A) and a positive allosteric modulator (CGP7930) of the GABA(B) receptor were evaluated during compensation. Static postural reflexes recovered very rapidly in our model, and baclofen slightly accelerated recovery. However, CGP56433A significantly impaired static compensation. Dynamic reflexes were evaluated by balance-beam performance and by gait; both showed significant decrements following UVD and performance improved over the next 2 days. Both CGP56433A and baclofen temporarily impaired the ability to walk on a balance beam after UVD. Two days later, there were no longer any significant effects of drug treatments on balance-beam performance. Baclofen slightly accelerated the recovery of stride length on a flat surface, but CGP7930 worsened the gait impairment following UVD. Using immunohistochemistry, we confirmed that GABA(B) receptors are abundantly expressed on the vestibulospinal neurons of Deiters in mice. Our results suggest that GABA(B) receptors contribute to the compensation of static vestibular reflexes following unilateral peripheral damage. We also conclude that impairment of the first stage of compensation, static recovery, does not necessarily result in an impairment of dynamic recovery in the long term.
Several groups maintain that morphine tolerance and dependence correlate with increased activity of protein kinases ERK1/2 and P38 MAPK and PKC as well as elevated levels of the neuropeptides dynorphin (DYN), substance P (sP), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in spinal cord dorsal horn (SCDH). They demonstrate that tolerance and dependence can be prevented, and sometimes reversed, by constitutive genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of these factors. Recently, we showed that mice with a constitutive deletion of the GluR5 subunit of kainate receptors (GluR5 KO) are not different from wild type (WT) littermates with respect to baseline nociceptive thresholds as well as acute morphine antinociception, morphine physical dependence and conditioned place preference. However, unlike WT, GluR5 KO mice do not develop antinociceptive tolerance following systemic morphine administration. In this report, we examined levels of these mediators in SCDH of WT and GluR5 KO mice following subcutaneous implantation of placebo or morphine pellets. Surprisingly, spinal DYN and CGRP, along with phosphorylated ERK2 (pERK2), P38 (pP38) and PKCgamma (pPKCgamma) are elevated by deletion of GluR5. Additionally, chronic systemic morphine administration increased spinal pERK2, pP38 and pPKCgamma levels in both tolerant WT and non-tolerant GluR5 KO mice. In contrast, while morphine increased spinal DYN and CGRP in WT mice, DYN remained unchanged and CGRP was reduced in GluR5 KO mice. These observations suggest that spinal ERK2, P38 and PKCgamma are likely involved in multiple adaptive responses following systemic morphine administration, whereas DYN and CGRP may contribute selectively to the development of antinociceptive tolerance.

The recovery of motor functions after a spinal cord injury (SCI) can be assessed at the domain of body-functions and structures and activities. As there is no gold standard for quantifying motor functions, the recovery depends strongly on the assessment applied. After a motor complete SCI, the improvement in activities of daily life is larger as would be expected from the increase in muscle strength alone. After a motor incomplete SCI, the (prolonged) latency of the motor evoked potential remains stable, while considerable improvements in muscle strength, walking capacity and independence can be observed. Such functional recovery is based on compensational mechanisms and neuroplasticity.
Understanding the complex interaction between stress and genetics that leads to the manifestation of disorders such as depression, anxiety, and cognitive dysfunction is one of the key areas of research in modern neuroscience. Growing evidence suggests that the glutamatergic system may be a relevant therapeutic target for such disorders. Glutamate is the neurotransmitter at the vast majority of excitatory synapses in the brain, and metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor subtypes (mGlu(1) receptor-mGlu(8) receptor) act as important pre- and postsynaptic regulators of neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS), providing a mechanism by which fast synaptic responses through ligand-gated cation channels can be fine-tuned. Thus mGlu receptors are poised to participate in a wide variety of functions of the CNS. The presynaptic mGlu(7) receptor shows the highest evolutionary conservation within the family and it is thought to regulate neurotransmitter release. The mGlu(7) receptor is also the most widely distributed of the presynaptic mGlu receptors and is present at a broad range of synapses that are postulated to be critical for both normal CNS function and a range of psychiatric and neurological disorders. A growing body of evidence suggests that the mGlu(7) receptor is a key player in shaping synaptic responses at glutamatergic synapses as well as being a key regulator of inhibitory GABAergic transmission. The development of selective pharmacological and genetic tools has allowed for the unravelling of mGlu(7) receptor function in a host of physiological and behavioural processes. Knockout mice and siRNA knockdown has pointed to a role of the mGlu(7) receptor in anxiety, extinction of fear and aversion learning, spatial memory and the hormonal response to stress. In addition, these studies are largely supported by pharmacological manipulation of mGlu(7) receptor using the selective modulator N,N'-dibenzhydrylethane-1,2-diamine dihydrochloride (AMN082), although paradoxical effects with this agonist have also emerged. Together these data suggest that the mGlu(7) receptor is an important regulator of glutamatergic function, of fear and aversion and cognition and thus this receptor represents an innovative therapeutic target for stress-related disorders at the interface of cognition and anxiety.
Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors provide a mechanism by which the function of NMDA glutamate receptors can be modulated. As NMDA receptor hypofunction is implicated in the etiology of psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, the pharmacological regulation of mGlu receptor activity represents a promising therapeutic approach. We examined the effects of the positive allosteric mGlu(5) receptor modulator 3-cyano-N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzamide (CDPPB), alone and in combination with the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801, on a task measuring cognitive set-shifting ability. This task measures NMDA receptor-dependent cognitive abilities analogous to those impaired in schizophrenia. Systemic administration of CDPPB (10 and 30 mg/kg i.p) blocked MK-801 (0.1mg/kg, i.p.)-induced impairments in set-shifting ability. The effect on learning was dose-dependent, with the 30 mg/kg dose having a greater effect than the 10mg/kg dose across all trials. This ameliorative effect of CDPPB reflected a reduction in MK-801-induced perseverative responding. These results add to the evidence that mGlu(5) receptors interact functionally with NMDA receptors to regulate behavior, and suggest that positive modulators of mGlu(5) receptors may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of disorders, like schizophrenia, characterized by impairments in cognitive flexibility and memory.
Drug addiction is characterized by maladaptive decision-making and dysfunctional brain circuitry regulating motivated behaviors, resulting in loss of the behavioral flexibility needed to abstain from drug seeking. Hence, addicts face high risk of relapse even after prolonged periods of abstinence from drug use. This is thought to result from long-lasting drug-induced neuroadaptations of glutamate and dopaminergic transmission in the mesocorticolimbic and cortico-striatal circuits where group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu(2/3) receptors) are densely expressed. mGlu(2/3) receptors presynaptically control glutamate as well as dopamine release throughout the mesocorticolimbic structures involved in reward processing and drug seeking, and their function is reduced after prolonged exposure to drugs of abuse. In pre-clinical models, mGlu(2/3) receptors have been shown to regulate both reward processing and drug seeking, in part through the capacity to control release of dopamine and glutamate respectively. Specifically, mGlu(2/3) receptor agonists administered systemically or locally into certain brain structures reduce the rewarding value of commonly abused drugs and inhibit the reinstatement of drug seeking. Given the ability of mGlu(2/3) receptor agonists to compensate for and possibly reverse drug-induced neuroadaptations in mesocorticolimbic circuitry, this class of receptors emerges as a new therapeutic target for reducing relapse in drug addiction.
Group 5 metabotropic glutamate (mGlu(5)) receptors are abundant in forebrain and limbic regions and provide a novel pharmacological target for modulation of cognition. Here, we review recent advances in understanding the electrophysiology of these receptors which reveal a role for mGlu(5) receptors in the regulation of tonic and bursting modes of neuronal firing, maintenance of distinct forms of synaptic plasticity, and reversal of detrimental effects of NMDA receptor antagonism on cortical neuronal activity. Furthermore, recordings using recently developed positive allosteric modulators of the mGlu(5) receptor suggest that these agents have an electrophysiological profile comparable to the antipsychotic agent clozapine. These findings, in conjunction with behavioral evidence from preclinical studies of cognition, suggest a potential precognitive profile for the mGlu(5) receptor potentiators.
Metabotropic glutamate mGlu(1) receptors play a modulatory role in the nervous system. They enhance cell excitability, modulate synaptic neurotransmission and are involved in synaptic plasticity. During the last 10 years, several selective metabotropic glutamate mGlu(1) receptor competitive antagonists and potentiators have been discovered. These pharmacological tools, together with early and later work in metabotropic glutamate mGlu(1) receptor mutant mice have allowed studying the role of the receptor in various aspects of psychiatric illnesses such as anxiety, depression and schizophrenia. We here review the data on selective metabotropic glutamate mGlu(1) receptor antagonists in support of their potential as anxiolytic and antidepressant treatments. We propose a rationale for the development of metabotropic glutamate mGlu(1) receptor positive allosteric modulators for the treatment of schizophrenia. Potential side effects of blockade and activation of metabotropic glutamate mGlu(1) receptors are addressed, with special focus on the differential effects of metabotropic glutamate mGlu(1) receptor antagonists in cognition models with positive reinforcement versus those that use aversive learning procedures. Further development of negative allosteric modulators and more drug-like positive allosteric modulators will be required in order to decipher the therapeutic efficacy and safety margin of these compounds in the clinic.


Schistosomes are amongst the most important and neglected pathogens in the world, and schistosomiasis control relies almost exclusively on a single drug. The neuromuscular system of schistosomes is fertile ground for therapeutic intervention, yet the details of physiological events involved in neuromuscular function remain largely unknown. Short amidated neuropeptides, FMRFamide-like peptides (FLPs), are distributed abundantly throughout the nervous system of every flatworm examined and they produce potent myoexcitation. Our goal here was to determine the mechanism by which FLPs elicit contractions of schistosome muscle fibers. Contraction studies showed that the FLP Tyr-Ile-Arg-Phe-amide (YIRFamide) contracts the muscle fibers through a mechanism that requires Ca(2+) influx through sarcolemmal voltage operated Ca(2+) channels (VOCCs), as the contractions are inhibited by classical VOCC blockers nicardipine, verapamil and methoxyverapamil. Whole-cell patch-clamp experiments revealed that inward currents through VOCCs are significantly and reversibly enhanced by the application of 1 microM YIRFamide; the sustained inward currents were increased to 190% of controls and the peak currents were increased to 180%. In order to examine the biochemical link between the FLP receptor and the VOCCs, PKC inhibitors calphostin C, RO 31-8220 and chelerythrine were tested and all produced concentration dependent block of the contractions elicited by 1 microM YIRFamide. Taken together, the data show that FLPs elicit contractions by enhancing Ca(2+) influx through VOCC currents using a PKC-dependent pathway.
High levels of corticosteroids (as circulate after stress) quickly and reversibly enhance hippocampal glutamatergic transmission via nongenomic actions requiring mineralocorticoid receptors. Subsequently, the hormone slowly and long-lastingly normalizes hippocampal cell function, through nuclear glucocorticoid receptors. Here we describe a rapid mineralocorticoid receptor-dependent enhancement of glutamatergic transmission in basolateral amygdala neurons. Contrary to the hippocampus, this rapid enhancement is long-lasting, potentially allowing an extended window for encoding of emotional aspects during stressful events. Importantly, the long-lasting change in state of amygdala neurons greatly affects the responsiveness to subsequent surges of corticosterone, revealing a quick suppression of glutamatergic transmission, which requires the glucocorticoid receptor. Responses of basolateral amygdala neurons to the stress hormone corticosterone can thus switch from excitatory to inhibitory, depending on the recent stress history of the organism.
