Previous studies demonstrated that stimulation of type B gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAB) receptors but not type A (GABAA) receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius of spontaneously hypertensive rats elicited a larger increase in arterial pressure compared with control rats of the Wistar-Kyoto strain. The present studies extended that observation by examining the cardiovascular response to injection into the nucleus tractus solitarius of a selective GABAB receptor antagonist, CGP 35348, in these strains as well as examining the cardiovascular responses to stimulation or blockade of GABAB receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius in another model of hypertension, the rat treated with deoxycorticosterone acetate and salt. In both groups of hypertensive rats the pressor response to injection into the nucleus tractus solitarius of the GABA uptake blocking drug nipecotic acid was significantly greater compared with control rats (P &lt; .01 in each model). Similarly, in both models of hypertension, the depressor response elicited by blockade of GABAB receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius by injection of CGP 35348 was approximately 75% greater compared with control rats (P &lt; .05 in each model). These results suggest that alterations in GABAB-mediated neural transmission in the nucleus tractus solitarius may contribute to the elevated arterial pressure observed in these models of hypertension.

The performance of a new and simplified flow probe construction and the Iowa 545C-4 pulsed Doppler velocimeter was evaluated for measurement of blood flow over several months in small arteries of awake animals. Calibrations were performed over a wide range of intraluminal pressures and physiological flow velocities. Pressure-dependent differences in slope of the Doppler shift-volume flow relationship were detected in some probes. Signal strength was maintained at hematocrits &gt; 10%. Distortion of pulsed Doppler signal peaks occurred in the conscious rabbit at peak aortic velocities, at which Reynold's number for turbulence was exceeded and the Doppler shift surpassed the Nyquist limit of 31.25 kHz for the velocimeter. Although the Doppler shift-volume flow relationship is linear at &lt; 5 kHz, in some cases at higher Doppler shifts and blood flow velocities the relationship may become nonlinear, thus causing the volume flow rate to be underestimated by up to 38%. The cause of this phenomenon may be &quot;aliasing&quot; and/or the consequence of the range control capability of the velocimeter selectively sampling changing velocity profiles and flow disturbances in the central stream at higher velocities.
To determine the distributions of two known dystrophin isoforms derived from the 3' part of the dystrophin gene and of the dystrophin-associated proteins [50DAG (A2) and 43DAG (A3a)] by immunoblot analysis, we examined various monkey tissues [skeletal (quadriceps), cardiac (left ventricle), and smooth (aorta and uterus) muscles, lung, liver, central nervous system (cerebrum, cerebellum, and spinal cord), and peripheral nerve (sciatic nerve)]. With the antibody against the C-terminal domain of dystrophin, we found three bands other than the 400-kDa band corresponding to dystrophin or utrophin. These are a 130-kDa band detected in central nervous system, a 110-kDa band in peripheral nerve and spinal cord, and a 70-kDa band in all the tissues examined except skeletal muscle and peripheral nerve. The 130-kDa band may be a novel protein not yet reported, while the last two bands may correspond to Dp116 and Dp71, respectively [Lederfein et al. (1992) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89, 5346-5350 and Byers et al. (1993) Nature Genet. 4, 77-81]. Dystrophin-associated protein, 43DAG, was detected in all the tissues examined, but 50DAG was detected only in skeletal and cardiac muscles. Furthermore, a unique 70-kDa band reacting with anti-50DAG antiserum was found in all the tissues other than skeletal muscle.
The clathrin-coated pit lattice is held onto the plasma membrane by an integral membrane protein that binds the clathrin AP-2 subunit with high affinity. In vitro studies have suggested that this protein controls the assembly of the pit because membrane bound AP-2 is required for lattice assembly. If so, the AP-2 binding site must be a resident protein of the coated pit and recycle with other receptors that enter cells through this pathway. Proper recycling, however, would require the switching off of AP-2 binding to allow the binding site to travel through the endocytic pathway unencumbered. Evidence for this hypothesis has been revealed by the cationic amphiphilic class of drugs (CAD), which have previously been found to inhibit receptor recycling. Incubation of human fibroblasts in the presence of these drugs caused clathrin lattices to assemble on endosomal membranes and at the same time prevented coated pit assembly at the cell surface. These effects suggest that CADs reverse an on/off switch that controls AP-2 binding to membranes. We conclude that cells have a mechanism for switching on and off AP-2 binding during the endocytic cycle.
Iron is necessary for normal neural function but it must be stringently regulated to avoid iron-induced oxidative injury. The regulation of systemic iron is through the proteins transferrin (iron mobilization) and ferritin (iron sequestration). This study examines the cellular and regional distribution of iron and the iron-related proteins ferritin and transferrin in selected regions of the adult and aged rat brain. This information is a necessary prerequisite to understanding the mechanism by which iron homeostasis is maintained in the brain. The predominant cell type containing ferritin, transferrin, and iron throughout the brain at all ages is the oligodendrocyte. Neurons in most brain regions contain granular iron deposits which become more apparent with age. Ferritin and iron are also present in microglial cells in all brain regions, but are particularly abundant in the hippocampus. These latter cells visibly increase in number in all brain regions as the animal approaches senescence. Another area in which immunostaining is notable is surrounding the III ventricle, where transferrin is found in the choroid plexus and ependyma and ferritin and iron are present in tanycytes. The results of this study indicate an important role for neuroglia in the regulation of iron in the brain and also implies that a transport system may exist for the transfer of iron between the brain and cerebrospinal fluid. In the normal rodent brain, the principal cell of iron regulation is the oligodendrocyte; however, the role of microglial cells in the sequestration and detoxification of iron may be significant, particularly as the animal ages. With age there is an increase in stainable iron in neurons without a concomitant increase in neuronal ferritin immunostaining, suggesting a ferritin independent accumulation of neuronal iron with age.

Terbium-activated radioluminescent fiber-optic face plates have been studied for their suitability as electron scintillators. The energy conversion efficiency of such material is determined to be about 2.5% in the electron energy range of 100-400 keV tested. The resolution is approximately 40 microns at electron energy of 100 keV, as measured by the rise width of an edge. The main advantage of such a device is the potential simplification of CCD camera designs, since it functions both as a scintillator as well as a light guide so that it can be coupled direct to a CCD detector.
Saccadic reaction time (RT) is reduced when a fixation stimulus is extinguished 200 ms before a target appears. An attentional predisengagement theory (APT) may explain this gap effect: When covert attention is engaged (e.g., on fixation), the saccadic system is inhibited and RT is delayed; when the attended stimulus is extinguished, attention is disengaged, the inhibition is removed, and RT is facilitated. In 3 experiments covert attention was endogenously or exogenously cued to an object on the vertical meridian. Onset of a saccadic target on the horizontal meridian could be preceded by the offset of an attended or unattended object. Contrary to APT, RTs were identical after attended and unattended offsets. Results suggest that the gap effect has 2 components, and covert visual attention plays no role. One component is motor system preparation; the other is a fixation offset effect specific to the oculomotor system.
The aim of this article is to show that the well-known Tinel sign is really a Hoffmann-Tinel sign. The translation of the two papers of Hoffmann, published in the same year that Tinel wrote his article (1915), is completed by a short biography of Paul Hoffmann.
Recent studies have shown the importance of visual feedback during the rapid initial phase of aiming movements for the control of direction (e.g., Bard, Paillard, Fleury, Hay, &amp; Larue, 1990; Blouin, Teasdale, Bard, &amp; Fleury, in press; Teasdale, Blouin, Bard, &amp; Fleury, 1991). In most of these studies, visual feedback conditions were presented in blocked sessions. Consequently, higher-order processes (e.g., feedforward and/or learning processes), along with on-line processing of visual feedback, might have contributed to the better accuracy found when subjects had visual feedback of only the initial portion of the movements (compared with movements without visual feedback). To test this possibility, we studied subjects' performance of rapid arm movements under different types of presentation (random, precued, and blocked) of the visual feedback conditions of the trajectory (no vision, initial portion only, and vision of the entire trajectory). Directional errors were larger in the no-vision condition than in both conditions with visual feedback. There were no differences among the presentation conditions, suggesting that on-line processing of visual information contributed to the control of the arm movements.
Functionally diverse kainate/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4- isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors are generated by assembly of glutamate receptor (GluR)1, 2, and 3 subunits into homomeric and heteromeric channels. We examined GluR1, 2, and 3 gene expression in embryonic, neonatal, and adult rat brain by northern analysis under conditions of high stringency. In the adult, hybridization to a GluR1 riboprobe revealed the presence of an abundant RNA species, 5.2 kb in size, and minor bands of 3.2 and 3.9 kb. GluR2 hybridized to two species, 3.9 and 5.9 kb, of comparable abundance, presumably attributable to alternate splice products. Hybridization to the GluR3 riboprobe showed a major species of 5.2 kb. This pattern of RNA species was invariant over all the brain regions examined. Examination of GluR expression in development revealed that in the postnatal period, GluR1, 2, and 3 mRNAs are regulated as a function of age. In adult rat brain, GluR1 and 2 mRNA expression was highest in hippocampus; GluR3 was expressed at highest density in hippocampus and frontal cortex. The three transcripts were first detected at embryonic day 16 and then exhibited changes in expression levels in a region-specific manner. In hippocampus, all three transcripts exhibited elevated expression in the late neonatal period; in frontal cortex, elevated expression was observed for GluR2 and 3 only. In striatum, all three transcripts were expressed at relatively low levels throughout development, with a modest peak at postnatal day 14. In cerebellum, the GluR1 mRNA level was high from postnatal day 28 to adult.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We reported previously that in homogenates of rat olfactory bulb muscarinic and opioid receptor agonists stimulate adenylyl cyclase activity. In the present study we show that carbachol (CCh) and Leu-Enkephalin act synergistically with vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), but not with l-isoproterenol, in increasing cyclic AMP formation. The synergistic interaction consists of an increase in the maximal adenylyl cyclase activation without a significant change in the potency of each agonist. CCh also fails to affect 125I-CRH binding to olfactory bulb membranes. The synergism requires micromolar concentrations of GTP. Substitution of the stable GTP analog guanosine 5'-O-(3'-thiotriphosphate) for GTP allows the CRH stimulation, but abolishes the CCh enhancement of both basal and CRH-stimulated enzyme activities. Moreover, in vivo treatment of olfactory bulbs with pertussis toxin completely prevents the muscarinic and opioid effects. Thus, the synergistic interaction appears to result from opioid- and muscarinic-induced activation of a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein which may potentiate the adenylyl cyclase stimulation by the stimulatory GTP-binding protein activated by either VIP or CRH receptors.
In the course of analysis of plasminogen in microglial conditioned medium (Mic-CM), novel low-molecular-weight (LMW) zymogen with a molecular mass of approximately 36 kDa was detected by casein-urokinase zymography. Because this form was produced when rat native plasminogen was incubated with Mic-CM, a specific protease in the Mic-CM was thought to be responsible for the production of LMW plasminogen. The production of LMW plasminogen was strongly inhibited by elastase inhibitors. Furthermore, elastase (pancreatic or leukocyte) was also found to produce LMW zymogen from native plasminogen. These results indicate that LMW plasminogen is produced through limited proteolysis by an elastase-like protease in Mic-CM. To determine the biochemical characteristics of LMW plasminogen, rat native plasminogen was cleaved by pancreatic elastase, and the fragments (LMW plasminogen and nonzymogen fragments) were purified by several kinds of column chromatography. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that LMW plasminogen is a carboxy-terminal region that contains the fifth kringle domain and a protease active site, and the amino acid sequence is identical to that of LMW plasminogen produced by Mic-CM. On the other hand, the nonzymogen fragment was the amino-terminal region containing four kringle domains. The effects of native plasminogen and the fragments on neurite outgrowth of rat brain explant were examined. LMW plasminogen promoted neurite outgrowth as well as did native plasminogen, whereas nonzymogen fragments did not. These results suggest that LMW plasminogen, which is produced from native plasminogen by elastase, may be a physiologically active molecule that mediates the intercellular interaction between microglia and neurons.
Metabolites of [3H]progesterone were studied in slices prepared from different brain regions of male rat, mouse, and monkey. The major metabolites were 5 alpha-dihydroprogesterone (5 alpha-DHP) and 3 alpha,5 alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone (3 alpha,5 alpha-THP) in rat brain slices, 5 alpha-DHP and 20 alpha-dihydroprogesterone (20 alpha-DHP) in mouse brain slices, and 20 alpha-DHP in monkey brain slices. In rat olfactory bulb slices, 5 alpha-DHP represented 25.2 +/- 3.3% of total radioactivity and 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP 17.5 +/- 2.8%, whereas in rat medulla oblongata slices, 5 alpha-DHP was 31.3 +/- 3.5% and 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP 5.4 +/- 1.5% of total radioactivity. In slices from other rat brain regions, both metabolites represented 12-20% of total radioactivity. The highest metabolite content in mouse brain was also detected in olfactory bulb slices, where 5 alpha-DHP represented 16.6 +/- 4.6% and 20 alpha-DHP 9.5 +/- 2.3% of total radioactivity. In cortical and corpus callosum slices of monkey brain, 26.8 +/- 4.4% and 2.4 +/- 0.5% of total radioactivity, respectively, were converted to 20 alpha-DHP, and less than 3% of total radioactivity could be attributed to any of the other metabolites detected. The 3 alpha, 5 alpha-THP content in both rat and monkey brain was below 1 nM, but increased in rat brain to 6.7 +/- 2.5 nM after electroshock. Endogenous 3 alpha,5 alpha-THP might play an important role in the regulation of rat behavior through the modulation of GABA action on the GABAA receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Amino acid neurotransmitters in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) are thought to play a key role in the mediation of visceral reflexes and glutamate has been proposed as the neurotransmitter of visceral afferent nerves projecting to this region. The present studies sought to characterize the use of in vivo microdialysis to examine extracellular fluid levels of amino acids in the NTS of anesthetized rats. Using a microdialysis probe that was 450 microns in length and a sensitive HPLC assay for amino acids, amino acids could be measured in dialysate samples collected from the NTS. Perfusion of the microdialysis probe with 60 mM K+, to elicit depolarization of nerve terminals in the vicinity of the probe, resulted in increased dialysate fluid levels of aspartate, glutamate, glycine, taurine, and GABA. In contrast, glutamine and tyrosine were decreased and other amino acids were not significantly affected. Prior removal of the ipsilateral nodose ganglion did not alter the K(+)-evoked changes in dialysate levels of any of these amino acids. Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerves, using a variety of stimulus parameters, did not significantly alter dialysate levels of glutamate or any of the other amino acids that were measured. Blockade of glutamate uptake with dihydrokainate increased dialysate levels of glutamate, aspartate, and GABA, but in the presence of dihydrokainate vagal stimulation did not alter dialysate levels of these amino acids. The results show that in vivo microdialysis can be used to examine amino acid efflux in the rat NTS and provide further evidence for amino acidergic neural transmission in the NTS. However, these studies fail to support the hypothesis that vagal afferents release glutamate or aspartate.
During antibody screening on sections of rat cerebellum, we noticed a group of small neurons which exhibited unusual staining properties. They were robustly immunopositive for the high molecular weight neurofilament protein, moderately immunostained with antibodies to the low molecular weight neurofilament protein and alpha-internexin, but only faintly immunoreactive (in PAP sections) or essentially immunonegative (in immunofluorescent sections) with all members of a panel of antibodies directed against the middle molecular weight neurofilament protein. Since neurons generally react equally well with phosphate-independent, (antibodies to) low, middle and high molecular weight neurofilament protein, we conclude that middle molecular weight neurofilament protein is present in these cells in an unusually low relative amount. These cells are found in the granular layer and appear concentrated in the flocculus, ventral paraflocculus, and vermis, particularly in the ventral uvula and nodulus (lobules IXd and X). Previous studies performed by Hockfield defined a population of neurons of similar appearance and distribution using the monoclonal antibody Rat-302, which recognized an uncharacterized 160 kDa protein. We show here that the cells described by Hockfield are identical to those we have found and furthermore that the Rat-302 antibody specifically recognizes the dephosphorylated form of the lysine-serine-proline repeated sequences of high molecular weight neurofilament protein. These cells were studied by pre-embedding immunoelectron microscopy. The nucleus is deeply indented and shows little condensed chromatin. The cytoplasm contains scattered microtubules and a larger number of neurofilaments than expected in a small cell. There are numerous large dense core vesicles, an unusual organelle consisting of ringlet subunits, and relatively little granular endoplasmic reticulum. A thin axon and a single stout dendritic trunk emanate from the perikaryon. Although the cell body and the dendritic shaft may form either complex contacts with mossy fibres (resembling those previously termed en marron synapses) or simple symmetric synapses with small boutons containing pleomorphic vesicles, most of the synaptic relations are established on the shafts of brush-like branchlets that form at the tip of the dendrite and enter one or two glomeruli. Each branchlet forms an extraordinarily extensive asymmetric synapse with the mossy fibre rosette and the subsynaptic region shows a microfibrillar web connected to the postsynaptic density. In addition to other organelles, the branchlets contain numerous mitochondria and large dense core vesicles. Short, non-synaptic appendages with few cytoplasmic organelles emanated from the cell body, dendritic shaft and branchlets.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Hyaline-like inclusions (HLIs) and skein-like inclusions (SLIs) were recently observed in the lower motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). HLIs mainly consist of randomly arranged neurofilaments and abnormally large (about 15 nm) fibrils, while SLIs comprise bundles of the abnormally large fibrils alone. Although the abnormal fibrils have been reported to be ubiquitinated in both types of inclusions, their final catabolic destination in the neurons is unknown. Electron microscopic observation of the lower motor neurons in an ALS case revealed several neurons containing SLIs in addition to ones containing HLIs. Bundles of SLIs, which were located close to HLIs or were observed by themselves without an HLI, were frequently associated with flattened cisterns; some were wrapped, some were completely sequestrated, and some were demarcated together with a portion of moderately electron dense cytoplasm by cisterns or double-membraned units. These features resemble reported early stages in the formation of autolysosomes, and thus indicate that at least some of the bundles of SLIs or parts of them in the lower motor neurons in ALS undergo degradation through the autolysosomal pathway.
1. Activation of gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABAB) receptors during N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced fictive locomotor activity in the lamprey spinal cord reduces the burst frequency and changes the intersegmental coordination. Presynaptic inhibition of both the excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission from spinal premotor interneurons occurs through GABAB receptor activation. To further analyze the cellular mechanisms underlying the GABABergic modulation of the locomotor network, the present study investigates somatodendritic effects of GABAB receptor activation on interneurons and motoneurons in the lamprey spinal cord in vitro using single-electrode current- and voltage-clamp techniques. 2. High- (HVA) and low- (LVA) voltage-activated calcium currents were studied with single-electrode voltage clamp when Na+ and K+ currents were blocked--using tetrodotoxin, tetraethylammonium (TEA), and CsCl electrodes--after substituting Ca2+ with Ba2+. Cobalt-sensitive inward barium currents, activated at -50 mV, became larger when the holding potential was set to a more hyperpolarized level, thus suggesting the existence of an LVA calcium current. The presence of cobalt-sensitive inward barium currents activated at -30 and -10 mV suggests the existence of an HVA calcium current. GABAB receptor activation (baclofen) reduced the peak amplitude of both the LVA and HVA Ca2+ component. 3. The late phase of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP), which follows the action potential, was reduced in amplitude by cobalt, thus lending further support to the notion that the Ca2+ influx, and the subsequent activation of Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels (KCa2+), constitutes the major part of the AHP generation. Application of the GABAB agonist baclofen also reduced the peak amplitude of the AHP in interneurons and motoneurons, and this reduction was counteracted by the GABAB antagonist 2(OH)saclofen. Baclofen reduced the duration of action potentials broadened by TEA, thus suggesting that the Ca2+ inflow was reduced. Intracellular injection of the GTP analogue GTP gamma S also reduced the duration of the action potential and the peak amplitude of the AHP in TEA, thus supporting the notion that a GTP-binding protein (G-protein)-mediated GABAB receptor activation reduced the calcium inflow, leading to less activation of KCa channels and, consequently, to a smaller peak amplitude of the AHP. 4. Baclofen suppressed the subthreshold depolarization induced by a depolarizing current pulse injection without affecting either the spike threshold or the resting membrane conductance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Zinc-protoporphyrin-IX (ZnPP-IX) is an inhibitor of the enzyme heme-oxygenase-2 (HO-2) and consequently has been used to examine the role of carbon monoxide production in neural tissues. We have measured voltage-gated Ca current in AtT-20 pituitary cells using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique and have assessed the effects of extracellularly applied ZnPP-IX and related compounds. 2. Ca currents evoked by depolarizing steps from a holding potential of -90 mV were of the high-threshold, slowly inactivating type. Fifty-six percent of this current was blocked by 10 microM nifedipine and 16% by 3 microM omega-conotoxin with the remainder resistant to both drugs in combination, suggesting that the total Ca current was a mixture of L, N, and possibly P-type conductances. 3. Bath application of ZnPP-IX resulted in an irreversible, dose-dependent attenuation of Ca current. Five micromolar ZnPP-IX produced a 62% reduction of peak current amplitude with no shift in the current-voltage relation, 0.5 microM produced a 19% reduction, and 0.05 microM produced a variable response, either a small transient attenuation or potentiation. 4. The attenuation of Ca current by 5 microM ZnPP-IX could be nearly completely blocked by co-application of superoxide dismutase in the bath (90 U/ml) but not by addition of an inhibitor of cGMP-dependent protein kinase to the internal saline (KT5823, 1 microM). 5. Other inhibitors of heme-oxygenase with similar potency such as tin-protoporphyrin-IX (Sn-PP-IX) and Zn-deuteroporphyrin-bis-glycol (ZnBG) did not attenuate Ca current when applied at 5microM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Slow, rhythmic membrane potential (Vm) fluctuations occur spontaneously in cortical neurons of urethane-anesthetized rats, and likely underlie EEG activity in the same low-frequency (1-4 Hz or delta) range. Nucleus basalis (NB) stimulation elicits neocortical activation, simultaneously modifying Vm and EEG fluctuations, by way of cortical muscarinic ACh receptors (Metherate et al., 1992). To investigate the nature of spontaneous fluctuations and their modification by NB stimulation, we have obtained intracellular recordings from auditory cortex using the whole-cell recording technique in vivo. Spontaneous Vm fluctuations appeared to contain three components whose polarity and time course resembled the EPSP, putative Cl(-)-mediated IPSP, and putative K(+)-mediated, long-lasting IPSP elicited by thalamic stimulation. The spontaneous, long-lasting hyperpolarization, whose rhythmic occurrence appeared to set the slow-wave rhythm, was associated with an increased conductance that could shunt the thalamocortical EPSP. We hypothesized that spontaneous Vm fluctuations arise from intermixed rapid depolarizations, rapid Cl(-)-mediated hyperpolarizations, and long-lasting, K(+)-mediated hyperpolarizations. NB-mediated cortical activation might then result from muscarinic suppression of K+ permeability, allowing the rapid depolarizations and Cl- fluxes to continue uninterrupted. Tests of this hypothesis showed that (1) intracellular blockade of K+ channels by rapid diffusion of Cs+ from the recording pipette resulted in suppression of spontaneous, long-lasting hyperpolarizations, mimicking the effect of NB stimulation, and reducing shunting of the thalamocortical EPSP; (2) effects of Cs+ and NB stimulation suggested overlapping, or converging, mechanisms of action; however, there were important differential effects on the spontaneous, long-lasting hyperpolarizations and the K(+)-mediated IPSP; and (3) modifying Cl- fluxes with intracellular picrotoxin or high intracellular Cl- concentrations resulted in spontaneous and NB-elicited large-amplitude depolarizations. We conclude that spontaneous, long-lasting hyperpolarizations are K+ fluxes, but are not &quot;spontaneous&quot; K(+)-mediated IPSPs. Since NB-mediated reduction of spontaneous hyperpolarizations implies muscarinic suppression of a K+ conductance, the spontaneous hyperpolarizations more likely result from the calcium-activated K+ current, IK(Ca). Finally, Cl- fluxes form an important component of activated Vm fluctuations that acts to restrain excessive depolarization.
Apical dendrites and somata of layer V pyramidal neurons were recorded with tight-seal patch electrodes in a slice preparation of rat somatosensory cortex. Recording sites were confirmed by measurements of the electrode location and by staining with biocytin. Dendritic recordings were made along the main trunk of the apical dendrite, usually within layer IV, at distances from 100 to 500 microns from the soma. Most cells recorded through the dendrite had a distinct enlargement of the apical trunk around the presumed recording site. The electrical properties of apical dendrites were readily distinguishable from those of somata. Dendrites generated two types of response when injected with depolarizing current. Group I responses were relatively small and broad Na(+)-dependent action potentials whose amplitude and rate-of-rise were negatively correlated with recording distance from the soma. Group II responses were complex, clustered firing patterns of Na(+)-dependent spikes together with higher-threshold slow spikes or plateaus; in these dendrites spike parameters were not correlated with distance from the soma. These two response groups were correlated with dendritic morphology: group I had significantly fewer oblique branches on the apical dendrite (5.5 vs 12.0) and a thinner apical trunk (2.0 vs 2.5 microns) than group II. TTX (1-2 microM) selectively blocked fast dendritic spikes, but not slow spikes and plateaus. Blocking Ca2+ currents reduced complex firing patterns and suppressed high-threshold slow spikes. Physiological and pharmacological studies imply that slow spikes and plateau potentials were primarily generated by high-threshold Ca2+ channels in the apical dendrite. Stimulating axons of layer I elicited EPSPs on distal apical dendrites of layer V cells. Recordings from both groups of apical dendrites revealed that EPSPs triggered a variety of distally generated, all-or-nothing depolarizations. The results show that voltage-dependent Na+ and Ca2+ currents are present in distal apical dendrites, in variable densities. These currents significantly modify distal synaptic events. The prevalence and character of active dendritic spiking (and presumably of Na+ and Ca2+ channel densities) correlate with the morphology of the apical dendritic tree.
Changes in gene expression were investigated in axotomized CNS neurons under conditions that inhibit or permit regrowth of their damaged axons. Levels of mRNA encoding beta-tubulin, the 150 kDa neurofilament subunit (NF-M), and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) were examined by quantitative in situ hybridization of adult rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) after axotomy in the optic nerve or during regeneration in a peripheral nerve (PN) graft. Soon after optic nerve section beta-tubulin, NF-M, and GAPDH mRNA levels decreased and remained low during the 1 month studied. In these retinas beta-tubulin mRNA fell to approximately 50% of normal controls. However, in the PN-grafted retinas, where approximately 20% of the surviving axotomized RGCs regenerate their axons, there were &quot;hot spots&quot; of beta-tubulin mRNAs where neuronal levels were nearly 300% higher than in controls. By retrograde neuronal labeling these hot spots were shown to correspond to the injured RGCs that regrew their axons into the PN graft; beta-tubulin mRNA levels in nonregenerating RGCs of the same retinas averaged 63% of controls. We suggest that interactions of RBC axons and components of the grafts' non-neuronal environment play a key role in the over fourfold differences in beta-tubulin mRNA levels observed between injured and regenerating RGCs.
The orientation selectivity of cells in ferret primary visual cortex was studied during normal development and in animals deprived of vision or of visual cortical activity. In normal animals from the age when visual responses were first recorded (postnatal day 23) through postnatal week 5, only about 25% of cells showed orientation-selective responses. By postnatal week 7, cortical responses had matured to an adult-like state, with approximately 75% of cells clearly selective for orientation. This development of orientation selectivity was not merely a reflection of the development of cortical cell responsiveness: at all ages studied, there was no correlation between responsiveness and selectivity. Infusion of TTX into visual cortex to silence neuronal activity completely blocked the maturation of orientation selectivity. Visual deprivation by bilateral lid suture impaired but did not completely block the normal development of orientation selectivity. We conclude that the maturation of orientation-selective responses in ferret primary visual cortex requires cortical neuronal activity, and that normal development requires visually driven activity.
The desensitization rate of non-NMDA glutamate receptors was investigated in outside-out membrane patches obtained from morphologically identified spiny &quot;mossy cells&quot; (SMCs) and aspiny hilar interneurons (AHIs) in young rat hippocampal slices. The fast application of a 1 mM step of L-glutamate for 50-100 msec in the presence of TTX and dizolcipine (MK-801) onto patches excised from these neurons produced large glutamate-activated currents (GACs) that decayed with a single or double exponential time course despite the continued presence of agonist. These desensitization rates of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate-sensitive receptors differed markedly between patches obtained from the two cell types. The fast time constant of desensitization in AHIs (n = 34) averaged 3.3 +/- 0.93 msec (mean +/- SD), while that of SMCs (n = 57) averaged 6.8 +/- 2.0 msec. Current-voltage relationships of the GACs did not differ between SMCs and AHIs, with comparable reversal potentials and no evidence of inward rectification. We also failed to observe significant Ca2+ permeability in either cell type. However, brief (&lt; 1 msec) pulses of 1 mM glutamate produced rapidly decaying GACs with distinct kinetics in the two neuronal classes. Furthermore, analysis of the single glutamate-activated channel currents in outside-out patches from hilar neurons revealed a larger predominant single-channel current in AHIs versus SMCs. Lastly, we observed a greater sensitivity to cyclothiazide in SMCs versus AHIs, with half-maximal removal of desensitization being 90 mM and 200 mM, respectively. Taken together, these differences in GACs between SMCs and AHIs might indicate a functional correlate to the substantial heterogeneity in the molecular structure of glutamate receptor subunits or might be related to posttranslational modifications of these subunits, perhaps provided by the unique microenvironment in the spines covering SMCs.
Primary skin fibroblasts were genetically modified with catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme genes and studied as potential syngeneic donor cells to supply catecholamines in animal models of Parkinson's disease. Primary skin fibroblasts obtained from inbred Fischer 344 rats were transduced with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) cDNAs using retroviral vector system. The transduced cells were characterized in vitro by enzymatic assay, immunocytochemistry, and HPLC analysis of catecholamine production and release. Accumulation of high levels of dopamine was detected in the media in a time-dependent manner. Secretion of dopamine and its metabolites appeared to be constitutive without significant storage capacity in vesicles or regulation at the level of secretion. The feasibility of regulating the final dopamine production by the AADC-transduced cells was explored in two ways. First, administration of various doses of the precursor, L-dopa, resulted in a controlled production of dopamine by these cells. Second, coculturing AADC-transduced cells with TH-transduced cells in various proportions allowed control of dopamine production. TH-transduced cells served as an endogenous source of precursor. We propose the use of these cells to study the role of AADC in restoring the dopamine-deficient behavior and to compare the effect of dopamine-producing cells with L-dopa-producing cells either by cografting TH-transduced cells with AADC-transduced cells or by grafting TH-transduced cells alone. The role of AADC in vivo will be assessed in future experiments involving animal models of Parkinson's disease.
Events traditionally called &quot;developmental errors&quot; are known to occur in both vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems. This study was concerned with the frequency and mode of generation of such events in the mammalian retina. We studied three anomalous structures observed in the rabbit's retina after staining of the cell populations that accumulate indoleamines: type 3 cells, stray processes in the optic fiber layer, and displaced cells. They were counted in rabbit retinas prepared as whole-mounts, and in most cases topological maps were made. For comparison, the conventional indoleamine-accumulating amacrine cells and the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells, which are members of the mammalian retina's recognized complement of amacrine cells, were also counted. A further comparison was made with the number and distribution of TH-positive amacrine cells in highly inbred mice. The ordinary amacrine cells did not vary much in number from animal to animal. Especially in inbred mice, the reproducibility was striking: the extreme variation in number of TH amacrine cells between any two of the 14 retinas studied was 22%, and the mean difference between two eyes of individual mice was 2.5 +/- 1.7%. The three anomalous structures were rare and variable. Their numbers varied more than fourfold from animal to animal. However, their numbers in two eyes from the same animal varied by an overall average of only 14 +/- 10%. The anomalous structures were present in all rabbits, and their morphology was the same in all cases: they are under precise control by the developmental program. The anomalous cells share many phenotypic features with the regular amacrine cells of the indoleamine-accumulating class.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A fast, inexpensive, and versatile technique for patterning the surface of glass coverslips with molecules of biological interest is described. The technique combines photolithographic, silane-coupling, and protein adsorption procedures to pattern coverslips with amines, alkanes, and proteins with micrometer spatial resolution. The attachment of amines and alkanes was verified using contact angle and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic (XPS) measurements. XPS results showed that amines and alkanes were attached in 1-4 nm thickness covering approximately 20% and 45%, respectively, of the surface. Patterns of amines were visualized using fluorescent staining, and patterns of proteins were detected immunochemically. Patterned coverslips were used to investigate adhesion and neurite outgrowth of mouse neuroblastoma (N1E-115) cells. Cells were examined on the following patterns: alkane-glass, protein-glass, amine-alkane, and amine-protein. Cell attachment and neurite outgrowth on patterned coverslips displayed the following preferences: laminin, fibronectin, or collagen IV &gt; amine or glass &gt; alkane or bovine serum albumin. This patterning method should be useful for studies of cell-surface interactions, cell migration, nerve regeneration, and the formation of neural networks in vitro.


Transferrin, the iron mobilization protein, and its mRNA are normally present in oligodendrocytes. Previous reports using myelin mutants have shown both a decrease in transferrin protein and mRNA when the oligodendrocyte population is compromised. In this study the shiverer mouse mutant in which the oligodendrocyte population is numerically normal, but has both quantitatively diminished and qualitatively abnormal myelin was used. This animal model was chosen to address the question whether expression of the transferrin message and/or protein correlated more closely to the number of oligodendrocytes (normal) or the amount of myelin (abnormally low). A 1/2 to 2/3 decrease in transferrin protein occurred in all brain regions examined except for the spinal cord in the shiverer group compared to both heterozygous littermates and wild type controls. Levels of transferrin transcripts in the brain are not affected by the shiverer mutation. These results taken with previous reports from this laboratory indicate that the presence of oligodendrocytes is a requirement for normal expression of transferrin mRNA in brain but is not sufficient for normal values of the protein. The level of Tf protein correlates more closely with the amount of myelin present than it does with the numbers of oligodendrocytes present. These data are consistent with previous reports from our laboratory that transferrin accumulation by oligodendrocytes is associated with myelin production by these cells. These data further suggest transferrin mRNA may be constitutively expressed by oligodendrocytes and that the protein expression is regulated at the level of translation.
We have previously shown that proenkephalin A (PEA) messenger RNA (mRNA) is induced in murine thymocytes by the T cell-specific mitogen concanavalin-A (Con-A). We now show that this Con-A-induced expression of PEA mRNA is modulated by the cytokine murine interleukin-1 beta (mIL-1 beta) in a biphasic, dose-dependent manner. Murine thymocytes were cultured for 72 h with Con-A and with varying concentrations of mIL-1 beta. PEA mRNA expression was analyzed by Northern gel and solution hybridization techniques. Concentrations of mIL-1 beta of 10(-14) and 10(-13) M enhanced the Con-A-induced expression of PEA mRNA in cultured murine thymocytes up to 2.5-fold, whereas higher concentrations of mIL-1 beta (10(-11) and 10(-10) M) inhibited its expression 60 and 85%, respectively. Both the enhancing and inhibiting effects of mIL-1 beta in the Con-A-induced expression of PEA mRNA were reversed by a 100-fold excess of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein, but not by a 10-fold excess of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein. The effects of mIL-1 beta on PEA mRNA expression in Con-A-activated thymocytes are different from its effects on Con-A-stimulated thymocyte proliferation. In the latter case, only enhancement of thymocyte proliferation was seen, as measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation. The present study demonstrates that PEA mRNA expression is regulated by IL-1 beta, which is thought to play a role in thymocyte maturation.
1. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were studied by whole-cell voltage-clamp recording (WCR) from pyramidal cells in the CA3 field of rat hippocampal slices. Input from mossy fibres was evoked by stimuli applied to stratum granulosum ('dentate gyrus stimulation'). This often resulted in complex, multi-component EPSCs with rise times as long as 5.0 ms (mean = 2.5 ms). In contrast, individual EPSC components typically had rise times between 0.3 and 1.0 ms. 2. To isolate monosynaptic, mossy fibre-driven EPSC components, slices were exposed to 'suppressing' media that reduced response amplitudes by 64-88%. In five out of six cases, long EPSC rising phases (&gt; 3 ms) retained the same shape during suppression. This implied that EPSCs were driven by asynchronously active mossy fibre inputs. 3. From latencies of antidromically driven granule cell population spikes (GCPSs) a mean conduction velocity of 0.67 m/s was inferred. Conduction distance had practically no correlation with GCPS duration, implying that velocity dispersion was small and did not desynchronize mossy fibre impulses. EPSC components exhibited 'surplus' latency; they occurred 0.9-4.8 ms after latencies expected on the basis of direct conduction distances. 4. Mossy fibre volleys (MFVs) were evoked by dentate gyrus stimulation and studied with neurotransmission disabled. MFV negative phases lasted from 2.5 to 4.5 ms and had multiple components. By comparison, negative phases of Schaffer collateral fibre volleys (SCFVs) were always simple in shape and lasted 1.5 ms or less. MFV components had surplus latencies similar to those of EPSC components. Late MFV components did not require high stimulus intensities. 5. Widespread activation of granule cells occurred when stimuli were applied to single loci in the stratum granulosum. This implies that such stimuli elicit antidromic impulses in hilar collaterals of mossy fibres, which could result in activation of orthodromic impulses in mossy fibre trunks that had not been stimulated directly. After anti-, then orthodromic conduction, impulses would arrive in the CA3 subfield with 'surplus' latency. 6. When cuts were made in the hilus to prevent anti-/orthodromic conduction, MFV durations were reduced, but only to a small extent. This implies that surplus latency and asynchrony arise in part by anti-/orthodromic conduction, and partly by a mechanism that is intrinsic to mossy fibres or their 'giant' boutons. 7. Because of desynchronization of mossy fibre inputs, there probably are significant differences between kinetic properties of averaged, compound mossy fibre EPSCs and those of unitary mossy fibre EPSCs (i.e. currents driven by input from single presynaptic axons).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) negatively regulates the effect of protein tyrosine kinases and is implicated in the regulation of a variety of biological phenomena such as cell activation, differentiation and neoplastic transformation. To gain insight into the role of PTPs, we cloned the human receptor-type PTP gene and assigned the chromosome harboring the gene for HPTP delta by using DNAs from human-mouse hybrid cell lines and by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The results clearly demonstrated that HPTP delta gene maps to human chromosome 9p24.
Skeletal muscle enlargement in adult animals has been ascribed primarily to changes in fiber cross-sectional area (i.e., fiber hypertrophy); however, recent evidence from several laboratories suggests strongly that fiber hyperplasia contributes to muscle mass increases in adult animals and possibly human athletes. Scientists have used three models to study the cellular mechanisms of muscle enlargement: compensatory hypertrophy, stretch, and exercise. Each of these models has provided direct as well as indirect evidence supporting the occurrence of muscle fiber hyperplasia. Direct counts of muscle fibers using nitric acid digestion techniques have shown that both exercise and stretch overload result in significant increases (range = 9-52%) in fiber number. Indirect fiber counts using histological cross-sections have suggested fiber hyperplasia (range = 10-82%) in all three models. Additionally, the expression of embryonic myosin isoforms have provided indirect evidence for new fiber formation in stretch overloaded muscle. Furthermore, satellite cells have been shown to be involved in muscle fiber hyperplasia in stretch and exercise.
Portacaval anastomosis in the rat results in liver atrophy, sustained hyperammonemia and mild encephalopathy. Previous studies have demonstrated region-selective alterations of glutamine and other ammonia-related amino acids in brain following portacaval anastomosis. Ammonia removal by brain relies on glutamine synthesis and the enzyme responsible, glutamine synthetase, has an almost exclusively astrocytic localization. Glutamine synthetase activities were measured using a radioenzymatic assay in homogenates of seven brain regions of rats four weeks after end-to-side portacaval anastomosis. Enzyme activities were significantly reduced in hippocampus (by 25%, p &lt; 0.01), in cerebellum (by 29%, p &lt; 0.01) and in cerebral cortex (by 14%, p &lt; 0.05). Enzyme activities in other brain regions were within normal limits. Region-selective reductions of glutamine synthetase following portacaval anastomosis could result in disruption of neuron-glial metabolic interactions and in a deficit of glutamatergic synaptic regulation. Similar mechanisms could be implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy accompanying chronic liver disease in humans.
The objective of the present studies was to identify the subtypes of voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels (VSCC) that regulate the basal and depolarization-induced release of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and LH-releasing hormone (LHRH) from rat hypothalamus. Tissues containing median eminence-arcuate nucleus (ME-ARC) were dissected from male rats and incubated in vitro in the presence and absence of agents selectively affecting N- or L-type VSCC. KCl depolarization-induced release of NPY, but not basal release, was abolished by Ca(2+)-free/EGTA medium and was significantly reduced by cobalt. The depolarization-induced release of both NPY and LHRH from ME-ARC was significantly augmented by BAY K 8644, an agonist at L-type VSCC, and this effect was blocked by nitrendipine, an antagonist at these channels. Neither agent modified basal release of NPY or LHRH. Nitrendipine alone blocked the release of NPY and LHRH evoked by a low concentration (23 mM) of KCl, but not by a higher concentration (45 mM). Omega-conotoxin (CgTX), which primarily blocks N-type VSCC, significantly blunted, but did not abolish, depolarization-induced release of NPY and LHRH without altering basal release. These findings suggest that multiple VSCC subtypes participate in the regulation of depolarization-induced release of NPY and LHRH. Similar to other systems, the N-type channel may be predominantly involved in the process by which entry of extracellular Ca(2+) triggered by depolarization leads to the release of these two peptides. The inability of nitrendipine and CgTX to completely block depolarization-induced NPY and LHRH release suggests the involvement of at least one other VSCC in this process. Although L-type VSCC may not be of primary importance in depolarization-induced release of NPY and LHRH, activation of this channel subtype may enhance Ca(2+) entry and therefore modulate release of these neuropeptides.
Accumulating evidence from both radioligand binding and molecular cloning experiments has led to the suggestion that there are heterogeneous populations of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. In particular, the NMDA receptor associated with cerebellar neurons has been suggested to be different from that in higher brain regions. With these observations in mind, we considered the possibility that the NMDA receptors on cultured neurons from rat cortex and cerebellum may show differences in their affinity for the coagonists, glutamate and glycine, and the ion channel blocker ketamine. A kinetic approach was used to derive the association and dissociation constants for each of the ligands from their respective macroscopic time constants of binding and unbinding. The constants were assessed electrophysiologically by measuring the onset and decay of whole-cell currents in response to drug applications to voltage-clamped neurons. In addition, differences in coagonist affinity were examined using conventional equilibrium concentration-response curve analysis. These experiments revealed that current relaxations after fast applications of either glutamate or glycine decayed more rapidly in cerebellar neurons, compared with cortical neurons. Thus, assuming two independent binding sites per receptor, the microscopic decay time constants (tau off) for glutamate were 341 +/- 47 (n = 12) and 934 +/- 76 msec (n = 11, p &lt; 0.0001) for granule cells and cortical neurons, respectively. The resulting apparent microscopic dissociation constant (mKd) for glutamate at cerebellar granule cells, calculated from the forward and reverse rate constants, was &gt; 2-fold lower than that for cerebral cortex receptors (496 nM, compared with 251 nM). The difference between the two cell types in the tau off for glycine was more substantial, i.e., 558 +/- 53 (n = 15) and 2214 +/- 125 msec (n = 19, p &lt; 0.0001) for cerebellum and cortex, respectively. Corresponding apparent mKd values for glycine differed by &gt; 4-fold, i.e., 189 nM and 45 nM for cerebellar granule and cortical neurons, respectively. Analysis of data obtained from equilibrium concentration-response curves also revealed differences in coagonist affinity between the two cell populations. The mean mKd values for glutamate at cerebellum and cortical neurons were 1260 nM and 630 nM, respectively, and those for glycine were 316 nM and 63 nM, respectively. No obvious differences were found between the two cell types with respect to the ion channel-blocking kinetics of the dissociative anesthetic ketamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The sensitivity and specificity of nerve conduction studies (NCS's) and electromyography (EMG) for the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) were evaluated by a critical review of the literature. With a search of the medical literature in English through May 1991, 165 articles were identified and reviewed on the basis of six criteria of scientific methodology. The findings of 11 articles that met all six criteria and the results of 48 additional studies that met four or five criteria are presented. We concluded that median sensory and motor NCS's are valid and reproducible clinical laboratory studies that confirm a clinical diagnosis of CTS with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity. Clinical practice recommendations are made based on a comparison of the sensitivities of the several different median nerve conduction study (NCS) techniques.
We examined the mechanism(s) which allow terbutaline, a beta 2-adrenergic agonist, to increase isometric force in bundles of normal and denervated rat soleus fibers. Terbutaline (10 mumol/L) potentiated tetanic contractions during exposure to 1 mmol/L ouabain, 10 mumol/L nifedipine, or 0.5 mmol/L iodoacetate. Terbutaline induced equivalent increases in submaximal potassium (K+) contracture and tetanic force: these effects were mimicked by 2 mmol/L dibutyryl-cyclic AMP. Therefore, terbutaline increased force by a cyclic AMP-dependent mechanism other than enhancement of sodium-pump activity, dihydropyridine sensitive Ca2+ currents, glycolysis, or action potentials. Pretreatment with 1 mmol/L caffeine induced submaximal potentiation of peak tetanic force but prevented further potentiation by terbutaline. This suggested that terbutaline did not influence the myofilaments, but acted on the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) to increase the myoplasmic Ca2+ concentration and hence force production. We speculate that force is potentiated following beta-adrenoceptor activation by a cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation of Ca2+ release channels to facilitate SR calcium release during tetanic stimulation.
This review summarizes recent epidemiological research about the etiology of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Descriptive and analytical epidemiologic studies, supported by basic neurosciences research, suggest a role for neurotoxins in the pathogenesis of PD, but also for mediating environment influences, which include occupational exposures, urban or rural living and nutritional factors. Such epidemiologic evidence can provide a basis for the potential development of preventive measures for this disease.
Ever since the discovery of Paul Ehrlich (1885 Das Sauerstoff-bedrfnis des Organismus: Hirschwald, Berlin) about the restricted material exchange, existing between the blood and the brain, the ultimate goal of subsequent studies has been mainly directed towards the elucidation of relative importance of different cellular compartments in the peculiar penetration barrier consisting the structural basis of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). It is now generally agreed that, in most vertebrates, the endothelial cells of the central nervous system (CNS) are responsible for the unique penetration barrier, which restricts the free passage of nutrients, hormones, immunologically relevant molecules and drugs to the brain. After an era of studying with endogenous or exogenous tracers the unique permeability properties of cerebral endothelial cells in vivo, the next generation, i.e. the in vitro blood-brain barrier model system was introduced in 1973. Recent advances in our knowledge of the BBB have in part been made by studying the properties and function of cerebral endothelial cells (CEC) with this in vitro approach. This review summarizes the results obtained on isolated brain microvessels in the second decade of its advent.
The studies examined the effects of three antagonists (CPP, CGS 19755, and CGP 37849) that act competitively at the glutamate recognition site of the NMDA receptor complex on cortical neuronal morphology and cerebral limbic glucose metabolism. Responses were compared to the effects of dizocilpine, an uncompetitive NMDA receptor ion channel antagonist as a positive control. CGS 19755 and CGP 37849 (100 mg kg-1 i.p.) caused vacuolation in cortical pyramidal neurons in the posterior cingulate cortex four hours after dosing and this dose of CGP 37849 caused a pattern of limbic glucose metabolism activation similar to that seen after dizocilpine. CPP was without effect at 100 mg/kg i.p. probably due to poor brain penetration. The data indicates that the functional consequences (structural and metabolic) of NMDA receptor blockade with NMDA antagonists acting competitively at the glutamate recognition site and uncompetitively in the receptor ion channel are ultimately the same. Comparisons of the potential therapeutic window for CGS 19755 and CGP 37849 with dizocilpine (neuroprotection versus vacuolation) suggests that the window for the competitive antagonists is greater. This indicates that the potential therapeutic window for the different classes of NMDA antagonists may vary with the site in the receptor complex at which they interact.
Even though levodopa can provide effective therapy for symptomatic relief of parkinsonism, many patients deteriorate over time. This change may be related to a loss of storage capability for dopamine in the brain affected by parkinsonian changes. Some of the variability in drug action is determined by its peripheral pharmacokinetics. Methods that can enhance dose-by-dose effectiveness, including controlled-release preparations and enteral infusions, have practical applications for managing &quot;wearing-off&quot; or peak-effect problems.
Generic substitution is practiced widely in both hospital and community settings. There have been several reports of reduced serum concentrations and seizure exacerbation following generic substitution of Tegretol. We describe the first 2 cases of carbamazepine toxicity resulting from the substitution of Tegretol with Epitol. Two 6-year-old children experienced increases in the maximum serum carbamazepine concentration, one of 22% and one of 41%. Both became asymptomatic when their serum concentrations were lowered and had no residual effects.
We used [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ([18F]FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET) to study regional cerebral glucose utilization (rCMRglc) in four patients with fatal familial insomnia (FFI), a prion disease with a mutation at codon 178 of the prion protein gene. Two patients, presenting only with insomnia and dysautonomia, had a prominent and, in one case, selective thalamic hypometabolism. The remaining two cases presented a more complex clinical picture with multiple neurologic deficits, with both thalamic and widespread brain hypometabolism involving the majority of cortical structures, basal ganglia, and the cerebellum. This widespread pattern was present in the early stage of the disease and showed significant worsening as the disease progressed in one patient examined twice. The thalamic hypometabolism, consistently found with PET in FFI patients, is in agreement with the neuropathologic findings and is a hallmark of the disease.
We studied the relationship between migraine and epilepsy in 395 adult seizure patients. Seventy-nine patients (20%) also had migraine syndrome, and 13 of these patients (3%) experienced seizures during or immediately following a migraine aura. Patients with catamenial epilepsy and patients with migraine with aura were at an increased risk for an association between these two disorders. In two patients, we recorded the entire sequence from migraine aura to partial seizure, and in both there were distinctive changes on the EEG during the migraine aura that preceded the onset of an electrographic complex partial seizure. Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges were recorded in five other patients in close temporal relation to their migraine attacks. There was improved seizure control with combination antimigraine and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in six patients who failed to respond to AEDs alone.
Although proliferation is fundamental to the generation of neuronal populations, little is known about the function of trophic mechanisms during neurogenesis. We now describe a novel role for neurotrophin-3 (NT-3): the neurotrophin stimulates proliferation of sympathetic neuroblasts through trophic mechanisms. NT-3 promotes survival of the dividing precursors, but does not directly stimulate mitosis. NT-3 trophic effects differ markedly from those of the sympathetic mitogen, insulin. Furthermore, whereas NT-3 exhibits trophic activity for dividing neuroblasts, nerve growth factor characteristically promotes survival of postnatal sympathetic neurons. The stage-specific activity of NT-3 and nerve growth factor in culture parallels the sequence of trkC and trkA receptor gene expression detected in vivo. Thus, neurotrophins apparently serve as trophic factors during ontogeny, acting sequentially during establishment of individual populations.
Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF; also known as cholinergic differentiation factor) is a multifunctional cytokine that affects neurons, as well as many other cell types. To examine its neuronal functions in vivo, we have used LIF-deficient mice. In culture, LIF alters the transmitter phenotype of sympathetic neurons, inducing cholinergic function, reducing noradrenergic function, and altering neuropeptide expression. In vivo, a noradrenergic to cholinergic switch occurs in the developing sweat gland innervation, and changes in neuropeptide phenotype occur in axotomized adult ganglia. We find that the gland innervation of LIF-deficient mice is indistinguishable from normal. In contrast, neuropeptide induction in ganglia cultured as explants or axotomized in situ is significantly suppressed in LIF-deficient mice. Thus, LIF plays a role in transmitter changes induced by axotomy but not by developmental interactions with sweat glands.
Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) is a persistent attenuation of the parallel fiber-Purkinje neuron (PF-PN) synapse induced by conjunctive stimulation of PF and climbing fiber (CF) inputs. A similar phenomenon is seen in the voltage-clamped PN in tissue culture when iontophoretic quisqualate application and PN depolarization are substituted for PF and CF stimulation, respectively. In this model, LTD induction requires activation of both AMPA and metabotropic receptors, together with PN depolarization. We have sought to determine the role of the AMPA receptor in LTD induction. The AMPA receptor does not appear to exert its effect by directly gating Ca2+ influx. Replacement of external Na+ during quisqualate/depolarization conjunction with permeant ions caused a blockade of LTD induction, suggesting that Na+ influx through the AMPA-associated channel is necessary for this process. Similarly, pairing quisqualate pulses with depolarizing steps near ENa also failed to induce LTD. The present results indicate that postsynaptic Na+ influx is necessary for LTD induction. While a portion of the relevant Na+ influx is provided by voltage-gated channels, the AMPA-associated ion channel is most important in this regard.
Motoneurons supplying the extensor hallucis longus muscle of the rat were temporarily separated from the muscle by sciatic nerve-crush at five days postnatally. Such treatment permanently alters the reflex response of the affected motoneurons without the large-scale cell death associated with nerve-crush at birth. After reinnervation, the motoneurons were retrogradely labelled with cholera toxin subunit-B conjugated to horseradish peroxidase and the dendritic tree of each labelled cell was analysed. When compared to normal data, significantly higher levels of dendritic density were observed in the rostrodorsally orientated parts of the dendritic field. This was similar to that found previously for the same motor pool after nerve-crush at birth. However, in other parts of the field where a lower dendritic density was found after nerve-crush at birth, no change was seen after nerve-crush at five days. These data present evidence for the influence of sensory afferents on the development of motoneuron dendrites. Taken together with the previous findings after nerve-crush at birth, we suggest that the differential dendritic changes caused by neonatal nerve lesion contribute to an imbalance in the pattern of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to the motoneuron, which results either in cell death, or the abnormal activity seen in those motoneurons which survive.
By sectioning, using a razor blade, one- and three-week-old rat hippocampal organotypic cultures, we have tested the possibility that neurite outgrowth and reactive synaptogenesis would take place even after several weeks in culture in this in vitro model. At the light-microscopic level, recovery from the section and formation of a thin scar were observed within six days following the lesion. Immunostainings using neurofilament antibodies showed the presence of numerous degenerative and regenerative images one day after the cut and many fibres crossing the section six days after the lesion. Electrophysiological recordings of synaptic responses elicited across the section indicated the formation of new functional synaptic contacts and complete recovery of transmission within three to six days. Interestingly, functional recovery in three-week-old cultures was found to be significantly slower than in one-week-old tissue. These findings were confirmed at the electron-microscopic level. Evidence was obtained for an effective cleaning of the lesion site by macrophages and astroglial cells, the existence of many degenerative and regenerative images one day after the cut and the presence of new dendrites, axonal fibres and synapses in the area of the section six days after the lesion. All these changes were slower in three- than in one-week-old cultures. These results indicate that organotypic cultures can be used as an interesting model for studies of reactive synaptogenesis.
When embryonic rat hippocampal neurons were cultured in a 50% oxygen atmosphere, neurons gradually died after 20 h in culture. This death pattern was found to be mediated by an intracellular active death program, so called apoptosis, as follows: (1) Cycloheximide and actinomycin-D, protein and RNA synthesis inhibitors, respectively, prevented cell death, indicating that cell death required new protein biosynthesis. (2) DNA fragmentation (called a &quot;DNA ladder&quot;), a specific biochemical marker of apoptosis, was detected during the course of cell death. (3) Depolarization with high K+ medium (26-50 mM) prevented cell death. This effect was suppressed by some dihydropyridine derivatives, L-type Ca channel blockers, such as nifedipine and nicardipine. These results indicate that increased levels of oxygen activate an apoptotic mechanism in the cultured hippocampal neurons, and suggest that neuronal activity may protect the neurons from oxygen-induced apoptosis.
The distribution and expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate-selective glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1-4) were studied in cultured hippocampal neurons using antibodies generated against peptides corresponding to the C-termini of GluR1, GluR2/3 and GluR4, and with a set of oligonucleotide probes designed complementary to specific pan, flip and flop GluR1-4 messenger RNA sequences. GluR1-4 subunit proteins were localized in fixed hippocampal neurons (2 h to three weeks after plating) by immunocytochemistry with light and electron microscopy. At early stages in culture, moderate staining with antibodies to GluR1 and GluR2/3 and very light staining with antibody to GluR4 was observed in cell bodies and proximal portions of all neurites of some neurons. Upon establishment of identified axons and dendrites by seven days in culture, staining was intense with specific antibodies to GluR1 and GluR2/3 and light with anti-GluR4 antibody in cell bodies and dendrites. Little or no staining was observed in axons. Cells at seven days in culture exhibited a variety of morphologies. However, we could not assign a pattern of staining to a particular type. As the cultures matured over two and three weeks, staining was limited to the somatodendritic compartment. The intensity of glutamate receptor subunit staining increased and the extent of staining proceeded to the distal extreme of many dendrites. Moreover, antibodies to GluR1-4 subunits were co-localized in neurons. Immunocytochemistry on living neurons did not result in any significant labeling, suggesting that the epitope is either not expressed on the surface of the neurons, or is present, but inaccessible to the antibody. Electron microscopy demonstrated receptor localization similar to that found in brain, with staining of postsynaptic membrane and density, dendritic cytoplasm and cell body, but not within the synaptic cleft. We examined the possible role of &quot;cellular compartmentation&quot; in the pattern of glutamate receptor expression in hippocampal neurons. Compartmentalization studies of the subcellular distribution of messenger RNAs encoding GluR1-4 subunits was determined in mature cultures by in situ hybridization. Significant silver grain appearance was restricted to the cell body, indicating that the synthesis of glutamate receptor subunits is limited largely to the neuronal cell body. The expression of microtubule-associated protein 2 was studied in parallel. Microtubule-associated protein 2 expression appeared 6 h after plating, while glutamate receptor subunit expression was present at 2 h. This indicates that microtubule-associated protein 2 does not regulate the initial distribution of glutamate receptor subunits into neurites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study combines immunocytochemical and stereological methods for the first time to obtain unbiased estimates of the number of cells in the entire substantia nigra and their respective mean volume. Nicotine, delivered by subcutaneously implanted osmotic pumps (0.125 mg/kg/h, 14 days) to male Sprague-Dawley rats with a partial unilateral mesodiencephalic lesion, caused a significant counteraction of the lesion-induced reduction in total number of nigral tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive neurons counterstained with Cresyl Violet compared with saline treated control animals. The number of Nissl stained neurons without tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity was not affected by the lesion nor by nicotine. The numbers of non-neuronal glial fibrillary acidic protein-like immunoreactive cells counterstained with Cresyl Violet and smaller cells seen after Cresyl Violet staining alone, possibly representing microglia, were increased by the lesion but not affected by nicotine. No nicotine-induced effects were found on the number of nigral cells located contralateral to the lesion. The lesion-induced reduction in the mean volume of the nigral cells showing tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity, as determined with the stereological rotator method, was not affected by nicotine. These findings suggest that continuous nicotine infusion exerts protective effects on lesioned nigroneostriatal dopamine systems and that these protective effects are selective for the nigral dopamine neurons not affecting other populations of neurons or non-neuronal cells. This neuroprotective effect might lead to new therapeutic strategies in clinical neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's Disease.
Basic fibroblast growth factor promotes the survival and outgrowth of neurons and protects neurons from glutamate mediated excitotoxicity. The present study investigates the effects of kainate-induced epileptic seizures on the cellular expression of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA and protein. Seizures were induced by injection of 12 mg/kg kainic acid. Rats were killed 3 h, 6 h, and 24 h after injection of the drug and analysed by radioactive and non-radioactive in situ hybridization as well as immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein and basic fibroblast growth factor. Radioactive in situ hybridization revealed a fast (6 h), strong (300-400% of control) and widespread increase of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA after kainate-induced seizures. Non-radioactive in situ hybridization using digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes combined with glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry showed that basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA was markedly increased in astroglial cells throughout the brain. Immunohistochemistry for basic fibroblast growth factor revealed labeling of nuclei in astrocytes in many forebrain areas and in neurons in area CA2 and fasciola cinereum. Kainate markedly increased basic fibroblast growth factor-like immunoreactivity in nuclei of astrocytes in several forebrain areas. This effect peaked 24 h after injection. It is concluded that basic fibroblast growth factor may play a neuroprotective role in kainate mediated excitotoxicity as seen from a massive and widespread astroglial increase in basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA and -like immunoreactivity. These effects may, to a large degree, be mediated through the excessive release of endogenous glutamate, induced by the epileptic seizures, leading to activation of glutamate receptors on astroglial cells through volume transmission, i.e. via diffusion of electrochemical signals in the extracellular fluid pathways.
Tyrosine protein kinases trkA, trkB and trkC are signal transduction receptors for a family of neurotrophic factors known as the neurotrophins. Here we report on changes in the expression of messenger RNAs for trkA, trkB and trkC in the brain following an injury caused by insertion of a 30-gauge needle into adult rat hippocampus or neocortex. Quantitative in situ hybridization revealed no change in the level of trkA messenger RNAs in any brain region following this insult. In contrast, increased levels of trkB messenger RNA compared to untreated animals were seen in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus ipsilateral to the injury already 30 min after the injury. The increase reached maximal levels (four-fold) between 2 and 4 h, but returned to control levels 8 h after the injury. No change was seen in the contralateral dentate gyrus. The levels of trkC messenger RNA increased in the same brain regions as trkB messenger RNA, though with a delayed response, reaching a maximal increase of 3.3-fold 4 h after the injury. As for trkB messenger RNA, the level of trkC messenger RNA then tapered off and reached control levels 8 h after the injury. However, 4 h after the injury, a 1.7-fold increase of trkB and trkC messenger RNAs were seen in the ipsilateral piriform cortex. The increases of trkB and trkC messenger RNAs were confirmed using a nuclease protection assay. Increases of both trkB and trkC messenger RNAs were also seen in the piriform cortex, but not in the hippocampus, following needle insertion into the neocortex. Pretreatment of the animals with the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist ketamine completely prevented the increases of trkB and trkC messenger RNAs, suggesting that the brain injury caused a release of glutamate with subsequent activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In contrast, the anticonvulsive drug diazepam, the muscarinic antagonist atropine and the calcium-channel antagonist nimodipine had no effect on the increases of trkB and trkC messenger RNAs. Combined with previous data on the expression of neurotrophin messenger RNAs following similar injuries, our results support the hypothesis that increased levels of neurotrophins and their receptors could protect against neuronal damage following a brain insult.
Developmental or degenerative damage of the neuronal architecture in the entorhinal cortex may disintegrate a functional part of hippocampal input since the entorhinal cortex provides a major source of neocortical and subcortical input to the hippocampus. These alterations, such as seen in Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and temporal lobe epilepsy are likely to be associated with cognitive deficits. To understand the basis for pathological changes in the corticohippocampal loop it is important to study mechanisms involved in neuronal plasticity. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor provides a possible substrate to mediate such plasticity. We have previously provided evidence that stimulation of hippocampal afferents transynaptically increase the level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA within the hippocampus. In the present study we have investigated whether different brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNAs are specifically regulated in the hippocampus. We provide evidence for a differential and dose-dependent regulation of the different brain-derived neurotrophic factor promoters in the hippocampus by afferents in the entorhinal cortex. Our finding of a graded regulation is in contrast to earlier evidence of an &quot;all-or-none&quot; type of regulation.
As shown by electrophysiological analysis, the release of the sympathetic co-transmitter adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) from individual release sites is monoquantal and intermittent; the average release probability may be as low as 0.01. Indirect evidence from biochemical studies of noradrenaline overflow is compatible with a similar monoquantal, low probability release of noradrenaline as well. In the present study our first aim was to address this issue more directly in rat tail artery, using continuous amperometry to monitor in real time the release of noradrenaline from a relatively small number of sympathetic nerve varicosities. The results seem to provide the first direct evidence that noradrenaline, similarly to ATP, may be released intermittently during nerve stimulation at low frequency. Our second aim was to use the same technique to study the release of noradrenaline caused by nerve stimulation with single pulses or short trains (two to eight pulses) at high frequencies. The results show that during stimulation at 20 Hz the peak amplitude of the noradrenaline oxidation current response grew linearly with the train length, but at 50 Hz the curve describing this growth was sigmoid in shape.
It has been recently reported that the cyclic AMP cascade substantially modulates excitatory amino acid and d-aminobutyric acid responses in central neurons. Furthermore, interactions between the cyclic AMP system and opiate receptors have been well documented. The modification of neuronal responsiveness to opiates through such a second messenger system could be important in both normal functioning of opioid neurotransmitter systems and in opiate abuse. As the noradrenergic nucleus locus coeruleus receives a prominent endogenous opioid innervation and is thought to be important in brain mechanisms of opiate abuse, we examined opiate responses in locus coeruleus neurons following activation of the cyclic AMP cascade. We report that opiate responses of locus coeruleus neurons are enhanced by forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase, and by intracellular application of cyclic AMP. This potentiation of the opiate response was blocked by protein kinase inhibitors, which also depressed opiate responses below baseline values. Forskolin also potentiated responses to the a2 adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine, but did not consistently potentiate opiate responses in locus coeruleus neurons from rats chronically treated with morphine.
Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein can be phosphorylated on residues Thr654, Ser655 and Thr668 on its cytoplasmic domain. Proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein and release of the amyloid precursor protein ectodomain into the medium of cultured cells can be activated by phorbol esters which stimulate protein kinase C. In the present study, using mutated amyloid precursor protein, we show that phosphorylation of cytoplasmic residues is not required for the phorbol ester-activated cleavage and release of the amyloid precursor protein ectodomain. Remarkably, deletion of the entire amyloid precursor protein cytoplasmic tail had no effect on the phorbol ester-activated cleavage/release. The results indicate that activation of amyloid precursor protein cleavage/release by protein kinase C involves phosphorylation of some component of the processing pathway, instead of or in addition to the cytoplasmic tail of the amyloid precursor protein.
Trisomy 13 was detected in 10% of mouse embryos obtained from pregnant females which were doubly heterozygous for Robertsonian chromosomes involving chromosome 13. The developing dorsal root ganglia and spinal cords were examined in trisomy 13 and littermate control mice between days 12 and 18 of gestation (E12-18). The overall size of the dorsal root ganglia and number of ganglion cells within a given ganglion were not altered, but the number of neurons immunoreactive for calbindin and calretinin was reduced. The trisomic spinal cord was reduced in size with neurons lying in a tightly compact distribution in the gray matter. In trisomic fetuses, the extent of the neuropil of the spinal cord was reduced, and may represent a diminished field of interneuronal connectivity, due to reduced arborization of dendritic processes of the neurons present, particularly of calbindin-immunostained neurons. Furthermore, the subpopulation of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons and axons was also reduced in developing trisomic gray and white matter, respectively. Thus, overexpression of genes on mouse chromosome 13 exerts a deleterious effect on the development of neuropil, affecting both dendritic and axonal arborization in the trisomy 13 mouse. The defect of calbindin or calretinin expression by subsets of dorsal root ganglion or spinal cord neurons may result from deficient cell-to-cell interactions with targets which are hypoplastic.
Extracellular action potentials from single horizontal semicircular canal primary afferent fibers were recorded in paralysed decerebrate pigeons during pulse mechanical stimulation of the contralateral horizontal semicircular canal. Clear responses to the contralateral membranous duct displacement stimuli were observed in 51% of the tested 158 horizontal semicircular canal afferents. Generally, three different types of responses were obtained in the primary afferent fibers including excitation, inhibition, and a few complex type neural activity profiles. Inhibitory responses were of larger amplitude and had longer time constants than did excitatory responses. The few complex type responses observed were characterized by an initial excitatory discharge followed by a longer duration decrease in the fiber's firing rate. The sensitivity to stimulation and type of response obtained for each afferent was significantly correlated with the fiber's coefficient of variation value. Regular firing afferents were less sensitive and exhibited primarily excitatory responses (71%) to contralateral canal stimulation. Irregular firing afferents were more sensitive and exhibited mostly inhibitory responses (84%). The present results demonstrate that a communication network for information exchange between the bilateral labyrinths exists in pigeons. The observed responses in primary afferent fibers to contralateral horizontal semicircular canal stimulation are proposed to be mediated by the vestibular efferent system, which could provide an anatomical pathway for information exchange from vestibular receptors on opposite sides of the head.
In order to study the efferent projections of the intercalated cell masses within the amygdaloid complex, iontophoretic injections of cholera toxin B subunit were performed in several amygdaloid nuclei of the centromedial and basolateral groups in cats. Analysis of the ensuing retrograde labeling revealed that the main intra-amygdaloid targets of the intercalated cell masses are the central and medial nuclei. Most intercalated neurons projecting to the medial nucleus were found in the larger, rostrally located intercalated cell masses. In contrast, the majority of intercalated cells projecting to the central medial and central lateral nuclei were found in the smaller, caudally located intercalated cell masses. In addition, evidence for weaker projections to the basolateral nucleus and other intercalated cell masses was obtained. In light of previous immunohistochemical results showing that GABAergic cells represent the main cell type in the intercalated cell masses, these results imply that the intercalated cell masses constitute an important source of GABAergic input to the centromedial complex. The significance of this finding lies in the fact that the intercalated cell masses are located at the interface between the basolateral nuclear group and the centromedial complex, the main route through which the amygdaloid complex can directly influence hypothalamic and brainstem centers involved in the elaboration of autonomic responses and species-specific emotional behaviors.
This study describes the distribution of GABA immunoreactivity in the amygdaloid complex of cats. At the light microscopic level, immunopositive structures consisted of morphologically diverse somata and numerous small punctate elements. The latter accounted for most of the staining at low magnification and, at the electron microscopic level, were found to be axon terminals establishing symmetric synaptic contacts with a variety of postsynaptic profiles. Deep and superficial amygdaloid nuclei could be assigned to one of four groups according to (i) the intensity of immunolabeling they displayed, (ii) their density in reactive somata, and (iii) the size of the immunopositive somata they contained. Intercalated cell masses displayed the highest density of strongly immunoreactive cell bodies and presumed GABAergic terminals. However, electron microscope observations showed that intercalated somata were almost devoid of synaptic contacts. In contrast, central and medial nuclei were characterized by a low density of intensely immunoreactive somata and an elevated concentration for GABAergic terminals which contacted somatic and dendritic profiles. In addition, central and medial nuclei contained numerous neurons displaying low to moderate immunoreactivity. Superficial amygdaloid nuclei and nuclei of the basolateral complex displayed an intermediate density of immunoreactive somata and a low to moderate concentration of presumed terminals. Analysis of the distribution of soma areas within these nuclei revealed that the basolateral complex contains a distinct subpopulation of larger immunoreactive neurons. In light of recent electrophysiological findings, these results suggest that the intra-amygdaloid GABAergic system plays a major role in controlling the synaptic responsiveness and spontaneous activity of amygdaloid neurons.
During suckling, the periodic and synchronous bursting activity of oxytocin neurons has been shown to be facilitated by oxytocin itself, acting via several target sites, including the magnocellular nuclei. To investigate the role of the endogenous oxytocin released within the magnocellular nuclei during the milk-ejection reflex in the rat, an oxytocin antagonist (50 microM solution of [d(CH2)5, Tyr(Me)2,Orn8]-vasotocin was pressure-injected into either one paraventricular or one supraoptic nucleus while recording the bursting pattern of oxytocin neurons within the injected nucleus and within a contralateral nucleus. The oxytocin antagonist was injected either during an ongoing milk-ejection reflex or during its facilitation induced by oxytocin (1 microliter of 1 microM solution injected into the third ventricle, i.e. 1 ng). During an ongoing milk-ejection reflex, injections of the oxytocin antagonist (10 nl of 50 microM solution, i.e. 50 ng) into the paraventricular or supraoptic nucleus decreased (more than 20% change) the burst amplitude (total number of spikes/burst) of neurons within the injected nucleus in 100% of tests, and simultaneously of contralateral neurons in 68% of tests. Burst periodicity of the entire population was also decreased in 50% of tests whatever the nucleus injected, but burst desynchronization was never observed. Successive injections of minute volumes of oxytocin (10 nl of 10 microM solution, i.e. 0.1 ng) into the paraventricular or supraoptic nucleus (which will progressively affect a greater number of neurons) first increased burst amplitude of oxytocin neurons within the injected nucleus and then increased simultaneously burst amplitude of contralateral neurons and burst frequency of the whole oxytocin neuron population. All these results suggest that the recruitment of a critical number of oxytocin neurons within one nucleus induces changes in the bursting activity of the oxytocin neurons in the four magnocellular nuclei. Within the minute following an intracerebroventricular oxytocin injection, the oxytocin antagonist injected into the supraoptic nucleus not only prevented the oxytocin-induced facilitation but also completely interrupted the milk-ejection reflex. When injected into the paraventricular nucleus, the oxytocin antagonist was less efficient: it decreased the oxytocin-induced facilitation but the reflex was not blocked. Similar partial inhibitory effect (decrease in burst amplitude and burst frequency) was also observed when the oxytocin antagonist was injected into the supraoptic nucleus after facilitation of the milk-ejection reflex by intracerebroventricular oxytocin injection. In conclusion, endogenous oxytocin released within the magnocellular nuclei during suckling represents a necessary link of the neuronal network regulating the bursting activity of oxytocin neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Several neurotropic viruses enter the brain after peripheral inoculation and spread transneuronally along pathways known to be connected to the initial site of entry. In this study, the pathways utilized by two such viruses, herpes simplex virus type 1 and mouse hepatitis virus strain JHM, were compared using in situ hybridization following inoculation into either the nasal cavity or the main olfactory bulb of the mouse. The results indicate that both viruses spread to infect a unique and only partially overlapping set of connections of the main olfactory bulb. Both quantitative and qualitative differences were observed in the patterns of infection of known primary and secondary main olfactory bulb connections. Using immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase combined with in situ hybridization, it was shown that only herpes simplex virus infected noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus. In contrast, both viruses infected dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area, although mouse hepatitis virus produced a more widespread infection in the A10 group, as well as infecting A8 and A9. The results suggest that differential virus uptake in specific neurotransmitter systems contributes to the pattern of viral spread, although other factors, such as differences in access to particular synapses on infected cells and differences in the distribution of the cellular receptor for the two viruses, are also likely to be important. The data show that neural tracing with different viruses may define unique neural pathways from a site of inoculation. The data also demonstrate that two viruses can enter the brain via the olfactory system and localize to different structures, suggesting that neurological diseases involving disparate regions of the brain could be caused by different viruses, even if entry occurred at a common site.
Free intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]in) was recorded at 22 degrees C by means of Indo-1 or Fura-2 single-cell microfluorometry in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons obtained from neonatal rats. The resting [Ca2+]in in dorsal root ganglion neurons was 73 +/- 21 nM (mean +/- S.D., n = 94). Fast application of 20 mM caffeine evoked [Ca2+]in transient which reached a peak of 269 +/- 64 nM within 5.9 +/- 1.1 s. After reaching the peak the [Ca2+]in level started to decline in the presence of caffeine and for 87.2 +/- 10.6 s cytoplasmic calcium returned to an initial resting value. In 40% of neurons tested [Ca2+]in decreased to subresting levels following the washout of caffeine (the so-called post-caffeine undershoot). On average, the undershoot level was 19 +/- 2.5 nM below the resting [Ca2+]in value. Prolonged exposure of caffeine depleted the caffeine-sensitive stores of releasable Ca2+; the degree of this depletion depended on caffeine concentration. The depletion of the caffeine-sensitive internal stores to some extent was linked to calcium extrusion via La(3+)-sensitive plasmalemmal Ca(2+)-ATPases. The stores could be partially refilled by the uptake of cytoplasmic Ca2+, but the complete recovery of releasable Ca2+ content of the caffeine-sensitive pools required the additional calcium entry via voltage-operated calcium channels. Caffeine-evoked [Ca2+]in transients were effectively blocked by 10 microM ryanodine, 5 mM procaine, 10 microM dantrolene or 0.5 mM Ba2+, thus sharing the basic properties of the Ca(2+)-induced-Ca2+ release from endoplasmic reticulum. Pharmacological manipulation with caffeine-sensitive stores interfered with the depolarization-induced [Ca2+]in transients. In the presence of low caffeine concentration (0.5-1 mM) in the extracellular solution the rate of rise of the depolarization-triggered [Ca2+]in transients significantly increased (by a factor 2.15 +/- 0.29) suggesting the occurrence of Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release. When the caffeine-sensitive stores were emptied by prolonged application of caffeine, the amplitude and the rate of rise of the depolarization-induced [Ca2+]in transients were decreased. These facts suggest the involvement of internal caffeine-sensitive calcium stores in the generation of calcium signal in sensory neurons.
The distributions of axons immunoreactive for [Leu]- or [Met]enkephalin and GABA were studied in the superior cervical ganglion of adult rats. The antigens were visualized separately and in combination with neuropeptide Y by the immunoperoxidase technique, using reaction end-products of different colors. Similarities and differences were found in the light-microscopic innervation patterns of enkephalin- and GABA-immunoreactive nerve fibers. Both fiber systems were heterogeneously distributed within the superior cervical ganglion, forming denser networks in its rostral part than elsewhere in the ganglion. The appearance of labeled nerve fibers differed in the two systems. Enkephalin-immunoreactive axons exhibited dotted profiles due to a strong immunoreaction in the axonal varicosities as compared with that in the intervaricose segments, whereas GABA-positive fibers were evenly labeled in both parts of the axons. The most marked difference between the innervation patterns from enkephalin- and GABA-immunoreactive axons was the presence of bundles of varicose axons in conjunction with the basket-like aggregation of enkephalin-immunoreactive nerve terminals. The possibility that enkephalins and GABA are co-localized in certain axons was excluded in double-labeling studies, silver intensification being used for the first antigen and the nickel-enhanced diaminobenzidine reaction for the second antigen. Different subsets of principal neurons were richly innervated in a basket-like manner by axons immunoreactive for enkephalins and GABA. Additionally, combined staining with antisera against either enkephalin and neuropeptide Y or GABA and neuropeptide Y revealed that both subsets of principal neurons richly innervated either by enkephalin-immunoreactive or by GABA-immunoreactive axons were devoid of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. Thus, the enkephalinergic and GABAergic axons have different subpopulations of neuropeptide Y-negative principal neurons as targets in the superior cervical ganglion. These results provide further evidence that sympathetic ganglion cells can be classified on the basis of their receiving input from different sources.
A monoclonal antibody against phosphate-activated glutaminase was used to identify glutamatergic neuronal components in the intermediolateral nucleus of the thoracic spinal cord of the rat. Under electron microscopy of the intermediolateral nucleus, most glutaminase immunoreactivity was detected in the axoplasm surrounding spherical synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic axon varicosities which formed asymmetric synapses with small dendrites and occasionally with neuronal cell bodies. About 40% of axon varicosities within the intermediolateral nucleus and 49% of the axon varicosities forming asymmetric synaptic contacts showed glutaminase immunoreactivity. Glutaminase immunoreactivity was further seen in mitochondria of neuronal perikarya and dendrites in the intermediolateral nucleus, and occasionally in the cytoplasm of the dendrites and glial processes in the vicinity of glutaminase-immunoreactive axon varicosities. By the combined method of immunocytochemistry and retrograde axonal transport, glutaminase-immunoreactive axons were shown to make direct synaptic contacts with the preganglionic sympathetic neurons, which were retrogradely labeled by injection of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with choleratoxin B subunit into the superior cervical ganglion. The present results indicate that glutaminase-containing axons are the major synaptic inputs to intermediolateral nucleus neurons including preganglionic sympathetic ones, suggesting that glutamate is used as the neurotransmitter to control those neurons in the intermediolateral nucleus.
Previous studies had shown that MyoD promoted nicotinic acetylcholine subunit gene expression; the present experiments were done to determine whether this subsequently led to the development of functional nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Transfection of C3H 10T1/2 cells with MyoD cDNA resulted in the appearance of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites; radiolabelled alpha-toxin binding was not observed in cells transfected with a plasmid that lacked MyoD cDNA. Receptor development plateaued over a time course of several days with maximal binding seven and 11 days after exposure to fusion medium. [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding was of high affinity (Kd = 1 nM), saturable and was inhibited by nicotinic but not muscarinic receptor ligands, with IC50s of 1-3 nM for alpha-bungarotoxin, 1-3 microM for d-tubocurarine and 3-10 microM for nicotine. Not only did the cells exhibit a cell surface nicotinic receptor but they also expressed a nicotinic receptor mediated functional response. Carbachol resulted in uptake of 22Na into the cells at concentrations similar to those required for receptor activation at a muscle type nicotinic receptor; furthermore, the functional response was effectively blocked by nicotinic receptor ligands, including alpha-bungarotoxin (IC50 = 2 to 6 nM) and d-tubocurarine (IC50 = 0.1 to 0.4 microM); muscarinic receptor ligands had no effect. A time course study showed that alpha-bungarotoxin binding and carbachol stimulated 22Na uptake developed in parallel, suggesting that the observed functional response was mediated through an interaction at the alpha-bungarotoxin recognition site.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Benzodiazepine receptors are expressed very early in the brain during embryonic life, suggesting that endogenous ligands for these receptors may play an important role during ontogenesis in the central nervous system. In the present study, the distribution and characterization of diazepam-binding inhibitor-related peptides (endozepines) in the rat brain was investigated during embryonic and postnatal development using an antibody raised against the biologically active region of the precursor molecule. Immunohistochemical labelling showed that, in newborn rats, endozepine-like immunoreactivity was present in ependymal cells of the hypothalamus. Although the number of positive cells increased by day 5, the intensity of the immunoreaction in each cell diminished. In 15-day-old rats, both the number of endozepine positive cells and the intensity of the immunoreaction increased in the ependymal layer. At day 40, a dense accumulation of immunoreactive tanycytes and glial cells was observed in the median eminence and the arcuate nucleus. Endozepines were detected by radioimmunoassay in all regions of the brain as early as embryonic day 18. The concentration of endozepine-related peptides increased in the hypothalamus and olfactory bulb during late gestation. Between birth and postnatal day 5, the levels of endozepines decreased two- to four-fold in all brain regions studied. Thereafter, endozepine concentration increased gradually until day 25. Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of tissue extracts revealed that the olfactory bulb, pituitary, hypothalamus and cerebellum contained only one immunoreactive peak eluting at 39 min (peak C). In the telencephalon two peaks were observed: peak C and a second one eluting at 34 min (peak B). Peak B was present as early as embryonic day 20 and the ratio peak B/peak C gradually increased until day 25. At day 25 peak B was also detected in hippocampus, medulla oblongata, cortex and striatum extracts. In any brain region, no immunoreactivity co-eluting with the octadecaneuropeptide was observed. Sephadex G-50 gel filtration of hypothalamus extracts of 25-day-old animals, confirmed the existence of only one immunoreactive compound with an apparent molecular weight of 10,000. In the telencephalon two major species were resolved, with apparent molecular weights of 10,000 and 8800, and a minor one of 6500 mol. wt. In conclusion, the present study shows that endozepines are expressed in the rat brain as early as embryonic day 18 and the amount of endozepine-like material increases rapidly during the two days preceding birth. The results also indicate that diazepam-binding inhibitor is processed to different molecular forms depending on the brain region.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Using immunofluorescence and cytofluorimetric scanning techniques in the rat, the fast anterograde and retrograde axonal transport of growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity in normal sciatic nerves, and after spinal cord transection in the lower thoracic region, were investigated. Spinal roots and motor endplates in the peroneal muscles were also studied. For comparison, anti-synaptophysin (p38) was used. In intact adult animals, the amounts of immunoreactive growth-associated protein-43 increased linearly, both proximally and distally to the crush site, between 1 and 24 h after crushing the sciatic nerve. The accumulations were present in thick as well as in thin axons. Distal accumulations in the sciatic nerve were about 40-60% of the proximal amounts, indicating a recycling of organelles with growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity. During the week after spinal cord transection, no clear changes were observed; the anterograde transport of growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity showed a tendency to decrease at day 1 and then a tendency to increase, reaching 120% of control at seven days (not significant). Transported p38-like immunoreactivity showed similar but smaller changes. In the lumbar spinal cord gray matter many nerve terminals with growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity were seen in intact animals. After spinal transection, these terminals gradually decreased, suggesting that they belonged to descending pathways. However, p38-positive terminals were not obviously decreased. After crushing ventral and dorsal roots, accumulations of pf growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity were present in thick axons in the ventral roots and in thin to medium-sized axons in the dorsal roots. In peroneal muscles, growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity was present in some (but not all) motor endplates in all groups. These results indicate that: (i) growth-associated protein-43 is normally present in nerve terminals of many descending projections of the spinal cord; (ii) growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity is expressed and bidirectionally transported in neurons (motor as well as sensory) of normal sciatic nerves; (iii) growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity is present in some adult motor endplates; and (iv) inhibited supraspinal input causes minor, if any, alterations--paralleled by p38--in axonal transport of growth-associated protein-43-like immunoreactivity.
Binding of [3H]resiniferatoxin was seen by autoradiography in sections of rat dorsal root ganglia and the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Membranes from rat dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord, but not other tissues, had saturable high-affinity binding sites for [3H]resiniferatoxin. A series of capsaicin analogues competed for these sites. The sites probably correspond to capsaicin receptors. Systemic pretreatment of rats with capsaicin caused loss of capsaicin sensitivity in sensory neurons and a reduction in binding of resiniferatoxin to rat dorsal root ganglia, measured by binding assays and autoradiography. Adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons cultured without nerve growth factor also lost their capsaicin-sensitivity and showed reduced resiniferatoxin binding. Therefore, capsaicin responses in sensory neurons may be regulated by nerve growth factor through control of the number of capsaicin receptors.
The nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, a component of the basal forebrain magnocellular complex affected in Alzheimer type dementia, supplies centrifugal innervation to the olfactory bulb. We have tested the hypothesis that horizontal limb of the diagonal band lesions will interfere with olfactory memory in a simple olfactory test paradigm. Lesions occupied a restricted volume, approximately 20%, of medial horizontal limb of the diagonal band. There was interference with habituation of investigation latency and duration, six and 16 days after lesioning. It is concluded that bilateral partial lesions of the medial nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band interfere with habituation memory for odours.
The projections of the rat temporal cortex to the amygdala and cerebral cortex were studied using the sensitive anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. These studies revealed that the core of temporal area 1 had no projections to the amygdala but did send efferents to several cortical fields that projected to the amygdala, including temporal area 2, temporal area 3, the lateral occipital area 2, and a cortical zone along the dorsal, rostral and caudal borders of temporal area 1 (&quot;Tel fringe&quot;). The temporal area 1 fringe cortex had light projections to the amygdala that were confined to the dorsolateral subdivision of the lateral amygdaloid nucleus. Temporal area 2 and the caudal portion of temporal area 3 had projections to both the dorsolateral and ventromedial subdivisions of the lateral nucleus; the projection from temporal area 2 targeted mainly the ventromedial subdivision, whereas the projection from the caudal portion of temporal area 3 terminated primarily in the dorsolateral subdivision. The rostral portion of temporal area 3 had projections to both subdivisions of the lateral nucleus and to the basal magnocellular nucleus. Temporal areas 2 and 3 also had light projections to the lateral capsular subdivision of the central amygdaloid nucleus. Temporal cortical areas exhibited extensive reciprocal connections with each other. Temporal areas with amygdaloid projections also had extensive projections to the perirhinal cortex. The results of the present investigation, in conjunction with other studies of temporal cortical connections, suggest that all temporal regions projecting to the amygdala are multimodal sensory areas. The core of temporal area 1, which is probably the primary auditory area, apparently has no direct projections to the amygdala. The differential projections of different temporal areas to the amygdala suggests the existence of several distinct multimodal pathways arranged in a parallel configuration.
The projections from the neostriatum and the paleostriatum to the cerebral cortex in the cat were examined by means of retrogradely transported fluorescent tracers primuline, Fast Blue, Nuclear Yellow and Evans Blue injected into different neocortical fields. In all cases after dye injections only large labelled cells of sources of striatocortical ipsilateral projections were observed. The main projections from the caudate nucleus and the putamen are directed to the auditory and neighbouring &quot;associative&quot; cortex, and more numerous projections from the globus pallidus are addressed to the motor cortex. No sources of cortical projections within the entopeduncular nucleus were found. Simultaneous injections of Fast Blue and primuline into even closely located and tightly bound functional regions of parietal or temporal cortex failed to reveal double-labelled neurons in the caudate nucleus, internal capsule, putamen and globus pallidus. Thus, our findings on cats are consistent with recent studies on rats and monkeys that suggest that striatal neurons innervate relatively small, restricted fields of the neocortex. Again, the results show evidence for a significant contribution to cholinergic cortical innervation not only of magnocellular neurons of the basal forebrain but also of large neo- and paleostriatal cells.
The effects of chronic 'continuous' and 'intermittent' L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine treatments on GABA receptor function in the basal ganglia of rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial forebrain bundle was investigated, by autoradiography with [3H]flunitrazepam. The 6-hydroxydopamine lesion itself, increased [3H]flunitrazepam binding in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (+17%, with respect to intact side) and entopeduncular nucleus (+44%), but decreased binding in the globus pallidus of the denervated hemisphere (-20%). 'Intermittent' L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine treatment reduced the [3H]flunitrazepam binding changes observed in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (-13%) and entopeduncular nucleus (-4%), whereas 'continuous' infusion of the same daily dose of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine had less effect (+14%, substantia nigra pars reticulata; +26%, entopeduncular nucleus). In contrast, the [3H]flunitrazepam binding decrease in the globus pallidus of the 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned animals was unaffected by either regime of chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine treatment. The changes in GABA receptor function implied by these results provide further insight into the pathophysiological effects of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine treatment on basal ganglia function, following dopamine denervation. In accordance with existing electrophysiological and biochemical evidence on this subject, the main implications of these results include reduced GABA sensitivity of neurons in the entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata, following chronic 'intermittent', but not chronic 'continuous' L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine treatment; this may be due to a reversal of the 6-hydroxydopamine induced decrease in the GABA-mediated neurotransmission in the striatoentopeduncular and striatonigral pathways. In contrast, the regulation of GABA receptors in the globus pallidus does not appear to be subject to modulation by chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine administration, suggesting that dopamine replacement in this manner does not modify the 6-hydroxydopamine induced increase in GABA-mediated neurotransmission in the stratopallidal pathway.
The visualization of mu opiate receptors by [3H]naloxone binding was used to determine precisely the spatial organization of the patch compartment in the rat striatum and its reproducibility in different animals. Three-dimensional reconstruction of the patch network was made using maps of autoradiographic data obtained from successive coronal, sagittal or horizontal sections. The extreme rostral pole of the striatum (A 11) was characterized by a large patch territory exhibiting complex and tortuous fields with several extensions. In the intermediate part of the structure (A 9.0-10.0), about 20 serial parallel continuous patch channels running in a mediolateral axis, obliquely oriented and displaying in some cases connecting branches, could be observed. However, no channels could be distinguished in the rostrocaudal direction. More caudally, patches were rare and of small size. In addition, the laterocaudal region of the striatum was almost exclusively represented by a large matrix field. Finally, a fine discontinuous band of [3H]naloxone binding was seen in all sections, bordering and limiting the dorsolateral part of the striatum. The topographical and spatial distribution of the patch compartment was similar in all animals investigated. However, due to the tortuous shape and the labyrinthine organization of the patches, the precise degree of reproducibility from one animal to another could not be established. Nevertheless, the prominent patch compartment observed in the rostral pole of the striatum, the patch channels, oriented in the mediolateral axis as well as the large laterocaudal matrix field were observed in all cases. These results were compared with previous data obtained in the cat in which patch (striosome) channels oriented along a rostrocaudal axis are also observed.
A study was done to determine if the Fos and neurotensin immunoreactivities elicited in the rat striatal complex by the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, S(-)-eticlopride hydrochloride are co-localized in the same neurons. Following injections of eticlopride, Fos and neurotensin immunoreactivity were both non-uniformly distributed among the striatal compartments and subterritories. Fos was co-localized in a significant number of small, lightly neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons, but not in a larger subset of neurons with significantly greater median diameter that exhibited intense neurotensin immunoreactivity extending well into the dendritic arbor. It is proposed that neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons lacking Fos immunoreactivity are prominent following selective blockade of the dopamine D2 receptor and represent a subset of striatal neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons. Neurotensin-immunoreactive cells containing Fos nuclei represent a distinct subset, possibly the one that is dominant following administration of reserpine [Zahm (1992) Neuroscience 46, 335-350]. Insofar as Fos expression has been reported to accompany activation of striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons, the absence of Fos in the subset of neurotensin neurons displayed following D2 receptor blockade may be at odds with activation and perhaps is more consistent with inactivation and accompanying decreased release of neurotensin [see Frey et al. (1988) Neurochem. Int. 12, 33-38, and Bean et al. (1989) J. Neurosci. 9, 4430-4438] as a mechanism underlying the accumulation of neurotensin in that subset of striatal neurons.
The distribution of messenger RNA coding for acetylcholinesterase was studied in human post mortem brain and rhesus monkey by in situ hybridization histochemistry and compared to the distribution of acetylcholinesterase activity. Acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA had--similar to acetylcholinesterase enzymatic activity--a widespread distribution in human bain. Acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA positive cells corresponded to perikarya rich in acetylcholinesterase activity in most but not all regions. Examples for mismatches included the inferior olive and human cerebellar cortex. The presence of hybridization signals in cerebral cortex and an enrichment in layer III and V of most isocortical areas confirmed that perikaryal acetylcholinesterase in cerebral cortex is of postsynaptic origin and not derived from cholinergic projections. In striatum the expression of high levels of acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA was restricted to a small population of large striatal neurons. In addition, low levels of expression were found in most medium sized striatal neurons. Cholinergic neurons tended to express high levels of acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA whereas in cholinoceptive neurons the levels were moderate to low. However, some noncholinergic neurons like dopaminergic cells in substantia nigra, noradrenergic cells in locus coeruleus, serotoninergic cells in raph dorsalis, GABAergic cells in thalamic reticular nucleus, granular cells in cerebellar cortex and pontine relay neurons expressed levels comparable to cholinergic neurons in basal forebrain. It is suggested that neurons expressing high levels of acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA may synthesize acetylcholinesterase for axonal transport whereas neurons with an expression of acetylcholinesterase confined to somatodendritic regions tend to contain lower levels of acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA.
Mller cells span through the entire retina and terminate with the formation of endfeet at the vitreous body. These endfeet are thought to be specialized for maintaining the K+ homeostasis in the retina based on the assumption that voltage signals can passively spread from the cell body to the endfeet. We employed the patch-clamp technique to study the physiological properties of these endfeet in a retinal wholemount preparation from guinea-pig or mouse. After assessing one endfoot with the patch pipette and establishing the whole cell recording configuration, a membrane area which approximately matched the size of one endfoot and proximal process could be voltage-clamped. This morphological correlation could be established by filling the cytoplasm with the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow via the patch-pipette. The morphological, immunocytochemical and ultrastructural inspection of the recorded cells revealed that mouse Mller cell endfeet were connected by only a thin stalk to the proximal process. In contrast, guinea-pig endfeet were connected by thick stalks. The endfoot current in the mouse was dominated by a voltage and time-independent K+ conductance. In contrast, in some of the recordings from guinea-pig, delayed and inwardly rectifying K+ currents were observed. These voltage-gated currents were more frequently observed or were facilitated when the membrane area under voltage clamp was increased, blocking the passive K+ currents by Ba2+ in both, mouse and guinea-pig. We thus assume that the voltage-gated currents were not in the endfeet membrane, but rather in the proximal process and could thus be better activated in the guinea-pig with its thicker stalk or after increasing the membrane area under voltage clamp control. Similar results were obtained in freshly isolated Mller cells; in contrast to the cells from the wholemount the voltage-gated currents were more frequently observed. These studies demonstrate that the Mller cell endfoot of the mouse with its vascularized retina is an electrically isolated unit and that voltage signals do not spread to the proximal process. Such a property would, however, be required for the redistribution of K+ via spatial buffer currents. In contrast, guinea-pig Mller glial cells with their stout morphological connection between endfoot and proximal process are better suited to fulfil this task.
Intracellular recordings were performed on hippocampal CA3 neurons in vitro to investigate the inhibitory tonus generated by endogenously produced adenosine in this brain region. Bath application of the highly selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine at concentrations up to 100 nM induced both spontaneous and stimulus-evoked epileptiform burst discharges. Once induced, the 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine-evoked epileptiform activity was apparently irreversible even after prolonged superfusion with drug-free solution. The blockade of glutamatergic excitatory synaptic transmission by preincubation of the slices with the amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolpropionic acid receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10 microM), but not with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM), prevented the induction of epileptiform activity by 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine. The generation of the burst discharges was independent of the membrane potential, and the amplitude of the slow component of the paroxysmal depolarization shift increased with hyperpolarization, indicating that the 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine-induced bursts were synaptically mediated events. Recordings from tetrodotoxin-treated CA3 neurons revealed a strong postsynaptic component of endogenous adenosinergic inhibition. Both 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine and the adenosine-degrading enzyme adenosine deaminase produced an apparently irreversible depolarization of the membrane potential by about 20 mV. Sometimes, this depolarization attained the threshold for the generation of putative calcium spikes, but no potential changes resembling paroxysmal depolarization shift-like events were observed. At the concentrations used in electrophysiological experiments (30-100 nM), 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine displayed only a negligible inhibitory action on total cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase activity measured by means of a radiochemical assay in a homogenate of the rat cerebral cortex. Furthermore, even high concentrations of the selective phosphodiesterase inhibitor rolipram (10 microM), which displays no affinity to adenosine receptors, did not mimic the electrophysiological actions of 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine, thus excluding the possibility that the effects of the A1 receptor antagonist on neuronal discharge behavior can be ascribed to an inhibition of phosphodiesterases. The present data demonstrate that endogenously released adenosine exerts a vigorous control on the excitability of hippocampal CA3 neurons on both the pre- and postsynaptic sites. The long-lasting disinhibition following a transient suppression of adenosinergic inhibition strongly suggests that, besides its well-known short-term effects on neuronal activity, adenosine might also contribute to the long-term control of hippocampal excitability.
Intracellular current clamp recordings were obtained from mossy cells (n = 6, identified by intracellular injection of biocytin) of the dorsal dentate gyrus from rats under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia. During electroencephalographic theta rhythm (4-6 Hz), recorded with a macroelectrode placed in the contralateral dorsal hippocampus near the fissure, mossy cells displayed intracellular membrane potential oscillations at low frequencies (4-6 Hz) which appeared to be phase locked to the electroencephalographic theta rhythm. The frequency of the intracellular theta rhythm was independent of the membrane potential. However, the phase difference between the intracellular and the electroencephalographic theta rhythms as well as the amplitude of the intracellular theta oscillations were voltage-dependent. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that rhythmic GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials contribute to the genesis of the intracellular theta rhythm. Indeed, mossy cells displayed an early, fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential in response to electrical stimulation of the entorhinal cortex, which most likely represents a GABAA receptor-mediated event, indicating that mossy cells possess functional GABAA receptors. At the resting membrane potential, mossy cells did not fire at each cycle of the electroencephalographic theta rhythm but fired only rarely (&lt; 1 Hz). However, when they did fire they did so preferentially in phase with the peak positivity of the electroencephalographic theta rhythm. Reconstruction of two mossy cells with axonal projections to the inner molecular layer showed that the spatial extent of the influence such weakly discharging mossy cells may have on other dentate gyrus neurons during theta oscillations can be several millimeters in the septotemporal direction. In conclusion, these findings show that mossy cells of the rat hilus during ketamine-xylazine anesthesia participate in theta oscillations of the hippocampal formation, during which their low-frequency firing may contribute to the phase-locking of a large number of spatially distributed postsynaptic neurons with postsynaptic sites in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus.
In the hippocampus, glutamatergic pathways are altered following seizure activity or transient global ischemia, both pathological conditions leading to selective neuronal degeneration. Glutamatergic receptors, and notably alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolopropionate (AMPA) receptors, a family of glutamate receptors involved in fast synaptic transmission and in the maintenance of synaptic potentiation may play an important role in the pathological outcome. AMPA receptors are assembled from GluR-A, GluR-B, GluR-C and GluR-D polypeptides which exist in flop and flip variants, the latter allowing larger glutamate responses. Using in situ hybridization techniques, we show that kainate-induced epilepsy provokes a rapid but transient increase (50%) of GluR-B flip mRNA levels in all subregions of the hippocampus (CA1, CA3, dentate gyrus). This early phase is followed by a second, persistent GluR-B flip increase in regions in which neurons are known to be seizure-resistant (i.e. CA1 an dentate gyrus) while a 35% decrease is observed in the vulnerable CA3 area. Following global ischemia, the levels of GluR-B flip and flop variants are dramatically reduced (90-100%), well before any morphological signs of cell death, in the subiculum and CA1, two areas known to be particularly sensitive to ischemic insult. In keeping with the properties of GluR flip variants, it is suggested that altered subunit stoichiometry may lead to long-lasting enhanced efficiency of fast synaptic transmission in the epileptic hippocampus. Since GluR-B containing receptors are Ca2+ impermeable, our results also suggest altered Ca2+ permeability in the vulnerable pyramidal neurons of areas CA3 and CA1 in the epileptic and ischemic hippocampi, respectively.
Basal density and estrogen induction of oxytocin binding sites in limbic and hypothalamic structures of the rat brain were investigated by semi-quantitative autoradiography following chronic administration of dexamethasone or progesterone. The selective oxytocin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2,Thr4,Tyr-NH2(9)] ornithine-vasotocin was used as a ligand for oxytocin binding sites. Estrogen administration increased ligand binding in all sites investigated. Dexamethasone treatment significantly increased ligand binding in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, lateral ventral septum and amygdala to an extent which was comparable to that of estradiol alone. In the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus, dexamethasone significantly decreased basal levels of oxytocin binding. Estrogen administration subsequent to dexamethasone failed to cause a further increase in oxytocin binding in all structures investigated. Chronic progesterone treatment significantly increased basal oxytocin receptor density in the limbic structures, decreased it in the ventromedial nucleus, and prevented estrogen-induced increases in ligand binding in all areas studied with the exception of the medial preoptic area. These findings demonstrate that, in addition to gonadal steroids, glucocorticoids differentially and site-specifically modulate cerebral oxytocin binding sites. The evidence for glucocorticoid and gestagen influences on oxytocin receptors and their inducibility by estrogen may be relevant to the understanding of mechanisms leading to impairment of oxytocin-related behaviours.

Trophic effects of platelet-derived growth factor -AA and -BB on developing (embryonic day 14) ventral mesencephalon were studied using the in vivo model of intraocular transplantation to sympathetically denervated host eyes. This model enabled studies of survival and growth of grafted brain tissue, dopaminergic fiber outgrowth from the grafts onto the host iris as well as morphological effects of platelet-derived growth factor on grafted tissue using markers for tyrosine hydroxylase and glial fibrillary acid protein. Growth of grafts was followed by repeated observations directly through the cornea of the host using a stereomicroscope. This revealed that there was no apparent effect on volume increase of mesencephalic grafts after treatments with either platelet-derived growth factor-AA (100 ng/ml buffer), platelet-derived growth factor-BB (100 ng/ml buffer) or vehicle solution (high salt buffer) alone. Growth factor treatments were administered immediately prior to grafting by incubating the grafts in the appropriate factor as well as on days 5, 10 and 15 postgrafting by administration of 5-microliters intraocular injections of similar solutions as used for incubation. Platelet-derived growth factor-AA significantly enhanced dopaminergic fiber outgrowth from mesencephalic grafts when compared to both platelet-derived growth factor-BB and controls, without an accompanying rise in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. In contrast, a significantly greater number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons was seen in grafts treated with platelet-derived growth factor-BB but without an accompanying increase in outgrowth of dopamine-containing fibers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report here the neurotransmitter characteristics of neurons cultured from the same ganglia of fetal and embryonic guinea-pigs. Both the celiac ganglion and the superior mesenteric ganglion were examined. In a previous paper we described the neurotransmitter properties of adult guinea-pig prevertebral sympathetic neurons grown in dissociated cell culture, including the expression by these cells of immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y and somatostatin. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was ubiquitously expressed in all fetal embryonic cultures, as was the case for adult neurons. Fetal-derived celiac and superior mesenteric gangli neurons displayed neuropeptide Y and somatostatin immunoreactivity in the same percentage of neurons as in adult cultures but at markedly lower levels. Embryonic neurons also expressed somatostatin immunoreactivity in roughly the same proportion of neurons as in adult and fetal cultures; however, the expression of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in both celiac and superior mesenteric gangli cultures was significantly different. Specifically, neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in embryonic celiac cultures was greatly reduced in both the number of positive-labeled neurons and the amount of immunoreactive product, while neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in embryonic superior mesenteric gangli cultures was markedly increased compared to their adult and fetal counterparts. The expression of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in celiac neurons was found to be specifically elevated by culturing the neurons in medium conditioned by disassociated vascular cells, this treatment having no effect on tyrosine hydroxylase or somatostatin immunoreactivity. Heart cell-conditioned medium did not effect neuropeptide Y or somatostatin immunoreactivity, although it did result in a significant reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and an increase in 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity. We conclude that the expression of neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity develops independently in cultures of adult and near-term fetuses but that embryonic neurons require interactions with target cells to express this phenotype. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity can be induced in embryonic sympathetic neurons by a target-derived factor(s).
The autonomic nervous system of mammals displays extensive neurotransmitter diversity. The guinea-pig sympathetic nervous system has served as a model for in vivo studies of neurotransmitter co-expression. We have developed methods for the dissociation and long-term culture of adult guinea-pig prevertebral sympathetic ganglia. The neurotransmitter properties of cultured adult guinea-pig sympathetic neurons from the celiac and superior mesenteric ganglia were examined. Cultured principal neurons were found to display many of their in vivo neurotransmitter characteristics, including catecholamine-specific histofluorescence and immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase and the neuropeptides, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. In addition, the cultures of both ganglia displayed the various neurotransmitter characteristics in approximately the same percentage of the cultured neurons as reported in in vivo studies. A small percentage of principal neurons and many small, intensely fluorescent-like cells labeled with antibodies against 5-hydroxytryptamine. Many of the principal neurons were found to bear 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptors, suggesting a possible role for this neurotransmitter in neuron-neuron and small, intensely fluorescent cell-neuron transmission. We conclude that adult guinea-pig sympathetic neurons retain their neurotransmitter phenotypes when grown in dissociated cell culture. These properties include the co-expression of the classical transmitters, norepinephrine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and neuropeptides. This culture preparation will prove to be valuable in future studies on the functional properties of these neurons and their development.
Neurons expressing messenger RNA encoding the opioid peptide precursors, preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin were localized in the medulla oblongata of the rat by in situ hybridization of specific DNA oligonucleotide probes. Neurons containing preproenkephalin messenger RNA were found throughout the medullary reticular formation in the gigantocellular and paragigantocellular reticular nuclei, the parvicellular and lateral reticular nuclei; commissural, medial and ventrolateral subnuclei in the nucleus tractus solitarius and the nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract. Labelled cells were also concentrated in the more medial regions of the area postrema. In contrast, neurons containing preprodynorphin messenger RNA had a more restricted distribution and were detected in the commissural and ventrolateral nucleus tractus solitarius and nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract, especially in the more dorsal regions. Expression of preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin messenger RNA was also examined in the dorsal vagal complex of rats that had undergone a unilateral nodose ganglionectomy or cervical vagotomy. Twenty-four hours after both cervical vagotomy and nodose ganglionectomy, there was a specific 1.5-2-fold elevation in preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin messenger RNA levels in the ventrolateral subnucleus of the contralateral nucleus tractus solitarius relative to levels in the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarius and in the nucleus tractus solitarius of sham-operated animals. Previous immunohistochemical studies demonstrating the co-localization of enkephalin and dynorphin in the ventrolateral nucleus tractus solitarius suggest that these changes occurred in the same population of neurons. In light of the suggested role of the ventrolateral nucleus tractus solitarius as a central respiratory centre and the activation of the intact pulmonary afferents that innervate this area following a unilateral vagotomy (which increases inspiration volume and expiratory time by affecting the Hering-Breuer reflex), our results suggest a specific involvement of enkephalin- and dynorphin-containing neurons in the ventrolateral nucleus tractus solitarius in central respiratory control mechanisms.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) is a novel vasoactive intestinal peptide-like peptide. It has a neuronal localization and occurs in two forms, PACAP-38 and the C-terminally truncated PACAP-27. In a recent report we described a dense accumulation of PACAP-27-immunoreactive nerve fibres in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn in the spinal cord and a few PACAP-27-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies in the spinal ganglia in the rat. Double-immunostaining showed that immunoreactive PACAP-27 occurred in a subpopulation of the calcitonin gene related peptide/substance P-containing cell bodies and fibres. In this study, PACAP-27 (0.47-0.63 pmol) given intrathecally produced a significant and long-lasting suppression of C-fibre-evoked flexion reflex produced by the electrical stimulation of the plantar nerve and recorded as a reflex discharge in the peroneal nerve. With a higher dose, 1.25 pmol, the magnitude of the response was not increased further but the effect became longer-lasting. PACAP-38 and vasoactive intestinal peptide were tested in doses up to 5 pmol and produced a significant and, in the case of PACAP-38, long-lasting suppression of the spinal flexion reflex. PACAP-27 seemed to be much more potent than PACAP-38 and vasoactive intestinal peptide. Intrathecal PACAP-27 was without effect on the monosynaptic stretch reflex (evoked by electrical stimulation of the gastrocnemius nerve and recorded as a reflex discharge in the sciatic nerve), suggesting that its effect on the flexion reflex is specific.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The specific binding of [3H]SCH23390 to D1 and of [3H]raclopride to D2 dopamine receptors was measured by autoradiography in the rostral and caudal halves of neostriatum and in the substantia nigra of adult rats subjected to near total destruction of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons by intraventricular 6-hydroxydopamine soon after birth. Three months after this lesion, [3H]SCH23390 binding (D1 receptors) was slightly but significantly decreased in the rostral neostriatum (22%), but unchanged in its caudal half and in the substantia nigra. In contrast, [3H]raclopride binding (D2 receptors) was considerably increased throughout the neostriatum (10-40%), while markedly decreased in the substantia nigra (80%). In the rostral neostriatum, there were no parallel changes in D2 receptor messenger RNA levels, as measured by in situ hybridization on adjacent sections. Caudally, however, slight but significant increases in D2 messenger RNA could be observed (10-20%). As assessed by quantitative iontophoresis, there was a marked enhancement (63%) of the inhibitory responsiveness of spontaneously firing units in the rostral neostriatum to dopamine and the D1 agonist, SKF38393, in neonatally lesioned compared to control rats. On the other hand, responsiveness to PPHT, a potent D2 agonist, appeared to be unchanged. Such opposite changes in the number of D1 and D2 binding sites, dissociated from the expression of D2 receptor messenger RNA and from the sensitivity to dopamine and D1 and D2 agonists, suggested independent adaptations of these various parameters following the neonatal dopamine denervation of neostriatum. They also provided further evidence for mechanisms other than the dopamine innervation in the control of the expression of neostriatal D2 receptor messenger RNA during ontogenesis, and emphasized that the effects of dopamine and its D1 and D2 agonists in neostriatum do not depend strictly on the number of D1 and D2 primary ligand recognition sites.
Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase prior to conditioning has been previously found to reduce levels of hippocampal long-term potentiation. In the present experiments in the rat, the reduction of long-term potentiation by nitric oxide synthase inhibitors was highly conditioning-dependent. We have characterized the relative importance of the number of conditioning stimulus trains, pulse number, intensity, and pattern in the reduction of long-term potentiation by nitric oxide synthase inhibitors. Long-term potentiation was reduced relative to control values only when multiple conditioning stimulus trains were presented at maximal stimulus intensity; potentiation produced by an equivalent number and intensity of stimuli presented in a single conditioning train was not reduced by nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, and multiple-train-induced potentiation was sensitive to nitric oxide synthase inhibitors only when maximal stimulation intensity was employed. Another form of synaptic potentiation, primed-burst potentiation, was reduced by nitric oxide synthase inhibition, while homosynaptic and heterosynaptic depression were unaffected. Our results support the hypothesis that conditioning-dependent release of nitric oxide can contribute to long-term potentiation, but also show that its blockade by nitric oxide synthase inhibitors is dependent on the nature of the conditioning stimulus, and that long-term potentiation can be generated that is apparently resistant to the effects of these drugs.
Increasing evidence indicates that nitric oxide acts as an intercellular signal transduction molecule in the nervous system. In particular, in vitro studies have demonstrated that nitric oxide is produced in the cerebellar cortex and is responsible for the increases in cyclic GMP seen in response to glutamate receptor activation. In this study, we have combined the technique of intracerebellar microdialysis with a sensitive assay for nitric oxide oxidation products nitrate and nitrite, to assess nitric oxide release directly in awake, freely moving animals. We have found that infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate via the microdialysis probe results in a dose-dependent increase in cerebellar nitric oxide release. This increase was prevented by prior administration of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, or the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitroarginine. Both these pretreatments also reduced the basal extracellular nitrite and nitrate levels, suggesting that there is a tonic glutamate-induced nitric oxide production in the cerebellum of awake, freely moving animals. These results provide direct evidence for nitric oxide release in response to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation in the adult cerebellar cortex, in vivo. This new approach, coupling microdialysis with the azo dye detection method of Griess, should thus prove useful for the in vivo study of nitric oxide release from various brain regions in response to pharmacological, physiological or behavioral manipulations.
The distribution of substance P, enkephalin and vasoactive intestinal peptide in fibres and cells was examined in the autonomic nuclei of the lower thoracic and lumbar segments of the rat spinal cord. Attention was focussed on the location of the peptides in sympathetic preganglionic neurons contributing to the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves and in fibres surrounding these neurons. To identify splanchnic preganglionic neurons, Fluoro-Gold was applied to the left splanchnic nerve in anaesthetized rats and some of these animals received intrathecal administration of colchicine at thoracic segments 6, 9 and 12, 24-48 h before perfusion with fixative. Immunoreactivity for substance P, enkephalin and vasoactive intestinal peptide in fibres and cells of the sixth thoracic to second lumbar spinal cord was detected with fluorescent immunocytochemical techniques. Most retrogradely labelled cells (90%) were located in the intermediolateral nucleus and the rest were situated in the nucleus intercalatus and the central autonomic nucleus of the gray matter. Terminals of fibres containing immunoreactivity to all three peptides were found in all autonomic regions. Fibres immunoreactive for substance P and enkephalin were seen projecting in the white matter to the region of the intermediolateral nucleus and extending from this nucleus to the central autonomic nucleus. Terminals containing each of the three peptides were also found surrounding the retrogradely labelled cells in the intermediolateral nucleus. Approximately two cells immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide were found per section and 80% were located in the autonomic regions. Fewer cells immunoreactive for substance P and enkephalin were observed (approximately one per section) and 70% were outside laminae VII and X. Although cells immunoreactive for substance P, enkephalin and vasoactive intestinal peptide were located in all autonomic regions of the spinal cord, cells doubly labelled with retrograde dye and with the antisera to either of the peptides could not be identified. The data suggest that (i) substance P, enkephalin and vasoactive intestinal peptide are contained in fibres of neurons regulating preganglionic sympathetic control of the abdominal viscera and its vasculature; and (ii) these peptides may not be major transmitters within splanchnic preganglionic neurons.
Bilateral changes in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion content of the sensory peptides substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide have been previously reported in animal models of arthritis which affect many joints within the body. The central nervous system has been implicated in the symmetry of joint involvement in human rheumatoid arthritis. We aimed to determine whether unilateral inflammation of the knee joint can also induce bilateral changes in the spinal cord. We have induced a monoarthritis in the knee joint of the rat and used quantitative immunocytochemistry to look at changes of these peptides in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglia. Furthermore we have examined the responses during the acute (three days) and the chronic (21 days) phases of the model. The data show that in the acute phase of the monoarthritis there is both an ipsilateral and contralateral response which increases the immunoreactive substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the L4 level of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In the chronic phase of the monoarthritis, the contralateral side of the dorsal horn returned to control values whilst the ipsilateral side showed reduced amounts of immunoreactive substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide compared to controls. We propose that the acute response, at three days, to unilateral inflammation is appropriate and has evolved to protect an organism against the original insult ipsilaterally, and the possibility of subsequent insult contralaterally.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
GABAergic and enkephalinergic afferents to the ventral tegmental area were investigated in the rat using retrograde tracing techniques combined with in situ hybridization. Following iontophoretic deposit of Fluoro-Gold in the ventral tegmental area labeling in the forebrain was most dense in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, rostral ventromedial ventral pallidum and diagonal band of Broca. A smaller density was also observed in the lateral septum. In these forebrain regions, the portion of retrogradely labeled cells that contained mRNA for glutamate decarboxylase ranged from 25% to 50%, whereas only 5% to 15% were double-labeled for preproenkephalin mRNA. Cells double-labeled with either glutamate decarboxylase or preproenkephalin mRNA were most numerous in the lateral septum, shell of the nucleus accumbens, rostral ventral pallidum and diagonal band of Broca. Large Fluoro-Gold deposits which invaded the medial substantia nigra resulted in a significant number of retrogradely labeled cells in the core of the nucleus accumbens, and a portion of these neurons also contained mRNA for glutamate decarboxylase or preproenkephalin. These data demonstrate the presence of GABAergic and enkephalinergic neurons projecting from the nucleus accumbens, ventral pallidum and diagonal band of Broca to the ventral tegmental area.
A panel of monoclonal antibodies specific for a family of voltage-dependent, fast-activating K+ channels, raised against alpha-dendrotoxin acceptors purified from bovine brain, were used to probe the distribution of these important proteins in rat cerebellum. All the antibodies reacted with their antigens in the folial white matter, the granular cell layer and the basket cell nerve termini within the Purkinje cell layer. However, a very intense staining pattern was exhibited by only one monoclonal that reacts exclusively with Kv 1.2 alpha subunit, the predominant isoform present in alpha-dendrotoxin sensitive K+ channels. Double-labelling procedures with neuronal and glial markers were used to verify this discrete antibody staining of the basket cell terminals that synapse with the base of Purkinje cell bodies in a readily recognizable and characteristic fashion. This is the first direct demonstration, using a monoclonal antibody, of a presynaptic location for a voltage-activated K+ channel; its discrete distribution in the basket cell pinceau suggests that it could control release of the inhibitory transmitter GABA and, thereby, influence excitability of Purkinje cells in the cerebellum.
Mast cells are known for their participation in immediate and, more recently, delayed hypersensitivity reactions. They have been found in the meninges and certain brain areas where they are strictly perivascular, in close apposition to neurons, and they are activated by direct nerve stimulation or by neuropeptides. Intracranial mast cells contain many vasoactive substances which can increase the permeability of the blood-brain barrier, proteolytic enzymes which can degrade myelin in vitro, as well as chemotactic molecules which can attract inflammatory molecules in vivo. Connective tissue mast cells, with which intracranial mast cells share many characteristics, contain cytokines which can cause inflammation directly. Multiple sclerosis is a human demyelinating disease of unknown etiology, with a high prevalence in women which results in penetration of blood-borne immune cells within the brain parenchyma and subsequent destruction of myelin. Here, we report that 17 beta-estradiol and myelin basic protein, a major suspected immunogen in multiple sclerosis, had a synergistic action on inducing mast cell secretion. This effect was more pronounced in Lewis rats, which are susceptible to the development of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, an animal model for multiple sclerosis, than in Sprague-Dawley rats, which are fairly resistant. Moreover, 18 h incubation of purified peritoneal mast cells with homogeneic slices of brain white matter in the presence of 17 beta-estradiol and myelin basic protein resulted in myelin changes resembling early stages of brain demyelination, which were also more evident in Lewis rats than in Sprague-Dawley rats. These results support the notion that mast cells could participate in the pathophysiology of demyelinating diseases.
This study demonstrates the co-existence of three neurochemicals in ventral medullary neurons of the cat utilizing fluorescence immunohistochemistry. Neurons containing 5-hydroxytryptamine, thyrotropin-releasing hormone and substance P were identified within the rostrocaudal extent of the medulla, specifically within the raphe pallidus and raphe magnus and in the reticular formation of the ventrolateral medulla in the nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis. Within the raphe pallidus the majority of 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing neurons were co-localized with thyrotropin-releasing hormone and substance P. However, in the raphe magnus the majority of stained neurons contained 5-hydroxytryptamine and thyrotropin-releasing hormone but were devoid of substance P. In the ventrolateral medulla two major populations of neurons were identified rostral to the inferior olivary nuclei, one containing 5-hydroxytryptamine and thyrotropin-releasing hormone, while a more lateral group contained substance P alone. More caudally, at the level of the inferior olives, the majority of 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing cells also displayed immunoreactivity for thyrotropin-releasing hormone and substance P. A consistent finding in both the ventromedial and ventrolateral regions of the medulla was a population of 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing cells which did not stain for either thyrotropin-releasing hormone or substance P. The functional role of co-localized neurochemicals remains unknown but co-existence of neurotransmitter substances in medullary neurons may allow for specific and multiple actions in the spinal cord.
Neonatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (420 mg/kg s.c.) lowered thermal nociceptive threshold (hot plate and tail immersion tests) and increased levels of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the skin (paws, tail, area of vibrissae) of Wistar rats. Chemical ablation of primary afferents, induced in either neonatal or adult rats by systemic administration of capsaicin, increased thermal nociceptive threshold (hot plate), irrespective of 6-hydroxydopamine pretreatment, and reduced substance P-like immunoreactivity in the hind-paw skin of either control or sympathectomized rats. Capsaicin pretreatment of neonatal but not adult rats produced antinociceptive effect in the tail-immersion test and completely reversed the hyperalgesic effect of sympathectomy, without affecting levels of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the tail skin. These findings indicate that sympathetic nerves and different subsets of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferents are involved in the processing of thermal nociceptive input. Corneal and cutaneous lesions were induced by neonatal sensory denervation with capsaicin. Sympathectomy afforded protection against the development of corneal pathology, while it did not affect the occurrence of cutaneous lesions. It appears that a balance in the neuronal activity between sympathetic neurons and trigeminal sensory neurons is critical for maintaining the normal trophism of the cornea, and that sensory neuropeptides play a key role in the maintenance of normal trophism of the skin.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) is a vasoactive intestinal peptide-like hypothalamic peptide occurring as two variants, PACAP-27 and the C-terminally extended PACAP-38. Immunoreactive PACAP has also been demonstrated in the enteric nervous system and in the innervation of the respiratory tract. We have examined the possibility that PACAP occurs in the sensory nervous system of the rat. Immunocytochemistry revealed PACAP in numerous nerve fibres in the superficial layer of the dorsal horns of the spinal cord, in nerve cell bodies (most of them of small size) of the spinal ganglia and trigeminal ganglia and in nerve fibres running close to and within the surface epithelium in the skin of the nose, the tongue, the larynx-trachea, and the urinary bladder as well as around the ducts of the submandibular gland. In all locations, PACAP co-existed with calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P, the PACAP-immunoreactive fibres and cell bodies constituting a subpopulation of those storing substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide. Additional PACAP-immunoreactive fibres not associated with epithelia seemed to lack calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P. Capsaicin treatment reduced the density of PACAP- and calcitonin gene-related peptide/substance P-immunoreactive fibres in the tissues examined. On the whole, the immunocytochemical results agreed with those obtained by radioimmunoassay for PACAP and CGRP. The data favour a role for PACAP in primary sensory neurons.
In the mammalian retina there are two populations of nitric oxide synthase-containing amacrine cells that stain with the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase reaction. To determine the response of these neurons to light, immunoreactivity to Fos proteins was used as a marker of synaptic activation. Fos immunoreactivity is absent in dark-adapted retinas, but 70% of large, Type I nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-reactive amacrine cells and 5-10% of the smaller but more numerous Type II nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-reactive amacrine cells contain Fos proteins after light stimulation. To localize putative cellular targets of nitric oxide in the retina, retinas were stained immunocytochemically for cyclic GMP after the local administration of the nitric oxide donors sodium nitroprusside and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine. Both compounds induce strong cyclic GMP immunoreactivity in ON cone bipolar cells. The data suggest that the light-induced inward current in ON cone bipolar cells is enhanced by a nitric oxide-cyclic GMP pathway and that the major source of nitric oxide is the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase-reactive amacrine cells in the rabbit retina.
The nitric oxide synthase/cyclic GMP pathway has been studied in vivo in the adult rat cerebellum by monitoring the levels of extracellular cyclic GMP during microdialysis in conscious unrestrained animals. The basal cyclic GMP efflux was concentration-dependently reduced upon local infusion of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine (10 microM-1 mM). The nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-N-penicillamine, perfused through the dialysis probe at 1 mM, increased by about 200% the extracellular levels of cyclic GMP. The glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (500 microM) produced a cyclic GMP response which was abolished by the selective receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (500 microM) or by NG-nitro-L-arginine (10 microM). The elevation of cyclic GMP levels caused by local infusion of 500 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate was also abolished by parenteral administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blocker dizocilpine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.). Local perfusion of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (1 mM) increased by about 150% the extracellular levels of cyclic GMP. It is concluded that cyclic GMP collected during in vivo microdialysis reflects nitric oxide synthase activity in the rat cerebellum. The technique may be utilized to investigate the pathophysiology and the pharmacology of the nitric oxide/cyclic GMP pathway in the cerebellum of living animals.
Nerve growth factor is required for the survival and maintenance of cholinergic neurons in the central nervous system. The direct infusion into the rat's septum of an anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody, which inhibits nerve growth factor bioactivity seven times more strongly than a polyclonal antibody, caused very severe damage to the hippocampal cholinergic system. Anti-nerve growth factor polyclonal antibody also neutralized endogenously occurring nerve growth factor. The infusion of anti-nerve growth factor polyclonal antibody produced a dysfunction of memory and decreased choline acetyltransferase activity and acetylcholinesterase staining in the hippocampus. The cholinergic dysfunction and impairment of memory recovered to the normal level two weeks after cessation of the infusion of the anti-nerve growth factor polyclonal antibody. These results suggest that a deficit of nerve growth factor in the adult brain causes neuronal dysfunction.
The use of physiologically derived nursing diagnoses is crucial in care delivery to the patient population at risk for secondary neurologic injury. Eliminating physiologic diagnoses has left the current taxonomic representation of nursing diagnoses inadequate for describing or quantifying care delivery to this patient population. The literature supports the premise that nursing care plays a large role in prevention and minimization of secondary brain injury. The proposed nursing diagnosis &quot;alteration in level of responsiveness&quot; recognizes the use of physiologic concepts and data and is an appropriate label to describe the nursing care provided to the patient at risk for secondary brain injury.
Peripheral-type (mitochondrial) benzodiazepine receptors (PTBR) were studied in the brain and peripheral organs (kidney, liver, and testis) of normal male mice (CD-1/Y) and the congenitally hyperammonemic sparse fur (spf/Y) mouse. Radioligand binding assays were performed with [3H]PK 11195, a ligand with high selectivity and affinity for PTBR. Densities (maximal number of binding sites) of [3H]PK 11195 binding sites were greatest in kidney, followed by liver, testis, and brain. Densities of [3H]PK 11195 binding sites were significantly increased in all tissues of spf mice compared with control animals. In view of the localization of PTBR on the outer mitochondrial membrane, changes in PTBR in spf mouse tissues may modulate the altered mitochondrial function and oxidative metabolism, in brain and peripheral tissues, in congenital OTC deficiency. The positron emission tomography ligand 11C-PK 11195 could find an application in the assessment of end organ dysfunction in this disorder.
Using the water tank procedure, we have examined the effects of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation and associated stress on the properties of striatal dopaminergic system. While stress decreased the number of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, a combination of REM sleep deprivation attenuated the decrease. The ratio of D1 to D2 densities, however, increased on both the stress and REM sleep deprivation groups. In contrast, the number of dopamine uptake sites remained unchanged. The enhanced behavioral responses to dopaminergic stimulants after REM sleep deprivation are discussed.
Interaction of the basic peptides dynorphin A and myelin basic protein with muscarinic receptors was investigated in rat heart and cerebral cortex using radioligand receptor binding assays. Results showed that these peptides inhibit the binding of the muscarinic ligand [3H]N-methylscopolamine at equilibrium and alter the kinetics of ligand dissociation in an allosteric fashion. The number of basic amino acid residues in the composition of dynorphin A is important in eliciting its allosteric interactions. Our data suggest that endogenous basic peptides play a role in regulating the conformation of muscarinic receptors.
This review article is designed to expose physical therapists to an examination of muscle organization and the implications that this organization has for therapeutic applications. The partitioning hypothesis is based on the fact that an individual muscle is arranged in a more complex array than simply fibers attaching at aponeuroses, tendons, or bones with a single muscle nerve innervation. Neuromuscular compartments, which are distinct subvolumes of a muscle, each innervated by an individual muscle nerve branch and each containing motor unit territories with a unique array of physiological attributes, are described. In addition, the organization of individual muscles into these subunits is paralleled by the organization of their parent motoneurons within the spinal cord. These notions are detailed in a review of data derived from studies performed primarily in cat and rat models. Recent data derived from morphological and anatomical study of human muscles support the existence of similar neuromuscular partitions. These data are complemented by physiological studies, the results from which suggest that partitions may have functional or task-oriented roles; that is, different portions of one muscle may be called into play depending on the task demands of the situation. The importance of these observations for reconsidering how we provide clinical applications, such as neuromuscular stimulation or kinesiological monitoring, is discussed.
A neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD) is a widespread amyloid deposition. We analyzed the entire amino acid sequences in an amyloid preparation and found, in addition to the major beta/A4-protein (A beta) fragment, two unknown peptides. We raised antibodies against synthetic peptides using subsequences of these peptides. These antibodies immunostained amyloid in neuritic and diffuse plaques as well as vascular amyloid. Electron microscopic analysis demonstrated that the immunostaining was localized on amyloid fibrils. We have isolated an apparently full-length cDNA encoding a 140-amino-acid protein within which two previously unreported amyloid sequences are encoded in tandem in the most hydrophobic domain. We tentatively named this 35-amino acid peptide NAC (non-A beta component of AD amyloid) and its precursor NACP. NAC is the second component, after A beta, identified chemically in the purified AD amyloid preparation. Secondary structure predictions indicate that the NAC peptide sequence has a strong tendency to form beta-structures consistent with its association with amyloid. NACP is detected as a M(r) 19,000 protein in the cytosolic fraction of brain homogenates and comigrates on immunoblots with NACP synthesized in Escherichia coli from NACP cDNA. NACP mRNA is expressed principally in brain but is also expressed in low concentrations in all tissues examined except in liver, suggesting its ubiquitous and brain-specific functions. The availability of the cDNA encoding full-length NACP should help to elucidate the mechanisms of amyloidosis in AD.
Despite physiological evidence that cholecystokinin (CCK) is an excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, little is known about its mechanism of action. CCK immunoreactivity in the brain, including projections to the striatum, is primarily attributable to the sulfated octapeptide CCK-8S. We report here that CCK-8S abolishes cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of a dopamine- and cAMP-regulated 32-kDa phosphoprotein (DARPP-32) in striatal neurons. The effect of CCK-8S is prevented by antagonists of CCKB and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Our results support a model in which CCK-8S, originating from CCK or CCK/glutamate corticostriatal neurons, promotes the release of an excitatory neurotransmitter that causes the dephosphorylation and inactivation of DARPP-32, a potent protein phosphatase inhibitor, thereby modulating neuronal excitability.
This study evaluates whether protein synthesis plays a role in targeting RNA molecules to different subcellular domains within neurons. Transport of newly synthesized RNA (labeled with [3H]uridine) was examined in the presence of the protein synthesis inhibitors puromycin and cycloheximide. In situ hybridization was used to determine whether inhibition of protein synthesis altered the subcellular distribution of mRNAs. Transport of recently synthesized RNA was not disrupted after prolonged exposure to either inhibitor. However, inhibition of protein synthesis caused several mRNAs that are normally confined to the cell body to appear in dendrites. The distribution of mRNAs that are normally present in dendrites was unaffected. These findings suggest that protein synthesis is not required to translocate RNA into the dendrites but may play a role in restricting particular mRNAs to the neuronal cell body.
The presence of morphine-like and codeine-like substances was demonstrated in the pedal ganglia, hemolymph, and mantle tissues of the mollusc Mytilus edulis. The pharmacological activities of the endogenous morphine-like material resemble those of authentic morphine. Both substances were found to counteract, in a dose-dependent manner, the stimulatory effect of tumor necrosis factor alpha or interleukin 1 alpha on human monocytes and Mytilus immunocytes, when added simultaneously to the incubation medium. The immunosuppressive effect of this opiate material expresses itself in a lowering of chemotactic activity, cellular velocity, and adherence. Codeine mimics the activity of authentic morphine, but only at much higher concentrations. Specific high-affinity receptor sites (mu 3) for morphine have been identified on human monocytes and Mytilus immunocytes. In Mytilus recovering from experimentally induced stress, the return of &quot;altered&quot; immunocytes to a more inactive state appears to be due to a significant rise in the content of morphine-like material in the pedal ganglia and hemolymph at this time. Thus, morphine may have a role in calming or terminating the state of immune alertness.
Plasmalemmal caveolae were first identified as an endocytic compartment in endothelial cells, where they appear to move molecules across the cell by transcytosis. More recently, they have been found to be sites where small molecules are concentrated and internalized by a process called potocytosis. A growing body of biochemical and morphological evidence indicates that a variety of molecules known to function directly or indirectly in signal transduction are enriched in caveolae. This raises the possibility that a third function for caveolae is to process hormonal and mechanical signals for the cell. Insights gained from studying potocytosis suggest several different ways that this membrane specialization might function to integrate incoming and outgoing cellular messages.
By using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we have demonstrated that the nitric oxide (NO)-synthesizing enzyme NO synthase is present in gonadotrophs and in folliculo-stellate cells of the anterior pituitary gland of male and female rats. A marked increase in levels of NO synthase protein and mRNA was observed after gonadectomy. In vitro studies on dispersed anterior pituitary cells suggest that NO inhibits gonadotropin-releasing-hormone-stimulated luteinizing hormone release. An inhibitory effect of NO has also been shown on growth-hormone-releasing-hormone-stimulated release of growth hormone [Kato, M. (1992) Endocrinology 131, 2133-2138]. Thus these findings support a dual mechanism for NO in the control of anterior pituitary hormone secretion, an autocrine mediation of luteinizing hormone release on gonadotrophs, and a paracrine effect on growth hormone secretion involving folliculo-stellate cells closely related to somatotrophs. We speculate that NO may participate in producing the pulsatile secretion patterns of these two pituitary hormones.

To determine ischemia-induced changes in phosphodiesterase (PDE), changes in the membranous binding sites of rolipram, a cAMP-selective PDE inhibitor, were examined in the gerbil brain following transient 5 min forebrain ischemia. Coinciding with the delayed neuronal death (DND) in the hippocampal CA1 region, affinities for cerebral rolipram bindings decreased on Day 4, when intrinsic cAMP, substrate for PDE, might increase. The number of rolipram binding sites was significantly reduced in the hippocampus Day 14, despite the lack of change on Day 4. This reduction in rolipram binding was in agreement with the previously reported late onset reduction of muscarinic receptors, progressing more slowly than DND. Slowly progressive mechanisms may be involved in the ischemia-induced reduction of the hippocampal rolipram binding sites which may be PDEs.
Understanding the neurophysiological basis of learning enables nurses working with individuals with spinal cord injury to astutely assess potential for learning. This is particularly relevant when head injury or drug effects influence neurological systems relevant to learning. The neuroanatomical and neurophysiological bases of learning are related to attention, memory, concept formation/abstraction, reasoning, and executive systems. Attention and memory are discussed as they relate to learning in this article. This information is incorporated into an expanded assessment (Ciminaro, Calhoun, &amp; Adams, 1977; Gazzaniga 1979; Lezak, 1983: Mesulam, 1985). More in-depth nursing assessment related to cognitive systems necessary for learning enables nurses to identify intact and impaired cognitive systems and to quantify deficits. Astute assessment is fundamental to planning effective teaching and learning strategies for spinal cord injured persons especially when learning deficits exist, e.g., in head injured persons who have sustained a spinal cord injury. Implications for client and family education derive from an understanding of the normal neurophysiological basis of learning and normal and abnormal assessment findings. Learning is dependent on several cognitive systems--attention systems, memory systems, concept formation/abstraction and reasoning systems, and the &quot;executive&quot; system. Attention and memory systems are discussed in this article, the remainder will be discussed in the next issue. The neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, clinical findings associated with normal and abnormal function, and nursing implications for the nurse working with individuals with spinal cord injury will be explored.
There is little information dealing specifically with motor neuron disease (MND) in the elderly. Given current epidemiological trends, geriatricians will be increasingly called upon to diagnose and manage this condition. We report four patients who presented within a six month period to a geriatric medical unit, and place this experience in the perspective of 229 patients from a population-based study of adult-onset MND in Scotland in 1989 and 1990. In 1990 Scotland had a crude annual incidence of MND of 2.25/100,000; the figure for those over 65 is four times greater. MND is more common in men, but the sex ratio was nearly equal over the age of 65. The risk of presenting with bulbar palsy was greater in women, and even higher in elderly women. This, together with increasing age, is the most important negative prognostic factor in MND. Problems with the diagnosis and management of MND in the elderly are highlighted.


The cytoprotective effects of MK-801 and NBQX, selective N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonists, respectively, were compared both singularly and in combination in models of transient severe forebrain and transient focal cerebral ischemia. After 10 minutes of four-vessel occlusion ischemia, the sodium salt of NBQX (30 mg/kg IP) given at the time of reperfusion and, subsequently, 15 and 30 minutes later produced a dramatic reduction in CA1 hippocampal necrosis at 7 days. This effect was not obtained with the intraperitoneal administration of either MK-801 (1 mg/kg x 3) or the combination of both NBQX and MK-801 given at the same time intervals. This effect of intraperitoneal NBQX alone was reproduced in a two-vessel occlusion/hypotension model using this same drug administration. Delayed treatment with both NBQX and GYKI 52466, but neither MK-801 nor the combination of NBQX and MK-801 given after a delay, produced a significant reduction in the mean volume of neocortical infarction after transient focal ischemia. We conclude that the AMPA receptor may play a more important role than the NMDA receptor in both selective ischemic necrosis of hippocampal neurons and in neocortical infarction. AMPA antagonists should be subjected to clinical stroke trials.
The feasibility of operating an electron microscope from a remote location using a high-speed computer network has been investigated. A 400 kV electron microscope was modified so that most microscope parameters and stage movement (x, y, z and tilt), can be controlled by a local host computer. The host computer also controls acquisition of digital images from the microscope from either a TV or a slow-scan CCD camera. A computer located at a remote site may send commands to the host computer via a fiber optic network to receive digital images and information concerning the status of microscope. Such a system has been demonstrated at the SIGGRAPH 1992 conference in Chicago and the Supercomputing 92 conference in Minneapolis, where we remotely collected three-dimensional image data sets using the electron microscope in San Diego. This approach, referred to as &quot;telemicroscopy&quot;, promises to make possible live microscopy teleconferencing and thereby increase the accessibility and effective usage of the limited number of specialized microscopy resources.
We propose a model for the neuronal implementation of selective visual attention based on the temporal structure of neuronal activity. In particular, we set out to explain the electrophysiological data from areas V4 and IT in monkey cortex of Moran and Desimone [(1985) Science, 229, 782-784] using the &quot;temporal tagging&quot; hypothesis of Crick and Koch [(1990a) Cold Spring Harbor Symposiums in Quantitative Biology, LV, 953-962; (1990b) Seminars in the neurosciences (pp. 1-36)]. Neurons in primary visual cortex respond to visual stimuli with a Poisson distributed spike train with an appropriate, stimulus-dependent mean firing rate. The firing rate of neurons whose receptive fields overlap with the &quot;focus of attention&quot; is modulated with a periodic function in the 40 Hz range, such that their mean firing rate is identical to the mean firing rate of neurons in &quot;non-attended&quot; areas. This modulation is detected by inhibitory interneurons in V4 and is used to suppress the response of V4 cells associated with non-attended visual stimuli. Using very simple single-cell models, we obtain quantitative agreement with Moran and Desimone's (1985) experiments.
The photoreceptors and pigment epithelia of vertebrate retinas rhythmically synthesize and degrade photosensitive membrane, but the origin of the signal to shed the outer segment tips remains unknown. The parietal eye of lizards contains cone-like photoreceptors but no pigment epithelium. Parietal eye photoreceptors synthesize new disk membrane in a manner similar to rods and cones and also shed their tips rhythmically. The shed material is then engulfed by lumenal macrophages. The signal to shed must originate in, or be transduced by, the photoreceptor.
GABA-immunoreactive displaced amacrines were previously shown to make synapses onto neuronal profiles in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) of macaque monkey retina [Koontz, Hendrickson and Ryan (1989) Visual Neuroscience, 2, 19-25]. These postsynaptic elements have been investigated further using postembedding immunogold methods for electron microscopy. This paper provides ultrastructural evidence that GABA-immunoreactive profiles are presynaptic to the ganglion cell soma, axon hillock, and axon initial segment in the GCL and its border with the nerve fiber layer (NFL). Some axonal profiles have a dense undercoat and fasciculated microtubules, features that are characteristic of the axon initial segment in many neurons of both central and peripheral nervous systems. These features are confined to small- and medium-diameter (0.2-0.6 microns) axon profiles located near the GCL/NFL border and are not found on axonal profiles lying deep in the NFL, suggesting that the dense-coated region does not extend far along the axon and that the dense-coated region may be narrower than the distal part of the axon. The dense-coated region may correspond to the ganglion cell &quot;narrow segment&quot; recently described in a variety of species using light microscopic methods. The results presented here strengthen our previous hypothesis that GABA-immunoreactive neurons in the GCL provide direct synaptic input to ganglion cells near the site of action potential initiation.

Numerous studies indicate a deterioration of nighttime sleep and daytime cognitive performance in elderly people and Alzheimer patients. As a result of the increasing number of elderly people and Alzheimer patients in the western society, attention for these problems has grown. However, so far, the major research effort has been concentrating on the development of pharmacological therapies for an isolated age-related problem. In the present review it is argued that several age-related problems with sleep and wakefulness may reflect a dampening of circadian rhythm amplitudes. Non-pharmacological manipulation of circadian rhythms by means of various external stimuli appears to be effective in improving sleep and cognitive functioning in elderly people and Alzheimer patients.
In recent years muscarinic receptor agonists and cholinesterase inhibitors have been developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. We have evaluated examples from both classes of compounds in rodent tests of reference and working memory, as well as tests that are sensitive to the side-effects of these compounds. Thus, three selective muscarinic receptor partial agonists L-689,660, (M1/M3), AF102B (M1/M3) and L-687,306 (M1) and two cholinesterase inhibitors, E2020 and eptastigmine, were compared in a mouse tail-flick (TF) test, a rat response sensitivity (RS) test, in rat tests of reference memory, passive avoidance (PA) or conditioned suppression of drinking (CSD), and working memory (delayed-matching-to-position, DMTP). In the TF test, all of the compounds tested, with the exception of L-687,306, (1.0-30.0 mg/kg) dose-dependently induced antinociception of which L-689,660 was the most potent (minimum effective dose (MED) = 0.03 mg/kg). In the RS test, all of the compounds, but again with the exception of L-687,306, (1.0-30.0 mg/kg), dose-dependently reduced response rates, of which L-689,660 was again the most potent (MED = 0.1 mg/kg). In the reference memory test, all the compounds reversed the effects of a scopolamine-induced deficit with L-687,306 being the most potent (MED = 0.01 mg/kg). By contrast, in the DMTP test, although both the cholinesterase inhibitors and L-687,306 reversed the effects of scopolamine-induced deficit, L-689,660 and AF102B were without effects. These results suggest that cholinesterase inhibitors and low efficacy M1 selective muscarinic receptor agonists can reverse the effects of a scopolamine-induced deficit in animal tests of reference and working memory at doses that do not induce the side-effects usually associated with cholinomimetics.
The tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist CP-99,994 ((+)-(2S,3S)-3-(2-methoxybenzylamino)-2-phenylpiperidine) (0.3-3 mg/kg i.v.), but not its inactive enantiomer CP-100,263, attenuated the retching and vomiting induced by cisplatin (10 mg/kg i.v.) in the ferret. CP-99,994, 3 mg/kg i.v., prevented vomiting in all ferrets tested. Since substance P is the preferred ligand at the NK1 receptor subtype these data support a role for the release of this peptide during the emetic response induced by cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents.
The effects of the kappa-1 opioid agonist CI-977 upon the volume of ischemic brain damage (defined using quantitative neuropathology) and local cerebral blood flow (CBF) (defined using quantitative [14C]iodoantipyrine autoradiography) have been examined at 4 h and 30 min, respectively, after permanent middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion in halothane-anesthetised rats. Treatment with CI-977 (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) 30 min before and 30 min after occlusion of the MCA reduced the volume of infarction in the cerebral hemisphere (reduced by 27% when compared to vehicle; P &lt; 0.05) and cerebral cortex (reduced by 32%; P &lt; 0.05), despite a marked and sustained hypotension, with only minimal effect on damage in the caudate nucleus. In the hemisphere contralateral to the occluded MCA, treatment with CI-977 (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) 30 min prior to the induction of ischemia failed to demonstrate any significant effect on either the level of local CBF in any of the 25 regions examined or on the volume of low CBF determined by frequency distribution analysis. In the hemisphere ipsilateral to MCA occlusion, CI-977 failed to produce statistically significant alterations in either the level of local CBF in 23 of the 25 regions or on the volume of low CBF, but areas of hyperemia were observed in both the medial caudate nucleus and lateral thalamus (local CBF increased by 65% and 86%, respectively, when compared to vehicle).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ability of five agents (dizocilpine [MK-801], 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)-quinoxaline [NBQX], enadoline [CI-977], L-nitroarginine methyl ester [L-NAME] and BW 1003c87) with well defined, distinct pharmacological profiles and with established anti-ischemic efficacy, to modify neuronal damage has been examined in a simple in vivo model of glutamate excitotoxicity. Cortical lesions were produced in physiologically-monitored halothane-anesthetised rats by reverse dialysis of glutamate. The volume of the lesion was quantified histologically by image analysis of approximately 20 sections taken at 200 microm intervals throughout the lesion. The AMPA and NMDA receptor antagonists (NBQX and MK-801) and the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (L-NAME) significantly reduced the lesion volume by a similar extent (by approximately 30% from vehicle). Two agents (the kappa opioid agonist, CI-977 and the sodium channel blocker, BW 1003c87) which putatively inhibit the release of endogenous glutamate presynaptically, had dissimilar effects on lesion size. CI-977 failed to alter the amount of damage produced by exogenous glutamate, whereas BW 1003c87 reduced the lesion size by approximately 50%. Using this model, the neuroprotective effects of anti-ischemic drugs can be explored in vivo, uncomplicated in contrast to experimental ischemia by reduced oxygen delivery, drug effects on tissue blood flow and compromised energy generation. In consequence, additional mechanistic insight into anti-ischemic drug action in vivo can be obtained.
Recent observations have suggested abnormalities in the gene for superoxide dismutase (SOD1) in patients with the familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). As SOD activity has secondary effects on glutathione (GSH), we have evaluated [35S]GSH binding in spinal cord sections from patients who died with sporadic ALS and control subjects. [35S]GSH binding sites were present in the grey matter of spinal cords in both the dorsal and ventral horns. ALS patients showed significantly increased [35S]GSH binding (+16%) in the dorsal and ventral grey horns compared to controls. Scatchard analysis of saturation binding data revealed that increased [35S]GSH binding was due to changes in the number rather than the affinity of GSH binding sites. These findings add support to a role for GSH in the mechanism loading to the pathogenesis of sporadic ALS.
The location and axonal projection of early-onset decrementing expiratory (eE-DEC) neurons were studied in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated cats. The eE-DEC neurons started firing around the peak of phrenic activity and attained maximum firing at the transition from inspiration to expiration. The eE-DEC neurons were distributed in the dorsomedial border of the dense assembly of respiratory neurons of the ventral respiratory group and the Btzinger complex. Antidromic microstimulation showed that the eE-DEC neurons projected mainly to the ipsilateral reticular formation medial and dorsal to the nucleus ambiguus at the level of the obex but rarely to the medullary respiration-related areas. Participation of these eE-DEC neurons in the inspiratory off-switch may not be possible.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues both in vitro and in vivo. This phosphorylation appears to regulate the rate of receptor desensitization and is associated with AChR clustering induced by the neuronal extracellular matrix protein agrin. To identify the protein tyrosine kinase(s) that phosphorylates the nicotinic receptor, we have used molecular cloning techniques to identify and characterize two protein tyrosine kinases that are highly expressed in Torpedo electric organ, a tissue enriched in synaptic components including the AChR. One of the kinases was identified as the Torpedo homolog of neuronal fyn, whereas the other was a novel kinase we have named fyk due to its homology to both fyn and yes protein tyrosine kinases. Using antibodies to fyn and fyk, Fyn was shown to be a 55-kDa protein phosphorylated on tyrosine residues, whereas Fyk was a 56-kDa/53-kDa doublet phosphorylated on serine and tyrosine residues. At the mRNA and/or protein level, fyn and fyk were present in Torpedo electric organ, skeletal muscle, and brain. Both kinases were detected in the membrane fractions enriched in the AChR, with Fyn and Fyk representing 36 and 8%, respectively, of the protein tyrosine kinase activity in these postsynaptic membranes. In addition, Fyn and Fyk were shown by coimmunoprecipitation to be specifically associated with the AChR. Furthermore, the AChR was phosphorylated in Fyn and Fyk immunoprecipitates. These results indicate that Fyn and Fyk are involved in the regulation of postsynaptic membrane function and suggest that these protein tyrosine kinases may phosphorylate the AChR.
Two RNA binding activities were demonstrated in bovine liver homogenate. One binding protein was isolated by a simple ion exchange and gel filtration protocol and was shown by N-terminal protein sequence analysis to be glutamate dehydrogenase. Using identical RNA substrate and assay conditions, no detectable RNA binding was observed with equimolar amounts of other representative dehydrogenases and proteins. Furthermore, excesses of tRNA, salmon testis DNA, or each of the four homoribopolymers were unable to compete for the RNA-binding site. Total cytosolic RNA, however, successfully prevented binding of radiolabeled RNA substrate. These data are consistent with glutamate dehydrogenase containing a binding site for heteropolymeric RNA with highest affinity for an as yet undefined nucleotide consensus sequence or structure. The potential physiological relevance of these observations is discussed.
Movements of the head and eye which, together, result in changes in the direction of gaze are linked in a number of species, including man, and eye position is known to affect the activity of neck muscles. This head-eye linkage has generally been ascribed to modification of neck muscle activity by internal estimates of eye position derived from motor commands. We have recently shown that afferent signals from stretch receptors in the extraocular muscles are involved in the moment-to-moment control of eye movements during the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR). We have now studied the interactions between head and eye movements by recording the electromyographic activity of several neck muscles during horizontal (yaw) or frontal (roll tilt) vestibular stimulation. Such a stimulus evokes a VOR in the eyes and a vestibulocollic reflex (VCR) in neck muscles. Imposing movements on one eye at saccadic velocities produced considerable inhibition of the VCR response of a number of neck muscles. The magnitude of these effects was dependent on the parameters of the imposed eye movement. Thus systematic changes were seen when the amplitude, velocity or direction of eye movement was varied. Movement of the eye in the opposite direction to that produced by a normal VOR produced a large inhibition of the VCR response, whereas movements in the same direction as the VOR produced only modest inhibition of the VCR response of the neck muscles tested. Slow, sinusoidal, imposed eye movements that mimicked the slow phase of the VOR produced changes in the gain of the VCR response which appear to correct for errors in the imposed eye velocity and thus tend to maintain the direction of gaze. The results show that changes in eye position have striking effects on the electromyographic activity of neck muscles during the VCR, and strongly suggest that extraocular muscle afferent signals are involved in head-eye coordination.
Crystals of the lipophilic tracer DiI were applied to discrete regions of the olfactory epithelium of goldfish to trace the primary sensory projection to the olfactory bulb. Receptors from the anterior half of the sensory sheet project primarily to glomeruli in the medial half of the bulb and receptors in the posterior half terminate mainly within the lateral half of the bulb. This pattern disappeared following ablation of selected, discrete epithelial regions. In order to investigate reorganization of secondary olfactory projections, unoperated control and unilaterally bulbectomized animals received injections of [3H]proline into the right olfactory bulb. Densities of silver grains per unit area were determined within six different forebrain nuclei in both the right and left hemispheres of each animal. Of the six areas examined, three demonstrated a significantly greater density of afferent innervation from the ipsilateral versus contralateral bulb; a difference which disappeared in two of these three regions after bulbectomy. Thus, for at least two forebrain nuclei, bulb removal caused a change in the afferent input from the spared olfactory bulb to those regions. We conclude that both primary and secondary olfactory projections in goldfish are capable of some degree of reorganization following insult.
Mapping studies have revealed that the perifornical hypothalamus (PFH) is a primary locus for both the feeding-stimulatory effect of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and the anorectic effect of catecholamines (CAs), suggesting that NPY and CAs may interact antagonistically there. To investigate this, the CA-releasing agent amphetamine (AMPH) was injected through indwelling guide cannulas into the PFH of satiated adult male rats 5 min prior to injection of NPY (78 pmol/0.3 microliters) and food intake was measured 1, 2, and 4 h later. Amphetamine (50-200 nmol) dose-dependently reduced NPY feeding, usually eliminating it at the higher doses. The receptors mediating this effect were investigated by sequential injection of various CA antagonists, AMPH, and NPY into the PFH. Neither the alpha- nor beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists phentolamine (100 nmol) or propranolol (200 nmol) significantly affected AMPH suppression of NPY feeding. In contrast, the dopamine receptor antagonist haloperidol (5 nmol) abolished AMPH suppression of NPY feeding, suggesting that dopamine (DA) mediates the AMPH effect. To examine this, epinephrine (EPI, 50-200 nmol) and DA (25-200 nmol) were tested for suppression of NPY-induced feeding. While EPI had no significant effect, DA at the maximally effective dose (50 nmol) reduced the NPY feeding response by 36% or more. These findings provide convergent evidence for antagonistic interactions between endogenous DA and NPY in the control of eating behavior.
Using a histochemical method for the visualization of cholinesterase activity in neurons, we have observed developmentally transient expression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in cortical pyramidal neurons of the rat brain. Depending on the extent of the deposition of AChE reaction product, several types of cortical neurons could be visualized. We designated neurons with moderate-to-high staining intensity as AChEH and neurons with relatively lower staining intensity as AChEL. At birth (P0), very little AChE activity was found within cortical neurons. Between P1-P4, there was a gradual emergence of AChE-stained cortical neurons. At this stage, the majority of these neurons were of the AChEL type. At P5-P7 we observed an abrupt increase in AChE-stained cortical neurons. The number and the staining intensity of these neurons was at a peak at P8-P10. At this age range, the majority of these neurons were of the AChEH variety and displayed morphological characteristics of cortical pyramidal neurons. At P11-P15, there was an abrupt decrease in the number of AChEH neurons. After P15, the density and staining intensity of cortical AChE-positive (cholinergic) axons gradually increased. Nevertheless, AChEL pyramidal neurons were detected through these fibers up to P21. At P21, a dense plexus of AChE-positive axons was observed in all cortical areas while very little AChE reaction product was visible in pyramidal neurons, and this pattern continued into adult life. When the adult cortex was denervated from its AChE-positive axons by lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, many AChEL pyramidal neurons were uncovered.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have cloned the C. elegans cell death gene ced-3. A ced-3 transcript is most abundant during embryogenesis, the stage during which most programmed cell deaths occur. The predicted CED-3 protein shows similarity to human and murine interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme and to the product of the mouse nedd-2 gene, which is expressed in the embryonic brain. The sequences of 12 ced-3 mutations as well as the sequences of ced-3 genes from two related nematode species identify sites of potential functional importance. We propose that the CED-3 protein acts as a cysteine protease in the initiation of programmed cell death in C. elegans and that cysteine proteases also function in programmed cell death in mammals.

We have characterized binding of [125I]RTI-55 ((-)-2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane) to the dog caudate membrane and detergent solubilized dopamine transporter sites. The solubilized transporter was assayed by filtration over polyethylenimine treated Whatman GF/B filters. [125I]RTI-55 specifically binds to transporter sites in membranes and solubilized protein with Kd of 0.27 and 0.34 nM, respectively. The binding of [125I]RTI-55 to the membrane and solubilized transporter was inhibited by dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin uptake inhibitors with rank order and potencies consistent with that of the dopamine transporter. Thus, similar pharmacological properties between membranes and solubilized dopamine transporters were retained upon solubilization. Rapid assay of solubilized protein will aid in monitoring transporter protein purification.
The body of literature presented in this paper indicate, as Marr and Albus hypothesized, that the cerebellum is involved in the regulation of classical conditioning. At present, the most parsimonious hypothesis is that the essential memory traces for classical conditioning of eyelid closure, limb flexion, and other discrete responses learned with an aversive US are formed in cerebellar cortex and interpositus nucleus. Both sites contain neuronal elements which encode both conditioned and unconditioned stimuli. Recordings from both cerebellar cortex and the deep nuclei model the topography of the conditioned response and precede the response in time. Lesions of the cortex massively impair conditioning and lesions of the interpositus nucleus completely and permanently abolish the conditioned response without affecting reflex performance.
Individual differences with respect to diverse tests of mental abilities that range in complexity from simple reaction time to abstract reasoning are all positively correlated in the population. The total covariance among all such tests can be analyzed into a number of uncorrelated components of variance, or factors, that, in terms of their generality, are hierarchical, with the most general factor, or g, at the apex. This g factor is common to every type of cognitive performance, whatever other ability factors may be involved (e.g., verbal, spatial, numerical, musical, etc.), and is the crucial factor in most tests' practical validity. Its correlations with various tests' heritability, inbreeding depression, heterosis, average evoked potentials, brain metabolism, and many other physical correlates indicate that as a product of evolution it is profoundly enmeshed with many organismic variables. A theory based on empirical evidence links g to neural processes involved in the speed and efficiency of information processing.
Vmax and Km measurements have been obtained for endogenous peptidases that are important for methionine enkephalin (ME) homeostasis in humans. Those peptidases in human lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) act upon several synthetic biologically significant peptides that are also contained within the preproenkephalin Ahuman,1-267 molecule. The amount of endogenous methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (ME-li) in human lumbar CSF is 74.1 +/- 5.7 fmol ME-li/ml CSF (n = 56; mean +/- SE). The kinetic parameters of the various enzymes that inactivate exogenous, synthetic methionine enkephalin (ME, YGGFM) and that also produce ME from two different portions of the preproenkephalin Ahuman,1-267 precursor molecule were determined. The enzyme that inactivates synthetic ME to FM, and that correlates to the rate of decrease of ME, has a Vmax = 560 +/- 43.3 nmol/ml/min and a Km = 4514 +/- 373 microM (n = 56; mean +/- SE). Preproenkephalin Ahuman,186-193 (PA = YGGFMRGL) was added to CSF samples to characterize those processing and converting enzymes that produce the ME pentapeptide. Vmax, as measured by the rate of the decrease of PA to produce YGGFMR, was 0.192 +/- 0.038 nmol/ml/min and a Km of 513 +/- 121 microM (n = 10; mean +/- SE). Similarly, a bovine analog to preproenkephalin Ahuman,128-140 (PPEhuman, GSEILAKRYGGFM; PPEbovine,125-137, GGEVLGKRYGGFM) was used to characterize that enzyme system that produces ME from an N-terminally extended ME peptide. That endopeptidase had a Vmax of 0.120 +/- 0.048 nmol/ml/min with a Km of 734 +/- 296 microM (n = 10). Those endogenous enzymes in human CSF may relate to the proopiomelanocortin convertase enzymes that contain the subtilisin-like catalytic domain.
We investigated the usefulness of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to quantify glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) mRNA in cerebral microvessels. The technique was validated using an in vitro-transcribed RNA fragment (riboprobe) of partial 3' noncoding sequence of rat brain GLUT1 gene. A known amount of the riboprobe was reverse-transcribed to cDNA (target DNA). PCR primers were made to amplify a 292-bp fragment of the target DNA. The 5' primer was end labeled with 32P. An oligonucleotide of 100 bp containing the same sequences as the first 30 and the last 70 bases of the 292-bp fragment of the target DNA was synthesized and used as competitive DNA. The target DNA was coamplified with increasing amounts of competitive DNA using the same two primers. The ratio of radioactivity between amplified products of the target DNA (292-bp fragment) and the competitive DNA (100-bp fragment) was determined quantitatively after separation by gel electrophoresis and radioactivity counting. This method gave an accurate estimation of the amount of the riboprobe in the reaction and a 2- to 5-fold change in the amounts could be detected. By this method, the mean amount of GLUT1 mRNA from purified rat brain microvessels was estimated to be 1.5 +/- 0.1 x 10(-6) ng/ng total RNA. This value was about 10-fold higher than that in rat cell line PC12.
The ability of large neutral amino acids to interact with a site in mouse and pig brain labelled by [3H]gabapentin was examined. As previously described for rat tissue, [3H]gabapentin bound to synaptic plasma membranes prepared from mouse or pig cerebral cortex with high affinity (Kinetically derived KD = 14 and 17 nM for mouse and pig, respectively). Equilibrium binding in each species was inhibited by gabapentin and a range of large neutral amino acids. L-leucine (IC50 = 80 nM), L-isoleucine (IC50 = 72 nM), L-norleucine (IC50 = 40 nM) and L-methionine (IC50 = 50 nM) were the most potent of those tested. Binding was also inhibited by L-phenylalanine (IC50 = 380 nM), L-valine (IC50 = 310 nM) and the selective system-L substrate 2-amino-2-carboxy-bicycloheptane (IC50 = 420 nM) but not by the sodium-dependent System-A substrate methylaminoisobutyric acid. The presence of a submaximal concentration of leucine reduced [3H]gabapentin binding affinity but did not affect the maximum number of binding sites, suggesting a competitive interaction between leucine and the binding protein. The results suggest [3H]gabapentin may label a site in brain that resembles the large neutral amino acid transporter described in other tissues.
Chronic (14 days) administration of either imipramine or electroconvulsive shock effected significant changes in the ligand binding properties of the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor complex in rat cortex. These changes were manifested as: (1) a reduction in the potency of glycine to inhibit the binding of 5,7-dichloro[3H]kynurenic acid to strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors; and (2) a reduction in the proportion of high affinity, glycine-displaceable [3H]CGP-39653 binding to NMDA receptors. Chronic electroconvulsive shock, but not imipramine treatment also reduced the density of [3H]CGP-39653 binding sites in cortical membranes. These findings demonstrate that the ability of chronic antidepressant treatments to induce adaptive changes in the glycine and glutamate regulatory sites of the NMDA receptor is not species specific, since it obtains in rats as well as mice.
Many neuropsychiatric disorders differ between the sexes in incidence, symptoms, and age at onset. To investigate the effects of X-chromosome aneuploidy and of sex steroid deficiency during childhood on brain structure and function, we used neuropsychological tests and quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to study the brains of eighteen women with Turner's syndrome (TS) and nineteen healthy control women of similar age. Nine TS subjects had mosaic 45,X karyotypes, and 9 had non-mosaic 45,X. The TS group had significantly lower scores than the controls for all the Wechsler adult intelligence scale tests, except verbal comprehension and reading level. The greatest difference was in visuospatial construction (mean 90 [SD12] vs 118 [13], p &lt; 0.0001). The TS subjects also had a greater discrepancy than controls between verbal and performance intelligence quotients (9 [8] vs -5 [9], p &lt; 0.001). We found that TS subjects had significantly smaller values than controls in MRI-measured volumes of hippocampus, caudate, lenticular, and thalamic nuclei, and parieto-occipital brain matter, on both sides. Women with mosaic TS had values between the full TS and control groups for cerebral hemisphere and lenticular and thalamic nuclei volume and for verbal ability. Within the mosaic TS group, visuospatial ability was significantly correlated with the percentage of lymphocytes that had the 45,X karyotype. Hippocampal volume and memory test scores were significantly lower in mosaic and non-mosaic 45,X TS subjects than in controls. We postulate that in human beings the X chromosome plays an important part in the development and ageing of grey matter in striatum, diencephalon, and cerebral hemispheres.
Anti-metabotropic glutamate receptor-1 monoclonal antibody was raised and applied for immunohistochemistry in the rat trigeminal ganglion. The antibody detected 145-kDa single band of protein in the immunoblot analysis. In immunohistochemistry, neurons in the trigeminal ganglion showed immunostaining with various intensity, almost irrespective of their cell size. The results indicate that metabotrophic glutamate receptors play an important role in somatic sensation together with ionotropic ones.
The relationship between sigma binding and the behavioral efficacy of a selective sigma ligand was examined in rats of varying ages (30, 45, 60, 75, 90, and 150 days old). Scatchard analyses of the binding of the sigma radioligand [3H]1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine ([3H]DTG) to brain membranes revealed significant age-related differences in binding to both crude synaptosomal and microsomal fractions. The functional significance of these developmental changes in sigma ligand binding was studied by determining the postural effects of rubral microinjections of DTG in age-matched littermates of rats used in the binding studies. The degree of dystonia produced by a single dose of DTG was significantly correlated with the amount of [3H]DTG bound to rat brain synaptosomal membranes at low but not at high concentrations. No significant correlation between binding to the microsomal fraction and drug efficacy was observed. These experimental results were in good agreement with predicted amounts bound as estimated from a Scatchard analysis of the data. The results suggest that sigma binding sites found in brain synaptosomal membranes are functional receptors involved in the control of movement and posture.
Mouse adrenal medulla grafts were evaluated morphologically and quantitatively after implantation into the mouse putamen, either alone or with nerve growth factor (NGF) injected at grafting. Specific antibodies were used to determine the expression of neurofilaments, dopamine (DA) and phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase (PNMT). Three months after grafting, the survival rate and size volume of chromaffin cells were significantly greater in the grafts containing NGF, and increasing numbers of intermediate cell types (e.g. chromaffin cells transforming into neurons), and of neuron-like cells seemed to have formed. Chromaffin cells stained positively for DA and PNMT, but only a few chromaffin-like processes stained for neurofilaments. A neuronal network of adrenal medulla grafts was observed, consisting of non-myelinated nerve fibers, nerve terminals and chromaffin-like processes. In all grafts the synapses on chromaffin cells were mainly small, symmetrical or asymmetrical (about 1-2 microns in diameter) with round, small clear synaptic vesicles. Nerve terminals were not immunoreactive to dopamine or PNMT. These results show that a single injection of NGF at grafting influences the survival and differentiation of chromaffin cells. This study suggests that adrenal medulla grafts may integrate into the putamen.
Brief applications of high glycine concentrations to hippocampal slices have been shown to produce long-lasting changes in synaptic efficacy. In the present study, we show that glycine application transiently and reversibly increases the amplitude and prolongs the duration of synaptic potentials mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The long-lasting changes in synaptic potentials mediated by AMPA receptors are correlated with changes in the binding of [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid ([3H]AMPA) to membranes prepared from glycine-treated slices. The changes in binding properties of AMPA receptors in adult slices are due to an increase in affinity of the agonist for the receptor. Furthermore, glycine-induced increases in [3H]AMPA binding and in synaptic potentials in adult hippocampal slices are markedly reduced in the presence of low extracellular calcium or of the phospholipase inhibitor bromophenacylbromide. Finally, glycine-induced potentiation of synaptic potentials is associated with an increased potency of the glutamate receptor antagonist, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline (DNQX), to inhibit synaptic potentials. The results indicate that glycine-induced changes in synaptic efficacy are likely triggered by the activation of NMDA receptors and expressed by changes in the properties of AMPA receptors. As similar events underly long-term potentiation (LTP), this phenomenon might provide important clues to elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in LTP maintenance.
Self-stimulation rewarding experience promoted structural changes in pyramidal neurons of the CA3 region of the hippocampus and the Vth layer of the motor cortex in adult male Wistar rats. Self-stimulation experience was allowed for 1 h daily for a duration of 10 days through bipolar electrodes placed bilaterally in lateral hypothalamus and substantia nigra--ventral tegmental area. At the end of 10 days, rats were sacrificed, and rapid Golgi examination of the CA3 hippocampal and layer V pyramidal neurons of the motor cortex was made for a grand total of 1600 neurons from 80 rats divided into 4 groups. The neurons of the self-stimulation experienced (SS) group revealed a significant (ANOVA, F-test) increase in dendritic branching in the perisomatic domains. Such changes were not observed in neurons of sham control (SH), experimenter administered stimulation (EA) and normal control (NC) groups. SS animals also showed a significant increase in the thickness of lacunosum and radiatum laminae of CA3 neurons of the hippocampus. Our results reveal that both limbic and neocortical neurons undergo changes in dendritic branching patterns due to self-stimulation rewarding experience. It is tempting to hypothesize that neuronal plasticity is the result of motivation and learning experienced by rats which underwent self-stimulation.
The binding parameters of [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H]spiperone (radioligands for dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, respectively) were investigated in autopsied frontal cortex, caudate nucleus and globus pallidus/putamen of cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma as well as in age- and sex-matched controls. Specific [3H]SCH 23390 binding site densities were unchanged in all regions; in contrast, specific [3H]spiperone binding site density was decreased (by 44%, P &lt; 0.001) in the globus pallidus/putamen of patients with HE. Decreased densities of pallidal D2 binding sites could relate to the motor dysfunctions commonly encountered in human HE.
In the present study, the compartmental organization of the nucleus accumbens was investigated by comparing the pattern of leu-enkephalin immunoreactivity with that of the opioid receptor ligand, naloxone, an established marker for the compartmental organization of the neostriatum. Both patterns have a nonhomogeneous, patch-like appearance throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus and show a good, mutual correspondence. In the core of the nucleus accumbens as well as in the border region between the nucleus accumbens and the caudate-putamen, leu-enkephalin-rich areas are in register with opioid receptor-dense areas. In the shell region the precise relationship between the enkephalin and the naloxone patterns could not be established. A comparison of the connectivity patterns and neurochemical characteristics of the opioid receptor-dense compartments in the nucleus accumbens with those in the caudate-putamen reveals major discrepancies between these two striatal subdivisions. We therefore conclude that, rather than a bicompartmental patch/striosome-matrix organization, the nucleus accumbens has a multicompartmental organization.
The mechanisms underlying long-term calcium changes evoked by excitatory amino acids have not been previously examined in striatal neurons. Fura-2 fluorescence measurements were used to examine intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) changes due to repeated N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation, in primary cultures of murine striatal neurons. Three applications of 200 microM NMDA (for 2 min, each application separated by 7 min), in 0 magnesium-containing artificial cerebral spinal fluid, elicited three distinct responses. In 50 +/- 8% of the NMDA-responsive neurons, no persistent increases in [Ca2+]i (final [Ca2+]i &lt; or = 150% baseline) were observed, while in 33 +/- 7% and 17 +/- 3% of the cells, sustained (peak response &gt; final [Ca2+]i &gt; 150% baseline) and uncontrolled increases (final [Ca2+]i &gt; or = peak response) were observed, respectively. NMDA-responsive neurons that were intensely immunoreactive for the calcium binding protein calbindin-D28k never exhibited uncontrolled increases in [Ca2+]i. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ significantly attenuated sustained, but not uncontrolled, increases in [Ca2+]i; sustained increases in some neurons were also attenuated by application of verapamil (100 microM) or MK-801 (1 microM). Pre-treatment of striatal neurons with the protein kinase C blocker sphingosine (20 microM), virtually eliminated the development of sustained or uncontrolled increases in [Ca2+]i. These findings suggest that specific intracellular mechanisms regulate the distinct [Ca2+]i responses of subpopulations of striatal neurons to repeated NMDA receptor activation.
Pyramidal neurons in the rat CA1 hippocampal area contain membrane receptors for acetylcholine but also intracellular receptors for the adrenal corticosteroid hormone corticosterone, i.e., mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) and glucocorticoid receptors (GRs). In this in vitro study we investigated if occupation of MRs or GRs affects the responsiveness of CA1 pyramidal neurons to the cholinergic analogue carbachol. In slices from adrenally intact rats, where probably most of the MRs and a considerable degree of the GRs were occupied, carbachol (0.1-30 microM) induced a dose-dependent: (i) depolarization; (ii) reduction of the afterhyperpolarization and spike frequency accommodation associated with depolarizing current pulses; and (iii) reduction of the synaptically evoked EPSP, slow IPSP and (with higher doses) the fast IPSP. The carbachol responses in slices from adrenalectomized (ADX) rats, where both MRs and GRs are unoccupied, were generally similar to the responses in the adrenally intact controls. However, neurons recorded in slices from ADX rats 1-4 h after a brief (20 min) application of 3 nM aldosterone, thus predominantly occupying MRs, showed a significant reduction of the carbachol (1 microM) induced depolarization, when compared to the adrenally intact group. By contrast, neurons recorded in ADX slices treated with 30 nM corticosterone, inducing simultaneous activation of MRs and GRs, displayed significantly larger carbachol-evoked depolarizations (1 and 3 microM) than neurons in the three previous experimental groups. Carbachol-induced actions on the afterhyperpolarization, accommodation and synaptically evoked responses did not consistently depend on steroid receptor occupation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purified mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor (mBzR) is a complex comprising the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), adenine nucleotide carrier, and an 18-kDa protein that binds isoquinoline carboxamide ligands (McEnery, M. W., Snowman, A. M., Trifiletti, R. R., and Snyder, S. H. (1992) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 89, 3170-3174). An antiserum raised against the mBzR complex reacts selectively with VDAC and is used, along with purification, electrophysiological and immunohistochemical techniques, to characterize the properties and distribution of rat brain VDAC. Although purified VDAC displays biochemical and electrical conductance properties similar to VDAC from other sources, the immunohistochemical distribution of VDAC in rat brain is heterogeneous with pronounced regional variations; the pontine nuclei, the supraoptic nucleus, Purkinje cells of the cerebellum, and the caudate putamen evidence the highest density. The distribution of VDAC is inclusive of the more discretely localized 18-kDa mBzR protein, suggesting that only a portion of the total VDAC participates in the mBzR. The histochemical localizations of the mitochondrial marker enzymes glutamate dehydrogenase and cytochrome c oxidase also indicate marked regional variability in both mitochondrial content and composition. The discrete expression of VDAC reflects a striking heterogeneity of rat brain mitochondria and underlying differences in the utilization of mitochondrial outer membrane ion channels.
Alcoholism is often associated with brain damage and cognitive deficits. Because drinking patterns can include periods of alcohol consumption followed by abstinence, binge drinking may enhance the possibility of brain damage. Chronic administration of ethanol leads to upregulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and calcium receptors and increased release of glucocorticoids. NMDA-mediated mechanisms and glucocorticoid actions on the hippocampus are associated with brain damage. Thus, ethanol withdrawal may make the brain more vulnerable to damage from these mechanisms, especially with binge drinking. Therapeutic adjuncts for treating ethanol withdrawal, including NMDA, calcium, and glucocorticoid antagonists, may eventually prove useful in preventing further brain damage in alcoholism.

In vivo microdialysis provides an important new tool for investigating changes in extracellular fluid levels of endogenous compounds in vivo. Delivery of drugs via the microdialysis probe can be used to study local release and metabolism of neurotransmitters, but the dialysis membrane limits diffusion of substances between the perfusate and the extracellular fluid. Thus there may be considerable delay in responses, drug concentrations at the effector sites are less than those in the probe, and high-molecular-weight substances cannot traverse the membrane at all. This report describes a simple modification of commercially available microdialysis probes. A cannula is glued to the external surface of the probe. When glycine was administered via the cannula into the striatum of conscious rats, increments in microdialysate concentrations of dopamine were at least 10 times greater than when glycine was administered via the dialysis fluid in the probe. The threshold glycine dose for behavioral (turning) effects was also decreased by approximately 60-fold, and the time to the peak neurochemical and behavioral effects was markedly decreased. The modified probe did not destroy local catecholaminergic cells, as indicated by tyrosine hydroxylase immunofluorescence. Use of the modified microdialysis probe should facilitate pharmacological and neuroendocrine studies in behaving animals.
Unverricht-Lundborg disease is a clinically recognizable form of progressive myoclonus epilepsy. Recently, in several families of both Finnish and Mediterranean extraction segregating Unverricht-Lundborg disease, the gene for this disease was linked to the same region of the long arm of chromosome 21. We performed linkage analysis in eight families, including four of neither Baltic nor Mediterranean origin, using a polymorphic (CA)n repeat marker for the human liver-type 6 phosphofructokinase (PFKL) gene, previously mapped to 21q22.3. No recombinations were observed between the disease phenotype and the PFKL marker and a maximum lod score of 5.63 was obtained. These findings confirm tight linkage between PFKL and the gene for Unverricht-Lundborg disease and strongly suggest a lack of nonallelic genetic heterogeneity of the disease.
We employed an electron spin resonance (ESR)2 spectrometer and used a direct detection technique for determining free radicals in circulating blood in rats. We found that the simultaneous intravenous injection of CoCl2 (10-500 mM) and ascorbic acid (100 mM) led to the formation of ascorbic acid free radicals. The potential of the Co(II) salt for producing ascorbic acid radicals was found to be dose-dependent, and was 10-fold stronger than that of a Fe(III) salt. Low height signals of the ascorbic acid radical were also observed during the simultaneous injection of NiCl2 (500 mM) and ascorbic acid (100 mM). This study clearly demonstrated that the metal ions of iron family are promoters of free radicals in vivo. These results also provide evidence to support the speculation based predominantly on in vitro experiments, that the mechanism responsible for the toxicity produced by excessive intake of transitional metal ions may involve the formation of free radicals.
Gene therapy is a potentially potent new method of treating a number of neurologic disorders previously considered refractory to current conventional therapeutic treatments. Numerous advances have been made in the construction of expression vectors, cellular and viral transgene carriers, and the characterization of target cells for neuronal gene therapy. Two primary approaches to nervous system gene transfer have emerged as a result of these advances. The in vivo approach concentrates on direct transfer of genetic material to cells in vivo using viral and chemical agents. The ex vivo approach relies on genetic transfer to cultured cells that are subsequently implanted into a host organism. Both of these methods have been used in preliminary experiments designed to test the efficacy of gene transfer strategies in the amelioration of nervous system dysfunction.
Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we measured the volumes of various brain structures and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 19 men with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 18 healthy age-matched control men. The mean (+/- S.D) Mini-Mental State exam score (MMSE) of the DAT men was 16 +/- 7; 9 were mildly (MMSE &gt; 20), 5 moderately (MMSE 10-20), and 5 severely (MMSE &lt; 10) demented. Brain and CSF volumes were normalized as a percent of the traced intracranial volume to control for the relation of volumes of cerebral structures to head size, and analyzed statistically. The whole group of DAT subjects had significantly smaller mean cerebral brain matter and temporal lobe volumes (p &lt; 0.05), and significantly larger mean ventricular and temporal lobe peripheral CSF volumes than did controls. Mean volumes of the subcortical nuclei did not differ significantly between groups, and mean volume of temporal lobe brain matter decreased significantly more than whole brain, suggesting regional loss of brain matter in DAT. Mildly demented DAT patients had significantly smaller mean cerebral brain matter and temporal lobe volumes and significantly larger volumes of lateral ventricles, and of temporal lobe peripheral CSF, than did controls. Neuropsychological measures of disease severity in DAT patients were significantly (p &lt; 0.05) and appropriately correlated to volumes of cerebral brain matter and right lateral ventricle. These results suggest that in DAT: (i) significant brain atrophy is present early in the disease process, (ii) brain atrophy correlates with severity of cognitive impairment, and (iii) there is greater involvement of the telencephalic association system than whole brain, and there is relative sparing of the caudate, lenticular and thalamic nuclei.
Relatively little is known regarding the potential importance of LHRH and of gonadotropin-releasing hormone-associated peptide (GAP) on the postnatal development of gonadotrophs. We investigated the effects of administration of anti (A)-LHRH serum or A-GAP serum to neonatal rats on the development of LH and FSH immunoreactivity in anterior pituitary gland (APG) cells. Serum (sheep non-immune [NSS], sheep A-LHRH, sheep A-LHRH/GAP [which bound LHRH and GAP], rabbit non-immune [NRS], or rabbit A-GAP) was injected s.c. into neonatal female and male rats on Days 1 and 3 or Days 1, 3, 5, and 7 after birth. Pups were killed on Day 5 or 9, two days after the last injection. The percentages of APG cells immunoreactive for LH or FSH increased from Day 1 to Day 5 and did not change between Days 5 and 9 in female pups treated with NSS or NRS. There was a trend for the percentages of LH and FSH cells to increase from Day 1 to Days 5 and 9 in male pups treated with NSS or NRS, but the increases were not statistically significant. In both females and males, treatment with antisera that recognized LHRH reduced the percentage of FSH cells on Day 5 and the percentages of LH and FSH cells on Day 9. Treatment with A-GAP was without effect in both sexes. There were similar percentages of LH and FSH cells in females and a lower percentage of FSH than of LH cells in males in the Day 5 and 9 controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The voltage-dependent mechanical activity of outer hair cells (OHC) from the organ of Corti is considered responsible for the peripheral auditory system's enhanced ability to detect and analyze sound. Nonlinear processes within the inner ear are presumed to be characteristic of this enhancement process. Harmonic distortion in the OHC mechanical response was analyzed under whole-cell voltage clamp. It is shown that the OHC produces DC, fundamental and second harmonic length changes in response to sinusoidal transmembrane voltage stimulation. Mechanical second harmonic distortion decreases with frequency, whereas the predicted transmembrane second harmonic voltage increases with frequency. Furthermore, the phase of the second harmonic distortion does not correspond to the phase of the predicted transmembrane voltage. In contradistinction, it has been previously shown (Santos-Sacchi, J. 1992. Neuroscience. 12:1906-1916) that fundamental voltage and evoked mechanical responses share magnitude and phase characteristics. OHC length changes are modeled as resulting from voltage-dependent cell surface area changes. The model suggests that the observed harmonic responses in the mechanical response are consistent with the nonlinearity of the voltage-to-length change (V-delta L) function. While these conclusions hold for the data obtained with the present voltage clamp protocol and help to understand the mechanism of OHC motility, modeling the electromechanical system of the OHC in the in vivo state indicates that the mechanical nonlinearity of the OHC contributes minimally to mechanical distortion. That is, in vivo, at moderate sound pressure levels and below, the dominant factor which contributes to nonlinearities of the OHC mechanical response resides within the nonlinear, voltage-generating, stereociliar transduction process.
1. The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor binding selectivity profile of a novel, potent 5-HT1D receptor agonist, L-694,247 (2-[5-[3-(4-methylsulphonylamino)benzyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl ]- 1H-indole-3-yl]ethylamine) was assessed and compared with that of the 5-HT1-like receptor agonist, sumatriptan. 2. L-694,247 had an affinity (pIC50) of 10.03 at the 5-HT1D binding site and 9.08 at the 5-HT1B binding site (sumatriptan: pIC50 values 8.22 and 5.94 respectively). L-694,247 retained good selectivity with respect to the 5-HT1A binding site (pIC50 = 8.64), the 5-HT1C binding site (6.42), the 5-HT2 binding site (6.50) and the 5-HT1E binding site (5.66). The pIC50 values for sumatriptan at these radioligand binding sites were 6.14, 5.0, &lt; 5.0 and 5.64 respectively. Both L-694,247 and sumatriptan were essentially inactive at the 5-HT3 recognition site. 3. L-694,247, like sumatriptan, displayed a similar efficacy to 5-HT in inhibiting forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase in guinea-pig substantia nigra although L-694,247 (pEC50 = 9.1) was more potent than sumatriptan (6.2) in this 5-HT1D receptor mediated functional response. L-694,247 (pEC50 = 9.4) was also more potent than sumatriptan (6.5) in a second 5-HT1D receptor mediated functional response, the inhibition of K(+)-evoked [3H]-5-HT release from guinea-pig frontal cortex slices. 4. The excellent agreement observed for L-694,247 between the 5-HTlD radioligand binding affinity and the functional potency confirm that the two functional models (the inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase in guinea-pig substantia nigra and the inhibition of K+-evoked [3H]-5-HT release from guinea-pig frontal cortex) do indeed reflect 5-HTID-mediated events.5. L-694,247 is a novel, highly potent 5-HTID/5-HTIB receptor ligand which should prove useful for the exploration of the physiological role of these receptors in animals.
1. The aim of the experiments was to examined the effects of beta-adrenoceptor activation on twitch and tetanic contractions in fast- and slow-twitch mammalian skeletal muscle fibres. Isometric force was recorded from bundles of intact fibres isolated from the normal and denervated slow-twitch soleus and normal fast-twitch sternomastoid muscles of the rat. 2. Terbutaline (10 microM), a beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist, induced an average 15% potentiation of peak twitch and peak tetanic force in normal soleus fibres and abbreviated twitch and tetanic relaxation. In white- and red-sternomastoid fibres, 10 microM terbutaline potentiated peak twitch force by about 7% and slowed twitch relaxation. 3. The potentiation of twitches and tetani by terbutaline was quantitatively similar in normal and denervated soleus fibres. However, in contrast to the normal soleus, terbutaline slowed twitch relaxation and had no effect on tetanic relaxation in denervated soleus fibres. 4. Adrenaline (10 microM) increased peak tetanic force by about 7% in both normal and denervated soleus fibres. 5. Exposure to (+/-)-propranolol (0.1 microM), a general beta-adrenoceptor blocker, completely abolished the tetanus potentiation by terbutaline. 6. Dibutyryl-cyclic AMP (2 mM) mimicked the effects of 10 microM terbutaline on peak tetanic force and tetanic relaxation in normal and denervated soleus fibres. Dibutyryl-cyclic AMP also potentiated peak twitch force in denervated soleus fibres but only after a brief period of twitch depression: the twitch depression might be due to butyrate. 7. The results suggest that the increase in peak twitch and tetanic force and abbreviation of tetanic relaxation induced by terbutaline depend on the activation of beta-adrenoceptors and a consequent increase in the myoplasmic cyclic AMP concentration.
Reduplication and misidentification syndromes are similar and peculiar phenomena of disorientation and beliefs with delusional qualities. They are more frequent among neurologic and psychiatric patients than previously thought. Organic factors play a definitive role in their occurrence. A case is presented which exemplifies reduplication of place and person, following a right hemisphere focal lesion. Current theories are briefly reviewed and possible roles of nortriptyline therapy and psychological factors are discussed in the pathogenesis of reduplicative phenomena in this patient.
The Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and the Swedish Reaction Level Scale (RLS85), two level-of-consciousness scales used in the assessment of patients with head injury, were compared in a prospective study of 239 patients admitted to a regional head injury unit over a 4-month period. Assessments were made by nine staff members ranging from house officer to registrar, after briefing about the two scales. Data were also collected on age, nature of injuries, surgical treatment, and condition at discharge or transfer using the Glasgow Outcome Scale. Both the GCS and the RLS85 reliably identified comatose patients and those with minor head injury, but were much less effective in defining the response level in patients considered to have a moderate head injury. Only 41% of the patients allocated to a moderate-head-injury category by the GCS and the RLS85 were common to both groups. Where a mismatch occurred, neither scale allocated patients to a 'better' or 'worse' category more frequently than the other. Assessment of patients' conscious levels using the GCS was difficult in only two cases. One patient had facial injuries, and the other was intubated. The RLS85 was reported by all users to be simpler to use than the GCS, but the latter is much more widespread in use. Both scales function well in cases of severe and minor head injury, but have weaknesses when defining moderate head injury. Level-of-consciousness scales are only an aid to assessment and the final choice between the two scales must remain a matter of personal or departmental preference.
Carl Wernicke (1848-1905) is traditionally considered the first to have described the features of, and the brain pathology underlying, impaired auditory comprehension and related symptoms. Although Wernicke (1874) clearly and repeatedly indicates his indebtedness to Theodor von Meynert (1833-1892), this is usually understood as an acknowledgment that Meynert taught Wernicke neuroanatomy (Eggert, 1977); Wernicke's own words in part support this interpretation. A more sophisticated historical analysis notes that, prior to Wernicke, both Johann Schmidt in 1871 and Charlton Bastian in 1869 had described the concept of receptive aphasia, but neither had supported their analyses with autopsy evidence as did Wernicke, thus not dislodging Wernicke's claim of priority. However, a virtually unknown work by Theodor von Meynert, published in 1866, has recently been rediscovered by us [&quot;Ein Fall von Sprachstrung, anatomisch begrndet.&quot; Medizinische Jahrbcher. XII Band der Zeitschrift der K. K. Gesellleschaft der Arzte in Wien, 22. Jahr. Pp. 152-189]. In this paper Meynert analyzes the anatomical basis for localizing the comprehension of language in the superior temporal gyrus, he argues that lesions in this area should (by analogy to Broca's earlier observations on language expression) cause impairments in language comprehension, and he presents a case of receptive aphasia with autopsy evidence of destruction of the superior temporal gyrus in the left hemisphere. The patient's aphasia was classic; impaired auditory comprehension, and fluent speech with paraphasias. It is clear that Meynert should be given historical credit for his work.
Subunit-specific polyclonal antisera against the GABAA receptor gamma 1 and gamma 2 subunits were raised in rabbits and used for immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry of the rat brain. Each subunit protein was differentially distributed even in the region like cerebellar cortex where mRNAs of both subunits were distributed in the same manner. This may indicate that GABAA receptor gamma 1 and gamma 2 subunit proteins are subject to a subunit-specific subcellular sorting mechanism.
gamma-Aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptors are linked to ion channels which mediate many aspects of neural inhibition. Although the effects of phosphorylation on GABAA receptor function have been widely studied, the actual role of phosphorylation in the regulation of these receptors still remains controversial. In recent reports, we have described the effects of phosphorylating/dephosphorylating enzymes on the regulation of GABAA receptors in a rat cortical slice preparation (Shaw et al., Mol. Neuropharmacol., 2 (1992) 297-302; Shaw and Lanius, Dev. Brain Res., 70 (1992) 153-161; Pasqualotto et al., Neuroreport, 4 (1993) 447-450) and predicted that ionic co-factors are involved in mediating the regulation of GABAA receptors by kinases and phosphatases. In the present report, the effects of chloride, sodium, potassium, and calcium were examined alone and in the presence of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase A) or alkaline phosphatase. The results showed a decrease in [3H]SR 95531 (GABAA receptor antagonist) binding after incubation with chloride alone; this decrease was further enhanced in the presence of protein kinase A. Both effects could be blocked by a protein kinase A inhibitor. Conversely, an increase in [3H]SR 95531 binding was observed after incubation with sodium alone; this increase was further enhanced in the presence of alkaline phosphatase. In both cases these increases in binding could be blocked by sodium orthovanadate, a phosphatase inhibitor. Potassium was ineffective under all conditions; calcium showed enzyme-independent effects at low concentrations only. These results suggest the existence of a novel chloride-dependent protein kinase which may have significant sequence homology to protein kinase A, and a novel sodium-dependent phosphatase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway in rats result in a massive dopamine (DA) denervation of the ipsilateral striatum. Such animals have proven extremely useful as a model for the study of Parkinson's disease, an idiopathic neurodegenerative disorder of humans. Extensive unilateral DA disruption leaves the rat relatively normal in motor behavior; however, the extent of the lesion can be documented by drug-induced rotational behavior. When given an injection of a dopamine agonist, such as apomorphine or D-amphetamine, a lesioned animal will manifest rotational behavior; the number of turns correlates with the degree of unilateral denervation. In order to identify, for various studies, large numbers of animals with specific levels of denervation, the necessity of an automated and reliable rotational counting system (rotometer) becomes obvious. We have developed such a device that allows up to 16 rats to be tested concurrently with one inexpensive computer. This system is more reliable than, and certainly preferable to, more tedious methods such as videotaping and subsequent manual analysis or various other mechanical systems. Plexiglass, formed into large bowls, serve as the rotometer chambers. We have designed a simple, inexpensive, and accurate counting head that can be manufactured from readily available parts and that is very sturdy and reliable. This, together with a thoracic harness, completes the rotometer assembly. The rotational data, from up to 16 separate channels, is collected by a single-chip microprocessor and sent on a serial line to an IBM-type or MacIntosh host computer. There, it is graphically displayed on line and subsequently saved to disk with a novel acquisition program.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) pulse waveform basing on 899 records was classified. Eleven types of CSF pulse waveform were further classified according to the harmonic wave relation and the configuration of the pulse waveform. The characteristic features of various types of CSF pulse waveform were considered to reflect certain intracranial pathophysiological conditions including cerebral compliance, cerebral vasomotor reactivity and intracranial elastance.
With agonist stimulation, cardiac beta 2-adrenergic receptors (beta 2ARs) are downregulated to a much greater extent than are beta 1ARs. It has been hypothesized that this effect is due to sympathetic innervation inhibiting the downregulation of beta 1ARs. To test this hypothesis, the technique of coverslip autoradiography was used to localize and quantify beta 1AR and beta 2AR subtypes in tissue compartments of the heart in rats subjected to sympathetic denervation by two intravenous injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (50 mg/kg per dose). After denervation, the rats were infused with L-isoproterenol (400 micrograms.kg-1 x h-1 for 7 days) or vehicle (0.001N HCI) by implantation of osmotic minipumps. Sections were incubated with 70 pmol/L of the beta AR antagonist [125I]iodocyanopindolol (ICYP) alone or in the presence of 5 mumol/L DL-propranolol or 5 x 10(-7) mol/L CGP 20712A (a beta 1AR antagonist). Binding of ICYP to sections of rat hearts was saturable and stereoselective and was displaced by beta AR agonists with the rank order of potency expected for beta ARs. There was an 89% reduction in catecholamine concentration in rat ventricles after 1 week of 6-hydroxydopamine treatment, before implantation of the minipumps. Chronic infusion of isoproterenol induced significant downregulation (63% to 74%) of beta 2ARs in atrial and ventricular myocytes, coronary arterioles, and connective tissue but no change in beta 1ARs in these regions in rats with intact sympathetic innervation. Similar changes were seen in denervated animals. There was a marked reduction in beta 2ARs but small insignificant decreases in beta 1ARs, despite the fact that in the denervated animals there was upregulation of beta 1ARs in atrial and ventricular myocytes (approximately 25%). Our study suggests that beta 1ARs in the heart are not significantly downregulated by chronic agonist exposure and that this is unrelated to sympathetic innervation. The underlying mechanism of preferential regulation of beta AR subtypes remains to be elucidated but may be related to differences in the molecular structure between beta 1ARs and beta 2ARs.
Stroke is an important health problem in developed countries, being a common cause of death and disability. Prognosis is poor for hospitalised stroke patients, with a 30-day mortality rate of 20-30%, and 30% of the survivors remaining severely disabled. Based on results from experimental animal studies it is thought that early intervention will improve the patients' prognosis. Thrombolytic therapy has been shown to reduce mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction, and several trials aim to assess its efficacy in patients with acute cerebral infarction. Although many clinical trials have been performed to address this problem, none have provided a clear answer, either because the sample size was insufficient, or by modern standards, the methodology used was not adequate. The Multicenter Acute Stroke Trials (MAST) has been designed to assess the safety and efficacy of thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase for this indication.
The developments in nonlinear dynamics and the theory of chaos have considerably altered our perception and analysis of many complex systems, including the brain. This paper reviews the physical and dynamical aspect of brain's electrical activity from this new perspective and indicates possible future directions. The importance of emerging trends of nonlinear dynamics and chaos to neurobiology has been discussed in the context of various states of consciousness and behaviour. In the past, EEG analysis has been confined to descriptive stochastic statistics and any understanding of the transitional process of brain activities was either nonexistent or not amenable for investigation. With the developments in nonlinear dynamics, the chaotic dynamical parameters and trajectory behaviour will find their use as feature detection techniques in EEG. Furthermore, nonlinear dynamics provides a model for EEG generation and temporal prediction which will help in determining the nature of neuronal processes governing various states of brain activity. The formalism of globally coupled dynamic systems will find applications in modelling the transitional states of EEG.


We found that a seven-residue sequence in pro-adipokinetic hormone I (proAKH I) which precedes the endopeptidase cleavage site is predicted to form an omega loop. Molecular modelling experiments indicated that a stable omega loop may form at this site, and suggested that loop stability may depend on the C-terminal loop residue, Lys12. The importance of this residue in proAKH I processing was confirmed by the observation that replacement of Lys12 by thialysine, a Lys analog with an altered side chain, prevented processing in vivo. In addition we showed by molecular modelling that this side-chain alteration may prevent formation of an omega loop. Together, these approaches lead us to propose that an omega loop may serve as a recognition motif in proAKH I processing.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we studied changes in expression of some neuropeptides in large and medium-sized neurons in lumbar 4 and 5 rat dorsal root ganglia projecting to the gracile nucleus, in response to peripheral axotomy. Fourteen days after unilateral sciatic nerve transection, many large neurons and some medium-sized neurons in ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia were strongly neuropeptide Y-positive. Galanin-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)- and peptide histidine-isoleucine (PHI)-like immunoreactivities coexisted with neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in some of these neurons. After axotomy numerous large and medium-sized cells contained neuropeptide Y mRNA in the ipsilateral ganglia, whereas no hybridization was seen in the contralateral or control ganglia. Cross-sectioned, large neuropeptide Y-positive fibres were observed in a somatotopically appropriate zone within the ipsilateral gracile fasciculus. A dense network of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive, large nerve fibres and terminals was seen in the ipsilateral gracile nucleus. A small number of galanin- and VIP/PHI-like immunoreactive nerve fibres and terminals were also observed in adjacent sections. Neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity colocalized with galanin- or VIP/PHI-like immunoreactivity in some nerve fibres. None of these neuropeptide immunoreactivities could be detected in nerve fibres and terminals in the control or contralateral gracile nucleus. These findings suggest that neuropeptides, in addition to their role in small dorsal root ganglion neurons, may have a function in large and medium-sized dorsal root ganglion neurons projecting to laminae III and IV in the dorsal horn as well as to the gracile nuclei, as a part of their response to peripheral axotomy.
SV40 T-antigen-expressing human cells generally have an extension of lifespan until a period called &quot;crisis&quot; begins. On rare occasions a clone of cells emerges from the population in crisis and gives rise to an immortalized cell line. The present study compares the frequency of immortalization of cells from two different human lineages, lung fibroblasts and mammary epithelial cells. Most of the T-antigen-transfected clones from both cell types failed to immortalize, however, within those clones which were immortalization-competent the frequency of escape from crisis was found to be much higher (10(-5)) in mammary epithelial cells than in human fibroblasts (3 x 10(-7)). The frequency of escape from crisis in fibroblasts could be increased by chemical mutagenesis or by infection with a defective retrovirus. T-antigen-transfected fibroblasts were uniformly highly aneuploid both before and after crisis. In contrast, many SV40 T-antigen- and human papilloma virus 16 E6- or E6/E7-transfected mammary epithelial clones maintained a subpopulation of pseudodiploid cells prior to crisis, and the immortal cells that emerged following crisis were generally pseudodiploid. The higher frequency of escape from crisis in mammary epithelial cells is best explained by postulating a mutational inactivation of one allele of a critical gene followed by the elimination of the remaining wild-type alleles, with a much higher frequency of this second event in mammary epithelial cells due to their reduced ploidy compared to that in T-antigen-transfected fibroblasts. The results are discussed in terms of the regulation of telomerase activity and the M1/M2 model of cellular senescence.
Issues related to the possible treatment of Alzheimer's disease with nerve growth factor (NGF) are discussed. Animal research has demonstrated that the ascending cholinergic projections in the brain express low- and high-affinity receptors for NGF and are NGF-sensitive as well as probably NGF-dependent. Cholinergic lesions lead to cognitive disturbances, and treatment with NGF can improve cognitive behavior in animals. It thus seems reasonable to attempt to counteract the degeneration of cholinergic systems known to occur in patients with Alzheimer's disease by treatment with NGF. There are several different possible ways of stimulating NGF receptors such as NGF infusion, implantation of slow-release biodegradable pellets, using carrier-mediated transport across the blood-brain barrier, grafting NGF-producing cells, transferring genes directly to the brain, developing NGF receptor agonists, or controlling the endogenous NGF production. The first clinical trial of NGF infusion is described in some detail. Based on background information from intracerebral infusion of NGF in parkinsonian patients, attempting to support intraputaminal chromaffin tissue grafts, a study was initiated using a radio-controlled fully implantable pumping device delivering NGF to the lateral ventricle. Several transient or more long-lasting &quot;improvements&quot; were noted in the pilot case. These involved increases of blood flow and nicotine binding as evaluated by positron-emission tomography as well as improvement of the EEG and certain psychological tests, tapping verbal episodic memory. Negative effects of NGF or formation of antibodies against NGF were not noted. In discussing the pilot case, the one conclusion which appears warranted is that it is reasonable to continue the clinical research with NGF treatment of a low number of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The question of whether neurotrophin-mediated mechanisms are disturbed in Alzheimer's disease is discussed. While this issue cannot be settled at present, it is argued that NGF can be used as a pharmacological agent, whether or not there are any primary disturbances of neurotrophin-mediated mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease. Finally, the possibility that NGF might have other positive or negative effects is discussed. In particular, the increase in blood flow noted in the Alzheimer patient suggests that data from clinical research may also generate a feedback to basic science, thus aiding in attempts to find new treatment strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.

To investigate the receptor-like molecule(s) for plasminogen (PGn) on the neuronal surface, the properties of binding of PGn to the plasma membrane of cultured embryonic rat neocortical neurons were investigated. [125I]PGn was found to specifically bind to the plasma membrane depending on the incubation temperature and time. The binding was also affected strongly by ionic strength and slightly by Ca2+. Furthermore, ligand blotting analysis revealed that [125I]PGn binds to a major protein with an apparent molecular weight of 45 kDa among plasma membrane proteins. These results suggest that the 45-kDa protein is a PGn receptor-like molecule on the neuronal surface.

1. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 100 microM) caused a rapid and great increase of formation of cGMP in rat cerebellar slices. This effect was not blocked by L-NMMA (a NO synthetase inhibitor) or antagonists of the NMDA receptor complex (e.g. AP5 or MK 801). 2. Similarly, NMDA (100 microM) and glutamate (1 mM) caused a rapid but less significant increase of cGMP formation. This increase was blocked by NMDA receptor complex blockers (e.g. AP5, MK801 and kynurenate), and L-NMMA and L-nitroarginine. 3. In rats aged 12 days, both NMDA and kainate (at 100 microM) caused significantly increased levels of cGMP in the cerebellum, pons and medulla areas, whereas no significant alterations were found in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus or midbrain areas. 4. NMDA (100 microM) and SNP (300 microM) induced greater increases of cGMP in cerebellar slices in young (aged 13 days) animals than older ones of either sex. This effect decreased greatly after 35 days of age. In adult (2 months) animals the effect of NMDA had virtually disappeared whereas SNP was barely significantly present. 5. Our results suggest that brain region and age, but not sex, affected formation of cGMP induced by excitatory amino acids (EAA) and SNP. Furthermore, endogenous NO production is required by EAA, but not by SNP, in the formation of cGMP.
On the wave of the furore over the haphazard approach to academic promotion in Italy and the role of published work in it, our analysis clears the role of the neurological publications in the three years 1989-1991. The data analysis, carried out by consulting on-line data bank and comparing the Italian production with that one of two sampled countries (France and Germany), shows that in the field of clinical neuroscience, this criticism is not in order.
The spectrogram correlation and transformation (SCAT) model of the sonar receiver in the big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus) consists of a cochlear component for encoding the bat's frequency modulated (FM) sonar transmissions and multiple FM echoes in a spectrogram format, followed by two parallel pathways for processing temporal and spectral information in sonar echoes to reconstruct the absolute range and fine range structure of multiple targets from echo spectrograms. The outputs of computations taking place along these parallel pathways converge to be displayed along a computed image dimension of echo delay or target range. The resulting image depicts the location of various reflecting sources in different targets along the range axis. This series of transforms is equivalent to simultaneous, parallel forward and inverse transforms on sonar echoes, yielding the impulse responses of targets by deconvolution of the spectrograms. The performance of the model accurately reproduces the images perceived by Eptesicus in a variety of behavioral experiments on two-glint resolution in range, echo phase sensitivity, amplitude-latency trading of range estimates, dissociation of time- and frequency-domain image components, and ranging accuracy in noise.
201 patients (131 males and 70 females) with mean age of 18 years (range 5-55 years) who presented at median of 6 days after the onset of first unprovoked seizure were studied. They were followed for a mean period of 60 months (range 12-84 months). One hundred and fifty four (76%) patients were treated with anticonvulsant medication (group A) on a non-randomized basis and the remaining 47 patients (24%) were not treated (group B). Both the groups were comparable for age, sex, type of seizure and interval between onset of seizure and consultation. The cumulative risk of recurrence for entire study group was 24% at 1 month, 32% at 6 months, 34% at 12 months, 35% at 24 months and 36% at 36 months. The cumulative risk of recurrence in group A was 23%, 30%, 32%, 33% and 33% as compared to 28%, 36%, 40%, 43% and 45% at 1, 6, 12, 24 and 36 months respectively (p &gt; 0.05). Maximum number of recurrences (67%) occurred within 1 month. No recurrence occurred after 36 months after the onset of first seizure. Age at onset, sex, seizure type, family history of seizure, EEG abnormalities and nature of antiepileptic drugs did not influence the risk of recurrence.
The responses of the dilator layer of the rat iris to sympathetic nerve stimulation were examined using intracellular recording techniques. Three different cell types were detected. In two of these, which were assumed to reflect recordings from myoepithelial cells, sympathetic nerve stimulation initiated excitatory junction potentials. These started after a delay of several hundred milliseconds and lasted for several seconds. The excitatory junction potentials were abolished by low concentrations of prazosin and were relatively insensitive to yohimbine, indicating that neurally released noradrenaline activated an alpha 1-adrenoceptor. The adrenoceptor was further characterised as being of the alpha 1b subtype using chlorethylclonidine. The time course of excitatory junction potentials was slowed when the preparation was cooled, suggesting that a second messenger pathway was being activated. The contractions triggered by sympathetic nerve stimulation persisted after excitatory junction potentials had been abolished by reducing the external concentration of chloride ions and after adding the organic calcium antagonist, nifedipine. Thus it seems likely that contractions of the dilator are triggered by the release of calcium ions from internal stores. These observations are discussed in relation to the idea that alpha 1b-adrenoceptors are coupled to a messenger pathway which involves inositol triphosphate and the pulsatile release of calcium ions from internal stores. The second section of the paper deals with the structure of neuro-myoepithelial contacts in the dilator layer. The majority of sympathetic varicosities formed organized neuroeffector junctions with either myoepithelial cells or melanophores. At the junctions the effector cell membrane and varicosity membrane were separated by less than 80 nm, with synaptic vesicles concentrated towards the neuroeffector junction. The synaptic vesicles in varicosities that failed to form junctions did not aggregate towards their regions of exposed membrane. These observations are discussed in relation to the idea that transmission at autonomic varicosities occurs at organised neuroeffector junctions.
We determined several internal amino acid sequences of dystrophin-associated glycoprotein, A3a (one of the 43DAG doublets), of rabbit skeletal muscle. All the sequences of A3a determined were found in the C-terminal region of dystroglycan, which is the region assumed to be the cytoplasmic domain of 43DAG [Ibraghimov-Beskrovnaya et al. (1992) Nature 355, 696-702]. Therefore, A3a is identical with 43DAG. We raised an antibody (PA3a) against a synthetic polypeptide equivalent to one of the internal amino acid sequences of A3a. The antibody specifically reacted with A3a of rabbit skeletal muscle. PA3a, however, did not react with A3b, the other 43DAG doublet, suggesting that the 43DAG doublets are different proteins from each other. When the human control muscles were examined, PA3a immunohistochemically stained the cell surface membranes and exclusively reacted with a single protein similar to A3a in the SDS extracts. The protein was also detected in the SDS extract of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) muscle devoid of dystrophin. When the muscle specimens from 30 DMD patients were immunohistochemically examined with the antibody, the cell surface membranes were consistently stained. Therefore, we conclude that the dystrophin-associated protein, A3a, is retained in DMD muscles.
Coated and noncoated vesicles participate in cellular protein transport. Both acetylcholine receptors (AChR) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) are transported via coated vesicles, some of which accumulate beneath the neuromuscular synapse where AChRs cluster. To investigate the mechanisms by which these proteins are transported during postsynaptic remodeling, we purified coated vesicles from the bovine brain via column chromatography (Sephacryl S-1000) and raised monoclonal antibodies to epitopes of the vesicular membranes enriched in AChE. We assayed for AChE (coated vesicle enriched), hexosaminidase (lysosomal contaminants), NADH cytochrome C reductase (mitochondrial containing), and protein and demonstrated electron microscopically using negative staining that the vesicular fraction contained 95% pure coated vesicles. We then injected coated vesicle fractions and the fractions from which the coat was removed intraperitoneally into mice and obtained three monoclonal antibodies: C-33, C-172, and F-22. On immunoblots of purified vesicles and cultured skeletal muscle, mAb C-33 stained a 180 Kd band and mAb C-172 stained a 100 kd band. MAb F-22 stained 50 kd and 55 kd bands and was not characterized further. Immunofluorescent microscopy with C-33 and C-172 revealed punctate fluorescence whose distribution depends upon the stage of myotube development. Four days after plating, myotubes showed punctate fluorescence throughout the myotube, whereas those stained 8 days after plating showed a punctate perinuclear distribution. Myotubes innervated by ciliary neurons show punctate fluorescence limited to the nuclear periphery and most concentrated around nuclei which line up beneath neuronal processes. This differential vesicular distribution, observed during myotube differentiation and innervation, suggests that these vesicles participate in vesicular membrane traffic.
R2D5 is a mouse monoclonal antibody that labels rabbit olfactory receptor neurons. Immunoblot analysis showed that mAb R2D5 recognizes a 22-kD protein with apparent pI of 4.8, which is abundantly contained in the olfactory epithelium and the olfactory bulb. We isolated cDNA for R2D5 antigen and confirmed by Northern analysis and neuronal depletion technique that R2D5 antigen is expressed predominantly, but not exclusively, in olfactory receptor neurons. Analysis of the deduced primary structure revealed that R2D5 antigen consists of 189 amino acids with calculated M(r) of 20,864 and pI of 4.74, has three calcium-binding EF hands, and has possible phosphorylation sites for Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (A kinase). Using the bacterially expressed protein, we directly examined the biochemical properties of R2D5 antigen. R2D5 antigen binds Ca2+ and undergoes a conformational change in a manner similar to calmodulin. R2D5 antigen is phosphorylated in vitro by CaM kinase II and A kinase at different sites, and 1.81 and 0.80 mol of Pi were maximally incorporated per mol of R2D5 antigen by CaM kinase II and A kinase, respectively. Detailed immunohistochemical study showed that R2D5 antigen is also expressed in a variety of ependymal cells in the rabbit central nervous system. Aside from ubiquitous calmodulin, R2D5 antigen is the first identified calcium-binding protein in olfactory receptor neurons that may modulate olfactory signal transduction. Furthermore our results indicate that olfactory receptor neurons and ependymal cells have certain signal transduction components in common, suggesting a novel physiological process in ependymal cells.
To determine whether the neuroprotection elicited from electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) is attributable to the elevation in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), we compared the effects in spontaneously hypertensive rats of stimulation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) or FN on (a) a focal ischemic lesion produced by middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, and (b) the changes in rCBF, measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry for 1.5 h, over regions corresponding to the ischemic core (parietal cortex), penumbra (occipital cortex), and nonischemic area (contralateral parietal cortex). Stimulation of FN for 1 h following MCA occlusion reduced infarction 24 h later by 52%. Stimulation of RVL was ineffective. Changes in the lesion were confined to the penumbra. FN and RVL stimulation comparably and significantly increased rCBF up to 185% in unlesioned animals. Following MCA occlusion, stimulation of FN or RVL and hypercarbia failed to elevate rCBF in the ischemic area but did so in the nonischemic area, even though in the same animals only FN stimulation reduced infarction 24 h later. We conclude that (a) the neuroprotection elicited from FN is not the result of an increase in rCBF but results from another mechanism, possibly reduction of metabolism in penumbra, and (b) the pathways mediating central neurogenic vasodilation and neuroprotection are, in part, distinct.
The consequences of inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis on local CBF and glucose utilisation have been studied in the conscious rat using the specific nitric oxide synthase inhibitor Ng-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 30 mg kg-1 i.v.). Local CBF and glucose utilisation were assessed with the [14C]iodoantipyrine and the 2-deoxy-D-[14C]glucose autoradiographic techniques, respectively. L-NAME induced prolonged (&gt; 3 h) reductions in local CBF throughout the CNS with concomitant increases in arterial blood pressure. For example, 1 h post L-NAME, CBF dropped from 79 +/- 4 to 45 +/- 1 ml 100 g-1 min-1 in cerebellum, from 76 +/- 4 to 47 +/- 2 ml 100 g-1 min-1 in medulla oblongata, and from 117 +/- 6 to 72 +/- 2 ml 100 g-1 min-1 in cortex. L-NAME produced sustained elevations (e.g., 46 +/- 2 mm Hg at 1 h after bolus administration) in mean arterial blood pressure throughout the period evaluated. Despite evidence implicating nitric oxide in neuronal signalling, L-NAME did not significantly influence CNS functional activity, as measured by local rates of glucose utilisation, in any neuroanatomical region examined. Consequently, the normal ratio of blood flow to glucose use throughout the brain was significantly reduced in the presence of L-NAME, although the hierarchy of blood flow levels in different neuroanatomical regions was preserved. These results are consistent with the involvement of nitric oxide in the tonic control of cerebral tissue perfusion.
The rostral ventromedial medulla contains two classes of physiologically defined neurons, on-cells and off-cells, that are implicated in nociceptive modulation. In a continuing effort to detail the neural circuitry that underlies the activity of these two distinct neuronal types, the three-dimensional somatodendritic morphology of on- and off-cells was studied in the cat and the rat. Following physiological characterization with intracellular recording, on- and off-cells were injected with horseradish peroxidase and sectioned in the coronal plane. Their somatodendritic arborizations were reconstructed with the aid of a computerized three-dimensional reconstruction program. There were no differences between on- and off-cells in any somatodendritic feature analyzed. On- and off-cells possess dendritic arbors that are elongated in the mediolateral axis relative to the dorsoventral and rostrocaudal axes. In the rat, the average dendritic extent was more than 1,400 microns mediolaterally but only about 800 microns in either the dorsoventral or rostrocaudal axis. All somatic and dendritic measures were greater for both cat cells than for any rat neuron. Dendrites and their tips were located predominantly in regions lateral to the soma. The center of total dendritic length was usually located within 150 microns of the soma, most frequently ventral and lateral to the soma. The present results demonstrate that the dendritic domains of neurons in the nuclei raphe magnus and reticularis paragigantocellularis pars alpha are not contained within cytoarchitechtonic boundaries. On- and off-cell dendrites are interdigitated throughout the mediolateral extent of the rostral ventromedial medulla. Since on- and off-cell dendritic domains occupy a restricted rostrocaudal plane, afferents to the rostral ventromedial medulla that are confined to a single coronal plane and those that collateralize at several levels are likely to play different roles in the control of on- and off-cell activity.
1. We have studied the neural circuitry mediating ingestion and rejection in Aplysia using a reduced preparation that produces ingestion-like and rejection-like motor patterns in response to physiological stimuli. 2. We have characterized 3 buccal ganglion motor neurons that produce specific movements of the radula and buccal mass. B8a and B8b act to close the radula. B10 acts to close the jaws and retract the radula. 3. The patterns of activity in these neurons can be used to distinguish the ingestion-like and rejection-like motor patterns. B8a, B8b and B10 are active together during the ingestion-like pattern. Activity in B8a and B8b ends prior to the onset of activity in B10 during the rejection-like pattern. 4. Our data suggest that these neurons undergo similar patterns of activity in vivo. During both feeding-like patterns, the activity and peripheral actions of B8a, B8b, and B10 are consistent with radula movements observed during ingestion and rejection. In addition, the extracellular activity produced by these neurons is consistent with neural activity observed in vivo during ingestion and rejection. 5. Our data suggest that the different activity patterns observed in these motor neurons contribute to the different radula movements that distinguish ingestion from rejection.
The gating properties of macroscopic and microscopic gap junctional currents were compared by applying the dual whole cell patch clamp technique to pairs of neonatal rat Schwann cells. In response to transjunctional voltage pulses (Vj), macroscopic gap junctional currents decayed exponentially with time constants ranging from &lt; 1 to &lt; 10 s before reaching steady-state levels. The relationship between normalized steady-state junctional conductance (Gss) and (Vj) was well described by a Boltzmann relationship with e-fold decay per 10.4 mV, representing an equivalent gating charge of 2.4. At Vj &gt; 60 mV, Gss was virtually zero, a property that is unique among the gap junctions characterized to date. Determination of opening and closing rate constants for this process indicated that the voltage dependence of macroscopic conductance was governed predominantly by the closing rate constant. In 78% of the experiments, a single population of unitary junctional currents was detected corresponding to an unitary channel conductance of approximately 40 pS. The presence of only a limited number of junctional channels with identical unitary conductances made it possible to analyze their kinetics at the single channel level. Gating at the single channel level was further studied using a stochastic model to determine the open probability (Po) of individual channels in a multiple channel preparation. Po decreased with increasing Vj following a Boltzmann relationship similar to that describing the macroscopic Gss voltage dependence. These results indicate that, for Vj of a single polarity, the gating of the 40 pS gap junction channels expressed by Schwann cells can be described by a first order kinetic model of channel transitions between open and closed states.
The spike (S) protein of murine coronavirus JHMV, variant cl-2, comprises two polypeptides, N-terminal S1 (with an N-terminal signal peptide) and C-terminal S2 (with a C-terminal transmembrane domain). In order to express these subunits, we constructed three different vaccinia virus transfer vectors (VV-TVs) containing cDNAs encoding the S1 protein without a transmembrane domain (pSFS1utt), the S1 protein with a C-terminal transmembrane domain derived from S2 (pSFS1tmd) or the S2 protein with an N-terminal signal peptide derived from S1 (pSFssS2). The S1 and S2 proteins were expressed in DBT cells by infection with vaccinia virus and transfection of these VV-TVs. In cells transfected with the pSFS1utt and pSFS1tmd, 96K and 106K proteins, respectively, were detected by Western blotting. The ssS2 protein expressed by pSFssS2 was 96K, which was slightly larger than the authentic S2 protein. The S1utt and S1tmd proteins were shown by binding studies using a panel of monoclonal antibodies to be antigenically indistinguishable from the authentic S1 protein. The S1tmd and ssS2 proteins were detected on the cell surface by immunofluorescence, whereas the S1utt protein was not. However, when the S1utt protein was expressed together with the ssS2 protein, the S1utt was detected on the cell membrane. This suggested that the S1utt was associated with ssS2 on the cell membrane. These observations indicate that the expressed S1 and S2 proteins associated in a similar manner to the authentic S1 and S2 proteins produced in DBT cells infected with cl-2. However, cell fusion was not observed in cells expressing either S1 or S2 nor in cells coexpressing both S1 and S2, although the whole S protein expressed by VV-TV did induce fusion.
We applied the fluorescent DNA stains diamidino yellow (DY) and chromomycin A3 to rat and rabbit retinas in vivo and in vitro. They accumulated in the nuclei of a subpopulation of cells of the inner nuclear layer. The number and distribution of the fluorochrome-accumulating cells were similar to those of the Mller glia, and double-labeling experiments showed that the cells accumulating DY or chromomycin A3 contained oriented filaments of vimentin. The fluorochromes also accumulated in the sparse astrocytes and oligodendrocytes located among the myelinated fibers of the rabbit central retina. Specific accumulation in retinal glia occurred only when the fluorochromes were applied to living retinas. If the plasma membranes were disrupted by fixation or exposure to detergent, most retinal cells were stained. This indicates that the locus of specificity is the entry of the molecules into the cells. When applied to living retinas, other DNA stains selectively accumulate in subclasses of retinal neurons. Why DNA-binding molecules should selectively cross the membranes of either retinal neurons or retinal glia remains an unsolved problem.
In an effort to correlate biochemical characteristics of the beta-adrenergic receptor complex with myocardial function, mouse myocardial GTP-binding proteins, specifically substrates for pertussis toxin (PT), were analysed with regard to the influence of infection with Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas' cardiomyopathy. Infection was found to decrease in a non-uniform manner the magnitude of ADP-ribosylation in the PT substrates. High detergent concentrations attenuated the infection-associated decrease in PT-dependent ADP-ribosylation. Infection also altered the kinetics of the PT-dependent ADP-ribosylation reaction from a time course wherein maximal PT-dependent ADP-ribosylation occurred after 12 h incubation in control animals to one in which maximal PT-dependent ADP-ribosylation occurred after 3 h incubation and thereafter declined. Immunochemical analysis of the PT-substrates revealed an infection-associated decrease in alpha i1, alpha o, an increase in alpha i2 and no change in alpha i3. Verapamil treatment, which prevents the clinical consequences of infection, did not influence any of the infection-associated changes in PT-dependent ADP-ribosylation of GTP-binding protein substrates or their immunochemical properties. Complementary studies using isolated rat neonatal cardiocytes infected with the parasite further substantiated the finding that the infection-associated decrease in PT-dependent ADP-ribosylation and the associated change in the kinetics of the reaction were properties uniquely associated with the presence of the parasite.
Cognitive testing with the Dementia Rating Scale was performed serially over an 18-month period in 410 nursing home patients. The principal findings were: deterioration in patients with congestive failure but not cerebrovascular accident: continuous deterioration in organic mental syndrome cases in relation to initial severity; specific impairment of memory in patients on neuroleptics; and no evidence that the nursing home environment alone induced cognitive decline.
beta-Amyloid peptide (A beta) is one of the main components of senile plaques in the brain tissue of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. A beta is proteolytically cleaved from the amyloid precursor protein (APP), an integral membrane protein possessing a large extracellular N-terminal domain followed by a single membrane-spanning region and a short cytoplasmic C-terminal tail. A beta has been isolated from senile plaques and cerebral vascular tissue of AD brain and characterized as a heterogeneous peptide containing 28-43 amino acids whose sequence begins in the extracellular domain of APP and extends into the putative transmembrane sequence. It has long been speculated that A beta may also be present in body fluids, such as CSF, that contact neuritic plaques. Recently using a specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay we were able to quantify one form of A beta in CSF. In this report, using one of these antibodies covalently bound as an affinity matrix, multiple complex forms of A beta have been isolated and characterized from CSF derived from patients with either meningitis or other neurological disorders. Amino acid sequencing reveals A beta species with N-termini of Asp1, Glu3, His6, Glu11, and Val12, although on a molar basis, Asp1 represents the predominant aminoterminus. Laser desorption mass spectrometry confirmed the presence in CSF of A beta species containing 27, 28, 30, 34, 35, 40, 42, and 43 amino acids, all beginning at Asp1; two stable trimers, (Asp1-Met35)3 and (His6-Ala42)3; and one stable dimer containing (Asp1-Val40)2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies have demonstrated species-specific differences in 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptors, but unequivocal evidence of 5-HT3 receptor subtypes, within a species, has not yet been obtained. The purpose of the current study was to test for heterogeneity in 5-HT3 receptors in murine tissues. 5-HT3 receptors in membranes derived from brain cerebral cortex of CD-1, C57Bl/6, and Swiss Webster mice and ileum of CD-1 mice were labeled with the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist [3H]RS-42358-197. Structurally diverse competing ligands were then used to characterize the binding site. [3H]RS-42358-197 bound with similar affinity in each of the cortical tissues (mean KD = 0.14 nM; range, 0.06-0.32 nM) but bound with lower affinity in ileal tissue (2.5 nM). The density of sites labeled with [3H]RS-42358-197 ranged from 10.4 fmol/mg of protein in Swiss Webster mouse cortex to 44.2 fmol/mg of protein in Sprague-Dawley rat cortex. Displacing ligands produced a pharmacologic profile of the [3H]RS-42358-197 binding site consistent with it being a 5-HT3 receptor: (R)-YM060 &gt; (S)-zacopride &gt; (R)-zacopride &gt; MDL 72222 &gt; 2-methyl-5-HT. However, &gt; or = 10-fold differences in the affinity of certain ligands were found when comparing 5-HT3 binding sites in membranes from cerebral cortex of the different strains of mice and when comparing 5-HT3 binding sites in brain and ileal membranes prepared from the CD-1 mouse strain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Phosphoglyceride and fatty acid composition was determined in the cellular membranes of isolated cerebral microvessels and brain parenchymal cells (neurons and glia) taken from 10-, 20-, and 27-30-month-old C57BL6/NNIA mice. Lipids were extracted from each fraction and the fatty acid profiles of ethanolamine, choline, serine, and inositol phosphoglycerides analyzed by gas chromatography. The results suggest that membrane phosphoglycerides from cerebral microvessels are significantly more affected by the aging process than are those of the brain parenchyma. Relative percentage for fatty acids in cerebral microvessels indicate an overall decline in membrane unsaturation with a concomitant elevation in the level of saturation. The decline in unsaturation is reflected primarily in the loss of precursor fatty acids for arachidonic (18:2n-6 and 20:3n-6) and docosahexaenoic (20:5n-3 and 22:5n-3) acids. Levels of arachidonic (20:4n-6) and docosahexaenoic (22:6n-3) acids in each phosphoglyceride remained unchanged with age; however, mol% for ethanolamine plasmalogen, a major source of these fatty acids, was significantly reduced in 27-30-month-old mice. Conversely, mol% for choline phosphoglyceride increased with age. The age-related changes in fatty acid profile for microvessel membrane phosphoglycerides are reflected by increased saturation/unsaturation ratios and decreased unsaturation indices. These parameters were not affected by aging in parenchymal membranes.
Cerebral blood flow and oxygenation increase during the early seizures of a series, but the increase in cerebral blood flow attenuates during late seizures, sometimes resulting in decreased cortical oxygenation. Cortical free fatty acids (FFA) and diacylglycerols also increase during early seizures and the increase attenuates during late seizures. We analyzed the correlation between lipid accumulation and cortical O2 during periodic pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. During early seizures, both FFA and diacylglycerols increased in the cerebral cortex, particularly arachidonate (20:4) and stearate (18:0). Changes in lipids were different during late seizures, depending on cortical O2 levels. An increase in cortical O2 during late seizures was associated with lower FFA levels compared with early seizures, and FFA levels recovered to basal levels during interictal periods. A decline in cortical O2 was associated with a further increase in FFA, which remained elevated during interictal periods. Our results indicate that periseizure lipid accumulation is related to cortical oxygenation.
Purified myelin from rat brainstem was found to have an appreciable level of guanylyl cyclase activity, as seen in the formation of 3',5'-cyclic GMP from [3H]GTP at a rate approximately 45% that of whole brainstem. Freshly isolated myelin from pooled rat brainstems was incubated with GTP in an appropriate mixture. This gave rise to 29.9 +/- 3.6 pmol of 3',5'-cyclic GMP/mg of protein/min measured by HPLC and a similar result (26.7 +/- 2.6 pmol/mg/min) with 125I-3',5'-cyclic GMP radioimmunoassay. The latter method applied to the reaction product from whole brainstem gave a value of 56.6 +/- 3.4 pmol/mg/min. In analyzing brainstem products by HPLC we observed in most trials concurrent formation of a second radiolabeled product that comigrated with 2',3'-cyclic GMP but that, on further examination, proved not to be that product. Its identity remains unknown.
It has been hypothesized that excitatory amino acids can initiate dopamine release in neostriatum. We examined whether the increase in extracellular dopamine in neostriatum produced by acute stress reflects presynaptic initiation of dopamine release by endogenous excitatory amino acids. Thirty minutes of intermittent tail-shock stress significantly elevated extracellular concentrations of dopamine, glutamate, aspartate, and gamma-aminobutyric acid in neostriatum of freely moving rats as measured with in vivo microdialysis. Local infusion of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate or the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione via the dialysis probe did not attenuate the stress-induced increase in extracellular dopamine. In fact, the increase was prolonged in rats treated with specific excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists. Infusion of tetrodotoxin into medial forebrain bundle increased extracellular glutamate and aspartate in neostriatum yet reduced basal dopamine in extracellular fluid to below the limit of detection of the assay and eliminated the stress-induced increase in extracellular dopamine. These findings fail to support the hypothesis that the stress-induced increase in extracellular dopamine in neostriatum is initiated locally by excitatory amino acids. Rather, the effects of stress on extracellular dopamine seem to be determined by impulse propagation in dopamine neurons.
We observed previously that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in area CA1 of the hippocampus, through either NMDA application or long-term potentiation (LTP)-inducing high-frequency stimulation (HFS), results in an increase in cyclic AMP. In the present study, we performed experiments to determine the mechanism by which NMDA receptor activation causes this increase in cyclic AMP. As the NMDA receptor-mediated increase in cyclic AMP is dependent upon extracellular calcium, we hypothesized that NMDA receptors are coupled to adenylyl cyclase (AC) via calcium/calmodulin. In membranes prepared from area CA1, AC was stimulated by calcium in the presence of calmodulin, and the effect of calcium/calmodulin on AC in membranes was blocked by the calmodulin antagonists N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1- naphthalenesulfonamide (W-7) and trifluoperazine (TFP). In intact hippocampal slices, W-7 and TFP blocked the increase in cyclic AMP levels caused by both NMDA application and HFS of Schaffer collateral fibers. Exposure of hippocampal slices to elevated extracellular potassium to induce calcium influx also caused increased cyclic AMP levels; the increase in cyclic AMP caused by high potassium was also blocked by W-7 and TFP. These data support the hypothesis that NMDA receptor activation is positively coupled to AC via calcium/calmodulin and are consistent with a role for cyclic AMP metabolism in the induction of NMDA receptor-dependent LTP in area CA1 of the hippocampus.
By quantitative in situ hybridization, we examined in vivo in the rat caudate-putamen the effects on levels of cannabinoid receptor mRNA of an interruption of dopamine neurotransmission for up to 1 month, by either 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning of the medial forebrain bundle or dopamine receptor blockade. We found, in a first set of experiments, that unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine dopaminergic deafferentation of the striatum (characterized by a contralateral turning behavior in response to apomorphine, the almost complete disappearance of the tyrosine hydroxylase hybridization signal in the substantia nigra, and an increase of preproenkephalin A mRNA level in the striatum) was associated with significantly increased (45%) cannabinoid receptor mRNA levels in the homolateral caudate-putamen. In a second set of experiments, treatments with the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390, haloperidol, and the D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride induced significantly higher cannabinoid receptor mRNA levels (respectively, 67, 34, and 27%) in the caudate-putamen. These observations suggest for the first time that, in vivo, cannabinoid receptor gene expression in the caudate-putamen is under the negative control of dopamine receptor-mediated events.
Microscopic fluorescence analysis of fura-2-loaded bovine adrenal chromaffin cells demonstrates that approximately 70% of the cells responded to arachidonic acid in increasing the intracellular Ca2+ concentration. Because this increase was markedly less in the absence of external Ca2+, we examined the effect of arachidonic acid on Ca2+ influx electrophysiologically. Bath application of 10 microM arachidonic acid induced a long-lasting inward current when the cell was clamped at -50 mV. Other fatty acids, such as oleic acid, linoleic acid, eicosatrienoic acid, and eicosapentaenoic acid, were all ineffective. The current-voltage relationships suggest that arachidonic acid may activate voltage-insensitive channels. Arachidonic acid (&gt; or = 2 microM) activated a single-channel current in the inside-out patch, even in the presence of inhibitors of cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase, possibly suggesting that arachidonic acid could activate channels directly. The onset delay of the inward channel current in the outside-out patch configuration (54.2 +/- 63.5 s; mean +/- SD) was significantly shorter than that in the inside-out patch one (197.3 +/- 177.7 s). Washout of arachidonic acid decreased the probability of channel openings in the outside-out patch but not in the inside-out one. These results suggest that arachidonic acid activates channels reversibly from outside of the plasma membrane. The unitary conductance for Ca2+ of arachidonic acid-activated channel was approximately 17 pS. The arachidonic acid-activated channel was permeable to Ba2+, Ca2+, and Na+ but not to Cl-. The opening probability of the arachidonic acid-activated channel did not depend on membrane potential.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulations of the increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) production by increasing intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) levels or activating protein kinase C (PKC) were studied in rat frontocortical cultured neurons. Amitriptyline (AMI; 1 mM), a tricyclic antidepressant, and bradykinin (BK; 1 microM) stimulated IP3 production and caused transient [Ca2+]i increases. Pretreatment with forskolin (100 microM, 15 min) decreased the AMI- and BK-induced [Ca2+]i increases by 33 and 48%, respectively. However, this treatment had no effect on the AMI- and BK-induced IP3 productions. Dibutyryl-cAMP (2 mM, 15 min) also decreased the AMI- and BK-induced [Ca2+]i increases by 23 and 47%, respectively. H-8 (30 microM), an inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), attenuated the ability of forskolin to inhibit the AMI- and BK-induced [Ca2+]i increases, suggesting that the activation of cAMP/PKA was involved in these inhibitory effects of forskolin. On the other hand, forskolin treatment had no effect on 20 mM caffeine-, 10 microM glutamate-, or 50 mM K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i increases. Pretreatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA; 100 nM, 90 min) decreased both the AMI-induced [Ca2+]i increases and the IP3 production by 31 and 25%, respectively. H-7 (200 microM), an inhibitor of PKC, inhibited the ability of PMA to attenuate the [Ca2+]i increases. PMA also inhibited the BK-induced IP3 production and the [Ca2+]i increases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent studies have identified at least two homologous mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases that are activated by phosphorylation of both tyrosine and threonine residues by an activator kinase. To help define the role of these MAP kinases in neuronal signalling, we have used primary cultures derived from fetal rat cortex to assess the regulation of their activity by agonist stimulation of glutamate receptors and by synaptic activity. Regulation was assayed by monitoring changes in both tyrosine phosphorylation on western blots and in vitro kinase activity toward a selective MAP kinase substrate peptide. In initial studies, we found that phorbol ester treatment increased tyrosine phosphorylation of p42 MAP kinase and stimulated MAP kinase activity. A similar response was elicited by three agonists of metabotropic glutamate receptors, i.e., trans-(+/-)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentane dicarboxylic acid, quisqualate, and (2S,3S,4S)-alpha-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine. MAP kinase activity and p42 MAP kinase tyrosine phosphorylation were also stimulated by the ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist, kainate, but not by N-methyl-D-aspartate. To examine regulation of MAP kinase by synaptic activity, cultures were treated with picrotoxin, an inhibitor of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition that enhances spontaneous excitatory synaptic activity. Treatment of cultures with picrotoxin elicited activation of MAP kinase. This response was blocked by tetrodotoxin, which suppresses synaptic activity. These results demonstrate that p42 MAP kinase is activated by glutamate receptor agonist stimulation and by endogenous synaptic activity.
Whether or not unilateral occipital damage produces sparing of central vision, namely macular sparing, is controversial. We tested two subjects with left occipital lesions by means of fundus perimetry combined with fundus image analysis. This method made it possible to measure the distance of the stimulus projected on the retina from the foveal centre defined as the centre of the foveal reflex. The results indicated that macular sparing, if it exists, must be less than 0.4 degree wide. Two of the four eyes during the stimulus presentation often but not always showed eccentric fixation of a small magnitude, whose mean was less than 0.6 degree from the foveal centre in the right hemiretina.
In order to identify risk factors for the subsequent development of motor neuron disease (MND) we have carried out a case-control study of incident patients in Scotland, identified using the Scottish Motor Neuron Disease Register. A standard questionnaire was given to 103 patients and the same number of community controls matched on a one to one basis using the general practitioner's (GP) age and sex register. Recall bias was minimised by using GP records to verify the subject's report. There was an overall lifetime excess of fractures in patients, odds ratio (OR) = 1.3 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.7-2.5) and this was highest in the 5 years before symptom onset (OR = 15, 95% CI, 3.3-654). There was no association with non-fracture trauma but the OR for a manual occupation in patients was 2.6 (95% CI, 1.1-6.3). Both occupational exposure to lead (OR = 5.7, 95% CI, 1.6-30) and solvents/chemicals (OR = 3.3, 95% CI 1.3-10) were significantly more common in patients. No consistent association was found between MND and factors reflecting socioeconomic deprivation in childhood; childhood infections or social class. Our results identify a number of different factors which may contribute to the aetiology of MND.
A minority of neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer disease (AD) brains lack neocortical neurofibrillary tangles or have very few, constituting a form of &quot;plaque-only AD.&quot; A significant percentage of clinically diagnosed AD patients are found at autopsy to have both AD and brainstem and neocortical Lewy bodies. Many of these Lewy body variants of AD (LBV) have numerous senile plaques but no neocortical neurofibrillary tangles, and so resemble plaque-only AD. In this study, we sought to determine if plaque-only AD was usually LBV, and, conversely, if LBV was usually plaque-only AD. We analyzed 147 consecutively accessioned cases of neuropathologically confirmed AD, diagnosed according to criteria from the National Institute on Aging and the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease. Twenty-five percent of all AD cases in this series were plaque-only AD, and 75% were plaque and tangle AD. Twenty-eight percent of AD cases in this series were LBV, and 72% were pure AD. Of the plaque-only AD cases, 75% were LBV and only 25% were pure AD. Of the LBV, 66% were plaque-only AD and only 33% were plaque and tangle AD. These results indicate that most plaque-only AD is LBV, and, conversely, that most LBV is plaque-only AD.
We re-examined the relationship among synaptic pathology, subcellular abnormalities within neurites in the plaques and beta-amyloid deposits of Alzheimer's disease (AD) using laser confocal imaging and computer-aided serial section reconstruction techniques. Analysis of serial optical sections of neuritic plaques double-immunolabeled for anti-beta-amyloid/anti-tau-2 revealed that 35% of this type of plaque contained a dense amyloid core with clusters of peripheral abnormal neurites. The other 65% were without a dense core and were mainly composed of abundant abnormal neuritic clusters with bundles of amyloid distributed throughout the neuritic plaque. While two-dimensional (2-D) analysis of the plaques has suggested that neurites are distributed in the plaque periphery with beta-amyloid localized in its center, serial section analysis showed the opposite arrangement can also be true. Three-dimensional (3-D) reconstructions of serial optical sections showed that the tau-positive tortuous axons clustered in the neuritic plaques were often continuous with synaptophysin-positive distended terminals. Analysis of electron micrographs from serial sections showed continuity among the different segments of the neurites. Further analysis of the computer generated 3-D reconstructed neuritic plaques (both from serial electron micrographs and serial optical sections), viewed as continuous rotating loops, confirmed that a great majority of the plaque volume was occupied by the clustered and continuous abnormal neurites, while the amyloid fibrils were compressed and displaced to the periphery of the plaque. The 3-D imaging of the neuritic plaques in AD suggests a more widespread and active neuritic damage than that predicted from 2-D observations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Recordings of extracellular spike responses were made from single mitral/tufted cells in the ventromedial region of the main olfactory bulb of urethan-chloralose-anesthetized rabbits. Using periodic artificial inhalations, the olfactory epithelium was stimulated with series of aromatic and aliphatic compounds systematically varying in molecular conformation. 2. Analysis of response specificity of single mitral/tufted cells for alkylbenzenes indicated that the length of the hydrocarbon side chain attached to the benzene ring plays a role in determining the specificity of excitatory spike responses. 3. For a panel of isomeric (ortho-, meta-, and para-positions) disubstituted benzenes, single mitral/tufted cells tended to be activated selectively by one or two specific structural isomer(s). For a panel that contained both alkylbenzenes and disubstituted benzenes, single mitral/tufted cells were activated by subsets of odor molecules having similar conformations. These observations suggest that the overall conformation of the aromatic compounds plays an important role in determining tuning specificity of individual mitral/tufted cells. 4. For a panel of monosubstituted benzenes with various functional groups, single mitral/tufted cells in the ventromedial region tended to be activated not only by molecules having a hydrocarbon side chain (alkylbenzenes), but also by those having a methoxy group (--O--CH3), a bromine (--Br), or a chlorine (--Cl). However, most of the neurons were not activated by those having an amino group (--NH2), a hydroxy group (--OH), nor a carboxyl group (--COOH). 5. Examination with an expanded panel of stimulus odor molecules that included both aromatic and aliphatic compounds indicated that single mitral/tufted cells show excitatory spike responses to a range of odor molecules (molecular receptive range) having similar conformations. Different mitral/tufted cells in the ventromedial region typically showed different molecular receptive ranges. 6. In mitral/tufted cells with relatively high spontaneous discharges, single neurons in the ventromedial region showed inhibitory responses to subsets of odor molecules in addition to the excitatory response to other subsets of odor molecules. The odor molecules that caused inhibitory responses in single mitral/tufted cells showed molecular conformations resembling each other. 7. The present results together with previous studies indicate that determination of the molecular receptive range properties (both excitatory extent and inhibitory extent) of single mitral/tufted cells is a useful method for characterizing individual bulbar neurons. These results further support the hypothesis that conformational parameters of ligand odor molecules play a key role in sensory processing in the main olfactory bulb.
1. The development of cortical responses to somatic stimulation was studied in kittens 2-5 wk of age using the 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) technique. During the 2DG experiment each kitten received an innocuous intermittent vertical displacement stimulus to the forepaw. 2. The pattern of metabolic activity was substantially different in young animals compared with adults. In the individual autoradiographs of the 2-wk-old kittens stimulus-evoked 2DG uptake in primary somatosensory cortex was localized to a small spot in the upper portion of the cortex, whereas in the adult the label extended vertically through the cortical layers and appeared more column-like. Individual patches of label were substantially smaller and less dense in young animals. Over a period of several weeks the evoked activity evolved to the more extensive adult pattern. The 2DG uptake displayed a mature distribution by approximately 4-5 wk of age. During this period, the cortical architecture also evolved from an immature to a mature arrangement. 3. The evoked activity was reconstructed into two-dimensional maps; the distribution of label &gt; or = 1.5 SD above background was considered to be stimulus related. In the adult, the pattern appeared as a strip or strips of increased metabolic activity that extended in the rostrocaudal direction for approximately 1 mm. In contrast, the activity pattern in animals 2-4 wk old was less discretely organized into &quot;strips&quot; and was more diffusely spread over several mms of somatosensory cortex. The two-dimensional pattern gradually coalesced into a more localized strip by approximately 4-5 wk of age. Although the pattern of label was more widespread in the young animals, the absolute distance of the spread of activity did not vary substantially, regardless of the age of the animal. 4. Other measurements regarding the distribution of activity at different ages indicate that the amount of cortex activated increases in absolute terms, although the percent of cortex activated by the stimulus decreases. The overall intensity of the 2DG uptake as measured on the two-dimensional maps increases with age, as does the variability of the 2DG uptake; a wider range of intensity values is seen in the adult. Plots created from the individual two-dimensional reconstructions allowed a measure of &quot;patch strength&quot; at different ages. These histograms relate the most intense region of uptake in a given map to the spatial distribution of activity spreading in the medial and lateral directions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. In Eptesicus the auditory cortex, as defined by electrical activity recorded from microelectrodes in response to tone bursts, FM sweeps, and combinations of FM sweeps, encompasses an average cortical surface area of 5.7 mm2. This area is large with respect to the total cortical surface area and reflects the importance of auditory processing to this species of bat. 2. The predominant pattern of organization in response to tone bursts observed in each cortex is tonotopic, with three discernible divisions revealed by our data. However, although cortical best-frequency (BF) maps from most of the individual bats are similar, no two maps are identical. The largest division contains an average of 84% of the auditory cortical surface area, with BF tonotopically mapped from high to low along the anteroposterior axis and is part of the primary auditory cortex. The medium division encompasses an average of 13% of the auditory cortical surface area, with highly variable BF organization across bats. The third region is the smallest, with an average of only 3% of auditory cortical surface area and is located at the anterolateral edge of the cortex. This region is marked by a reversal of the tonotopic axis and a restriction in the range of BFs as compared with the larger, tonotopically organized division. 3. A population of cortical neurons was found (n = 39) in which each neuron exhibited two BF threshold minima (BF1 and BF2) in response to tone bursts. These neurons thus have multipeaked frequency threshold tuning curves. In Eptesicus the majority of multipeaked frequency-tuned neurons (n = 27) have threshold minima at frequencies that correspond to a harmonic ratio of three-to-one. In contrast, the majority of multipeaked neurons in cats have threshold minima at frequencies in a ratio of three-to-two. A three-to-one harmonic ratio corresponds to the &quot;spectral notches&quot; produced by interference between overlapping echoes from multiple reflective surfaces in complex sonar targets. Behavioral experiments have demonstrated the ability of Eptesicus to use spectral interference notches for perceiving target shape, and this subpopulation of multipeaked frequency-tuned neurons may be involved in coding of spectral notches. 4. The auditory cortex contains delay-tuned neurons that encode target range (n = 99). Most delay-tuned neurons respond poorly to tones or individual FM sweeps and require combinations of FM sweeps. They are combination sensitive and delay tuned.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. In the anesthetized and artificially ventilated cat, stimulation of the posterior articular nerve (PAN) with low strengths (1.2-1.4 x T) produced a small negative response (N1) in the cord dorsum of the lumbosacral spinal cord with a mean onset latency of 5.2 ms. Stronger stimuli (&gt; 1.4 x T) produced two additional components (N2 and N3) with longer latencies (mean latencies 7.5 and 15.7 ms, respectively), usually followed by a slow positivity lasting 100-150 ms. With stimulus strengths above 10 x T there was in some experiments a delayed response (N4; mean latency 32 ms). 2. Activation of posterior knee joint nerve with single pulses and intensities producing N1 responses only, usually produced no dorsal root potentials (DRPs), or these were rather small. Stimulation with strengths producing N2 and N3 responses produced distinct DRPs. Trains of pulses were clearly more effective than single pulses in producing DRPs, even in the low-intensity range. 3. Cooling the thoracic spinal cord to block impulse conduction, increased the DRPs and the N3 responses produced by PAN stimulation without significantly affecting the N2 responses. Reversible spinalization also increased the DRPs produced by stimulation of cutaneous nerves. In contrast, the DRPs produced by stimulation of group I afferents from flexors were reduced. 4. Conditioning electrical stimulation of intermediate and high-threshold myelinated fibers in the PAN depressed the DRPs produced by stimulation of group I muscle and of cutaneous nerves. 5. Analysis of the intraspinal threshold changes of single Ia and Ib fibers has provided evidence that stimulation of intermediate and high threshold myelinated fibers in the posterior knee joint nerve inhibits the primary afferent depolarization (PAD) of Ia fibers, and may either produce PAD or inhibit the PAD in Ib fibers, in the same manner as stimulation of cutaneous nerves. In 7/16 group I fibers the inhibition of the PAD was increased during reversible spinalization. 6. The results obtained suggest that intermediate and high-threshold myelinated fibers in the PAN have the same actions on Ia and Ib fibers as intermediate and high-threshold cutaneous afferents and may therefore be considered as belonging to the same functional system. They further indicate that in anesthetized preparations the pathways mediating the PAD of group I fibers, as well as the pathways mediating the inhibition of the PAD, may be subjected to a descending control that is removed by spinalization.
Phenotypic differences between somatic and autonomic motor neurons (SMNs and AMNs, respectively) may be modulated by epigenetic factors during the histogenic migrations of these cells. In order to study this problem experimentally, we have developed an in vitro, organotypic slice preparation of embryonic rat spinal cord. Our main objectives for this preparation were to determine whether in vivo patterns of motor neuronal translocations were mimicked in vitro, and, if they were, to begin to analyze such movements with experimental procedures that cannot be applied to the study of mammalian spinal cord development in vivo. Using a modification of existing organotypic slice procedures, we have shown that ChAT, an axonal surface glycoprotein and a low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein are expressed in slices cultured for up to 21 d, thus indicating that spinal neurons remained viable in vitro for relatively long periods. Most importantly, retrograde labeling and subsequent confocal microscopy have shown that the SMNs and AMNs of the slice preparations become segregated ventrodorsally into two distinct subcolumns as seen in vivo. The formation of separate AMN and SMN subcolumns appears to result from a dorsal translocation of AMNs. The fact that this cellular movement occurs in the slice preparation has allowed us to follow this phenomenon directly within the same specimen over a period of days. In addition, we have been able to observe the translocation of AMNs following the removal of their peripheral synaptic targets. The results of these experiments provide further evidence that AMNs undergo a dorsal translocation during the course of spinal cord development, and that this cellular movement may be due to an active migration. They also indicate that AMN movement is not dependent upon continual connection of these neurons with the paravertebral sympathetic ganglia.
Recent studies suggest a role for rapid induction of transcription factors in stimulus-induced neuronal plasticity in the mammalian brain. Synaptic activation of transcription factors has been analyzed in the hippocampus using the long-term potentiation or enhancement (LTP/LTE) paradigm. Using this approach, several studies have identified transcription factors that are induced in hippocampal granule cells by NMDA receptor-dependent mechanisms; however, the link between long-term plasticity and activation of these genes has been called into question by reports suggesting that the thresholds for LTE and gene activation differ. To address this issue, we have used a chronic in vivo recording technique to monitor mRNA responses of several transcription factor genes to two different patterns of LTE-inducing electrical stimulation of entorhinal cortical afferents to hippocampus. One pattern consisted of 10 repetitions of a 20 or 25 msec train of pulses at 400 Hz (80 or 100 pulses total). This &quot;10-train&quot; pattern has been used in previous studies of LTE and produces robust synaptic enhancement lasting at least 3 d (Barnes, 1979). The other stimulation pattern consisted of 50 repetitions of a 20 msec train delivered at 400 Hz (400 pulses total), which is similar to parameters used in other studies reporting induction of c-fos in association with LTE (Dragunow et al., 1989; Jeffery et al., 1990; Abraham et al., 1992). Our results indicate that expression of zif268, monitored by in situ hybridization and immunostaining, is strongly induced by the 10-train stimulus pattern to levels similar to those induced by seizure activity. JunB mRNA levels are also modestly increased by the 10-train stimulus pattern; however, increases in JunB immunostaining were not detected. Neither c-fos nor c-jun mRNA were detectably induced by this stimulus. In contrast, the 50-train stimulus pattern resulted in a robust induction of c-fos and c-jun mRNA, in addition to zif268 and junB. Transcription factor responses to either stimulus pattern were blocked by the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801. Identical transcription factor responses were observed in adult (6-12-month-old) and aged (23-26-month-old) rats, suggesting that synaptic mechanisms involved in these responses are preserved in aged animals. Analysis of LTE following either the 10- or 50-train stimulus patterns revealed identical magnitudes of initial induction and decay kinetics (approximately 3 d) and indicates that the 10-train stimulus pattern is sufficient to produce maximal synaptic enhancement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Studies have shown that many glial cells in the CNS possess receptors for neurotransmitters and that synapse-like contacts exist between glial cells and axonal terminals. Although synapse-like contacts are present between the glial cells (stellate cells) of the pituitary pars intermedia and the axons from the arcuate nucleus, it is not known whether these cells are under synaptic control. The objective of the present study was to determine whether transmitter-mediated postsynaptic potentials occurred in the stellate cells of the rat pituitary pars intermedia. Whole pituitaries were maintained in vitro, and a stimulating electrode was placed on the stalk to activate afferent fibers. Intracellular recordings were obtained with sharp microelectrodes. Stellate cells showed electrophysiological characteristics of macroglia including a resting potential more negative than -65 mV, low input resistance (&lt; 50 M omega), and no detectable voltage-activated conductances. Single-pulse afferent nerve (stalk) stimulation evoked a [Ca2+]o-dependent postsynaptic response in the stellate cells consisting of a depolarization (&lt; 500 msec) and a long-lasting hyperpolarization (45-75 sec). The depolarization was mimicked by GABA application and blocked by the GABAA antagonist bicuculline (100 microM). Repetitive stimulation of the stalk increased the amplitude and prolonged the GABA-mediated depolarization, during which a decrease in input resistance was observed. The hyperpolarization was mimicked by dopamine and blocked by the D2 antagonists sulpiride (2 microM) and domperidone (10 microM). Nipecotic acid (100 microM; an inhibitor of GABA uptake) or GBR 12909 (15 microM; an inhibitor of dopamine uptake) had minimal effects on the synaptic responses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The three-dimensional organization of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) in Purkinje cell dendrites in the chick cerebellum was investigated to assess the connectivity between its various components. Three-dimensional reconstructions of the SER within portions of Purkinje cell dendrites were performed from serial sections through the cerebellar molecular layer. In addition, semithick and thick sections (0.25-1 micron) of chick cerebellum in which the endomembrane system had been selectively stained were examined with an intermediate high-voltage electron microscope. Three-dimensional information was extracted from thick sections using stereo pairs and tomographic reconstructions from single axis tilt series. In contrast to its discontinuous appearance in thin sections, in both the three-dimensional reconstructions and selectively stained thick sections the endoplasmic reticulum formed a highly interconnected network of tubules and cisterns extending throughout the dendritic shaft and into the spines. Several distinct morphological domains of endoplasmic reticulum were noted, including the hypolemmal cisternae, the endomembranes associated with the dendritic spines, and the tubular and cisternal endoplasmic reticulum in the dendritic shaft. In older chicks (aged 2 weeks), stacks of endoplasmic reticulum were also noted within the dendritic shaft. All elements of the SER within the dendritic shaft and spine appeared to be continuous with one another. The results of this study strongly suggest that the endoplasmic reticulum forms a complicated network that may be part of a single endomembrane system within Purkinje cell dendrite.
Integrins are heterodimeric receptors that mediate responses of neurons and many other cell types to components of the extracellular matrix. In the present article, we examine the roles of individual integrin receptors expressed by spinal sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) in mediating interactions with laminin, an extracellular matrix glycoprotein that promotes neurite outgrowth. DRG neurons were shown to express three beta 1 integrins that have been shown in other cell types to function as laminin receptors--high levels of alpha 1 beta 1 and alpha 3 beta 1 and low levels of alpha 6 beta 1. In addition, DRG neurons were shown to express a known fibronectin receptor, alpha 5 beta 1, and an integrin with undefined ligands, alpha 6 beta 4. Function-inhibitory monoclonal antibodies specific for the alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 3, alpha 5, and alpha 6 integrin subunits were used to determine the roles of individual integrins in mediating neurite outgrowth by DRG neurons on laminin. The results demonstrate that alpha 1 beta 1 and alpha 3 beta 1 function as laminin receptors on these neurons. As many as 18 distinct isoforms of laminin may exist, assembled as heterotrimers containing one each of the different A, B1, or B2 subunit homologs. In the present study, we characterize neurite outgrowth in response to two of these isoforms, the AeB1eB2e isoform and the AmB1eB2e isoform. Results utilizing DRG neurons and a pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12) indicate that these two isoforms exhibit differential selectivities for the alpha 1 beta 1 and alpha 3 beta 1 integrins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In an attempt to search for neuronal models to investigate the molecular pharmacology of central nervous system ischemia, we have focused on PC12 pheochromocytoma cultures which are now popular in neuroscience research. These chromaffinergic transformed cells, originary from the adrenal medulla, synthesize and release catecholamines and, upon treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF), differentiate to a sympathetic phenotype expressing neurites and excitability. To measure eicosanoid production, undifferentiated or NGF-treated PC12 cultures have been exposed for 1 h to a mixture of N2/CO2 (95:5%), resulting in hypoxia (5 +/- 1% O2), followed by 1 h reoxygenation (21% O2) using a special ischemic device. Hypoxia, up to 2 h, was not followed by significant cytotoxicity or significant production of prostaglandin PGE2. However, upon reoxygenation, a specific release of PGE2 (2-3 fold over control) was measured. A similar PGE2-enhanced release could be induced by 'chemical hypoxia' using 2-deoxyglucose and oligomycin to reduce cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Anoxia (0.1-1% O2, 1 h) achieved by a reduction of culture incubation volume and the reduction in ATP level have been found as critical parameters leading to PC12 cells cytotoxicity. These results emphasize the simplicity and applicability of the tissue culture ischemic device proposed to investigate hypoxia and ischemia at a cellular level.
Superpositioning of multiple 3-dimensional digital volumes is essential to extending neuroimaging capabilities from single-subject analysis to group evaluation. In this study, 6 rat heads were cryoplaned and digital images of the specimen blockface were organized into data volumes. The midline plane of each brain guided coronal and horizontal rotations and medial-lateral positioning. Four different methods of determining sagittal rotation, dorsoventral position, and anteroposterior position were tested. The first technique uses lambda and bregma as fiducial points; the second method employs bony sutures in the base of the skull; and the third strategy fits both sets of alignments points. The fourth method differs from the previous landmark-based approaches by employing cross-correlation of image densities. A composite of midsagittal cutplanes through the volumes aligned by the first method revealed significant misalignment. Use of ventral fiducials resulted in improved correlation statistics for orthogonal cutplanes through the volumes and significantly reduced positional variability of anteroposterior landmarks. Combining dorsal and ventral fiducials produced a slight improvement in midsagittal image correlation but had mixed effects on landmark variability. Following the fourth method of registration, correlation statistics and the alignment of reference points were similar to those obtained with the 4-point approach.
Monolayer networks, obtained from murine spinal cord tissue and grown on a matrix of 64 photo-etched, indium-tin oxide (ITO) microelectrodes, can be electrically stimulated through such thin-film recording electrodes. Multichannel coordinated network activity can be evoked and spontaneous network activity can be modified by generation of additional, multichannel bursting. Although single pulses through 1 electrode may trigger network responses, networks generally react best to short trains of pulses. Response thresholds approximate standard physiological strength/duration relationships. Repetitive stimulation trains often generate network activity patterns akin to epileptiform activity. The ITO conductors remain stable for recording under warm saline for long periods of time (maximum test period: 8 months). However, most electrodes show a reduction in impedance after several thousand stimulus pulses. Electrode breakdown in the form of ITO oxidation and loss of light transmittance occurs before hydrolysis is observed but requires a combination of voltage levels and pulse lengths beyond that needed for effective network stimulation.
A 2-month-old infant demonstrated clinical brain death 48 hours after suffering a closed head injury accompanied by cardiac arrest. Two nuclear cerebral blood flow (CBF) studies demonstrated normal perfusion. On the 11th day following injury, cerebral electrical activity ceased and a normal glucose metabolic gradient between gray and white matter was documented on positron emission tomography. Autopsy revealed widespread necrosis with mononuclear cell infiltrates throughout all cerebral cortical layers. Nine children have previously been described with clinical brain death, electrocerebral silence, and evidence of CBF by radionuclide scan. The dissociation between cerebral electrical activity and blood flow may be explained by an increase in cranial volume allowed by the expansile neonatal skull, preventing both intracranial hypertension and a reduction in perfusion pressure. The persistence of glucose metabolism may be associated with the presence of inflammatory microglial cells in the ischemic cortex. The authors conclude that persistence of CBF and glucose metabolism in brain-dead children may not indicate neuronal survival. If repeated neurological examinations with or without electroencephalography support the diagnosis of brain death, the presence of CBF and glucose metabolism should not alter this conclusion.
The binding of [3H]endo-N-(8-methyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1.]oct-3-yl)- 2,3-dihydro-3-ethyl-2-oxo-1H-benzimidazole-1-carboxamide hydrochloride ([3H]BIMU-1) a benzimidazolone with high affinity for 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)3 and 4 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptors, was characterized in NG-108 cells and guinea pig hippocampus. Specific, heat-sensitive, binding of [3H]BIMU-1 was detected in both NG-108 cells and guinea pig hippocampus. In NG-108 cell membranes, a portion of the specific binding was displaced by 5-HT3 receptor ligands with affinities and specificity consistent with the labeling of 5-HT3 receptors. The residual specific binding was insensitive to serotonin (Ki &gt; 1 mM) but was displaced by haloperidol (Ki of 50 nM). In guinea pig hippocampal membranes [3H]BIMU-1 binding was insensitive to serotonin but was displaced by haloperidol, and 1,3-di-o-tolyl-guanidine with affinities appropriate for the labeling of a sigma binding site (Ki of 6.3 and 31 nM, respectively). The affinity profile of ligands displacing [3H] BIMU-1 binding in guinea pig hippocampus was consistent with the selective labeling of a sigma-2 binding site because the sigma-1 selective benzomorphans, (+)-pentazocine and (+)-N-allylnormetazocine, only weakly displaced the binding (Ki greater than 1 microM). The affinity of BIMU-1 for sigma-2 binding sites (Ki = 32 nM) was 200-fold greater than that for sigma-1 binding sites (Ki = 6.3 microM), dopamine (D1 and D2), other serotonin (5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C) and muscarinic (M1, M2, M3 and M4) receptors (Ki &gt; 10 microM). The distribution of haloperidol-sensitive [3H]BIMU-1 binding was also consistent with the labeling of sigma-2 binding sites. These data suggest that [3H]BIMU-1 selectively labels sigma-2 binding sites in guinea pig hippocampus. [3H]BIMU-1, under appropriate experimental conditions, is thus the first sigma-2 binding site radioligand to be characterized.
We investigated the effects of the dopamine (DA) precursor L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) on electrically evoked acetylcholine (ACh) overflow from rat striatal slices. Some animals were pretreated 1 to 2 months earlier with 6-hydroxydopamine, (6-OHDA), a catecholamine neurotoxin, so as to selectively destroy DA terminals (98.6% striatal DA depletion). Although the addition of L-DOPA (10 microM) produced a 37% inhibition of ACh overflow in slices from lesioned rats, it failed to affect ACh overflow in slices from intact animals. In contrast, ACh overflow from intact slices exposed to L-DOPA and to the DA uptake inhibitor nomifensine (1 microM) was 22% greater than in the presence of nomifensine without L-DOPA. ACh overflow from slices prepared from lesioned rats was 45% greater with both drugs than in the presence of nomifensine by itself. Superfusion with the aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) inhibitor NSD-1055 (250 microM) abolished the inhibitory effects of L-DOPA, as did L-sulpiride (1 microM), an inhibitor of DA receptors of the D2 subtype. These results suggest that inhibition of ACh overflow by L-DOPA is mediated by DA formed from exogenous L-DOPA which then acts on D2 receptors. They further indicate that the net impact of the loss of nigrostriatal terminals is an increased dopaminergic inhibition of striatal cholinergic interneurons in response to exogenous L-DOPA. This appears to result in large part from a lesion-induced reduction in high-affinity reuptake of DA formed from exogenous L-DOPA.
Jacksonian views of brain evolution where new levels &quot;add on&quot; and become higher levels of integration &quot;keeping down&quot; the lower levels are examined. The hierarchical organization is contrasted with modern views of the evolution of nervous systems. These emphasize the &quot;separation or factorization of different aspects of input into distinct processing channels, a factor which appears to be a generalized one in the evolution of brains and a necessary condition to adapt to a varying environment.&quot; The advantages of the latter view--vertical and horizontal development--for the interpretation of functional organization of nervous systems are discussed. The view that normal and pathological conditions do not form a continuum, but constitute qualitatively different phenomena, is presented and given support because of recent developments in neuroscience.
We investigated some properties of YM-14471 (2-2(-[2-(diaminomethyleneamino)thiazol-4-yl]methylthio)ethy l-5-[3- (diethylamino)propyl]-6-methyl-pyrimidine-4-one trihydrochloride), a new H2-receptor antagonist, in comparison with those of famotidine, cimetidine and omeprazole. In guinea pig atria, famotidine and cimetidine produced a competitive dose-dependent displacement of histamine-induced tachycardia. In contrast, low concentrations of YM-14471 showed competitive inhibition of tachycardia, whereas high concentrations were irreversible or slowly dissociable. In pylorus-ligated rats, intravenous YM-14471, famotidine and cimetidine dose-dependently inhibited basal gastric secretion with ED50 values of 0.04, 0.43 and 31.2 mg/kg, respectively. ED50 values for oral YM-14471, famotidine, cimetidine and omeprazole were 0.81, 0.42, 28.9 and 7.7 mg/kg when given at 1 hr before ligation, and 5.7, 26.7, 1639.5 and 18.6 mg/kg at 5 hr before ligation. In anesthetized dogs, intravenous YM-14471, famotidine, cimetidine and omeprazole also dose-dependently inhibited histamine (160 micrograms/kg.hr)-induced acid secretion with ED50 values of 13.7, 8.7, 333.3 and 65.3 micrograms/kg, respectively. In Heidenhain pouch dogs, YM-14471 inhibited histamine (40 micrograms/kg.hr)-induced acid secretion by both intravenous (0.02 mg/kg) and oral administration (0.3 mg/kg). Moreover, the inhibitory effect of YM-14471 was more prolonged than those of famotidine and cimetidine by either route, and it was as long as that of omeprazole dosed orally. These results suggest that YM-14471 is an irreversible or slowly dissociable H2-receptor antagonist, and has long antisecretory effect.

A study was performed to determine whether an implanted, inductively coupled nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging spine coil could provide a significant gain in signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) on images of the spinal cord relative to the SNR of optimized surface coils. Implanted coils were surgically affixed to the upper lumbar spine (first lumbar through third lumbar vertebrae) in a total of four adult cats. The implanted coil was inductively coupled to an external 12 x 12 cm square surface coil that was mounted on a 14-cm diameter Plexiglas cradle (Townsend Industries, Des Moines, IA). Two similar cradles were prepared with transmit-only 12 x 12 cm surface coils and either a receive-only 6 x 6 cm square surface coil or a receive-only quadrature coil pair (two 4 x 6 cm coils overlapped slightly to minimize their mutual inductance) with the same surface area (6 x 6 cm). A total of five single-slice, T1-weighted spin-echo images (TR = 500 ms, TE = 30 ms, 4-mm slice thickness) were acquired from a 1-liter saline phantom and from the second lumbar spinal level in an adult cat with a normal, uninjured spinal cord. On the spinal cord images, the quadrature coil exhibited a factor of 1.65 increase in SNR relative to the single-turn surface coil, whereas the implanted coil achieved a factor of 2.19 increase in SNR. The improved SNR for the quadrature and implanted coils was observed as a dramatic improvement in the clarity of the images.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Expression of MyoD, myogenin, MRF4, and Myf-5 converts nonmuscle cells to muscle cells. In an attempt to analyze the roles of these factors, we have investigated their effects on transcription driven by the promoter of the chicken myosin alkaline light-chain (MLC1) gene. The activation by CMD1 or c-myogenin (chicken MyoD or myogenin, respectively) was dependent on the existence of a muscle-specific regulatory region located from positions -2096 to -1743. Its distal half, containing a pair of E boxes (CANNTG), had been previously characterized as an enhancer responsive to CMD1 but not to c-myogenin. In this study, we report the identification of another enhancer in the muscle-specific regulatory region which is preferentially responsive to c-myogenin. Deletion and mutation analyses indicated that this enhancer requires a single E box and its flanking sequences. Furthermore, analysis of chimeric proteins of CMD1 and c-myogenin indicated that regions outside the basic helix-loop-helix domain of c-myogenin are involved in the specificity of the enhancer. These results show that CMD1 and c-myogenin act on the MLC1 gene by recognizing different upstream DNA sequences and that direct or indirect interactions between the regions outside the basic helix-loop-helix domain and flanking sequences of E boxes are involved in the target sequence specificity.
At least three subtypes of alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive acetylcholine receptors (alpha Bgt-sensitive AChRs) exist in chick brain and retina. All may contain previously unknown structural subunits. One subtype contains alpha 7 subunits. Another contains alpha 8 subunits. A third contains both alpha 7 and alpha 8 subunits. In this article, we describe, for the first time, the pharmacological characterization of alpha 7 AChRs and alpha 8 AChRs immunoisolated from chick retina. Pharmacologically, the alpha 8 AChRs exhibit two classes of binding sites, the high affinity of which have higher affinity for most cholinergic ligands than do alpha 7 AChRs. These differences are most accentuated for ACh (approximately 5400-fold), decamethonium (approximately 1400-fold), 1,1,-dimethyl-4 phenylpiperazinium (approximately 200-fold), atropine (approximately 200-fold), nicotine (approximately 100-fold), and tetramethylammonium (approximately 100-fold). The alpha 8 AChR low affinity sites exhibit affinities that are similar but not identical to that of alpha 7 AChRs. Many of the pharmacological differences between the alpha 7 AChRs and alpha 8 AChRs can be attributed to the limited differences between the amino acid sequences of the N-terminal region of the alpha 7 and alpha 8 subunits because expressed alpha 7 homomers and alpha 8 homomers also exhibit these characteristic differences.


Fisher 344 rats underwent bilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBm) lesioning followed by testing in a delayed nonmatching-to-sample T-maze task. Both lesion and control animals acquired the task although the NBm animals were mildly impaired on acquisition and on trials to criterion. Increasing the delay reduced accuracy of performance equally in both groups. The NBm lesion did not alter the level of several thalamic amino acids. These data indicate that NBm lesioning does not produce a significant impairment in working or reference memory in this task and supports the hypothesis that NBm lesioning impairs attention.
Gangliosides were isolated from four subcellular fractions of the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata: synaptosomes, presynaptic membranes, postsynaptic membranes, and synaptic vesicle membranes. This exploited a principal advantage offered by this tissue: facile separation of pre-and postsynaptic elements. Total ganglioside concentration in presynaptic membranes was approximately twice that of synaptosomes and 15 times that of postsynaptic membranes (47.7, 24.4, and 3.21 micrograms of lipid sialic acid per mg protein, respectively). Synaptic vesicle membranes had the highest overall concentration (78.9) relative to protein, but a concentration approximately comparable to that of presynaptic membranes when expressed relative to phospholipid. The thin-layer patterns of these two fractions were similar, both in terms of total pattern and the specific pattern of gangliotetraose structures as revealed by overlay with cholera toxin B subunit; these were notable for the paucity of monosialo structures and the virtual absence of GM1. Postsynaptic membranes, on the other hand, had a significantly higher content of monosialogangliosides including the presence of GM1. The synaptosomal pattern resembled that of the presynaptic membranes and synaptic vesicles. Thus, a clear difference in ganglioside pattern could be discerned between the pre- and postsynaptic elements of the electric organ.
A number of Ca(2+)-, K(+)-, and Na(+)-channel modulators has been tested with respect to their effects on [3H]tyramine (TY) binding, as a putative marker for the vesicular dopamine (DA) transporter in striatal membrane preparations containing vesicle ghosts. Among organic Ca(2+)-channel modulators, the diphenylalkylamines tested consistently inhibited TY binding: the order of potency was prenylamine &gt; lidoflazine &gt; flunarizine &gt; cinnarizine, with Ki values of 0.1, 0.2, 0.5 and 1.2 microM, respectively. Low (up to 100 nM) concentrations of prenylamine did competitively inhibit TY binding, and higher concentrations provoked a mixed-type inhibition. Furthermore, LIGAND-analysis of competition curves revealed a high- and a low-affinity binding site for prenylamine and flunarizine. The TY binding process was also sensitive to selected K(+)- and Na(+)-channel modulators. Since several Ca(2+)-antagonists are known to affect H(+)-ATPase and the bioenergetics of catecholamine storage vesicles in chromaffin granules, thus affecting monoamine storage, the energy requirements for the formation of the TY/carrier complex were here assessed, assuming similarity between chromaffin granules and synaptic vesicles. TY binding, though not reflecting endovesicle-sequestered TY, was indeed strongly sensitive (with Ki coefficients in the fM or low nM range) to the dissipation of the vesicular transmembrane proton concentration (delta pH), electrical (delta psi), and proton electrochemical (delta microH+) gradients, provoked by a number of specifically targeted agents. It is concluded that Ca(2+)-channel agents of the diphenylalkylamine group may directly affect striatal TY binding due to an extrachannel-regulated competition with TY for the vesicular carrier of DA, as well indirectly, by disruption of the transmembrane energization of the reserpine-sensitive carrier.
Cerebellar granule cells in culture develop survival requirements which can be met either by chronic membrane depolarization (25 mM K+) or by stimulation of ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptors. We observed previously that this trophic effect is mediated via Ca2+ influx, either through dihydropyridine-sensitive, voltage-dependent calcium channels (activated directly by high K+ or indirectly by kainate) or through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-linked ion channels. Steps after Ca2+ entry in the transduction cascade mediating the survival-supporting effect of high K+ and excitatory amino acids have now been examined. Using protein kinase inhibitors (H-7, polymixin B and gangliosides), and modulating protein kinase C activity by treatment with the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, we obtained evidence against the involvement of protein kinase C and cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinases in the transduction cascade. On the other hand, calmidazolium (employed as a calmodulin inhibitor) counteracted the trophic effect of elevated K+ with high potency (IC50 0.3 microM), which exceeded by approximately 10-fold the potency for the blockade by the drug of voltage-sensitive calcium channels. The potency of calmidazolium in interfering with the N-methyl-D-aspartate rescue of cells was also much higher in comparison with the inhibition of 45Ca2+ influx through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-linked channels. Our results indicated that after calmodulin the next step in the trophic effects involves Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activity. KN-62, a fairly specific antagonist of this enzyme, compromised elevated K+ or excitatory amino acid-supported cell survival with high potency (IC50 2.5 microM). In the relevant concentration range, KN-62 had little or no effect on Ca2+ entry through either voltage- or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-gated channels. Combining information on the toxic action of glutamate in &quot;mature&quot; granule cells with the trophic effect of either excitatory amino acids or high K+ treatment on &quot;young&quot; cells, we conclude that after the initial steps involving calcium in both cases the respective transduction pathways diverge. The toxic action of glutamate seems to be mediated through protein kinase C [Favaron et al. (1990) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 87, 1983-1987 whereas a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, which can be inhibited by KN-62 (but is resistant to gangliosides and to inhibitors whose potency is higher for protein kinase C than for Ca2+ calmodulin-dependent protein kinases, such as H-7 and polymixin B), is involved critically in the trophic effect.
The expression of the immediate early gene-encoded proteins c-Jun, Jun B, Jun D, c-Fos, Fos B and Krox-24 in central neurons following transection of, or inhibition of, axonal transport in their axons was investigated in the rat using immunocytochemistry. Transection of the medial forebrain bundle, which produces an essentially complete axotomy of neurons in the ipsilateral mammillary nucleus, substantia nigra pars compacta, ventral tegmental area and parafascicularis, induced the expression of c-Jun, Jun D and, to a lesser extent, Krox-24, in these nuclei. Microinjection of colchicine into the medial forebrain bundle to chemically inhibit axonal transport similarly induced the expression of these proteins in these areas. The expression of the proteins was first evident 24 h after transection, reached a maximum at 48 h and was still present after 10 days. However, after 30 days the proteins were absent from the substantia nigra, ventral tegmentum and parafascicularis, and were still present only in the mammillary nuclei. The other immediate early genes, Jun B, c-Fos and Fos B, were never expressed above the basal levels seen in untreated rats. Transection of the corpus callosum and the hippocampal commissure, which produces only a partial axotomy of neurons in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, respectively, did not induce the expression of any of the genes in these neurons. Microinjection of colchicine or vinblastine to produce a localized inhibition of axonal transport in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and cerebellum also induced the expression of c-Jun, Jun D and, again to a lesser extent, Krox-24, in neurons surrounding the injection site. In contrast to this selective expression, administration of the neuronal excitant metrazole induced the expression of all six immediate early gene proteins in central nervous system neurons. These results demonstrate that transection of, or inhibition of, transport in the axons of central neurons induces a particular pattern of expression of transcriptionally operating immediate early genes that may be related to the regenerative competency of the neurons.
The KROX-20 protein (also termed EGR-2) is encoded by an immediate early gene cloned by cross-hybridization to the Drosophila melanogaster Krppel gene. It belongs to a class of transcription factors with zinc finger motifs and binding activity to a transcriptional regulatory DNA element termed the early growth response consensus sequence. In the present study the temporospatial expression of KROX-20 was investigated in the central and peripheral nervous systems of normal rats and after various stimuli known to induce immediate early genes, including epileptic seizures, axotomy, pharmacological treatment with glutamate and alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists, and peripheral noxious stimulation. Immunocytochemistry was performed with a specific polyclonal antiserum generated against a fusion protein containing KROX-20 sequences. In the central nervous system, KROX-20 protein demonstrated distinct constitutive nuclear expression in specific neuronal subpopulations of the cortex, septum, amygdala, olfactory bulb and hypothalamus. In addition, distinct cytoplasmic immunoreactivity was present in spinal and medullary motoneurons, dorsal root ganglion neurons and a few neuronal cell populations of midbrain and forebrain. In the CNS, KROX-20 was only induced by bicuculline-induced epileptic seizures. Topographically, the postictal increase of KROX-20 levels was restricted to areas with constitutive expression, such as cerebral cortex, fornix and amygdala. Induction of KROX-20 peaked at 4-8 h after onset of seizure activity. No increase in immunoreactivity was observed in the hippocampus, the brain region most severely affected by bicuculline-induced seizures. Transection of central and peripheral nerve fibers did not result in KROX-20 induction in axotomized neurons. However, KROX-20 was induced in Schwann-like cells after transection of the sciatic nerve. In contrast to KROX-20, KROX-24, a related transcription factor of the zinc finger family, was markedly induced in hippocampal and spinal neurons following seizures and peripheral noxious stimulation, respectively, as well as in CNS neurons following axotomy. Our data indicate that KROX-20 represents an immediately early gene product with basal expression in selected neuronal populations of the nervous system and a restricted inducibility after intentional stimuli.


The effect of monosialoganglioside GM1 and/or nerve growth factor treatment on the cholinergic innervation of the rat cortex was studied using both light- and electron-microscopic techniques assisted by image analysis. Adult male Wistar rats were unilaterally decorticated and received continuous infusions, via minipump, of vehicle, GM1 (1.5 mg/day) and/or nerve growth factor (12 micrograms/day) into the cerebroventricular space. Treatments were initiated immediately post-lesion and ended after seven days. Thirty days post-lesion (i.e. 23 days after the end of drug administration) brains were processed for choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry for either light- or electron-microscopic analysis. At this time-point choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons in the ipsilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis were significantly reduced in size especially in the mid portion of this nucleus, in lesion vehicle-treated rats. Moreover, decreases in choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive fibre length (ranging from 31 to 50%) and varicosity number (ranging from 26 to 39%) occurred in all cortical layers within a portion of the remaining cortex of these animals. Monosialoganglioside GM1 or nerve growth factor treatment equally attenuated deficits in nucleus basalis magnocellularis cell size and cortical choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive fibre length. However, nerve growth factor, but not monosialoganglioside GM1 treatment also increased choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive varicosity number above control levels. In lesioned rats which received both nerve growth factor and the monosialoganglioside GM1, the mean cross-sectional area of nucleus basalis magnocellularis cholinergic neurons did not differ significantly from control values. By contrast, cortical choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibre length and varicosity number were significantly increased above control values and that induced by nerve growth factor treatment alone. Quantitative electron-microscopic analysis showed that cholinergic boutons in cortical layer V were considerably shrunken in lesioned vehicle-treated rats and that GM1 treatment failed to significantly attenuate this deficit. However, exogenous nerve growth factor provoked a significant increase (35% above control values) in cortical cholinergic presynaptic terminal size which was even further augmented by concurrent GM1 treatment (69% above control values). This trophic factor-induced increase in bouton size was confirmed using serial electron microscopy and computer-assisted three-dimensional reconstruction of the cholinergic varicosities. The number of synaptic contacts in cortical layer V was also found to be significantly reduced (45% of control values) in lesioned vehicle-treated rats but was maintained at control levels by exogenous GM1 treatment. In addition, a significant increase (95% above control levels) in the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive boutons with synaptic differentiations was noted in lesioned nerve growth factor-treated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)




Thermal hyperalgesia was induced by UV irradiation of the glabrous skin of the hindpaw of adult female Sprague-Dawley rats. We have recorded single cell activity and studied excitability changes in wide dynamic range neurons in the lumbar spinal segments during the early phase (days 1-3) and late phase (days 5-7) of thermal hyperalgesia in animals under urethane anaesthesia. The proportion of spontaneously active wide dynamic range cells was increased following UV irradiation and the degree of spontaneous activity was enhanced during the course of hyperalgesia. In addition there was a significant increase in the total number of spikes evoked by standardized mechanical and noxious heat stimuli when tested at days 1-3 and days 5-7. The duration of the evoked responses was also significantly prolonged in both UV-treated groups. The noxious temperature threshold to radiant heat stimulation was significantly decreased on the UV-treated but not on the contralateral hindpaw. The average size of the receptive fields on the UV-treated paws was expanded in comparison to control. To differentiate between possible central and peripheral components of the hyperactivity of wide dynamic range cells we performed in situ dorsal rhizotomy during the recording. Cutting the dorsal roots (L2-5) evoked a significantly larger and more prolonged discharge in wide dynamic range cells in both UV-treated groups in comparison to control. Spontaneous activity in spinal wide dynamic range neurons was reduced after rhizotomy in each group. However, the decrease was only significant at days 1-3 (P &lt; 0.05) but not at days 5-7.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lumbosacral spinal neurons activated via the spinocervical tract were stained by intracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase in cats anaesthetized with chloralose and paralysed with gallamine triethiodide. The neurons were activated orthodromically by single shock stimulation of the ipsilateral dorsolateral funiculus at the second to third cervical segment, but not from the rostral part of the first cervical segment. Twenty nine cells were recovered from the histological material and subsequently reconstructed from transverse sections. Sixteen cells (55%) had axons that projected ipsilaterally to the lateral funiculus and their somata were located in two regions of the spinal cord, one group in the dorsal horn (laminae IV-V) and the other in the intermediate gray matter (laminae VI-VII). The axons of 10 of these cells gave off collaterals, and in seven of them the collaterals ramified in the grey matter deep to the cell body. The axons of five cells (17%) projected medially towards the central canal, four crossing the mid line in the ventral white commissure and ascending in the contralateral ventral funiculus. Only one of these cells had an axon collateral that crossed into the contralateral dorsal horn. Of the remaining eight cells, three had no obvious long axons but had many local axon collaterals, the axons of three cells were not stained, one had an axon projecting towards the ipsilateral ventral funiculus and one was a motoneuron and its axon projected into a ventral root. A feature of the dendritic trees of many cells was their wide spread in the mediolateral and/or the dorsoventral directions, although no dendrites reached dorsally into lamina II. Twenty-two cells (76%) were excited by moving hairs and by noxious pinch, three (10%) by hair movement alone, two (7%) by noxious pinch and pressure, and for two cells (7%) no receptive field could be found. It is concluded that not only postsynaptic dorsal column neurons receive input from the spinocervical tract but also other cells in the dorsal and ventral horns and the intermediate gray matter. Possible identities for these cells are discussed.
Multiple subtypes of alpha adrenergic receptors with CNS expression (alpha 1A, alpha 1B, alpha 2A and alpha 2C) have been identified through pharmacological and molecular biological means. To characterize the localization of these subtypes and attempt to correlate subtype expression with physiological significance, the expression of the mRNAs encoding the alpha 1A, alpha 1B, alpha 2A and alpha 2C adrenergic receptor subtypes was examined in the adult rat brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Each subtype demonstrated a unique pattern of distribution, with the alpha 1 adrenergic receptors more restricted in their distribution and the alpha 2 receptors more widespread. The alpha 1A was primarily localized in the olfactory bulb, intermediate layers of the cortex, the hippocampus and the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. The alpha 1B was expressed in intermediate and deep layers of the cortex, thalamus, hippocampus, dorsal raphe and cerebellum. Although the alpha 2A message was relatively low in abundance, it was identified in the olfactory bulb, cortex, hippocampus, locus coeruleus, pons and cerebellum. The alpha 2C messenger RNA was localized in the cortex (particularly cingulate), hippocampus, caudoputamen, pons and cerebellum. Multiple alpha adrenergic receptor subtypes have significant sequence homology and similar pharmacologic properties; however, they each possess a unique pattern of messenger RNA distribution throughout the brain. The multiplicity of subtypes of alpha adrenergic receptors in specific brain regions may dictate the physiological and pharmacological responses to catecholamines.
The efferent projections of the ventral pallidum in the rat were studied using anterograde tracing of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin and retrograde tracing of choleratoxin subunit B. The main aim of this study was to determine the degree of topographical organization in the outputs of the ventral pallidum. In the telencephalon, ventral pallidal fibers reach the prefrontal cortex, the ventral striatum, the lateral septum, the basolateral, lateral, and central amygdaloid nuclei, and the lateral entorhinal area. Diencephalic targets of ventral pallidal fibers are the lateral hypothalamus, the reticular nucleus of the thalamus, the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, the dorsomedial part of the subthalamic nucleus, the medial part of the parafascicular nucleus and the lateral habenula. In the mesencephalon, ventral pallidal fibers terminate in the ventral tegmental area, the substantia nigra, the retrorubral area, the median raphe nucleus, the nucleus raphe magnus, the peribrachial area, the ventromedial part of the central gray substance and the locus coeruleus. The results of the experiments in which retrograde tracers were injected in different nuclei in the mesencephalon allow the distinction of two main areas in the ventral pallidum. Deposits of retrograde tracers in the substantia nigra, pars reticulata result in labeling of cells in the dorsolateral part of the ventral pallidum, located immediately ventral to the anterior limb of the anterior commissure. Retrograde tracer injections in other targets of the ventral mesencephalon, i.e. the dopaminergic cell groups A10, A9 or A8, or nuclei in the peribrachial area result in labeling of neurons in an extensive ventromedial and ventrolateral zone of the ventral pallidum. The medial part of this ventral pallidal zone projects to the ventral tegmental area, whereas ventral and lateral parts connect with more lateral and caudal mesencephalic targets. The projections from the ventral pallidum to the ventral striatum, the subthalamic nucleus and adjacent lateral hypothalamic area, and the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus are distinctly topographically organized. The ventral pallidostriatal projections preserve a medial-to-lateral, a dorsal-to-ventral and, to a lesser degree, a rostral-to-caudal topography. With respect to the subthalamic region, the dorsolateral part of the ventral pallidum projects to the dorsomedial part of the subthalamic nucleus, whereas the ventromedial and ventrolateral parts of the ventral pallidum are topographically connected with the area of the lateral hypothalamus medially adjacent to the subthalamic nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To study their cytotoxicity, clays containing aluminum silicates were added to cultures of primary murine spinal cord neurons and differentiated N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells. Bentonite (0.1 mg/ml) and montmorillonite (0.1 mg/ml) rapidly associated with the outer membrane of both N1E-115 and neuronal cells. Erionite (0.1 mg/ml) was randomly distributed throughout the culture. Both bentonite and montmorillonite caused complete cell lysis in the neuronal cultures within 60 min following addition. Erionite had no effect. None of the clays appeared to be cytotoxic to the differentiated N1E-115 cells even though bentonite and montmorillonite were closely associated with the cell membrane. N1E-115 cell lysis did not occur up to 18 h after addition of the clay. Aluminum silicate-containing clays caused a rapid lysis of primary neuronal cells. Differentiated N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells were not susceptible to clay-induced lysis, suggesting that the lytic mechanism is not a general phenomenon that affects all cell types equally.
The present paper is the first immunocytochemical demonstration of kappa-opioid receptors in neurons isolated from seven-day-old chick embryonic forebrains and cultivated for one to seven days. The monoclonal antibody KA8 (IgG1-k) [Maderspach et al. (1991) J. Neurochem. 56, 1897-1904] was raised against the frog brain kappa-opioid receptor as an antigen and recognizes an epitope in or near the ligand binding site. The KA8 immunostaining of the neurons displayed individual variations and changed with the in vitro differentiation. Receptors often appeared at the pole of the primary outgrowing process, later on in the whole soma and finally on the branched processes. Specific radioligand binding and KA8 immunocytochemistry both presented an increase in the receptor concentration with development. The equilibrium binding values that were measured at 1 nM [3H]naloxone concentration were 2.9 and 6.1 fmol/10(6) cells on the first and sixth cultivation days, respectively. Neurons were treated with 10(-7) M bremazocine or dynorphine (agonists with relative specificity to kappa-opioid receptors) on the second and third cultivation days. The agonist promoted the morphological differentiation which was already visible within 24 h. It also promoted the expression of the 200,000 mol. wt neurofilament protein, this became pronounced after two to three days. The changes provoked by the agonist were reduced by the opioid antagonist norbinaltorphimine (10(-7) M) or naloxone (10(-5) M) indicating that the effect was receptor-mediated. The hypothesis that kappa-opioid agonists through their receptors may function as regulatory signals in the early neuronal differentiation is discussed.
Functional studies were performed to evaluate the effects of methoctramine at the neuromuscular junction of the mouse. The presynaptic control of acetylcholine release and the postsynaptic activation of the nicotinic receptor have been analysed by means of the extracellular recording with an EPC7 Patch Clamp amplifier. This electrophysiological method revealed a dose-related inhibitory effect of methoctramine on the studied parameters. The dramatic reduction of the kinetics of the quantal conductance change indicates an action at the postsynaptic level. The effects of methoctramine have been compared with those of the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine. Concentration/response curves for the two drugs were obtained and the apparent EC50 values calculated. The effects of oxotremorine were not antagonized by 1 microM methoctramine. These findings suggest an interaction of some muscarinic agents on the postsynaptic receptor-ion-channel complex at the mouse neuromuscular junction.
The possibility that prostaglandins influence edema formation, microvascular permeability increase and reduction of blood flow following spinal cord trauma was examined in a rat model. In addition, the influence of prostaglandins on serotonin metabolism of the traumatized spinal cord was evaluated. Trauma to spinal cord (2-mm-deep and 5-mm-long incision in the right dorsal horn of T10-11 segments) resulted in a profound increase of the water content 5 h after injury. At this time, the microvascular permeability to Evans Blue and [131I]sodium was increased by 457 and 394%, respectively. The blood flow was reduced by 30%. The serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) content of the spinal cord increased by 205%. The plasma serotonin level rose by 152% in the injured group of rats. Pretreatment with indomethacin (10 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min before trauma significantly reduced the edema and microvascular permeability increase. The local spinal cord blood flow of traumatized animals was partially restored. The increases of serotonin levels of the spinal cord and plasma were significantly attenuated. These beneficial effects of indomethacin were not present in rats given a lower dose (5 mg/kg). Indomethacin in either dose did not influence these parameters of control rats without trauma to the cord. Since indomethacin is a potential inhibitor of prostaglandins synthesis our observations indicate: (i) that prostaglandins participate in many microvascular responses (permeability changes, edema, blood flow) occurring after a trauma to the spinal cord; (ii) that these effects of the drug seem to be dose dependent, and (iii) that the prostaglandins may influence the serotonin metabolism following trauma to the spinal cord.
Regeneration in the mammalian peripheral nervous system following nerve injury is associated with the upregulation of a developmentally regulated phosphoprotein, growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43), in the injured neurons. We have examined whether uninjured adult neurons also express GAP-43 when they sprout. The model system investigated has been the sprouting induced in the terminal axons of intact motor neurons by a partial muscle denervation. Partial denervation of the medial gastrocnemius muscle in adult rats was produced by resecting the terminal nerve supply to the anterolateral quadrant of the muscle. Three zones could be identified in the motor endplate region of the muscle after such a denervation using protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, calcitonin gene-related peptide and silver staining as axonal markers and S-100 to identify Schwann cells: a normally innervated zone, a totally denervated zone and a border or intermediate zone between the two which contained axons at the endplates with nodal and terminal sprouts. The endplates in the normally innervated zone were GAP-43 negative. In the denervated zone, Schwann cells were GAP-43 positive and had a distinctive appearance with a lack of any normal endplate organization. Endplates in the intermediate zone were GAP-43 immunoreactive. In approximately half, the GAP-43 immunoreactivity was axonal-like, identical to PGP 9.5 in an adjacent section; in the remainder it was Schwann cell-like, identical to S-100 staining. Partial muscle denervation results, therefore, in the appearance of GAP-43 both in axons and Schwann cells in the endplates bordering the denervated zone. The presence of GAP-43 in these cells may contribute to their capacity to sprout.
Either muscarinic or nicotinic cholinergic activation of the medial pontine reticular formation evokes a behavioral state, indistinguishable in most respects from that of natural rapid eye movement sleep. However, the presence of physiologically relevant nicotonic receptors has not been described. Intracellular current and single electrode voltage clamp recordings were used to analyse the electrophysiological responses of rat medial pontine reticular formation neurons to nicotinic activation in vitro. In response to the nicotonic agonist, 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodine, depolarization in association with an inward current was observed in 70% of the medial pontine reticular formation neurons. This effect was insensitive to the muscarinic antagonist atropine and the nicotinic ganglionic antagonists mecamylamine and hexamethonium. However, the neuromuscular nicotinic antagonist D-tubocurare and dihydro-beta-erythroidine were effective. This is consistent with a cholinergic activation of medial pontine reticular formation neurons evoking a rapid eye movement sleep-like behavioral state, at least in part, by nicotinic receptors on these neurons.
The development of a conditioned place preference to morphine (2 mg/kg; three pairings) and the analgesic effect of morphine (0, 4 or 8 mg/kg) in the formalin test were studied in rats with sham or neurotoxin lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Lesions were induced by bilateral infusions of N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.5 microliter of 0.1 M solution) or vehicle over 10 min. No anti-seizure medication was administered in the first experiment, whereas animals in the second experiment were injected with diazepam (1 mg/kg) immediately after surgery. In Experiment 1, behaviour in the conditioned place preference and formalin tests was assessed in separate groups of lesioned and control rats. In Experiment 2, the same animals received both sets of tests. In both experiments lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus blocked the development of a conditioned place preference to morphine, but had no effect on the behavioural response to formalin, or on its inhibition by morphine. Examination of cholinergic-stained cells found no correlation between the magnitude of behavioural effects and the number of acetylcholine cells destroyed by the lesions. These results confirm that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus mediates the development of a morphine-induced conditioned place preference, but not the analgesic effect of morphine.
This study has analysed by light and electron microscopy immunolocalization the nuclear pattern of distribution of Fos-related proteins in supraotic neurons. Two experimental models of transcriptional activation have been used: sustained, global transcriptional activation, at relatively near physiological conditions, by six days of chronic intermittent salt loading; and superinduction of c-fos gene by this salt loading regime plus cycloheximide treatment for 4 h. In the first condition, the ultrastructural analysis showed a distribution of Fos-like immunoreactivity on the reticular network of dispersed chromatin that extends between the nucleolar surface and the nuclear envelope, whereas the Fos-negative adjacent interchromatin spaces appeared rich in interchromatin granules by using a cytochemical staining for ribonucleoproteins. The nucleolus associated heterochromatin, fibrillar centers of the nucleolus and coiled bodies were free of immunoreactivity. This immunoelectron pattern seems to indicate that active genes containing activator protein-1 and cyclic AMP response element recognition sites are extensively distributed in euchromatin regions and suggests that the Fos-positive nuclear domains correspond to the actively transcribing chromatin regions, at least in supraoptic neurons. It also suggests that these Fos-positive transcription domains are complementary to adjacent ribonucleoprotein-rich interchromatin spaces which are involved in the processing and splicing of pre-messenger RNA. Moreover, the absence of immunoreactivity on the fibrillar centers, the sites of pre-ribosomal RNA synthesis, suggests that the Fos protein complexes are not involved in regulating the expression of ribosomal RNA genes. Following superinduction of c-fos gene by osmotic stimulation plus cycloheximide treatment, a conspicuous Fos-like immunoreactivity was detected in dispersed chromatin regions, whereas the heterochromatin masses, nucleoli and coiled bodies showed no immunoreaction. Moreover, this treatment induced the formation of nuclear &quot;dense bodies&quot; of a fibrillar nature which were free of immunolabelling. Since Fos proteins are known to be short-lived, the expression of these nuclear constituents, under conditions of protein synthesis inhibition induced by the cycloheximide, suggests the stabilization of chromatin-bound Fos complexes or, alternatively, a preferential synthesis of Fos proteins.
Both the cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate and the phosphoinositide second messenger systems are involved in olfactory signal transduction. The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor is one of the principal intracellular calcium channels responsible for mobilizing stored calcium. The precise location of the 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (endoplasmic reticulum vs surface) and its role in the events of olfactory signal transduction need to be defined. By light microscopic and confocal immunohistochemistry we show expression of the olfactory-enriched G-protein, G(olf), associated with cyclic AMP responses, and of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in the dendritic projections and cilia of essentially all olfactory receptor neurons, indicating that individual neurons express components of both second messenger systems. By immunoelectron microscopy, we demonstrate that the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor is localized to the surface membrane of rat olfactory cilia. This is the first morphological demonstration of the surface membrane localization of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in olfactory cilia. Our findings, taken in conjunction with electrophysiological data from other workers, are supportive of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor playing a novel role in regulating calcium flux at the ciliary surface membrane.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and its receptors are abundant in the brain and particularly in the cerebellum of adult rats. In contrast, the occurrence of PACAP binding sites has not been investigated during ontogenesis. The aim of the present study was to determine the distribution and biochemical characteristics of PACAP binding sites in the rat cerebellum during postnatal development, and to examine the effect of PACAP on immature cerebellar granule cells. Autoradiographic studies revealed that PACAP binding sites are transiently expressed in a germinative matrix of the cerebellar cortex, the external granule cell layer, and in the medulla, from postnatal days 8 to 25. A population of PACAP binding sites persisted in the internal granule cell layer in the mature cerebellum. Emulsion-coated cytoautoradiography, performed on cultured immature granule cells from eight-day-old rat cerebellum, demonstrated that transient PACAP binding sites are expressed by cerebellar immature granule cells. Biochemical characterization of binding revealed the occurrence of two classes of PACAP recognition sites exhibiting, respectively, high (Kd = 0.39 +/- 0.08 nM) and low (Kd = 21.2 +/- 9.4 nM) affinity for PACAP27. The two naturally occurring forms PACAP38 and PACAP27 were equipotent in competing for [125I]PACAP27 binding. In contrast, the [Des-His1]PACAP38 analog was eight times less efficient and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide only induced weak displacement of the binding. Exposure of cultured immature granule cells to PACAP27 resulted in a dose-dependent stimulation of the production of cAMP, indicating that PACAP binding sites represent authentic receptors positively coupled to adenylate cyclase. These results show that PACAP receptors are actively expressed in the cerebellum of rats during postnatal development. The presence of functional PACAP receptors in the external granule cell layer suggests that PACAP may play a role in the control of proliferation and/or differentiation of granule cells.
Recent studies show that focal brain injury, cerebral ischaemia, hypoglycaemia and seizures increase the expression of c-fos and brain-derived neurotrophic factor in brain. Here we report that hippocampal focal brain injury transiently induces the immediate early genes c-fos, jun-B, c-jun and krox-24 (zif-268) messenger RNA and protein and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in rat dentate gyrus neurons, an effect that was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801. Prior administration of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide super-induced immediate early gene messenger RNA, abolished immediate early gene protein induction, but had no effect on injury-mediated induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. Thus, while N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation results in the induction of both immediate early genes and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA, de novo synthesis of immediate early gene proteins is not critical for the increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA seen in brain after focal injury. These results suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is induced after injury as an immediate early gene.
N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptors are implicated in several neuropathological conditions including epilepsy. As a model of complex partial seizures, rapid hippocampal kindling was chosen to investigate changes in the expression of messenger RNAs encoding the N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor subunits NR1, NR2A and NR2B both during and in the period immediately following the induction of the kindled state. The study demonstrates a cell-specific, time-dependent modulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor subunit messenger RNAs almost entirely restricted to the granule cells of the dentate gyrus. In partially kindled animals (10 stimulations), while the NR1 subunit messenger RNA remained unaltered after a period of 2 h, the NR2A and NR2B subunit messenger RNAs were bilaterally reduced in dentate gyrus granule cells by around 50% below control values. In fully kindled animals (40 stimulations), a progressive reduction in NR1 subunit messenger RNA levels in the dentate gyrus was observed, being maximal after 4 h (-67%). At the same time point, NR2A and NR2B transcript levels were transiently increased by 102% and 46% above control values, respectively. These data point to a differential regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor subunit messenger RNAs. No alterations were detected in pyramidal cells. Long-term maintenance of the kindled state was not associated with alterations in N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor subunit messenger RNAs since control levels of messenger RNA were attained by 12 h and persisted for at least five days. The early changes in messenger RNAs described in this study indicate that the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor subunits is under independent regulatory control. This phenomenon may contribute to epileptogenesis and to kindling-associated plasticity by mediating a structural reorganization of N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptors, leading to an altered excitability of dentate gyrus granule cells.
The mechanism by which nerve growth factor transduces its signal in responsive cells is yet to be clearly defined. However, it has been suggested that the internalization of nerve growth factor, the first step in the retrograde flow of nerve growth factor, is a property of the high-affinity receptors, p140trkA. Here we show that when a monoclonal antibody (MC 192), which immunoprecipitates p75NGFR (the low-affinity 75,000 mol. wt nerve growth factor receptor protein) and not p140trkA, was administered into the dorsal hippocampal formation of the rats, it was internalized and retrogradely transported to the cell bodies residing in the medial septum-diagonal band complex. The topographic organization and the localization of these neurons containing retrogradely transported p75NGFR antibody were strikingly similar to those nerve cells immunostained for choline acetyltransferase in the immediately-adjacent section, indicating that the neurons which contained p75NGFR antibody were cholinergic neurons. A double-label immunocytochemistry confirmed this conclusion. On the other hand, none of the parvalbumin-positive GABAergic neurons contained retrogradely transported p75NGFR antibody. Moreover, in contrast to specific transport of p75NGFR antibody into cholinergic neurons, when wheat germ agglutinin-colloidal gold was injected into the hippocampus at the same levels, it was taken up and retrogradely transported into both choline acetyltransferase-positive cholinergic and parvalbumin-immunoreactive GABAergic neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band complex.
In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to analyse the expression of the messenger RNAs encoding for enkephalin, substance P and dynorphin in the striatum of normal rats, rats subjected to a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the mesostriatal dopamine pathway and lesioned rats bearing intrastriatal transplants of fetal nigral neurons. About half of the rats in each group received twice-daily subcutaneous injections of 5 mg/kg apomorphine and the other half received control injections of saline, for nine days. Three hours after the last injection, the rats were killed by decapitation. Cryostat sections through the striatum were incubated with, 35S-labeled oligodeoxyribonucleotide probes hybridizing with preproenkephalin, preprotachykinin or prodynorphin messenger RNA. One additional series of sections was incubated with [3H]GBR 12935 in order to label dopamine uptake sites. Quantitative evaluation of the hybridization signal was performed both at the macroscopic level (autoradiographic film analysis) and at the cellular level (optical density of silver grains over identified cells). The grafted nigral neurons reversed the lesion-induced up-regulation of preproenkephalin messenger RNA in the whole striatal complex. By contrast, the graft-induced effect on the lesion-induced down-regulation of preprotachykinin messenger RNA was restricted to the region of the host striatum where the graft-derived dopamine fibers exhibited their densest distribution (up to 0.5 mm from the border of the grafts). However, following chronic treatment with apomorphine, preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression approached control levels in a wider portion of the grafted striata (up to 1 mm from the border of the grafts). Basal prodynorphin messenger RNA expression, which was also down-regulated in the lesioned striata, was only partially restored by the transplants. Repeated injections of apomorphine enhanced prodynorphin messenger RNA in the lesioned striata to levels several fold higher than normal. This massive increase in prodynorphin messenger RNA expression was completely prevented by the transplants over a large volume of the host striatum (&gt; 1 mm from the graft-host border), but a trend towards an abnormally high prodynorphin messenger RNA expression was still present in peripheral striatal areas that were not reached by graft-derived dopamine fibers. The present results indicate that fetal nigral neurons transplanted to the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned striatum have differential effects on the activity of enkephalin-containing (i.e. mainly striatopallidal) and substance P- or dynorphin-containing (i.e. mainly striatonigral) neurons. An inhibitory control over the activity of striatopallidal neurons is completely restored by the grafts, even in non-reinnervated striatal regions, suggesting that neurohumoral mechanisms underlie this effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Using an in vitro microsuperfusion device we have previously demonstrated that in the absence of magnesium, the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]dopamine (continuously synthesized from [3H]tyrosine) is more prominent in matrix- than in striosome-enriched areas of the rat striatum and that in the matrix, the response is partially tetrodotoxin-sensitive. Since the medium-sized GABAergic neurons are the main targets of the corticostriatal glutamatergic fibers, the involvement of local GABAergic regulation in the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]dopamine was investigated in both striatal compartments using the same experimental approach. Firstly, bicuculline alone (5 microM, 25-min application) was shown to enhance the release of [3H]dopamine similarly in both compartments revealing the existence of a tonic GABAergic control of the spontaneous release of [3H]dopamine. Secondly, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (50 microM, 25-min application)-evoked release of [3H]dopamine was markedly amplified in the presence of bicuculline (5 microM, continuous delivery). This effect being more important in striosome- than in matrix-enriched areas (5.5- and two-times the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked response observed in the absence of the GABAA antagonist, respectively). Thirdly, the tetrodotoxin (1 microM, continuous delivery)-resistant N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses were also enhanced in the presence of bicuculline, but in this case, the amplification of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]dopamine was less marked than in the absence of tetrodotoxin and identical in both compartments (about two-times the tetrodotoxin-resistant N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses observed in the absence of bicuculline). Altogether, these results indicate that GABAergic neurons exert locally an important inhibitory regulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of dopamine and that this effect is more prominent in the striosome-enriched area. Both tetrodotoxin-sensitive (striosome) and tetrodotoxin-resistant (striosome and matrix) processes intervene in this inhibitory GABAergic presynaptic regulation of dopamine release.
We examined the effect of augmenting the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors during tetanic stimulation of the corpus callosum. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from striatal neurons in an in vitro brain slice bathed in either normal or Mg(2+)-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Post-tetanic potentiation was followed by a long-lasting depression of the excitatory postsynaptic potential in normal artificial cerebral spinal fluid. Mg(2+)-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid increased the duration of the pretetanus excitatory postsynaptic potential and the amplitude and duration of the direct response to the tetanus. Mg(2+)-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid also enabled the expression of a short-term potentiation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude and duration. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists blocked the induction of all tetanus-induced excitatory postsynaptic potential changes specific to the Mg(2+)-free artificial cerebral spinal fluid. These results indicate that maintained activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by synaptically released glutamate can produce a sustained enhancement of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. This use-dependent increase in synaptic efficacy may contribute to basal ganglia-related motor performance.
Focal injection of a minute quantity of tetanus toxin into the rat neocortex induces chronic epileptogenesis. Within a day, spontaneous and stimulus-evoked paroxysmal discharges appear in widespread regions of both hemispheres and this lasts for at least nine months. Tetanus toxin blocks transmitter release, apparently by catalysing the breakdown of synaptobrevin, a synaptic protein. It specifically binds to neuronal membranes but its potent epileptogenic properties have been ascribed to a higher affinity for inhibitory neurons. Following focal injection of tetanus toxin into the hippocampus a long-lasting epileptic syndrome also develops. During the early part of the syndrome GABA release is depressed in slices from the injected side, but not in slices from the contralateral, secondary focus. In the present experiments on neocortex, release of radiolabelled GABA was measured from primary and secondary epileptic foci induced by unilateral focal injection of tetanus toxin into the parietal cortex. By four weeks after the injection, no differences were detected in GABA release from any neocortical site in control or toxin-injected animals, despite the persistence of profound epileptic activity in slices from the latter. At earlier times (1.5 days) after the toxin injection, however, release was significantly depressed in both hemispheres. The results indicate that at first, the toxin induces focal neocortical epileptogenesis by directly impeding GABAergic synaptic transmission but that with time there is a recovery from this initial effect. We propose, as has also been suggested for other models, that the initial epileptogenesis leaves in its wake a long-lasting change in the local functional connectivity, such that the neocortex is rendered permanently epileptic.
It is now well established that the expression of peptides in rat primary sensory neurons is dramatically changed in response to peripheral nerve injury. Thus, as first shown by Jessell et al. peripheral axotomy causes a decrease in substance P levels in the dorsal horn of the corresponding spinal cord segments, and this is due to down-regulation of peptide synthesis in dorsal root ganglion neurons. In contrast, other peptides such as vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine, galanin and neuropeptide Y are all markedly upregulated in the rat L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia after sciatic nerve sectioning. The levels of another peptide, cholecystokinin and its messenger RNA are normally very low or undectable in rat primary sensory neurons, but after peripheral axotomy approximately 30% of the ganglion neurons express cholecystokinin messenger RNA. During the last few years a number of peptide receptors have been cloned, and they all belong to the family of G-protein coupled receptors with seven membrane spanning segments, among them the two cholecystokinin receptors cholecystokininA and cholecystokininB. Ghilardi et al. have recently described presence of cholecystokininB binding sites in rat dorsal root ganglia neurons. In the present study we report that the messenger RNA for the cholecystokininB receptor is present at very low levels in normal dorsal root ganglia of the rat, but axotomy causes a very marked increase in the number of sensory neurons of all sizes expressing cholecystokininB receptor messenger RNA, suggesting an increased sensitivity to cholecystokinin for many primary sensory neurons of different modalities after lesion.
Primary cultures of rat hippocampal cells have been used to evaluate trophic effects of neurotrophin-3, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, and basic fibroblast growth factor. There was little survival in cultures prepared from embryonic day 17 embryos and grown in defined medium without growth factors. Addition of basic fibroblast growth factor produced a massive increase in the number of neurons present in the cultures seven days after plating. This action reflected proliferation of neuronal precursor cells rather than increased survival of initially plated neurons. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor was ineffective under these conditions, whereas neurotrophin-3 produced a very small, but statistically significant increase in neuronal survival in the range of 20%. However, hippocampal neurons were responsive to brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 as demonstrated under culture conditions, resulting in survival in absence of the neurotrophins. Acute administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 to hippocampal cultures grown at high density stimulated the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol, a response earlier shown to be mediated by tyrosine receptor kinase neurotrophin receptors. Furthermore, when such cultures were grown in presence of neurotrophin-3 rates of glutamate and GABA uptake were increased. In contrast to the findings obtained in cultures of embryonic day 17, cultures prepared from embryonic day 14 or 15 animals were viable in absence of exogenous growth factors. The specific neurotrophin receptor inhibitor, K-252b reduced survival in these cultures and this effect was partly overcome by exogenous neurotrophin-3. Our findings suggest that hippocampal neuron survival at early embryonic stages may involve paracrine neurotrophin mechanisms, whereas the survival of hippocampal neurons of embryonic day 17 is not markedly enhanced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-3. However, at this embryonic stage there is a functional response to both neurotrophins as made evident by the activation of tyrosine kinase receptor-linked signal transduction mechanisms and by the stimulation of transmitter-specific differentiation.
A cytotoxicity of glutamate or related amino acids (10 mM) mediated by a cystine/glutamate antiporter (system Xc) has recently been demonstrated in N18 neuroblastoma-rat retina hybrid (N18RE105) cells and C6 glioma cells. The antiporter usually transports glutamate outside and cystine inside, thereby maintaining cellular concentrations of glutathione. High concentrations of glutamate inhibit cystine uptake and lead to depletion of cellular levels of glutathione. Among related amino acids, DL-alpha-aminoadipic acid (DL-alpha-AAA), which is well known as a selective gliotoxin in the retina, is also toxic to these cells. However, this does not explain why DL-alpha-AAA acts gliospecifically on the retina. To answer this question we first examined the effects of DL-alpha-AAA on the [35S]cystine uptake with parental N18 neuroblastoma cells and rat retina of the hybrid cells. DL-alpha-AAA showed a competitive inhibition of [35S]cystine uptake in the rat retina but not in the N18 cells. Such a competitive inhibition of cystine uptake by DL-alpha-AAA could also be seen in the carp retina. The cystine uptake with carp retina was mainly Na(+)-independent and Cl(-)-dependent as already described as a characteristic ion dependency of the Xc antiporter. We next examined the effects of exogenous cystine on the glutamate release from the retina. Cystine (1 mM) actually induced a glutamate release approximately twice that of the control. Furthermore, the glutamate release induced by cystine was also Na(+)-independent and Cl(-)-dependent, and was blocked by DL-alpha-AAA. An autoradiogram of [35S]cystine uptake in the carp retina showed typical radial glial Mller cells. A large incorporation of [35S]cystine into retinal glutathione fraction was detected by a high pressure liquid chromatography method during a 1-4-h incubation. A significant or large decrease of retinal levels of glutathione was observed one day ater an intravitreal injection of 8 mumol DL-alpha-AAA or L-alpha-AAA, respectively. Buthionine sulfoximine (2.5 mumol), a specific inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, induced a large decrease of retinal levels of glutathione and a loss of electroretinographic b-wave 20-30 h after treatment. Taken together, our present data with rat and carp retinas strongly indicate that the expression of cystine/glutamate antiporter is enriched in the retina, particularly in the glial Mller cells which have a rapid turnover pool for glutathione. The gliotoxin DL-alpha-AAA inhibits cystine uptake through this antiporter on the glial cells and elicits reduction of cellular levels of glutathione.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 amol-1 nmol) on the nociceptive tail-flick reflex were studied in awake rats. Lesser doses of N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 amol-10 pmol) administered intrathecally to the lumbar spinal cord produced a dose-dependent facilitation of the tail-flick reflex (maximum at 0.5-1 min). The greatest dose tested (1 nmol) inhibited the tail-flick reflex (maximum at 2-5 min) and produced a caudally directed scratching and biting behavior accompanied by vocalizations. Intrathecal pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (1 fmol-1 pmol), which produced no change in baseline tail-flick latency, blocked all N-methyl-D-aspartate produced effects in a dose-dependent manner (100 fmol D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid produced maximum blockage for about 40 min). The magnitude and duration of N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced biphasic effects on tail-flick latency were similar in awake and lightly pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, but caudally directed biting and scratching behavior was not produced in lightly anesthetized rats. Reversible spinalization at T8-T10 in lightly anesthetized rats (produced by cold-block) completely abolished inhibition of the tail-flick reflex produced by 1 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartate whereas facilitation produced by 10 pmol N-methyl-D-aspartate remained unchanged, indicating that N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced facilitation is a local, segmental effect and that N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced inhibition requires a supraspinal loop. To examine the nature of the supraspinal loop, potential contributions of descending noradrenergic and serotonergic systems were studied. Intrathecal pretreatment with 100 nmol phentolamine completely blocked N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced inhibition of the tail-flick reflex, while N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced facilitation and caudally directed biting and scratching behavior remained unchanged. Intrathecal pretreatment with 50 nmol methysergide reversed the inhibitory effect of 1 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartate, resulting in a potent and prolonged facilitation which could be blocked by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. (1 pmol). Intrathecal pretreatment with an alternate substrate for nitric oxide synthase, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 nmol), completely blocked N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced facilitation of the tail-flick reflex, whereas N-methyl-D-aspartate-produced inhibition and caudally directed biting and scratching behavior were unaffected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
An important issue in clinical neural grafting is whether a second instriatial allograft can survive well in a patient who has received an allograft before. In this study, the survival, immunogenicity and function of intrastriatal grafts of allogeneic or syngeneic embryonic dopamine-rich tissue in rats which had previously received either an intrastriatal allo- or syn-graft or sham injections were examined. The first graft tissue was taken from inbred Lewis or Sprague-Dawley rat embryos and grafted into an intact striatum of adult Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion on the contralateral side. Eight weeks after the first transplantation, either allogeneic or syngeneic tissue was grafted as dissociated tissue into the dopamine depleted striatum. The function of the second grafts was assessed by rotational asymmetry at two different time points, i.e. eight and 14 weeks after the second transplantation. There were significant reductions of rotational asymmetry in all groups over time, but no significant difference between groups. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry was used to assess dopamine cell survival and graft size. Statistical analysis revealed no significant differnce in the mean number of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells or the mean volume of the second grafts placed on the right side (lesioned side) between groups. Monoclonal antibodies were used to evaluate cellular immune reactions and the major histocompatibility complex class I and class II expression in and around grafts. No major histocompatibility complex class I expression was seen in any of the graft combinations. The expression of the major histocompatibility complex class II antigens was generally higher in patches in and around the second allograft of rats which had previously received an allograft than that in and around any other type of grafts. However, the expression of the major histocompatibility complex class II antigens was low throughout the grafts and did not appear as marked perivascular infiltrates. All the major histocompatibility complex class II positive cells displayed a microglia-like morphology, supported by the parallel microglia and macrophage-specific OX-42 immunostaining. The results show that there is no marked on-going immune reactions in or around the implantation site in any group fourteen weeks after a second transplantation. It may be concluded, therefore, that sequential allografting, using stereotaxic implantation of dissociated embryonic neural tissue into the striatal parenchyma, is possible to perform without a major risk of graft rejection, provided that an atraumatic technique is used.
Nerve terminals as well as glial cells are thought to possess high-affinity Na(+)-dependent transport sites for excitatory amino acids. However, recent immunocytochemical results with antibodies against such a transporter isolated from rat brain showed a selective labelling of glial cells [Danbolt et al. (1992) Neuroscience 51, 295-310]. Critical evaluation of the literature indicates that previous evidence for nerve terminal uptake of acidic amino acids might possibly be attributed to glia. To find out whether there is indeed a glutamate transporter in nerve endings, we incubated hippocampal slices with D-aspartate (10 and 50 microM), a metabolically inert substrate for the high-affinity glutamate transport system. After fixation by glutaraldehyde/formaldehyde the slices were processed immunocytochemically with specific polyclonal antibodies raised against D-aspartate coupled to albumin by glutaraldehyde/formaldehyde. The electron-microscopic postembedding immunogold technique demonstrated a large accumulation of gold particles in nerve terminals making asymmetrical synapses, compared to their postsynaptic dendritic spines, as well as in glial cell processes. The labelled terminals include those of the glutamatergic Schaffer collaterals. Axosomatic boutons appeared unlabelled. Comparison with a test conjugate with known concentration of fixed D-aspartate (94 mM) suggests that the concentration attained in the terminals after incubation with 50 microM D-aspartate was in the lower millimolar range. The uptake was totally dependent on Na+, blocked by L-threo-3-hydroxyaspartate, and had a high affinity for D-aspartate (apparent Km about 20 microM). There was no labelling in slices incubated without D-aspartate. Compared to glia, the nerve terminals had a higher D-aspartate density and accounted for a much higher proportion of the total tissue uptake, but this relationship may be different in vivo. At the light-microscopic level the D-aspartate-like immunoreactivity showed a distinct laminar distribution, identical to that shown autoradiographically for D-[3H]aspartate and L-[3H]glutamate uptake sites [Taxt and Storm-Mathisen (1984) Neuroscience 11, 79-100], and corresponding to the terminal fields of the major excitatory fibre systems in the hippocampal formation. The novel approach described here establishes that glutamatergic nerve terminals as well as glia do sustain sodium-dependent high-affinity transport of excitatory amino acids, implying that more than one glutamate transporter must be present in the brain. Immunogold detection of D-aspartate gives a much higher anatomical resolution than electron microscopic autoradiography of D-[3H]aspartate or L-[3H]glutamate uptake, the only method that has been available previously for ultrastructural demonstration of uptake activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The presence of large numbers of dopaminergic neurons in the olfactory bulb suggests that dopamine plays an important role in olfaction. Dopamine D2 receptors are produced in olfactory sensory neurons [Shipley et al. (1991) Chem. Senses 16, 5] and found in relatively high concentrations in their terminals in the nerve and glomerular layers of the olfactory bulb [Nickell et al. (1991) NeuroReport 2, 9-12]. In other systems D2 receptors are linked to adenylyl cyclase by an inhibitory G-protein, and activation of the receptors results in inhibition of the enzyme. We examined rat olfactory mucous membrane to determine whether the D2 receptors were linked functionally to adenylyl cyclase as they are in other tissues. Adenylyl cyclase is found in both the olfactory cilia of the sensory epithelium and olfactory nerve terminals in the bulb. Bromocriptine, a D2 receptor agonist, was added to olfactory epithelium membrane preparations from normal and unilaterally bulbectomized adult rats and the preparations were assayed for forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity. In unoperated animals bromocriptine significantly inhibited adenylyl cyclase activity, and the inhibition was abolished following pertussis toxin treatment. In mucosa from unilaterally bulbectomized animals we saw significantly lower adenylyl cyclase activity on the operated side and a further decrease in response to bromocriptine. The data indicate that bromocriptine decreases adenylyl cyclase activity in olfactory tissue, specifically in the sensory neurons, and the reaction is dependent on a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the present study the effect of cocaine on thymidine, uridine and leucine incorporation was assessed in primary cortical glial and C6 glioma cells. Cocaine exposure for 24 h inhibited thymidine and uridine incorporation in cortical glial and C6 glioma cells. However, the effect of cocaine on uridine incorporation was less prominent compared to thymidine incorporation. High concentrations of cocaine inhibited leucine incorporation in C6 glioma cells but not in cortical glia. Cocaine exposure for four days decreased cell proliferation of cortical glial and C6 glioma cells. Cocaine-induced attenuation of macromolecular syntheses was not due to cell death since cocaine-treated cells were not stained with Trypan Blue and did not release lactate dehydrogenase into culture supernatants. Furthermore, cocaine had no effect on glutamate uptake either in cortical glia or in C6 glioma cells. These results indicate that cocaine inhibits macromolecular syntheses in glial cells. The inhibition of macromolecular syntheses in glial cells may be the mechanism involved in cocaine-induced fetal brain growth retardation.
Neurotransmitter receptors on the axon terminals of a neuron can be located a considerable distance away from comparable receptors on the cell body or dendrites of the same neuron. We examined the effects of activating either nerve terminal receptors or those located on or near the somas of chick Edinger-Westphal neurons. Cell body responses were measured via intracellular recording in a brain slice preparation. To measure nerve terminal responses, intracellular recordings were obtained from the large, calyciform nerve endings in intact ciliary ganglia, which emanate from neurons of the lateral Edinger-Westphal nucleus. Cell bodies of Edinger-Westphal neurons responded to leucine-enkephalin with a dose-dependent hyperpolarization that was associated with a decrease in input resistance. In spontaneously active Edinger-Westphal somas, leucine-enkephalin caused marked inhibition of suprathreshold and subthreshold activity, indicating that, as with a number of other central neurons, the major effect of opioids was to reduce excitability. The response to opioids was sensitive to naloxone (1 microM) and was a direct effect, since it was not blocked by either 0.5 microM tetrodotoxin or 100 microM cadmium. More selective mu ([D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]-enkephalin) and delta ([D-Ser2]-leucine-enkephalin-Thr and [D-Pen2,5]-enkephalin) opioid agonists produced effects similar to those of leucine-enkephalin. Opioids produced strikingly different effects in the nerve terminals of Edinger-Westphal neurons, where the major effect was a depolarization associated with a decrease in input resistance. The effects of opioids in the terminals were reduced in a low sodium buffer, indicating that they were dependent on the presence of extracellular sodium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Time-dependent changes in Bolton-Hunter-labeled 125I-substance P binding occurred in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord following unilateral adjuvant-induced inflammation in the hindpaw of the rat. Inflammation was characterized by measures of edema and hyperalgesia. Edema and hyperalgesia were both present 6 h after induction of inflammation. However, by eight days, hyperalgesia had dissipated while edema persisted. Six hours after the induction of inflammation, widespread decreases in Bolton-Hunter-labeled 125I-substance P binding occurred on both sides of the dorsal horn of spinal level L4 in comparison to the control group. However, by two days, widespread increases in Bolton-Hunter-labeled 125I-substance P binding occurred on both sides of the spinal cord at level L4 compared to the control group. The increase in radioligand binding was primarily due to a 10-fold increase in affinity of neurokinin-1 receptors for substance P. At later time-points of four and eight days, Bolton-Hunter-labeled 125I-substance P binding remained increased only in laminae I/II on the side of the spinal cord ipsilateral to inflammation. The changes in Bolton-Hunter-labeled 125I-substance P binding suggest that alterations in substance P synaptic transmission in the spinal cord may contribute to the increased excitability of spinal neurons that accompanies adjuvant-induced peripheral inflammation.
The aim of the present study was to investigate galanin-like immunoreactivity in primary afferent terminals and its relationship to other neuropeptides in laminae I and II of the fourth and fifth lumbar segments of normal rat spinal cord using immunofluorescence and pre- and post-embedding electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry. Triple-immunofluorescence staining showed that galanin-like immunoreactivity co-localized with substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivities in many nerve fibres and terminals in laminae I and II of the dorsal horn. At the ultrastructural level, using pre-embedding immunocytochemistry, galanin-like immunoreactivity was found in type I glomeruli with an electron-dense central terminal containing many densely packed synaptic vesicles and several large dense-core vesicles. Both the cytoplasm and the core of the large vesicles were immunoreactive. In type II glomeruli with an electron-lucent central terminal and loosely packed synaptic vesicles the large dense-core vesicles and the cytoplasm were only weakly galanin-positive. Post-embedding immunocytochemistry revealed that galanin-like immunoreactivity co-existed with substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivities in many terminals and in individual large dense-core vesicles in lamina II. These terminals were considered to represent primary afferents, since there is evidence that calcitonin gene-related peptide in the dorsal horn only occurs in nerve endings originating in dorsal root ganglia. Evidence was also unexpectedly obtained for the occurrence of several other peptides in calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive terminals, i.e. in presumably primary afferents. Thus galanin-like immunoreactivity sometimes also co-localized with cholecystokinin- and neuropeptide tyrosine-like immunoreactivities in calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive terminals and in some large dense-core vesicles in such terminals. A small number of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactive, presumably primary afferent terminals contained enkephalin-, neurotensin- (and galanin-)like immunoreactivities. These results indicated that galanin can be co-stored with several other neuropeptides in large dense-core vesicles in primary afferent terminals and may presumably be released together with them in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn. Since various combinations of peptides, presumably at varying concentrations, occur in the large dense-core vesicles in a given nerve ending, it is likely that the individual large dense-core vesicles produced in a neuron are heterogenous with regard to peptide content and thus to the message that they transmit upon release.
This study investigated the localization of NADPH-dependent diaphorase activity within vascular endothelial cells in the rat brain. Light microscope observations showed that in addition to neurons and neuronal processes stained histochemically for NADPH-dependent diaphorase activity, endothelial cells in many medium to large diameter (20-100 microns) blood vessels were also stained. These vessels were either attached to the pial surface or contained within the substance of the tissue. In vascular endothelia, the formazan end-product of the diaphorase reaction was deposited as discrete clusters of darkly stained punctae that were located around the nucleus of these cells. Correlated light- and electron-microscopical examination revealed that the sites of formazan deposition occurred in regions of endothelial cytoplasm devoid of smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum and of mitochondria. Since endothelial NADPH dependent diaphorase activity co-localizes with the activity of nitric oxide synthase (the synthetic enzyme for nitric oxide) these observations suggest that in vascular endothelial cells nitric oxide synthase may be a highly localized soluble cytosolic enzyme not structurally associated with any subcellular organelle. In addition, specific regions of the smooth muscle cells encircling the larger diameter blood vessels clearly demonstrated NADPH dependent diaphorase activity. Unmyelinated fibres and fibre-plexi surrounding blood vessels on the pial surface were also stained. The results of this study show specific NADPH dependent diaphorase activity in vascular endothelial cells in the rat brain. Therefore, together with neurons, endothelial cells may control nitric oxide-dependent vasodilation thereby regulating local blood flow in the brain.
The complex morphological, electrophysiological and molecular properties of the adult vertebrate nervous system emerge over an extended period in prenatal and early postnatal life. Numerous studies have shown that synaptic activity plays a key role in the postnatal acquisition of mature neuronal phenotype. The cellular and molecular mechanisms subserving activity-dependent development are largely unknown. Several lines of evidence suggest that a rise in intracellular Ca2+ as a consequence of synaptic activity may regulate neuronal differentiation through its interactions with calcium-activated signal transduction molecules such as calcium/calmodulin kinase type II, protein kinase C or nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The aim of the present study is to identify potential signal transduction events subserving postnatal motor neuron development. Here we show that NOS antagonists block the molecular maturation of motor neurons and this effect is likely to be mediated by a subpopulation of ventral horn cells that express NOS transiently during early postnatal life. These results suggest that the local production of nitric oxide within the ventral horn may contribute to a late phase in motor neuron differentiation.
The report describes the results of a cross-sectional study of solvent-exposed young and older Dutch painters and two age-matched control groups. Both traditional and computerized neurobehavioral tests were applied. The study did not detect any major differences between the two groups of painters and their two age-matched control groups. It is argued that this absence of differences is probably not due to a lack of sensitivity of the tests applied or the size of the groups studied. The level of exposure was estimated to be within a range at which previous authors have reported solvent-induced CNS effects.

As a clinical diagnostic approach, the evoked potential has been used to differentiate movement disorders, especially myoclonic movements, Giant somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and long-loop reflex to electrical stimulation of the peripheral nerve are commonly employed in the evaluation of patients with myoclonus. Recently, abnormality in a specific component of SEP frontal N30 has been reported in focal dystonia. Jerk locked back averaging has been applied to cortical reflex myoclonus, minipolymyoclonus, cortical tremor, simple tics, chorea-acanthocytosis, Huntington's chorea, etc. Silent period locked averaging is also used for asterixis. With these new electrophysiological techniques, evaluation of functional mechanisms in movement disorders may be expected, with fruitful results.
Basal ganglia and cerebellum are closely related to the involuntary movement. Neural circuit of these areas and chemical neuroanatomy of them were described in this paper.
The brain is composed of numerous neurons, and information is chemically transmitted between neurons by neurotransmitters. In other words, the function of the brain is the sum of synaptic transmission phenomena. Therefore, to clarify physiological brain function and pathophysiology of involuntary movements, quantification of both neurotransmitters and receptors are indispensable. In the present paper, changes in neurotransmitters and receptors in the brain of various type of involuntary movements are reviewed. In spite of the fact that changes in neurotransmitter systems are the cardinal pathological lesions in involuntary movements, there is little evidence to support the view that these changes are actually related to the generation of involuntary movements. It is required to summarize all informations from neurotransmitter system analysis, behavioral pharmacology, clinical observations and animal models for clarifying the pathophysiology and developing a better therapeutic strategy against various involuntary movements.
This work presents a new method for localized T1 measurements, based upon the OSIRIS scheme. It relies on the use of a non-selective 180 degrees pulse applied before the OSIRIS preparation cycle. The accuracy of the method has been verified with test tubes and in vivo for two nuclei, 1H and 19F. The accuracy of the T1 values is discussed, as well as possible applications of the inversion-recovery method to non-invasive in vivo pO2 measurements.
An experimental arthritis of the knee joint resulted in limping, guarding, and an increased response to heat stimuli (heat hyperalgesia). Spinal administration of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (non-NMDA) antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), significantly reduced the degree of peripheral inflammation, thermal and behavioral manifestations of arthritis. NMDA antagonists had no effect on the inflammation but did prevent the development of the heat hyperalgesia. Thus, central non-NMDA receptors play a major role in the development of peripheral inflammation while both non-NMDA and NMDA receptors are involved in the development of heat hyperalgesia.
The nature of stimulus-induced flaccid paralysis produced in Mg(2+)-paralysed Schistosoma mansoni was investigated. Serotonin induced a dose-dependent, heterologous flaccid paralysis with an IC50 of 600 nM. This flaccid paralysis was a function of the extracellular Mg2+:Ca2+ ratio and was reversible. Tonic contractions produced by phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate or 60 mM K+ were reversed by the application of serotonin and flaccid paralysis was induced. These actions of serotonin were mimicked by forskolin and synergized by IBMX but the potassium channel blocker, 3,4-DAP, did not produce flaccid paralysis. When Mg(2+)-paralysed parasites were stimulated with 3,4-DAP, IBMX produced a dose-dependent flaccid paralysis with an IC50 of 11 microM. Membrane permeable analogues of cAMP and cGMP did not synergize with IBMX. Cholinergic agonists, but not other inhibitory substances, prevented the serotonin- and forskolin-induced and the IBMX-synergized flaccid paralysis but not that produced by praziquantel. The possible interactions of these agents with the muscle are discussed.
OKT3 therapy for prevention or reversal of allograft rejection has been associated with a constellation of acute systemic side effects, defined as an OKT3 first-dose reaction. Specific neurologic syndromes, including aseptic meningitis and diffuse encephalitis, have also been observed. This report describes a 12-year-old girl with steroid-resistant renal allograft rejection who developed hemiparesis associated with initiation of OKT3 therapy.
It has been reported that nursing mother rats can postnatally entrain the circadian rhythms of blinded rat pups, such as locomotor, drinking, and corticosterone rhythms. To gain more insight in the mechanism of the postnatal entrainment of such pups' circadian rhythms, we examined the serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT) activity rhythm in blinded rat pups subjected to periodic mother deprivation (PMD) in which mothers were periodically deprived of their pups during either half of a day. We found that only PMD during the light period shifted the phase of NAT activity rhythm in the pups. To cause a reversal of the NAT activity rhythm, it was necessary to repeat PMD for more than 6 days. PMD for 6 h each day also shifted the phase of the blinded rat pups, but it did not reverse the NAT rhythm, even when it was repeated for 10 days. In 9-h deprivation for 10 days, however, deprivation during the first 9 h of the light period reversed the phase, although the latter 9 h failed to cause reversal of the phase. On the other hand, restricted feeding of the mother took more than 11 days to reverse the phase and a foster mother in the cross-fostering experiment failed to affect the phase of pup's rhythm, when the rhythm was determined on the 11th postnatal day. These facts indicate that PMD during the light period is a potent entrainer of the pups' circadian NAT rhythms and provide a useful method of exploring the underlying mechanism of the entrainment of the pups' rhythm by the mother.
Immunosuppressants FK506 and cyclosporin A inhibit neurotoxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate in primary cortical cultures, while having no effect on quisqualate- and kainate-mediated neurotoxicity. Rapamycin completely reverses the neuroprotective effect of FK506. Both FK506 and cyclosporin A inhibit NMDA-elicited/nitric oxide-mediated increases in cGMP levels in cortical cultures. FK506 has no effect on sodium nitroprusside-induced increases in cGMP. In a stably transfected human kidney 293 cell line overexpressing the gene encoding nitric oxide synthase [L-arginine, NADPH:oxygen oxidoreductase (nitric oxide-forming), EC 1.14.13.39], FK506 inhibits the calcium ionophore A23187, stimulated increases in nitrite (a breakdown product of nitric oxide), and potentiates phorbol ester-mediated inhibition of nitrite formation. FK506-mediated inhibition of nitric oxide formation is completely reversed by rapamycin. Calcineurin dephosphorylates protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation of nitric oxide synthase. FK506 prevents the calcineurin-mediated dephosphorylation of nitric oxide synthase and thereby diminishes the enzyme's catalytic activity. These data establish nitric oxide synthase as a calcineurin substrate. Nitric oxide synthase catalytic activity is regulated by the phosphorylation state of the enzyme. Enhanced phosphorylation of nitric oxide synthase diminishes catalytic activity, and dephosphorylation (through activation of calcineurin) enhances catalytic activity. The neuroprotective effect of FK506 and cyclosporin A presumably involves the inhibition of calcineurin, preventing the dephosphorylation of nitric oxide synthase and its subsequent activation.

L-Ascorbic acid 2-(20 beta-11-oxo-olean-12-en-29-oic acid ethylester-3-beta-yl hydrogen phosphate) sodium salt (GEPC) is a newly synthesized compound representing a phosphate diester linkage of glycyrrhetic acid ethylester and ascorbic acid. In the present study, we found that GEPC effectively inhibited Fe(III)-ADP/NADPH-induced peroxidation of liver microsomes. The inhibitory effect was much greater than that of glycyrrhetic acid (GA), and contrasted with the stimulatory effect of ascorbic acid. An ESR study showed that GEPC appeared to have a great loss of the DPPH and superoxide radical scavenging effects of ascorbic acid. However, GEPC, like ascorbic acid, inhibited hydroxyl radicals generation in both Fe(II)-H2 O2 and Cr(VI)-H2 O2 systems. GEPC, unlike ascorbic acid, showed no pro-oxidant effect and acted as an effective iron-chelating agent in the ESR study or in the iron-induced deoxyribose and DNA degradation assays. The hydroxyl radical scavenging effect of GEPC was further demonstrated by its protective effect on the hydroxyl radical- induced degradation of certain biomolecules, i.e., carbohydrates, amino acids, and DNA. These results demonstrate that beside its protective effect on ascorbic acid autoxidation and increasing water solubility of GA, GEPC is also an antioxidant though not so powerful as ascorbic acid but more powerful than GA.
A 27-year-old woman presented with nontraumatic atlantoaxial dislocation that required a C1-C2 fusion. A comprehensive investigation initially failed to reveal any evidence of infectious or rheumatologic disease and she remained well for 3 1/2 years, at which time a diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis was established. There are no other similar cases reported in the medical literature. When dealing with a patient who has experienced a spontaneous atlantoaxial dislocation, a thorough assessment looking for an underlying infectious or inflammatory etiology is mandatory. Furthermore, the authors recommend that any patient who has negative investigations be followed long-term; an underlying covert inflammatory cause may only become evident after significant delay.


Textbook accounts give the impression that Na+ channels are short-acting binary switches: depolarization opens them, but only for about one millisecond. In contrast to this simplified view, a small but significant fraction of the total Na+ current in neurons occurs because channels open after long delays or in long-duration bursts of openings. Such non-inactivating Na+ current acts physiologically in neurons to amplify synaptic potentials and enhance endogenous rhythmicity, and also to aid repetitive firing of action potentials. In glial cells it also may regulate Na(+)-K+ ATPase activity. The evidence for non-inactivating Na+ current in a variety of neurons and glia is reviewed, along with a brief discussion of its ion channel substrate and its relevance for neurological diseases and drug therapy.
In recent years, a number of experimental controversies have arisen in the pharmacological sciences literature. Two possibly related examples concern the role of phosphorylation in receptor regulation and the occurrence of paradoxical effects of neurally active drugs in patients. In this article, Ruth Lanius and colleagues review these two issues and suggest that some of the recently reported age-dependent aspects of neurotransmitter receptor regulation and function may explain drug action. An appreciation of the dynamic interactions involved in receptor regulation, especially during development, may offer novel perspectives on neural function.
The habitat occupied by larval winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus) differs considerably in light regime from that of the adult. To understand how the visual system has adapted to such changes, photoreceptor spectral absorbance was measured microspectrophotometrically in premetamorphic and postmetamorphic specimens of winter flounder. Before metamorphosis, larval flounder retinas contain only one kind of photoreceptor which is morphologically cone-like with peak absorbance at 519 nm. After metamorphosis, the adult retina has three types of photoreceptors: single cones, double cones, and rods. The visual pigment in single cones has a peak absorbance at lambda max = 457 nm, the double cones at lambda max = 531 and 547 nm, and the rod photoreceptors at lambda max = 506 nm. Double cones were morphologically identical, but the two members contained either different (531/547 nm) or identical pigments (531/531 nm). The latter type were found only in the dorsal retina. The measured spectral half-bandwidths (HBW) were typical of visual pigments with chromophores derived from vitamin A1 with the possible exception of the long-wavelength absorbing pigment in double cones which appeared slightly broader. Because the premetamorphic pigment absorbance has a different lambda max than those of the postmetamorphic pigments, different opsin genes must be expressed before and after metamorphosis.
Winter flounder (Pseudopleuronectes americanus) are hatched as bilaterally symmetric larvae which live near the ocean surface. At metamorphosis, they become laterally compressed, one eye migrates to the opposite side of the head, and they live the remainder of their lives lying on their blind side on the ocean floor. The present study characterizes and quantifies retinal cell distribution throughout the larval period and contrasts it with the adult retina. Based on light- and electron-microscopic analyses, retinas of larval flounder contain only a single cone-like photoreceptor type, arranged in a hexagonal array. In contrast, after metamorphosis, the adult retina has three types of photoreceptors: rods, single cones, and double cones. Rod photoreceptors are numerous in the ventral retina and decrease in density dorsad. The cone photoreceptor density, in contrast to rods, is higher in the dorsal retina decreasing ventrad. Adult cone photoreceptors are arranged in a square mosaic with four double cones surrounding one single cone. The differences in larval and adult retinal morphology reflect the distinctly different habitat each occupies.



A new analytical system has been designed to characterize intermediate-sized precursor molecules from two different precursors-the preproenkephalin Abovine,1-263 precursor molecule, which produces methionine enkephalin and from the proopiomelanocortin, POMCbovine,1-265 precursor molecule, which produces beta-endorphin. A possible intermediate-sized precursor that leads to beta-endorphin was found in bovine pituitary by means of electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, in combination with gel permeation chromatography, reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography, radioimmunoassay, trypsinolysis, and liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry.
Most full antagonists at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor contain a carboxylic acid, which we believe to be detrimental to penetration of the blood-brain barrier. By consideration of a pharmacophore, novel antagonists at this site have been designed in which the anionic functionality is a vinylogous acid, in the form of a 4-hydroxyquinolin-2(1H)-one. In this series, a 3-substituent is necessary for binding, and correct manipulation of this group leads to compounds such as the 3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)propargyl ester 24 (L-701,273), with an IC50 for displacement of [3H]-L-689,560 binding of 0.17 microM and Kb against NMDA in the cortical slice of 1.39 microM. Compounds were tested for their ability to prevent audiogenic seizure in DBA/2 mice; the most potent compound in this series is the cyclopropyl ketone 42 (L-701,252), with an ED50 of 4.1 mg/kg ip. A model is proposed for binding to the glycine site, in which an important interaction is of a putative receptor cation with the pi-system of the 3-substituent.
Intraventricular infusion of an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide corresponding to the rat dopamine D2 receptor mRNA reduced rat striatal D2 receptors by 485, as measured by homogenate binding assays, while D1, muscarinic, and serotonin 5-HT2 receptors were unaffected. D2 receptor autoradiography indicated a homogeneous down-regulation of about 50% throughout the striatum and over 70% in the nucleus accumbens. A random oligodeoxynucleotide failed to affect either striatal D2 or D1 receptor density. The antisense treatment inhibited the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole-induced locomotor activation, without altering grooming behavior induced by SKF38393, a D1 receptor agonist. Antisense treatment also elicited catalepsy and reduced spontaneous locomotor activity.

GTPase-activating protein (GAP) and neurofibromin, a gene product of neurofibromatosis type I gene, have been identified as factors that stimulate GTPase activity of ras p21. We have previously suggested the presence of novel GAP activity that is immunologically distinguishable from GAP or neurofibromin in both the cytosolic and the particulate fractions of rat brain (Hattori, S., Maekawa, M., and Nakamura, S. (1992) Oncogene 7, 481-485). We have purified this novel GAP molecule from the cytosolic fraction of rat brain by more than 200,000-fold by five successive column chromatographies with a recovery of 6%. Apparent molecular mass of this molecule was estimated to be 100 kDa (p100GAPras). The same p100GAPras was purified from the particulate fraction after extraction with high salt. The activation of GTPase was observed with normal ras p21 but not with oncogenic ras p21, Rap1B/smg21B, or Ram25K. The dissociation constant of p100GAPras toward ras p21 estimated by competitive inhibition using ras p21 in complex with nonhydrolyzable analog of GTP was two times higher than that of neurofibromin and was lower than that of GAP by 2 orders of magnitude. These results clearly indicate that p100GAPras is a novel ras GAP molecule.
The present study investigates the inactivation and recovery of brain serotonin (5-HT) recognition sites by EEDQ (N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2,-dihydroquinoline). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were given a single s.c. injection of vehicle (1:1 EtOH/H2O) or EEDQ (1-20 mg kg-1) and sacrificed at 4 h and 7 days (10 mg kg-1 dose) post-injection. EEDQ dose-dependently reduced the Bmax of 5-HT1A(3H-DPAT),5-HT1B(125I-CYP),5-HT2(3H-ketanserin) and 5-HT2/1C(125I-DOI) receptors in cortical homogenates. In contrast, EEDQ was without effect on the 5-HT transporter recognition site (3H-paroxetine). No significant changes in affinity were observed for 5-HT1B, 5-HT2 or 5-HT2/1C receptors. The rank order of sensitivity to EEDQ inactivation was: 5-HT1A &gt; 5-HT1B &gt; 5-HT2 approximately 5-HT2/1C &gt; 5-HT uptake sites. This study demonstrates: (1) differential EEDQ inactivation and recovery of 5-HT receptors and (2) lack of EEDQ inactivation of the 5-HT transporter.
The distribution patterns of choline acetyltransferase (CAT), as a marker for cholinergic neurons, and Calbindin-D28k (CaBP) immunoreactivities in the forebrain basal ganglia of the Japanese monkey Macaca fuscata were compared. Similar distribution patterns of CAT and CaBP immunoreactivities were found in the medial septal nucleus (MS) and the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca (DBB). Double-labeling fluorescence immunocytochemistry revealed that most, but not all, cholinergic neurons were CaBP-immunoreactive in the MS and DBB. The results suggest that CaBP may play a role in the septohippocampal cholinergic neuron system of the monkey.
The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that a major excitatory mechanism for the expression of feline defensive rage behavior involves the medial nucleus of the amygdala which utilizes substance P as a neurotransmitter in a direct output pathway that supplies the medial hypothalamus. In phase I of the experiment, stimulating electrodes were implanted into the medial amygdala and cannula electrodes were implanted into the medial and lateral hypothalamus from which defensive rage and predatory attack behavior could be elicited by electrical stimulation, respectively. Response latencies for defensive rage were significantly lowered after dual stimulation of the medial amygdala and medial hypothalamus relative to single stimulation of the medial hypothalamus alone. In phase II, dose- and time-dependent decreases in medial amygdaloid-induced facilitation of defensive rage were observed after the i.p. administration of the NK1 antagonist, CP-96,345 (0.05, 2 and 4 mg/kg). In phase III of the study, the effects of microinjections of CP-96,345 placed directly into defensive rage sites within the medial hypothalamus (0.05, 0.5 and 2.5 nmol) upon medial amygdaloid modulation of this response were assessed. Again, intracerebral administration of this antagonist blocked the facilitatory effects of medial amygdaloid-induced facilitation of defensive rage in a manner parallel to that observed with peripheral administration of the NK1 antagonist. The results suggest that the medial amygdala facilitates defensive rage by acting through a substance P mechanism at the level of the medial hypothalamus. Other experiments revealed that peripheral administration of the NK1 antagonist: (1) had little upon the latency or threshold for elicitation of defensive rage, suggesting that the medial amygdaloid-substance P facilitatory mechanism acts in a phasic rather than tonic manner; and (2) also blocks the suppressive effects of medial amygdaloid stimulation upon predatory attack behavior elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. The latter finding suggest that similar neurochemical mechanisms regulate medial amygdaloid modulation of both forms of hypothalamically elicited aggression. The final aspect of this study utilized the combination of retrograde-tracing of amygdaloid neurons into the medial hypothalamus after microinjections of Fluoro-Gold into defensive rage sites, and the immunocytochemical analysis of substance P neurons within the amygdala. The data indicated that large numbers of retrogradely and immunocytochemically positive labeled cells were identified in the medial nucleus, including many that were double-labeled.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Repulsive guidance cues can steer neuronal growth cones during development and prevent mature axons from regenerating. We have identified a 100 kd glycoprotein in the chick brain that is a good candidate for a repulsive cue. Since it induces the collapse and paralysis of neuronal growth cones in vitro, we have named it collapsin. It is effective at concentrations of approximately 10 pM. The C-terminal half of collapsin contains a single immunoglobulin-like domain and an additional highly basic region. The N-terminal half of collapsin shares significant homology with fasciclin IV, a growth cone guidance protein in grasshopper. Recombinant collapsin causes sensory ganglion growth cones to collapse but not retinal ganglion cell growth cones. We propose that collapsin could serve as a ligand that guides specific growth cones by a motility-inhibiting mechanism.
Experiments with capillary electrophoresis using a laser-induced fluorescence detector with a colinear optical arrangement demonstrated several important points. First, increasing the numerical aperture of the microscope objective that is used simultaneously for focusing the excitation laser light as well as collection of emitted fluorescence enhances the signal used for the measurement of the emitted fluorescence and at the same time decreases the noise of interfering light. Second, detection of fluorescein-labelled amphetamine was performed at high-picomolar (10(-10) M) levels. Third, the signal-to-noise ratio of 280 found at the above-mentioned picomolar concentrations indicates that the measurement of low-picomolar concentrations (10(-12) M) of this compound in biological samples should be possible. Fourth, narrow-bore capillaries (5-10 microm internal diameter) were used to detect the neurotransmitters glutamic acid and aspartic acid as their naphthalene-2,3-dicarboxaldehyde derivatives in brain dialysates obtained from a freely moving rat. A mathematical model was developed to explain the relationship between numerical aperture, working distance, magnification of the lens, noise due to laser scattering and signal due to fluorescence. The model correctly predicted the observed values of photomultiplier tube current due to both laser scattering and fluorescence. The potential of the application of capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence detection in the neurosciences is discussed.
Neuropeptide FF (F8Famide, FMRFamide-like, or morphine modulating peptide) immunoreactivity was localized by light and electron microscopy in the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system of Wistar and Brattleboro rats. In Wistar rats neuropeptide FF was present in part of the magnocellular neurones of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei in which it was coexpressed with vasopressin. Neuropeptide FF containing fibres were present in the paraventricular and the supraoptic nuclei, and in the central part of the neural lobe. At the electron microscopic level, neuropeptide FF containing nerve terminals in the neural lobe formed synaptoid contacts exclusively with pituicytes. No neuropeptide FF containing neurovascular contacts or contacts with other neuronal structures were observed. In contrast with Wistar rats, neuropeptide FF was almost completely absent in cell bodies of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, and in fibres of the neural lobe in Brattleboro rats. Only a few solitary cells could be observed in these structures. The present results demonstrate that neuropeptide FF coexists with vasopressin within the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system. As we did not observe neuropeptide FF containing neurovascular contacts, neuropeptide FF containing nerve terminals probably have a local function within the neural lobe. Neuropeptide FF may be involved in the modulation of oxytocin and vasopressin release, with the pituicyte as an intermediate cell.
Maudsley rats, selectively inbred for emotionality for over sixty generations, differ in reactivity to stress, both at the peripheral level and within the central noradrenergic system. The present experiments examine to what extent these central differences might be due to differences in the inhibitory processes mediated by alpha 2 autoreceptors within the locus coeruleus. Maudsley reactive rats (MRs), the strain which showed a much higher central noradrenergic response to immobilisation stress, required higher doses of the alpha 2 receptor agonist, clonidine, to induce behavioral sedation than the Maudsley non-reactive rats (MNRA). Autoradiographic studies showed a significantly higher level of binding of 125iodeclonidine in the locus coeruleus of the MNRAs compared to the MRs, indicating that the former had more alpha 2 receptors and/or these receptors had a greater affinity for the agonist. Thus autoinhibitory processes within the locus coeruleus are different in the two strains, which could account for the differences in reactivity to stress seen in the biochemical and behavioral studies.
Chemical modification studies of peptide hormones and random peptides have revealed that seryl hydroxyl groups had enhanced reactivity toward acylating reagents when they occurred in the linear triads His-Xaa-Ser or Ser-Xaa-His (Xaa = any amino acid). O-acylation of serine within these triads was achieved by reaction with N-hydroxysuccinimide esters of biotin (NHS-biotin) and succinic anhydride. Seryl residues not occurring in His-Xaa-Ser/Ser-Xaa-His triads showed no reactivity towards NHS-biotin under reaction conditions described. Results of histidine replacement studies and studies of the pH dependence of O-biotinylation indicated that the increased nucleophilicity of the seryl hydroxyl group was due to intramolecular interaction between the seryl and histidyl residues. Our findings provide strong evidence that such triads represent novel consensus motifs in peptides.
On treatment of human liver Hep G2 cells with thiamphenicol, intramitochondrial levels of cytochrome c oxidase (COX) nuclear gene products were shown to decrease in tandem with the mitochondrially-encoded subunits except, however, for subunit IV which proved to be remarkably stable. This nonspecific decrease in subunit level was utilized to assess the function of subunit VIIa-L. Thiamphenicol-pretreated cells were bathed in anti-VIIa-L oligonucleotides and the recovery rate of COX activity compared to control oligomer-untreated cells or cells with a similar concentration of a randomized oligomer. No difference in recovery rate was noted for the first two days post oligomer addition, after which a sharp decrease in recovery was noted for the anti-VIIa-L treated cells only. We conclude: (i) subunit IV is stable in the absence of other COX components, (ii) subunit VIIa-L is required for maintaining normal levels of COX activity, (iii) an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide approach for assessing the function of COX nuclear gene products is made feasible by first reducing levels of the complex and then assaying its recovery rate in the presence of transcript-specific antisense oligonucleotides.
Fluoro-Gold has been used previously to identify those trigeminal ganglion cells that innervate the central cornea. To examine the effects of Fluoro-Gold treatment on infection and spread of HSV in vivo, we measured the number of plaque forming units recovered from trigeminal ganglia 3 or 5 days after corneal scratch and inoculation with Fluoro-Gold and HSV. Treatment with Fluoro-Gold reduced the amount of virus recovered after retrograde transport 63% at 3 days and 28% at 5 days after inoculation. When we examined trigeminal ganglion sections from animals treated with HSV and Fluoro-Gold, we found the number of neurons double labeled with antibodies that recognize HSV and Fluoro-Gold was only 13% of all Fluoro-Gold labeled neurons. This was significantly fewer cells that we had anticipated, on the basis of double labeling experiments with wheat germ agglutinin combined with Fluoro-Gold. The effects of varying doses of the retrograde tracer, Fluoro-Gold on Herpes simplex virus (type 1) (HSV) infectivity were also assayed in vitro using a standard viral plaque assay. At 1 x 10(-3) mg/ml Fluoro-Gold there was no effect on the number of plaque forming units. At 5 x 10(-1) mg/ml the number of plaques was reduced about 67%. We conclude that Fluoro-Gold interferes with productive HSV infection in vivo and in vitro after retrograde transport of HSV by neurons.
Repeated administration of methamphetamine (METH) results in damage to nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Both competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists and use-dependent cation channel blockers attenuate METH-induced damage. The objectives of the present study were to examine whether comparable reductions in METH-induced damage could be obtained by compounds acting at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors on the NMDA receptor complex. Four injections of METH (5 mg/kg i.p.) resulted in a approximately 70.9% depletion of striatal dopamine (DA) and approximately 62.7% depletion of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content, respectively. A significant protection against METH-induced DA and DOPAC depletion was afforded by the use-dependent channel blocker, MK-801. The competitive glycine antagonist 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-Cl-KA), the low efficacy glycine partial agonist (+)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone ((+)-HA-966), and the high efficacy partial glycine agonist 1-aminocyclopropane-carboxylic acid (ACPC) were ineffective against METH-induced toxicity despite their abilities to attenuate glutamate-induced neurotoxicity under both in vivo and in vitro conditions. These results indicate that glycinergic ligands do not possess the same broad neuroprotective spectrum as other classes of NMDA antagonists.
Cholinergic systems have been shown to modulate 6-10 Hz immobility-related cortical spike wave discharges (high voltage spindles-HVS) in rats. This study reports that activation of central nicotinic receptors inhibits HVS identified from cortical EEG recordings. Nicotine (0.19-1.9 mumol/kg i.p.) significantly reduced the summed duration of HVS bursts during 20 min of waking immobility. The nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (5.0 mumol/kg i.p.) blocked the effect of nicotine (0.62 mumol/kg i.p.) without itself significantly affecting HVS. At higher doses, mecamylamine (15.0 and 25.0 mumol/kg i.p.) increased HVS activity. Dimethylphenylpiperazinium (0.62-6.2 mumol/kg i.p.), a nicotinic agonist which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, did not affect HVS, consistent with the idea that the effect of nicotine on HVS is due to an action in the central nervous system. Cotinine, the major metabolite of nicotine, did not affect HVS at doses similar to or higher than those tested for nicotine. Cotinine also did not block the effect of nicotine, indicating that this metabolite does not interfere with the modulatory effect of nicotine on HVS. These results suggest a role for nicotinic regulation of the neuronal substrates involved in the generation of HVS.
The developmental effects of neonatal excitotoxic ventral hippocampal (VH) damage on behaviors related to dopaminergic (DA) transmission in the basal ganglia were investigated in the rat. Ibotenic acid (in Lesion) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (in Sham) was infused into the VH of 7-day-old (PD7) rat pups. Haloperidol-induced (1 mg/kg, i.p.) catalepsy and apomorphine-induced (0.75 mg/kg, s.c.) stereotypic behaviors as well as locomotion were assessed in Sham and Lesion rats prior to (PD35) and after puberty (PD56). On PD35, Lesion and Sham animals did not differ in induced catalepsy or stereotypy. On PD56, however, Lesion animals were less cataleptic following haloperidol injection and manifested supersensitivity to apomorphine as compared to Sham rats. At both, PD35 and PD56, locomotor activity after apomorphine was significantly increased in Lesion animals as compared with controls. These results indicate that the neonatal excitotoxic VH lesion results in a unique time-dependent pattern of behavioral changes related to striatal DA transmission. Moreover, the response to apomorphine differs qualitatively from that previously reported after the analogous lesion induced in adult animals in which stereotypy was reduced. These findings suggest that early hippocampal deafferentation affects the development of other brain regions, such as the medial prefrontal cortex, that are also involved in the regulation of striatal DA function.
The C-terminal region of the human neurofilament heavy subunit (NEFH) contains a unique functional domain consisting of 43 repeat motifs of the amino acids (aa) Lys-Ser-Pro (KSP) with either 3- or 5-aa spacers in between. Past studies have demonstrated that the serine in these KSP motifs can be phosphorylated, resulting in heavy phosphorylation of this domain. Recent studies provide strong evidence for a role of neurofilament phosphorylation in the establishment of neurofilament density and axonal caliber. Since it may be hypothesized that mutations in the phosphorylated region are a basis for neuropathological conditions, and since regions of the human genome containing repeat motifs have been demonstrated to be significantly polymorphic, we undertook to identify and characterize polymorphism in this region of the human NEFH gene. We were able to identify an allelic variant of a slightly larger molecular size, containing an additional KSP phosphorylation motif. The variant form of NEFH displays Mendelian inheritance and has a widespread population distribution. In addition, we also identified a point mutation in one individual which would result in a Pro--&gt;Leu substitution in one of the repeat motifs.
Although the structure and function of primate prefrontal cortex undergo substantial modifications during postnatal development, relatively little is known about the maturation of neurotransmitter systems in these cortical regions. In the primate brain, cholecystokinin is present in the greatest concentrations in prefrontal regions. Thus, in this study, we used immunohistochemical techniques to investigate the postnatal development of the cholecystokinin innervation of monkey prefrontal cortex. In animals aged 4 days through adult, cholecystokinin immunoreactivity was present in nonpyramidal neurons that appeared to represent at least two distinct cell types. The most common type was a vertically oval bitufted neuron, located in layers II-superficial III, which typically had a radially descending axon that gave rise to short collaterals in layer IV. Another frequently observed cell type was a larger multipolar neuron located in the superficial half of layer III. The axon of these neurons branched locally in the vicinity of the cell body. The greatest density of cholecystokinin-containing neurons and processes was present in monkeys less than 1 month of age. The density of immunoreactive structures in every prefrontal region then progressively declined with increasing age, with the most marked changes occurring during the first postnatal year. As a result, the density of labeled neurons in adult monkeys was less than one-third of that in neonatal monkeys. However, labeled structures were significantly more dense in some ventromedial and orbital regions than in dorsal regions of the prefrontal cortex in neonatal, but not in older animals. In all animals, cholecystokinin-containing neurons were present in highest density in layers II-superficial III, and labeled terminal fields were observed in layers II, IV, and VI. In animals less than 1 month of age, fascicles of radial fibers traversed through layers III and V, whereas in animals 1 to 3 months of age, individual radial fibers rather than fiber bundles were present in layers III and V. In addition, immunoreactive pericellular arrays, which appeared to surround unlabeled nonpyramidal cells, were present in layers V and VI and the subcortical white matter in the youngest monkeys. Although many aspects of the cholecystokinin innervation of monkey prefrontal cortex remain constant during postnatal life, the distinct developmental changes in the cholecystokinin innervation of these regions suggest that it may play an important role in the maturation of the cortical circuitry that mediates the acquisition of certain cognitive abilities.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is one of the major cellular signal transduction systems. Since at least nine different PKC isoenzymes have been described, the purpose of the present studies was to identify the regional, cellular, and subcellular distributions of PKC delta in the rat central nervous system (CNS) by light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. We have found that PKC delta immunoreactivity is present in all major subdivisions of the rat CNS. Within each of the subdivisions, PKC delta immunoreactivity is localized to perikarya that monitor sensory and motor functions. More specifically, PKC delta is found in the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, lateral septum, thalamus, vestibular and cochlear nuclei, inferior olive, nucleus of the solitary tract, cerebellum, and superficial layers of the dorsal horn in the spinal cord. In most cases, the distribution of this isoenzyme is distinct from that of the conventional isoforms. Within the CNS, PKC delta is localized primarily in neurons; however, neurons of the same type are not uniformly labeled. This is most evident in the cerebellum, where alternating columns of Purkinje cells are immunostained. While PKC delta is prominent in perikarya, occasional immunostaining is seen in dendrites, fibers or axons, and nerve terminal. Electron microscopic analysis of the posterolateral nucleus of the thalamus reveals that the cell nucleus, the rough endoplasmic reticulum, and the plasma membrane are all immunopositive. Since each of the PKC subspecies may have different substrate, lipid, and other co-factor requirements, the regional, cellular, and subcellular distribution of each of these isoforms should help to define their functional environments.
Serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] is thought to be involved in mnemonic functions and dysfunctions possibly by directly contacting neurons in the medial septal and diagonal band nuclei (i.e., the septal complex) that project to the hippocampal formation. However, there is no cellular substrate for this modulation. Thus, we examined the ultrastructure and synaptic associations of 5-HT-containing terminals in relation to septohippocampal neurons in the septal complex of the rat brain. Projection neurons were identified by retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinated apo-horseradish peroxidase conjugated to colloidal gold particles (WAHG) following an injection into the ventral hippocampal formation of anesthetized adult rats. After a 1 day survival, sections through the septal complex were labeled with antibodies to 5-HT. By light microscopy, numerous processes with 5-HT immunoreactivity (5-HT-I) were observed in close proximity to neurons containing retrogradely transported WAHG. By electron microscopy, 5-HT-I was found exclusively in axons and axon terminals. Axons were primarily unmyelinated. Terminals with 5-HT-I were 0.35-1.2 microns in diameter and contained numerous small, clear vesicles and 0-4 large, dense-core vesicles. The 5-HT-labeled terminals: 1) contacted perikarya and dendrites (220 of 349); 2) were closely apposed to other terminals (25 of 349); or 3) had no neuronal contacts in the plane of section analyzed (104 of 349). The 5-HT-labeled terminals formed exclusively symmetric synapses on perikarya; some of these perikarya as well as some large dendrites similarly contacted by the 5-HT-labeled terminals also contained WAHG affiliated with lysosomes and multivesicular and &quot;sequestration&quot; bodies in the cytoplasm. However, the majority of terminals with 5-HT-I formed contacts on the shafts of small unlabeled dendrites (69% of 220); most of these were characterized as either asymmetric synapses or appositions not separated by astrocytes in the plane of section analyzed. We conclude that 5-HT-containing terminals in the rat septal complex: 1) directly modulate septohippocampal and other neurons through symmetric (potentially inhibitory) synapses on soma and proximal dendrites; and 2) form primarily asymmetric (potentially excitatory) synapses with distal (small) dendrites from neurons of unidentified origin. These findings suggest that serotonin may affect learning and memory through modulation of septal efferents to the hippocampal formation and may have direct relevance to the neuropathological basis for Alzheimer's disease.
Several lines of evidence indicate that LTP in the hippocampus is associated with a change in the properties of postsynaptic glutamate receptors. In the present study, we used quantitative autoradiography to examine the binding properties of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate subclasses of glutamate receptors in frozen brain sections obtained from rats in which perforant-path LTP was induced in vivo. Induction of LTP resulted in a selective increase in [3H]AMPA binding in those hippocampal subfields receiving perforant-path axons. Increases in [3H]AMPA binding in dentate gyrus (stratum moleculare) were highly correlated with the magnitude of LTP recorded in this structure. Scatchard analyses of [3H]AMPA and 6-cyano-7-nitro-[3H]quinoxaline-2,3-dione (an AMPA receptor antagonist) binding in the dentate gyrus indicated that LTP induction resulted in an increase in the number of AMPA receptor binding sites. No changes in the binding of 3H-labeled N-[1-(thienyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine (an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist) were observed in any hippocampal subfield. These results suggest that a modification in postsynaptic AMPA receptors plays a role in the expression of synaptic enhancement following LTP induction in the hippocampus.
The case of a soldier with multiple cervical fractures without neurologic deficit sustained after a helicopter crash during Operation Desert Storm is presented. The fractures involved the C2 body and the right facet joint and pedicle of C4. This fracture pattern, in association-with lack of neurologic deficit, is the first such case reported in the literature.
The cellular elements responsible for the uptake of [3H]glycine into rat hippocampal slices were investigated. The diffuse laminar distribution of labelling observed under control conditions was greatly reduced seven days after intrahippocampal injection of a neurotoxic dose of quinolinic acid, suggesting a neuronal localization. Glycine was also taken up into glial cells, since dense clusters of silver grains were present on small sized cells throughout the hippocampus which were apparently increased in number after the lesion. The pattern of [3H]glycine uptake into rat cerebral cortex and cerebellar slices was also consistent with both neuronal and glial localization. These glycine transport sites may be strategically located to control excitatory neurotransmission mediated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate sub-type of glutamate receptors.
An enlarged suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) has been found earlier in a group of homosexual men, as compared to heterosexual controls. In order to assess a possible relationship between the SCN and sexual orientation, the present study was undertaken to investigate whether the rat SCN might play a role with respect to the expression of sexual orientation. Sexual orientation was measured in partner preference tests as the percentage of time spent in the vicinity of sexually active male and female incentives, that were separated from the experimental animal by a wire mesh. The results show that established patterns of sexual orientation towards female incentives by the adult male rat are not influenced by SCN-lesions. Disturbances in circadian rhythmicity of activity in SCN-lesioned animals did not affect this conclusion.
The uptake and efflux of 36Cl in the lateral ventricle choroid plexus of 1-7-week-old rats were measured to determine if Cl transport changed with age and if such transport responded to inhibitors of CSF secretion and ion transport. The steady-state (30 min) Cl uptakes were 148 +/- 9.4 nmol.mg-1 dry weight at 1 week and 139 +/- 7.0 nmol.mg-1 dry weight at 7 weeks, (P &gt; 0.05). The 36Cl efflux was significantly slower in 1 and 2 week plexuses compared to more mature tissues (P &lt; 0.01) with k (rate coefficient) = 0.029 +/- 0.004 s-1, t1/2 = 24.1 +/- 3.3 s at 1 week and k = 0.041 +/- 0.003 s-1, t1/2 = 17.4 +/- 1.3 s at 7 weeks. 36Cl efflux at 1 week was unaffected by acetazolamide, bumetanide and DIDS (4,4 diisothiocyanato-stilbene-2,2 disulphonic acid), however, all these drugs substantially reduced efflux from 2, 3 and 7 week choroid plexuses. In contrast, the Cl conductance blocker, DPC (diphenylamine carboxylate) at 10(-4) M reduced 36Cl efflux from both 1 and 7 week tissues by 43% and 39%, respectively. These findings suggest that some transport systems responsible for movement of Cl out of the epithelium are either absent or less functional in the immature rat choroid plexus and may account for the relatively low level of CSF secretion in younger animals. The unidirectional efflux of 36Cl, J, was calculated for 1 week and adult rats, as a function of the choroid plexus volume to surface area ratio (V/A).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of chelation of zinc by diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDTC) on bursting of CA3 pyramidal cells induced by mixed antidromic plus orthodromic activation of mossy fibers (MP) in hippocampal slices was studied. Slices perfused in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) with high (2.5 mM) Ca2+ rarely exhibited triggered bursting following a series of stimulus trains similar to those used in kindling. In contrast, slices perfused with DEDTC (0.1 mM) in ACSF and subsequently perfused with ACSF alone prior to initiating the stimulus trains exhibited robust triggered bursting following the stimulus trains. However, if slices perfused with ACSF containing DEDTC were then perfused with ACSF containing zinc chloride (0.5 microM) followed by ACSF alone, triggered bursting was not induced subsequent to delivering stimulus trains. It is concluded that release of zinc from the mossy fibers induced by tetanic stimulation serves to obtund bursting in CA3 pyramidal cells.
Dorsal mesoderm is thought to provide important signals for axis formation and neural differentiation in vertebrate embryos. We have examined induction and patterning in a zebrafish mutant, no tail, that lacks a derivative of dorsal mesoderm, the notochord. Despite the absence of a differentiated notochord, development of the central nervous system including floor plate appears normal, likely owing to the presence of notochord precursor cells. In contrast, somites are misshapen, and muscle pioneer cells are absent. Wild-type cells transplanted into mutant hosts can autonomously differentiate into notochord and thereby rescue somitic defects, suggesting that interactions between notochord and paraxial mesoderm are necessary for proper somite patterning. Thus, cells derived from dorsal mesoderm may have multiple signaling functions during zebrafish embryogenesis.
Exposure of rate to the behavioral despair test (an animal model of depression) for 40 min resulted in a long-lasting depletion of mesolimbic dopamine output to about 40% of baseline values. The decrease in extracellular dopamine was partially prevented by chronic pretreatment with imipramine (20 mg/kg per day i.p. for 21 days). The results suggest that a fall in mesolimbic dopamine output may be associated with depressive states and indicate that changes in the functional status of the dopamine system contribute to the mechanism of action of imipramine.
It has been suggested that cerebral vasculitis is the pathogenetic mechanism of the central nervous system manifestations of primary Sjgren's syndrome. We present a fatal case of aseptic meningoencephalitis in an 18-year-old woman with primary Sjgren's syndrome in whom there was no evidence of cerebral vasculitis at autopsy. On two occasions her condition improved markedly following plasmapheresis.
Roughness perception is coded in the somatosensory system by neurons in the type I slowly adapting (SAI) system. When the fingers scan a surface, an isomorphic representation of the surface is encoded in the discharge patterns of SAI afferents. Central neurons in area 3b of primary somatosensory (SI) cortex spatially filter the peripheral image to compute local spatial variation. The outputs from these neurons converge onto neurons in area 1 and onto neurons in secondary somatosensory (SII) cortex which we believe is the critical processing pathway underlying roughness perception.
Chronic alcoholism results in thiamine deficiency as a consequence of poor nutrition, impaired absorption, and decreased phosphorylation to the enzyme cofactor form of the vitamin, thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP). Results of this study demonstrate significant reductions of TPP-dependent enzymes [pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alpha KGDH), and transketolase] in autopsied cerebellar vermis samples from alcoholic patients with the clinical and neuropathologically confirmed diagnosis of Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome (WKS). Enzyme activities in brain samples from alcoholics without WKS were within normal limits and activities of a nonthiamine-dependent enzyme, glutamate dehydrogenase, were not significantly different from control values in brain samples from alcoholics with or without WKS. These findings provide evidence, for the first time, of a direct implication of TPP-related metabolic processes in the pathogenesis of WKS. Decreased activities of alpha KGDH could be the trigger for a sequence of metabolic events resulting in energy compromise, and ultimately neuronal death in this syndrome.
Alcohol abuse and alcoholism are the greatest substance abuse problems in the United States today and contribute to numerous medical and social problems. To deal with many of these problems, an understanding of how alcohol acts on the brain is extremely important. Advances in neuroscience research have provided significant clues about where and how alcohol works on the brain. Alcohol clearly acts on membrane function, altering such processes as ion movements and neurotransmitter interactions with their receptors. Although these alcohol-induced alterations are presumed to relate to changes in behavior, this has not been clearly established. However, alcohol research is on the threshold of making a giant leap forward in our understanding the etiology of alcoholism.
Defects of the mitochondrial respiratory chain often involve dysfunction of cytochrome c oxidase, the terminal component of this chain. We have developed a microassay, suitable for various cell types, which can be carried out in microwell plates. This assay has advantages over the traditional spectrophotometric method as only a small number of cells are used, without the need for mitochondrial fractionation. This makes the assay faster and use of the microtiter plate allows many samples to be screened simultaneously. We demonstrate that lowered levels of cytochrome c oxidase activity can be detected in patients' blood samples, avoiding the necessity for a more invasive tissue biopsy. This cytochrome c oxidase assay is also suitable for use as an intramitochondrial marker for monitoring the effect of mitochondrial translation inhibitors or effectors which modulate mitochondrial biogenesis and could be used for assessing the effect of mitochondrial DNA mutations.
We have prepared a series of biotinylated analogs of omega-conotoxin (omega CgTx) as potent, selective markers for N-type calcium channels. At pH 9.5, reaction of omega CgTx with amidocaproylbiotin succinimidyl ester gives three biotinylated conjugates, labeled at lysines 2 or 24, or at both positions. Kinetic competition assays of 125I-omega CgTx binding to rat brain synaptic membranes show that each conjugate has a similar rate constant for association (1-1.3 x 10(6) M-1 s-1) but not dissociation (1-4 x 10(-4) s-1). Comparison with rate constants obtained for the association (1.2 x 10(7) M-1 s-1) and dissociation (5 x 10(-5) s-1) of native omega CgTx indicates that while biotinylation reduces omega CgTx potency (Kdkin = k-2/k2 = 4 pM for omega CgTx), binding of these labels to membranes is nevertheless of very high affinity (Kdkin 0.1-0.3 nM).
The ultrastructural characteristics of the glomus cells in the rat carotid body exposed to extremely long-term hypoxia (10-12 weeks) were investigated. The glomus cells could be classified into four distinct types according to the shape of dense-cored vesicles in the glomus cell cytoplasm: 1) small vesicle cells (SVCs, 50 nm in mean diameter), 2) large vesicle cells (LVCs, 80 nm in mean diameter), 3) dilated eccentric vesicle cells (EVCs, 400-800 nm in diameter), and 4) mixed vesicle cells (MVCs, large and eccentric vesicles). Many clusters of glomus cells were found to contain all four categories of cell types. The appearance of EVCs was a unique and common characteristic of glomus cells in this long-term hypoxia model. We also noted other ultrastructural features with chronic hypoxia which are characteristic of the amphibian carotid labyrinth glomus cells: 1) incomplete covering of glomus cells with the supporting cell missing over a wide area, 2) long thin cytoplasmic projections in the intervascular stroma, and 3) intimate apposition of the glomus cells and pericytes (g-p connection), endothelial cells (g-e connection), plasma cells, and fibrocytes. Because arterial PO2 is generally low in amphibia, these may be general features of hypoxic adaptation and facilitate both uptake of oxygen from blood and release of catecholamine into the blood. The g-p and g-e connections may take part in the regulation of the microcirculation in the enlarged carotid body.
TJ-960 is a Japanese Kampo (traditional herbal) medicine used for the treatment of epilepsy. It's a crude drug, an extract of nine herbs, and consists of many known and unknown components. Among the known components of TJ-960, we found that 5,6,7-trihydroxy-2-phenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (baicalein) might be the most potent scavenger for radicals. In the present study, we examined in vitro the radical scavenging effect of baicalein in detail using electron spin resonance spectrometry. Furthermore, we examined in vivo its effect on the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels and superoxide dismutase in the brain of rats with FeCl3-induced epilepsy and on hippocampal delayed neuronal death in gerbils with transient ischemia. In in vitro experiments, baicalein quenched in a dose-dependent manner 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl, superoxide, and hydroxyl radicals. In the FeCl3-induced epileptic model, baicalein suppressed the increase in the TBARS level at the FeCl3-injected site. Baicalein also inhibited hippocampal neuronal death induced by 5 min of cerebral ischemia in gerbils. Hence the present study suggested that baicalein is one of the active components in TJ-960, which partially contributes to the antiepileptic and neuronal protective effects of TJ-960, and that the mechanism of its pharmacological action is based upon radical quenching and antioxidative effects.
We examined through the electron spin resonance spectrometry/spin trapping technique the antioxidant activity of baker's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae which is known to have both enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants. The components in baker's yeast were separated by differential filtration/centrifugation using centrifuge-type filter tubes, yielding four nonenzymatic thermostable fractions of varied molecular weights which scavenged 85-95% of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl in organic solution, of hydroxyl and superoxide radicals in aqueous solution, and of lipid carbon-centered radicals induced by equimolar mixture of ascorbic acid and Fe(II) salt in rat brain homogenate. Baker's yeast also inhibited the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance formation in the cortex, midbrain, pons-medulla oblongata, cerebellum, hippocampus, and striatum. Partial characterization of the antioxidative defenses in baker's yeast against free radicals and lipid peroxides in the brain confirmed the presence of superoxide dismutase, catalase, peroxidase, and glutathione.

This experimentation defined a limited role for epinephrine in the autonomic nervous system function and the nausea that occurred following motion sickness testing. Individual responses to stressful sensory stimuli and nausea, as reflected by rising peripheral levels of epinephrine, were not significantly diminished upon repeated exposure and adaptation to the stressor. However, subjects who demonstrated more robust elevations of epinephrine in response to nausea displayed higher resistances to stressful motion stimuli. Modulation of peripheral catecholaminergic function with dexamethasone, or scopolamine plus amphetamine, suggested that altered autonomic nervous system function and nausea following motion sickness testing were not mediated by peripheral catecholamine receptor stimulation. Marked differences were noted in individual responses to drug and systemic responses of epinephrine and norepinephrine. It is possible that responses in epinephrine to motion sickness testing may predict resistance to stressful motion, and represent a peripheral manifestation of some as yet unknown central event of etiologic relevance.
New Zealand white rabbits were implanted with cannulas in the dorsal or ventral aspect of the anterior interpositus nucleus. Three days (and 6 days for some dorsal-infusion animals) of standard tone-airpuff training was given with continuous infusion (constant rate of 0.2 microL/min) of lidocaine or saline. All animals were then given 3 days of training with no infusion. All lidocaine-infused animals exhibited no conditioned responses in the 3 or 6 days of infusion training. Dorsal-infusion animals learned in the subsequent 3 days of no infusion training as if naive, that is, they exhibited no savings. Animals with ventral cannula locations learned during infusion training, as shown in postinfusion training. These results strongly support the hypothesis that the essential memory trace for eyeblink conditioning is formed and stored in the cerebellum.
In 3 studies adult male rats showed significantly better discrimination of tone sequences with the right ear than with the left ear. This result parallels similar findings of left-hemisphere specialization for auditory temporal processing in humans and nonhuman primates. Furthermore, because clinical evidence supports a link between specialization of the left hemisphere for auditory temporal processing and for speech processing, these results may reflect evolutionary precursors to left-hemisphere language specialization. Because male rats showed a stronger ear advantage than female rats, the findings may relate to evidence of a stronger right ear advantage in men than in women. Finally, results suggest that neonatal handling enhances lateralization for auditory temporal processing in both sexes. Combined results implicate neuroendocrine mechanisms as important factors in the development of lateralization for auditory temporal processing.
Effects of chronic nicotine treatment on spatial memory were studied in rats. After 3 weeks of administration of 2.5mg/kg/day in drinking water, the rats were submitted to a spatial learning task in an eight-arm radial maze, during which time the treatment was maintained. Chronic nicotine treatment improved daily spatial memory performance after the animals reached an asymptotic level. Nicotine-treated animals showed significantly better performance than control animals regarding the first error and the total correct path choices.
Evidence for the modulation of the P2z-purinoceptor for extracellular ATP in dissociated rat parotid cells is presented in studies using compounds that inhibit protein kinases. Preincubation of acinar cells with the protein kinase catalytic-site inhibitors K-252a and staurosporine, as well as with the regulatory-domain inhibitor sphingosine, specifically potentiates the elevation in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) mediated by extracellular ATP, but has no effect on the [Ca2+]i elevation mediated by muscarinic receptors through phospholipase C activation. Phorbol dibutyrate (PDBu), which activates protein kinase C (PKC), has no modulatory effect on ATP-mediated [Ca2+]i elevation. Further, pretreatment with PDBu does not reverse or block the effects of K-252a or sphinogosine, arguing against the involvement of PKC. Other pharmacological manipulations indicate that neither calmodulin-dependent nor cyclic-AMP-dependent kinases are involved. Neither the peak intracellular Ca2+ mobilization nor the sustained Ca2+ entry in response to carbachol or to a Ca2+ ionophore (4-bromo-A23187) is altered by the kinase inhibitors that potentiate the [Ca2+]i response to ATP, indicating that effects on the ATP response are not due to non-specific permeability changes, nor to decreased Ca2+ removal from the cytosol. ATP-mediated influx of Mn2+ as well as ATP-induced membrane depolarization are potentiated in cells preincubated with K-252a, directly demonstrating that cation influx is enhanced through a P2z-specific route. These results show that P2z responses (or purinoceptors) can be modulated and suggest that phosphorylation events are involved.

1. The effects of lithium on [3H]-inositol and [3H]-cytidine incorporation into [3H]-inositol monophosphates ([3H]-InsP1) and [3H]-cytidine monophosphorylphosphatidate ([3H]-CMP-PA), respectively, and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (InsP4) mass were studied in carbachol-stimulated human m1 muscarinic receptor-transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells (m1 CHO cells). 2. Lithium alone (10 mM) had no appreciable effects on any of the four parameters measured; it was only in carbachol-stimulated cells that the effects of lithium became apparent. 3. In the presence of carbachol (1 mM), lithium (10 mM) caused a relatively rapid (within 5 min) accumulation of [3H]-InsP1 and [3H]-CMP-PA which continued up to about 20-30 min, after which accumulation slowed down. On the other hand, the elevation in InsP3 and InsP4 levels produced by carbachol was not altered by lithium in the short-term and only at later times (&gt; 20-30 min) was the response attenuated, with InsP3 and InsP4 levels approaching basal. 4. The effects of lithium on carbachol-stimulated [3H]-InsP1 and [3H]-CMP-PA accumulation and the attenuation of the carbachol-induced elevation of InsP3 and InsP4 were all dose-dependent, with EC50s in the region of 1 mM. 5. The lithium-induced effects on [3H]-CMP-PA and InsP3 and InsP4 in carbachol-stimulated cells could be reversed, in a dose-dependent manner, by preincubation with exogenous myo-inositol (EC50 = 2-3 mM) but not by the inactive analogue scyllo-inositol, indicating that these effects occur as a consequence of depletion of inositol. 6. The temporal effects of lithium are consistent with lithium inhibiting inositol monophosphatase,causing accumulation of InsP1, resulting in lower free inositol levels. This leads to accumulation of CMP-PA and reduced PI synthesis which, once agonist-linked membrane inositol phospholipids are depleted, produces attenuated InsP3 and InsP4 responses.7. These results in ml CHO cells support the hypothesis that lithium affects the PI cycle cell signalling pathway by depletion of inositol due to inhibition of inositol monophosphatase.
Multi-unit recordings from the optic tectum of an awake pigeon displaying oscillatory behavior evoked by visual stimulus are highly non-stationary and contain a broad band of frequencies under a time-window analysis. Here we extend these observations by a non-linear dynamical analysis of these oscillatory signals (local fields potentials) in successive epochs during background activity and visual responses. Two numerical estimates have been obtained from the original data every 200 ms: (1) correlation dimension and (2) non-linear forecasting of the trajectories. Results from eight different recording sites analyzed are consistent and indicate, in the average, an increase in complexity of the signal during the oscillatory periods.
The cardiac Na+/Ca2+ exchanger is a bidirectional electrogenic ion transporter that exchanges three Na+ ions for each Ca2+ ion and plays a critical role in returning sarcolemma Ca2+ concentrations to their resting levels. Because of the importance that the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger may play in maintaining neuronal Ca2+ homeostasis in the central nervous system, we subcloned a 456 bp portion of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger cDNA from RNA isolated from primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). This cDNA fragment was sequenced and shown to share 91.4% sequence identity with the human and 88% sequence identity with the canine cardiac Na+/Ca2+ exchangers. The PCR amplification product was used to analyze the distribution of this portion of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger mRNA in various regions of the CNS by both Northern blotting and in situ hybridization histochemistry. The Northern analysis showed that the rank order of abundance of this mRNA was: hippocampus &gt; cortex &gt; cerebellum &gt; hypothalamus &gt; midbrain &gt; striatum. The in situ hybridization data indicated that the corresponding mRNA containing this portion of the exchanger was present in numerous brain regions including multiple cortical layers, the hippocampus, septal nuclei, various thalamic nuclei, cerebellum, hypothalamus, olfactory bulb, brainstem, in various regions of the thoracic spinal cord and to a lesser extent in the striatum. The differential distribution of the mRNA as revealed by the in situ hybridization pattern suggests that either additional molecular variants exist or that different Na+/Ca2+ exchange mechanisms may be operative in those cell types that contain low amounts of this fragment of the exchanger mRNA.
The behavioral regulation of transcription factor function in hippocampus, a brain region activated by novelty and important for information storage, has not been previously studied. Sixty min after a 4 min exploration of a novel space by adult albino rats, electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed a selective increase in specific binding to particular consensus recognition elements. For both AP-1 and CRE, an upper and lower band were observed in the electrophoretic mobility shift assay. The upper band showed increased binding restricted to the 60 min time point after exploration; no increase was observed 30 min or less, or 120 min or more after the novel experience. Increased binding to the lower of either AP-1 or CREB was observed at 30 and 120 min. When the time of exploration was increased from 4 to 15 min, no alterations in either the upper or lower band were observed in the transcription factor binding to either the AP-1 or the CRE element. Since the animals ceased to explore the environment after 10 min, the lack of binding may reflect behavioral habituation, leading to transcription factor deactivation. We conclude that brief, naturalistic stimulation can activate brain transcription factors in a time-delimited fashion, suggesting post-translational control of protein-DNA binding. We propose that promoter elements of target genes critically involved in the storage of information are turned on by environmentally-activated transcription factors.
The source dipoles for blinks point radially whereas the source dipoles for saccades point tangentially, in the direction of the eye movement. This indicates that blink potentials are not generated by eye movements but by the eyelid sliding down over the positively charged cornea. Dipole source dipole analysis shows that the &quot;rider artifact&quot; at the onset of upward and lateral saccades is caused by the eyelid as it lags a little behind the eyes at the beginning of the movement. Dipole source analysis allows both the EEG and the EOG to be modeled simultaneously and EOG generators to be distinguished from nearby EEG generators. Ocular source components can be calculated from a principal component analysis of EEG and EOG recordings during blinks and saccades. The effectiveness of propagation factors, source dipoles and source components in removing ocular artifacts from EEG samples was assessed. The most effective correction procedure uses source components.
The ocular artifacts that contaminate the EEG derive from the potential difference between the cornea and the fundus of the eye. This corneofundal or corneoretinal potential can be considered as an equivalent dipole with its positive pole directed toward the cornea. The cornea shows a steady DC potential of approximately +13 mV relative to the forehead. Blink potentials are caused by the eyelids sliding down over the positively charged cornea. The artifacts from eye-movements result from changes in orientation of the corneo-fundal potential. The scalp-distribution of the ocular artifacts can be described in terms of propagation factors--the fraction of the EOG signal at periocular electrodes that is recorded at a particular scalp location. These factors vary with the location of the scalp electrode. Propagation factors for blinks and upward eye-movements are significantly different.
In this study, we examined whether CD45 isoform can be switched in murine mature B cells and what signals are responsible for the process. Stimulation of murine splenic B cells with lipopolysaccharide did not reduce the expression of CD45RA-, B-, and C-exon-dependent epitopes or a CD45 common epitope, but rather enhanced the expression. Stimulation with goat antimouse IgM antibody did not significantly reduce CD45 expression but caused a partial reduction in the expression of CD45RA-, B-, and C-exon-dependent epitopes. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) alone did not significantly alter the expression of CD45 but the combination of PMA and ionomycin induced a strong reduction in the expression of CD45RA-, B-, and C-exon-dependent epitopes without affecting the level of CD45 common epitope expression. Reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated that CD45 isoform switch induced by anti-IgM or PMA plus ionomycin is indeed mediated by alternative splicing of A-, B-, and C-exon-derived mRNA. These results suggest that CD45 isoform of murine mature B cells can be switched by antigen receptor-mediated signals, and the process seems to be regulated at least in part by protein kinase C activation and mobilization of calcium ions.
1. In a concentration-dependent manner neuropeptide Y was found to be a potent inhibitor of the spontaneous activation of human granulocytes and macrophages as well as Mytilus edulis immunocytes. 2. Neuropeptide Y also inhibited the chemotaxic response of these immunocytes to the chemoattractant f-MLP. 3. Incubation of both the human and the invertebrate immunocytes in f-MLP (10(-9) M) causes &quot;activation&quot; as noted by random locomotion (chemokinesis). Neuropeptide Y also blocked f-MLP-induced chemokinesis. 4. The results suggest that neuropeptide Y may, in addition to other functions, serve as an endogenous regulator of immunocyte function.
The distribution of two isoforms of spectrin in the adult mouse heart was investigated by Western blotting and immunocytochemistry by use of monospecific antibodies to erythrocyte spectrin and nonerythroid brain spectrin (240/235). Western blotting revealed proteins analogous to both isoforms of alpha-spectrin in adult heart. Light-microscopic immunocytochemistry indicated that erythroid spectrin was distributed throughout the myocardium, with immunofluorescence localized to plasma membranes, Z-lines, and intercalated discs. Antibodies to brain spectrin (240/235) exhibited staining throughout the heart, with a generally diffuse distribution except for the prominent immunoreactivity associated with the intercalated discs. Nonerythroid spectrin immunofluorescence was detected in the endothelial cells of the endocardium and the mesothelial cell lining of the epicardium. Erythrocyte spectrin was not detected in the endocardium or the epicardium. The identification and localization of spectrin isoforms in the mammalian heart suggest the importance of spectrin proteins in the structural integrity and proper function of cardiac cells and tissues. This is the first demonstration of two different alpha-spectrin subunits in the mammalian heart.
Defects of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and mutations of mitochondrial DNA have now been associated with a wide range of human diseases. The precise pathogenetic mechanisms by which these biochemical abnormalities induce tissue dysfunction are not understood. The identification of a mutation in the proline anticodon and in the 12S RNA genes of mitochondrial DNA are interesting new additions to the catalogue of pathogenetic mutations of this genome. The recent demonstration of nuclear complementation of mitochondrial DNA depletion provides the opportunity to identify nuclear genes involved in mitochondrial DNA replication. The possible role for mitochondrial deficiencies in certain neurodegenerative diseases and in the ageing process have given additional momentum to research in this area. Treatment for the mitochondrial 'cytopathies' remains disappointing and improvement in this area awaits a better understanding of their aetiology.

Environmental cues guiding glial cell behavior during development or regeneration of the nervous system are provided by both soluble and nondiffusible factors. We examined the influences of purified extracellular matrix molecules and cell adhesion molecules on the development and proliferation of glial cells from neonatal rat optic nerves. Dissociated optic nerve glia were plated on fibronectin, laminin, collagen type IV, L1, N-cadherin, and N-CAM. Cultures were grown in chemically defined medium to promote formation of oligodendrocytes. Other cultures were grown in 10% serum to support type-1 astrocytes and the differentiation of O-2A progenitor cells to type-2 astrocytes. In short-term adhesion assays to measure cell affinity for the different substrates, cells in the O-2A lineage bound preferentially to N-cadherin while type-1 astrocytes preferentially bound to extracellular matrix components. The cells in the O-2A lineage also developed distinctive morphologies on different substrates after incubation for 4 days. Type-2 astrocytes and oligodendrocytes produced very large membranous expansions on N-cadherin. Measurements of BrdU incorporation indicated that the substrates did not significantly influence cell proliferation rates. Our results showed that O-2A progenitor cells, oligodendrocytes, type-1 astrocytes, and type-2 astrocytes possess different complements of receptors for the adhesion molecules in their environment and that their morphological differentiation can be dramatically altered by these extracellular signals.
The zebrafish midblastula transition (MBT) begins at cycle 10. It is characterized by cell cycle lengthening, loss of cell synchrony, activation of transcription and appearance of cell motility. Superceding a 15 minute oscillator that controls the first nine cycles, the nucleocytoplasmic ratio appears to govern the MBT. This timing mechanism operates cell autonomously: clones of labeled cells initiate cell cycle lengthening independently of neighbors but dependent on immediate lineal ancestors. Unequal divisions, when they occur, produce asymmetric cell cycle lengthening based on the volume of each daughter. During the several cycles after the MBT begins, cycle length is correlated with the reciprocal of the blastomere volume, suggesting a continuation of cell cycle regulation by the nucleocytoplasmic ratio during an interval that we term the 'MBT period'.
Otoacoustic emissions were evoked by clicks presented according to maximum length sequences. The analysis disentangled the overlapping responses that occur when stimuli are presented at intervals shorter than the duration of the response. Two types of sequence were used: a &quot;monopolar&quot; sequence in which clicks were present or absent, and a &quot;bipolar&quot; sequence in which both condensation and rarefaction clicks occurred. Emissions can be recorded at stimulus rates of up to 1000/sec although the amplitude of the response decreases at these rapid rates. This decrease in amplitude requires a compensatory increase in the number of stimuli to maintain the same signal-to-noise ratio. Optimal efficiency can be attained at rates between 200 and 500/sec. At these rates the emissions can be recorded in about one half the time required for conventional averaging at regular rates of 50/sec.
The practice of clinical neurophysiology requires fast, reliable and accurate assessment of a variety of biologic signals. Appropriate filters and rates of analog-to-digital sampling must be used to avoid distorting the signal. Using principles of sampling theory and examples, we describe the frequency content of signals encountered in clinical neurophysiology laboratories, offer guidelines for band-limiting frequencies, and give rules for determining minimal sampling frequencies. Errors introduced by undersampling (aliasing) are illustrated. When sophisticated computational techniques, such as discrete Fourier transform, are used to reconstruct the original wave form, a sampling frequency just above the double of the highest frequency content of the signal is adequate. Sampling neurophysiologic wave forms for direct display, however, requires a sampling frequency at least 4 times as high as that of the upper frequency filter.
In this article I have examined various aspects of the complex spatio-temporal patterning of peptidergic signaling that lead to synchronized development of neural events for the preovulatory LHRH discharge on proestrus. Undoubtedly, the integration of these events is orchestrated by both ovarian steroids, E2 and P. Evidence accumulated in recent years has failed to affirm the perceived notion that E2 is an adequate peripheral signal for the timely, robust discharge of LHRH on proestrus. The current understanding is shaped by the thesis that the concerted central actions of E2 and P are mediated by a host of regulatory peptides produced locally in the hypothalamus, and steroids, in general, augment the production and release of both inhibitory and excitatory peptides in a timely fashion to facilitate the preovulatory LHRH discharge. Since these peptidergic pathways appear mandatory for signal transfer, considerable recent research has been devoted first to identifying the signals that selectively participate in the induction of preovulatory LHRH (LH) surge, and then to trace the route of signal transmission that ultimately leads to LHRH hypersecretion on the afternoon of proestrus (Fig. 1). The peptidergic pathways that propagate and transmit impulses for the preovulatory LHRH discharge reside in the SCN-MPN-MPOA-ARC-ME neural complex (Fig. 1). The timely initiation of these impulses is entrained to the photo-periodic input reaching the SCN by the retino-hypothalamic tract. The evidence is already in place to show that further information processing is transduced in the MPN; however, the nature of neurochemical signaling between the two sites remains to be deciphered. The available evidence favors a mandatory participation of inhibitory (EOP and NPK) and excitatory (NPY, GAL, NT, and AII) messenger molecules within the SCN-MPN-MPOA-ARC-ME complex (Fig. 1). It is possible that the relevant information from the SCN-MPN is conveyed caudally to the ARC in order to initiate a chain of events for disinhibition/excitation of the NPY-EOP network and to affect LHRH neurosecretion at the perikaryal level in the MPOA and at axon terminals in the ME. Also, either concurrently or on a time-delayed basis, the relevant information from the MPN may be relayed to the MPOA via the local peptidergic network comprised of NT, EOP, NPK, and GAL. This transmission may initially be critical for elicitation of antecedent neurosecretory events in the ME and to ultimately evoke the preovulatory LHRH surge.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neuropeptide-FF (FLFQPQRF-NH2), originally isolated from bovine brain, is an FMRF-NH2-like peptide with morphine-modulating activity. Neuropeptide-FF (NPFF) is unevenly distributed in the central nervous system, with the highest concentrations in posterior pituitary and spinal cord. In the rat pituitary, NPFF is found exclusively in the neural lobe, where it is localized in nerve terminals and fibers, indicating the hypothalamus as a possible source of the neural lobe NPFF. In this study the origin of neurohypophyseal NPFF was investigated using various hypothalamic lesions and an anterograde tracing experiment. The results suggest that at least part of the neurohypophyseal NPFF originates from the supraoptic nucleus and may be localized in some of the arginine vasopressin-containing magnocellular neurons.
PRL-deficient dwarf mice exhibit marked reduction in dopamine (DA) and in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in the PRL-regulating neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (catecholaminergic area A12). Recent studies in this laboratory have revealed that this condition develops postnatally, in that A12 DA fails to increase and the number of TH-positive cells decreases after 21 days of age. The present study was designed to test whether PRL replacement during the early postnatal period would increase DA and TH expression in dwarfs. Ames dwarf (df/df) and normal sibling (DF/?) mice were treated with daily injections of ovine PRL (50 micrograms, ip) or vehicle for 30 days starting on postnatal day 12. Brains were evaluated by catecholamine histofluorescence and TH immunocytochemistry at the end of the treatment period. TH-positive cells were counted in A12 and medial zona incerta (area A13) and also differentially within A12, in dorsal and ventral regions, and at anterior, middle, and posterior levels. Histofluorescence and TH-positive cell number (P &lt; 0.01) in vehicle-treated dwarfs were greatly reduced compared with those in DF/? mice in A12, but not in A13. However, A12 fluorescence in PRL-treated dwarfs was comparable to that in DF/? mice. TH cell counts in A12 of PRL-treated dwarfs were significantly higher (P &lt; 0.01) than those in vehicle-treated dwarfs and not different from those in either group of DF/? mice. Within A12, both dorsal and ventral TH cell numbers were reduced in vehicle-treated dwarfs (P &lt; 0.01); the reduction was greater in the ventral subpopulation (P &lt; 0.01). TH cell counts were lower in middle and posterior (P &lt; 0.05), but not anterior, areas of A12 in vehicle-treated df/df mice compared with those in DF/? mice. TH cell numbers in all A12 regions in PRL-treated dwarfs were not different from those in DF/? mice. Thus, PRL replacement initiated before 2 weeks of age in dwarfs is effective in supporting DA and TH expression in both A12 neurons and median eminence external zone at normal levels, providing direct evidence that the DA/TH deficit in dwarfs is secondary to endogenous PRL deficiency.
Since inhibition of myo-inositol monophosphatase (EC 3.1.3.25) by lithium ions and the resulting attenuation of phosphatidylinositol cycle activity may be the mechanism by which lithium exerts its therapeutic effect in the treatment of manic depression, it is of great interest to understand the mechanism of the enzyme and how lithium and other metals interact with it. Divalent magnesium is essential for enzyme activity, whereas Li+ and high concentrations of Mg2+ act as uncompetitive inhibitors with respect to substrate. From the recently solved crystal structure of the human enzyme, several amino acid residues in the active site were targeted for mutagenesis studies. Nine single-residue substituted mutants were characterized with regard to catalytic parameters, Mg2+ dependence, and Li+ inhibition. In addition, a terbium fluorescence assay was developed to determine the metal binding properties of the wild-type and mutant enzymes. Although none of these mutations affected Km for substrate substantially, the mutations Glu70--&gt;Gln, Glu70--&gt;Asp, Asp90--&gt;Asn and Thr95--&gt;Ala, in which residues within coordinating distance of the active site metal were modified, all resulted in large reductions in catalytic activity. The position of Glu70 in the crystal structure further suggests that this residue may be involved in activating water for nucleophilic attack on the substrate. The mutations Lys36--&gt;Ile, Asp90--&gt;Asn, Thr95--&gt;Ala, Thr95--&gt;Ser, His217--&gt;Gln, and Cys218--&gt;Ala all resulted in parallel reductions in both lithium and magnesium affinity, suggesting that Li+ and Mg2+ share a common binding site.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a potent neurotrophin signaling protein, the best-known member of a family of similar neurotrophins. Specific neuronal populations depend upon the neurotrophins for normal function and disturbances in NGF and neurotrophin supply have been implicated in neurodegenerative disease, diabetes, and hypertension. This report details experiments in which the hourly pattern of NGF secretion by cultured vascular smooth muscle cells is examined. Vascular smooth muscle cells are major innervation targets of the neuronal population first discovered to be NGF-dependent: the sympathetic principal neurons. The results show that arginine vasopressin (AVP), angiotensin II (AngII), and alpha-adrenergic receptor activation, all contractile stimuli, elevate NGF secretion. However, AVP dependably does so alone while AngII requires coactivation of adenosine receptors. Adenosine alone inhibits secretion and the alpha-adrenergic increase in NGF output can be antagonized by activation of beta-adrenergic receptors. A change to fresh culture medium is also a potent stimulus to increased NGF output.
Using the indirect immunohistochemical approach, the occurrence of gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone (gamma-MSH)-like immunoreactivity in human normal keratinocytes is described. The positive cells were observed in each layer of the epidermis (except stratum corneum) and often, at the level of the stratum spinosum, also around the orifices of cutaneous accessory organs, such as sweat glands and sebaceous glands/hair follicles. Combining these data with our previous investigations, the results support the possibility that locally produced gamma-MSH could be involved in cutaneous immune response, pigmentation and epithelial proliferation, as well as neuromodulation.
The innervation of the cod stomach by neurons showing substance P-like immunoreactivity (SPLI), and the effect and mechanism of action of substance P (SP) on the vascularly perfused cod stomach and on isolated muscle strip preparations from the pyloric sphincter have been investigated.Infusion of SP produced a contraction of the stomach wall, which could not be blocked by tetrodotoxin, atropine or methysergide, indicating a direct effect on the stomach smooth muscle. Similarly, the contraction produced by SP on preparations from the pyloric sphincter was unaffected by tetrodotoxin.Nerves showing SPLI were frequent in the myenteric plexus of the whole stomach, and in the submucosa and mucosa of the pyloric part of the stomach. SPLI was also observed in fibres in the intestinal branch of the vagus and occasionally in the splanchnic nerves. Ligation of the nerves showed an accumulation of SPLI above as well as below the ligature, being more prominent proximal to the ligature in the vagus and distal to the ligature in the splanchnic nerve. In the vagus nerve, descending and ascending SPLI-fibres were seen surrounding non-reactive cell bodies. No reduction in intensity of the immunoreaction of the neurons in the stomach wall was observed after ligation or sectioning of the vagosympathetic trunk or the splanchnic nerves, nor were SP-levels measured by radioimmunoassay reduced. After denervation of vagal branches close to the stomach wall an insignificant decrease of immunoreactivity was observed in the myenteric plexus. Capsaicin treatment had no conclusive effect on the distribution of SPLI.It is concluded that the innervation showing SPLI may be of intrinsic as well as extrinsic origin, with pathways in both vagal and splanchnic branches. Only a direct effect of SP on the smooth muscle could be demonstrated.
Insulinlike growth factors (IGFs) express anabolic and mitogenic activity on wide variety of cells. Besides endocrine effects, IGFs have major autocrine and paracrine effects on many cellular functions. Two factors that significantly affect the extent of cellular response to IGFs include the membrane receptors for IGFs and the soluble binding proteins (BPs), which modulate the action of IGFs at the receptor level. IGFs, IGF receptors, and IGFs and their BPs (IGF-BPs) thus constitute three components of the IGF system. A role of IGFs in the transformation and proliferation of cancer cells has become increasingly evident in the past few years. Studies from several laboratories show that all three components of the IGF system may play an important role in the proliferation of colon cancers. It was recently shown that the relative expression of IGFs and IGF/BPs may critically control the metastatic potential of colon cancers. The purpose of this article is to summarize our current knowledge of the IGF system and to present support for a significant role of IGFs in the initiation and growth of colon cancers. The expression and structural aspects of IGFs, their receptors, and BPs are outlined first, followed by a discussion of the role of IGFs in gastrointestinal functions and in colon cancers.
The types and number of exemplars of categories that are retrieved from semantic memory differentiate elderly normal controls and early stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Elderly normal controls generated more uncommon exemplars from closed semantic categories (fruits and vegetables) than did AD patients 2 1/2 years prior to the presumed onset of AD. AD patients, however, were just as productive as elderly normal controls in generating associations to open categories (letters). The findings suggest that one of the early cognitive symptoms of AD is changes in availability of uncommon exemplars of semantic networks.
In an attempt to predict the susceptibility of the cochlea to the harmful influences of excessive sound, the effects of initially exposing the same rabbits to brief pure-tones were related to the subsequent effects of octave-band noise (OBN) exposure using measures of distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs). The pure-tone exposure paradigm consisted of determining the rate at which a 100-dB SPL, low-frequency tone reduced the amplitude of a 1.5-kHz DPOAE, elicited by 50-dB SPL primaries. To establish the stability of the rate-reduction index, the tonal-exposure protocol was repeated on three separate occasions for each subject. Subsequently, the same rabbits were exposed chronically to a 95-dB SPL OBN, centered at 1-kHz, until DPOAE amplitudes between 1-5 kHz were diminished to noise-floor levels, i.e., by 10-30 dB, in response to 45-dB SPL primaries. The results revealed a visually apparent relation between the slope of the tonal-induced DPOAE-loss functions and the number of days required to reach the criterion decrement in emission level during chronic exposure to noise. Analysis of the frequency extent of the noise-induced changes revealed significant correlations between the previously measured rate of pure-tone induced reductions of DPOAE amplitude and the subsequent amount of decrement produced by OBN exposure. Thus, rabbits exhibiting slow rates of tonal-induced decrements in low-frequency DPOAEs were resistant to the amplitude-reducing effects of a subsequent chronic OBN exposure in that it typically took more than four days to achieve the targeted amount of DPOAE loss.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An important issue in understanding the development of noise-induced hearing loss is whether prior acoustic overstimulation alters the susceptibility of the cochlea to further damage. The present work was designed to establish a model of activity-dependent changes in the susceptibility of the cochlea to acoustic overstimulation by regularly exposing the ear to a low-frequency pure tone. As a quantitative index of cochlear function, 2f1-f2 distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) were monitored systematically over time in three groups of rabbits, with each group experiencing a unique paradigm that incorporated repeated exposure to the low-frequency tone. Common to each rabbit's exposure protocol was that a given experimental session consisted of two exposure episodes, separated by a 40-min period. Experimental sessions were repeated three times, with 2- to 3-day recovery periods interposed between sessions. The rate of decrement in DPOAE amplitude over a prescribed time period was utilized as a measure of susceptibility to the acoustic trauma. The overall results indicated that ears were more susceptible to exposure 40 mins after the first exposure of a session than they were initially. A series of control experiments indicated that the robustness of the acoustic middle-ear reflex (AMR) did not change between the exposure episodes. Consequently, changes in the AMR could not account for the increased susceptibility seen following the first exposure. However, in awake rabbits with stronger AMRs, higher pure-tone exposure levels were needed to produce increased susceptibility to the second exposure. After 2-3 days of intersession recovery, susceptibility to the effects of excessive sound returned close to its original baseline level. The outcome of these studies demonstrated a reduced capacity for the ear to resist the harmful effects of exposure to a moderately intense tone, which was repeated twice over a brief 40-min period, but little change in susceptibility when identical exposures were repeated over longer intersession intervals of several days.
The authors propose a computational theory of the hippocampal region's function in mediating stimulus representations. The theory assumes that the hippocampal region develops new stimulus representations that enhance the discriminability of differentially predictive cues while compressing the representation of redundant cues. Other brain regions, including cerebral and cerebellar cortices, are presumed to use these hippocampal representations to recode their own stimulus representations. In the absence of an intact hippocampal region, the theory implies that other brain regions will attempt to learn associations using previously established fixed representations. Instantiated as a connectionist network model, the theory provides a simple and unified interpretation of the functional role of the hippocampal region in a wide range of conditioning paradigms, including stimulus discrimination, reversal learning, stimulus generalization, latent inhibition, sensory preconditioning, and contextual sensitivity. The theory makes novel predictions regarding the effects of hippocampal lesions on easy-hard transfer and compound preexposure. Several prior qualitative characterizations of hippocampal function--including stimulus selection, chunking, cue configuration, and contextual coding--are identified as task-specific special cases derivable from this more general theory. The theory suggests that a profitable direction for future empirical and theoretical research will be the study of learning tasks in which both intact and lesioned animals exhibit similar initial learning behaviors but differ on subsequent transfer and generalization tasks.

DiGeorge syndrome is a human developmental disorder resulting in hypoplasia of the thymus and parathyroids, and conotruncal heart defects. We recently isolated four genes with zinc finger DNA binding motifs mapping to chromosome 22q11.2 DiGeorge critical region. We now report that one of them, ZNF74 gene, is hemizygously deleted in 23 out of 24 DiGeorge syndrome patients tested. ZNF74 mRNA transcripts are detected in human and mouse embryos but not in adult tissues. Sequence analysis of a corresponding cDNA reveals an an open reading frame encoding 12 zinc finger motifs of the Kruppel/TFIIIA type as well as N-terminal and C-terminal non-zinc finger domains. These results suggest that changes in the dosage of a putative transcription factor through ZNF74 hemizygous deletion may be critical for DiGeorge developmental anomalies.
Juvenile spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) have higher plasma levels of catechols and markedly larger catechol responses to yohimbine than do normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats, indicating increased sympathoadrenal outflow and increased alpha 2-adrenergic receptor-mediated restraint of peripheral catecholamine release during hypertension development in SHR. Yohimbine-induced catecholamine release and metabolism in the posterolateral hypothalamus of the brain were assessed in juvenile (6 to 7 weeks) and adult (15 to 16 weeks) SHR and Wistar-Kyoto rats. In vivo microdialysis was used to obtain samples for measurements of norepinephrine, dihydroxyphenylglycol, methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in conscious animals before and after yohimbine injection (1 mg/kg IV) beginning 24 hours after probe implantation. Catecholamine synthesis was examined from elevations of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine levels after probe perfusion with NSD-1015, an inhibitor of L-aromatic acid decarboxylase. In adults, SHR had higher dialysate norepinephrine (277 +/- 38 versus 181 +/- 35 pg/mL), dihydroxyphenylglycol (3260 +/- 509 versus 2231 +/- 201 pg/mL), methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol (2659 +/- 369 versus 1890 +/- 144 pg/mL), and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (46,312 +/- 5512 versus 13,187 +/- 1963 pg/mL) levels and markedly larger increases in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine levels after NSD-1015 than Wistar-Kyoto rats. In juveniles, SHR had larger proportionate increments in microdialysate norepinephrine levels after yohimbine than Wistar-Kyoto rats (85% versus 25%). Although juvenile SHR and Wistar-Kyoto rats had similar NSD-1015-elicited increments in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine levels, systemic yohimbine enhanced the NSD-1015-elicited 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine elevations in juvenile SHR but not in Wistar-Kyoto rats. These findings suggest augmented norepinephrine release and catecholamine synthesis in the posterolateral hypothalamus of adult SHR and augmented alpha 2-adrenergic receptor restraint of both norepinephrine release and catecholamine synthesis in juvenile SHR.
A method is developed for using neural recordings to control functional electrical stimulation (FES) to nerves and muscles. Experiments were done in chronic cats with a goal of designing a rule-based controller to generate rhythmic movements of the ankle joint during treadmill locomotion. Neural signals from the tibial and superficial peroneal nerves were recorded with cuff electrodes and processed simultaneously with muscular signals from ankle flexors and extensors in the cat's hind limb. Cuff electrodes are an effective method for long-term chronic recording in peripheral nerves without causing discomfort or damage to the nerve. For real-time operation we designed a low-noise amplifier with a blanking circuit to minimize stimulation artifacts. We used threshold detection to design a simple rule-based control and compared its output to the pattern determined using adaptive neural networks. Both the threshold detection and adaptive networks are robust enough to accommodate the variability in neural recordings. The adaptive logic network used for this study is effective in mapping transfer functions and therefore applicable for determination of gait invariants to be used for closed-loop control in an FES system. Simple rule-bases will probably be chosen for initial applications to human patients. However, more complex FES applications require more complex rule-bases and better mapping of continuous neural recordings and muscular activity. Adaptive neural networks have promise for these more complex applications.
To test the hypothesis that transplanted neuronal or neuronal-like cell lines, grown in vitro, might survive and differentiate in the mammalian spinal grey matter, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (N = 5) were injected with a suspension of between 3 x 10(5) and 1.0 x 10(6) DiI labeled, undifferentiated rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells in sterile phosphate buffered saline. The PC12 cell line was chosen since, in certain in vitro conditions, this cell line serves as a model of neuronal differentiation, which includes the ability to conduct action potentials and form functional synapses. After a survival time of 7 or 8 days, the spinal cords were removed, cryosectioned longitudinally and examined for detection of DiI labeled PC12 cells using fluorescent microscopy. The number of DiI labeled profiles and the proportions of the DiI cells which were differentiated were counted per section in at least five non-contiguous sections per animal. Differentiation was defined as cells with neurite-like extension which exceeded twice the soma diameter. Results demonstrated the following: (1) from 2 to 15% of the transplanted PC12 cells survived; (2) migration within the spinal grey matter occurred since PC12 cells were found as much as 510 microns away from the injection site; (3) of the surviving PC12 cell population, a proportion of between 60 and 80% were differentiated, many with two or more neurite-like processes, in all of the rats; (4) no mitotic profiles were observed in DiI labelled cells; (5) undifferentiated PC12 cells were juxtaposed to the lumens of small blood vessels or within the lesion cavity. Although the specific factors remain to be elucidated, the observed PC12 migration and differentiation within the host spinal grey matter appears to be controlled by factors in the microenvironment. These data support the use of a homogeneous in vitro population of neuronal or neuronal-like cells, which are readily accessible to transfection with the appropriate genes, as transplant sources for the injured spinal cord.
This article reviews the chromaffin cell in relation to studies that have elucidated fundamental phenomena in cell biology (the molecular anatomy of exocytosis) and developmental neuroscience (the principle of neuropoiesis in the development of the sympathoadrenal cell lineage). A final section addresses growth factor synthesis and storage in chromaffin cells and their implications for the treatment of neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease.
The ability of several animal, plant, and bacterial derived polyanions (PAs) as well as synthetic PAs to compete with heparin for the binding of acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) was correlated with their ability to potentiate the mitogenic and neurotrophic actions of this factor. Dextran sulphate, kappa-carrageenan, pentosan sulphate, polyanethole sulfonate, heparin, and fucoidin competed for the heparin binding site on aFGF at relatively low concentrations (&lt; 50 micrograms/ml). lambda-carrageenan, iota-carrageenan, and polyvinyl sulphate exhibited lower affinity for aFGF, whereas hyaluronic acid, dermatan sulphate, chondroitin-6-sulphate, chondroitin-4-sulphate, and uncharged dextran displayed very low or no demonstrable affinity. Potentiation of the mitogenic action of aFGF for Balb/c 3T3 fibroblasts tended to be in general agreement with the aFGF binding affinity of the PAs. However, polyanethole sulfonate, the carrageenans, polyvinyl sulphate, fucoidin, and pentosan sulphate exerted a mitogenic action on the 3T3 cells that was independent of, and in addition to, the ability of these GAGs to potentiate the action of aFGF. The ability to potentiate the neurotrophic action of aFGF for E8 chick ciliary neurons was a general property of those PA with low or no activity in the mitogen assay. Thus hyaluronic acid, dermatan sulphate, chondroitin-4-sulphate, chondroitin-6-sulphate, and even unchanged dextran all potentiated aFGF induced neuronal survival. The differential effects of these PA in potentiating the biological activities of aFGF are discussed in relation to their ability to compete for the heparin-binding site of aFGF.

As with other methods long used in intensive care units (ICU) and operating rooms (OR), the goal of neuroscience ICU continuous EEG (NICU-CEEG) and evoked potential (NICU-EP) monitoring is to extend our powers of observation to detect abnormalities at a reversible stage. EEG is an appropriate monitoring tool because it is linked to cerebral metabolism, is sensitive to ischemia and hypoxemia, correlates with cerebral topography, detects neuronal dysfunction at a reversible stage, and is the best method for detecting seizure activity. When applied systematically, it can impact medical decision-making in 81% of monitored patients. It is useful in monitoring precarious cerebral perfusion at the bedside, and it has revealed that nonconvulsive seizures, undetectable otherwise, occur in 34% of NICU patients. In convulsive status epilepticus, NICU-CEEG can help avoid undertreatment and overtreatment. In comatose patients, it can provide useful prognostic information as well as detect potentially treatable causes. Traditional impediments to its application are yielding to technological advances and educational efforts. Real-time digitized EEG in particular has been a major advance. Within limits, somatosensory evoked potential monitoring (ICU-SEP) is useful in the prognosis of coma, but it is less helpful in monitoring focal cerebral ischemia. Brainstem auditory evoked potential monitoring has a relatively restricted role in the NICU but is helpful in distinguishing structural from nonstructural causes of coma and can supplement ICU-SEP in predicting outcome.

Calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II and GAP43 are two molecules which have been linked to synaptic plasticity. Localization of mRNA for these molecules identifies the neuronal populations which have the potential to utilize these mechanisms. General descriptions for calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II or GAP43 mRNA have been previously reported. In light of recent evidence that suggests that at some sites these two molecules may interact, we sought to determine the cortical distribution in detail, and to examine the extent of overlap between neuronal populations containing each mRNA. To this end we have used in situ hybridization techniques to study the distribution of calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II and GAP43 mRNA in adjacent sections of adult rat forebrain. Overall, the distribution patterns were distinct but partially overlapping. For both calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II and GAP43, mRNA levels were highest in hippocampus, allo- and neocortex, compared to moderate to low levels in striatum and thalamic nuclei. Within the heavily labeled regions certain populations expressed both calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II and GAP43 mRNA at high levels, while other populations were selective for calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II. In the hippocampus, the stratum pyramidale of CA1-3 expressed high levels of both calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II and GAP43 mRNA. Granule cells of the fascia dentata and the stratum radiatum of CA3 both contained moderate to high levels of calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II mRNA, but near background levels of GAP43 mRNA label. Within the neocortex, deep layers were distinguished from superficial layers by their lack of calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II mRNA expression within the neuropil, and the presence of GAP43 mRNA in neurons located in layer V and the deepest part of layer VI. Thus, layer V and deep layer VI neurons showed high levels of label for both GAP43 and calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II mRNA, while neurons of superficial layers contained only calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II mRNA. These markers differentiate neuronal populations which can also be distinguished on the basis of their ability to undergo specific forms of synaptic plasticity. These different forms of plasticity may be due in part to the laminar-specific patterns of GAP43 and calcium-calmodulin protein kinase II mRNA that we have described.
A model that has been widely used in the study of steroid sensitive neurons, the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) is a sexually dimorphic motor nucleus in the lower lumbar spinal cord that innervates the striated bulbocavernosus (BC) muscle. The BC is responsible for penile reflexes in the male rat, which are important in ensuring pregnancy in females. The characterization of afferents to the SNB aids in the understanding of the neural circuitry involved in reproductive behavior. We have recently identified the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) as a possible source of afferents to the SNB. Because the PVN is the major source of oxytocin/vasopressin within the central nervous system (CNS), the purpose of the present study was to examine and characterize a neurophysin (NP)-containing pathway from the PVN to the SNB. The results demonstrate that neurons of the lateral parvicellular subnucleus of PVN, which project to levels of spinal cord containing SNB motoneurons, contain NP, the coproduct of oxytocin and vasopressin. NP-containing fibers and putative terminals were found in the region of the SNB and appear to contact the soma and proximal dendrites of SNB motoneurons which were retrogradely identified as BC-innervating. Electrolytic lesions, which destroy the lateral parvicellular subnucleus of PVN, abolish NP-containing fibers in the region of the SNB, suggesting that the PVN is the source of these NP fibers. The results of this study indicate a NP-containing projection from the hypothalamus directly to SNB motoneurons. It is suggested that this pathway may play a role in the integration of penile reflexes with other aspects of male copulatory behavior that are under hypothalamic control.

The minK protein induces a slowly activating voltage-dependent potassium current when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. We have used macroscopic minK currents to determine the open channel current-voltage relationship for the channel, and have found that the minK current is inwardly rectifying. The channel passes inward current at least 20-fold more readily than outward current. Both rat and human minK exhibit this property. The rectification of minK is similar to that reported for a slow component of the cardiac delayed rectifier, strengthening the hypothesis that minK is responsible for that current.
The purpose of these studies was to examine the effects of hypoxia on alpha 1-adrenergic receptor (alpha 1AR) mediated phosphatidylinositol (PI) turnover in cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes. Cells were pre-labeled with [3H]-inositol and incubated for 1 h in either normoxia or hypoxia. Phenylephrine, an alpha 1AR agonist, was added at various time intervals (0-60 min) before termination of the incubation. There was a time-dependent release of radioactivity from the lipid fraction to the aqueous fraction with alpha 1AR stimulation. alpha 1AR-mediated PI turnover was biphasic in normoxic cells and monophasic in hypoxic cells. Using ion-exchange chromatography, radioactivity in the inositol trisphosphate (IP3) peak was increased with acute phenylephrine stimulation (5 min) in the normoxic cells, while inositol phosphate (IP) and inositol bisphosphate (IP2) were increased with chronic stimulation (60 min). After 5 min of alpha 1AR stimulation, hypoxia did not alter total aqueous radioactivity when compared to normoxia, but there was a significant increase in IP2. However, there was decreased PI turnover in chronically stimulated (30-60 min) hypoxic cells when compared to normoxic cells. Hypoxia had no effect on radioactivity in the IP3 fraction with either 0, 5, or 60 min of alpha 1AR stimulation, but there was a significant increase in [1,4,5]-IP3 in hypoxic cells with 30 s alpha 1AR stimulation. With hypoxia, there was no difference in radioactivity in the phosphatidylinositols with either 0 or 5 min stimulation when compared to normoxia. However, after 60 min of alpha 1AR stimulation, hypoxia resulted in increased PI and PIP, when compared to normoxic cells, but PIP2 radioactivity was unchanged. There was no effect of pertussis toxin on either the acute or chronic phase of PI turnover, negating involvement of Gi or G(o). These data suggest that alpha 1AR stimulation in neonatal rat cardiac myocytes is biphasic, and that hypoxia produces a slower monophasic response during extended alpha 1-agonist exposure as would be found with ischemia.
Evidence that neurosteroids are potent modulators of the action of GABA at GABAA receptors has prompted the investigation of the mechanism that controls brain neurosteroid synthesis by glial cell mitochondria in vivo. In vitro studies suggest that the interaction of the diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI)--a polypeptide that is abundant in steroidogenic cells--with glial mitochondrial DBI receptors (MDRs) is a crucial step in the physiological regulation of neurosteroid biosynthesis. MDRs bind 4'-chlorodiazepam (4'-CD), N,N-di-n-hexyl-2-(4-fluorophenyl)-indol-3-acetamide (FGIN-1-27), and the isoquinoline carboxamide PK 11195 with high affinity, and these ligands have been used to investigate whether the stimulation of glial MDRs increases brain pregnenolone production in vivo. Adrenalectomized and castrated (A-C) male rats (to eliminate peripheral sources of pregnenolone) were pretreated with trilostane (to prevent pregnenolone metabolism to progesterone), and the pregnenolone content in brain regions dissected after fixation with a 0.8-s exposure to microwave irradiation focused to the head was determined by HPLC followed by specific radioimmunoassay. The forebrain and cerebellum of A-C rats contained 4-7 ng of pregnenolone/g of tissue, and the olfactory bulb contained 10-14 ng/g. These concentrations of brain pregnenolone are only 30-40% lower than those of sham-operated rats. In contrast, the plasma pregnenolone content of sham-operated rats was 2-3 ng/ml, but it was only 0.15-0.20 ng/ml in the plasma of A-C rats. In A-C rats, treatment with the MDR ligands 4'-CD and FGIN-1-27 increased the pregnenolone content in the brain but failed to change the plasma or peripheral tissue content of this steroid. The effect of 4'-CD on brain pregnenolone content was maximal (70-100% increase) at the dose of 18 mumol/kg, 5-10 min after intravenous injection. The effect of oral administration of FGIN-1-27 on brain pregnenolone content was maximal (80-150% increase) at doses of 400-800 mumol/kg and peaked at approximately 1 h. That this effect of FGIN-1-27 was mediated by the MDR was documented by pretreatment with the MDR partial agonist PK 11195 (100 mumol/kg, i.p.). PK 11195 did not affect basal brain pregnenolone content but prevented the accumulation of brain pregnenolone induced by FGIN-1-27. FGIN-1-27 and 4'-CD failed to increase the brain concentration of dehydroepiandrosterone in A-C rats. These data suggest that glial cell MDRs play a role in neurosteroid biosynthesis in vivo.
Recent studies have demonstrated that seizure activity causes a dramatic increase in neuropeptide expression in specific regions of the rat hippocampus. In this study we investigated the effect of electroconvulsive treatment (ECT) on the expression of three posttranslational processing enzymes involved in the production of many bioactive peptides from their inactive precursors. Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) converts peptidylglycine substrates into alpha-amidated products and prohormone convertases 1 and 2 perform the tissue-specific endoproteolytic cleavage of many prohormones. After a single ECT, in situ hybridization demonstrated a rapid increase in the level of PAM mRNA in the dentate granule cells of the hippocampus, reaching peak levels between 1 and 4 h and then returning to near baseline levels within 24 h. Northern blot analysis confirmed the changes in PAM mRNA expression seen by using in situ hybridization. Similar rapid changes in PAM mRNA expression were seen after repeated ECT, suggesting that chronic ECT did not affect the regulation of PAM expression in the hippocampus. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated an increase in PAM protein in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus at 4 and 8 h after a single ECT. Based on in situ hybridization, levels of mRNA for the prohormone convertases 1 and 2 were also increased in dentate granule cells after a single ECT. Prohormone convertase 2 mRNA levels exhibited a slower response to ECT, not reaching maximal levels until 8 h after ECT. The response of the dentate granule cells of the hippocampus to ECT provides a model system for studying the rapid, coordinate regulation of peptide-processing enzymes.
Primary rat fibroblasts genetically modified to express Drosophila choline acetyltransferase (dChAT) synthesize and release acetylcholine (ACh) in vitro. The ACh produced from the transduced fibroblasts was found to be enhanced by increasing amounts of choline chloride in the culture media. These dChAT-expressing cells were then implanted into the intact hippocampus of adult rats and in vivo microdialysis was performed 7-10 days after grafting to assess the ability of the cells to produce ACh and respond to exogenous choline in vivo. Samples collected from anesthetized rats revealed fourfold higher levels of ACh around dChAT grafts than from either non-grafted or control-grafted hippocampi. Localized choline infusion (200 microM) through the dialysis probes was found to induce a selective twofold increase in ACh release only from the dChAT-expressing fibroblasts. These results indicate not only that dChAT-expressing fibroblasts continue to synthesize and secrete ACh for at least 10 days after intracerebral grafting, but that the levels of ACh can be manipulated in vivo. The ability to regulate products within genetically modified cells in vivo may provide a powerful avenue for exploring the role of discrete substances within the CNS.
Formation of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) from dopamine has been hypothesized to mediate neurodegeneration induced by some psychostimulants. Although the emergence of a 6-OHDA-like substance was reported in the striatum of methamphetamine-treated rats, this substance has not been identified by a direct approach. We used mass fragmentography to search for 6-OHDA in the rat frontal cortex and striatum after the administration of a number of drugs including 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine, methamphetamine, amphetamine, and cocaine, all of which increase synaptic dopamine. No 6-OHDA was detected after the acute systemic administration of these agents. Intraventricular administration of 6-OHDA (10 micrograms/rat) produced measurable concentrations of 6-OHDA that were higher in the striatum than in the frontal cortex. Intraventricular administration of 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenyl-D,L-alanine (6-OHDOPA; 10 micrograms/rat) produced similar concentrations of 6-OHDA in both regions. Pargyline, but not carbidopa (alpha-methyl-dopa-hydrazine), enhanced the effect of intraperitoneal 6-OHDOPA administration (80 mg/kg). We conclude that (1) 6-OHDOPA can cross the blood-brain barrier and is converted to 6-OHDA in the brain, (2) 6-OHDA is a substrate for monoamine oxidase(s) and therefore a search for its purported deaminated metabolite is warranted, and (3) acute treatment with the above stimulants either does not lead to the formation of 6-OHDA or produces concentrations below the detection limit of the assay (&lt; 34 pg/mg of protein).
The sequence of structural changes occurring in the presynaptic membrane during transmitter release was studied at the mouse neuromuscular junction using the combined quick-freezing and cryosubstitution techniques. The mouse levator auris longus (LAL) muscle was stimulated by two means: either, chemically, by soaking 5 min before freezing in a physiological solution containing 25 mM potassium chloride or, electrically, by applying, 10 ms before freezing, a single supramaximal stimulus to the nerve-muscle preparation treated with 50 microM 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP) and 100 microM (+)tubocurarine. In both cases, the preparations were maintained at approximately 5 degrees C, 5 min prior to freezing, in order to prolong nerve membrane changes. In most experiments, tannic acid (0.1%) was added to the substitution medium for better preservation of membranes. The different steps of warming in the substitution medium were strictly controlled from -90 degrees C to 4 degrees C. When fixed under chemical stimulation, the presynaptic membrane appeared very sinuous and synaptic vesicles were seen apposed to specialized sites facing subjunctional folds. When submitted to a single electrical stimulus, after treatment with 3,4-diaminopyridine, features of synaptic vesicle fusion were observed at these specialized sites which appear similar by their morphology, their macromolecular organization (already described) and their functional changes to active zones of the frog neuromuscular junction. Other images suggested that with 3,4-diaminopyridine which causes a pronounced and long-lasting release of transmitter, some vesicles collapse after exocytosis instead of being locally reformed by endocytosis.
Acute glucoprivation profoundly stimulated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) and adrenomedullary outflows. Whether these responses reflect a single central mechanism regulated by corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) has been unclear. This study examined the role of endogenous CRH in HPA and adrenomedullary responses to hypoglycemia in Sprague-Dawley rats, by using anti-CRH immune serum or a CRH antagonist (alpha-helical h/r CRH9-41, and in Lewis rats, a strain characterized by deficient hypothalamic CRH responses during stress. In conscious Sprague-Dawley rats with indwelling arterial and venous cannulas, insulin (0.3 U/kg was injected iv, and responses of serum glucose concentrations and plasma levels of corticotropin (ACTH) and catechols (including epinephrine, EPI; norepinephrine, NE; dihydroxyphenylalanine, DOPA; dihydroxyphenylglycol, DHPG; and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, DOPAC) were assessed, with or without pretreatment with anti-CRH immune serum (0.5 or 1.0 ml iv or 10 microl icv) or alpha-helical h/r CRH9-41 (130 nmol iv or 13 nmol icv). Responses to insulin (1.0 U/kg iv) were also measured in conscious juvenile Lewis and Fischer 344/N rats. Insulin-induced hypoglycemia markedly increased plasma levels of EPI and ACTH in all groups. Pretreatment iv with 1/0 ml of anti-CRH immune serum blocked the ACTH response to insulin but failed to attenuate the EPI response. alpha-helical h/r CRH9-41, whether given iv or icv, failed to alter ACTH or EPI responses to insulin, although the antagonist did block EPI responses to icv CRH. Hypoglycemia elicited similar increments in ACTH levels in Lewis rats and Fischer 344/N control rats; and although Lewis rats had lower baseline EPI and smaller responses of NE, DHPG, DOPA, and DOPAC levels, the groups did not differ in proportionate increments in EPI levels. The results indicate that the ACTH response to hypoglycemia depends on availability of CRH outside the blood-brain barrier--presumably in the pituitary gland. The findings with icv alpha-helical h/r CRH9-41 can be explained by failure of the antagonist to reach effective concentrations at central sites of action of endogenous CRH, or by mechanisms other than CRH release determining the adrenomedullary response to hypoglycemia. Lewis rats seem to have less adrenomedullary secretion at baseline and smaller responses of NE synthesis and release during hypoglycemia than do Fischer 344/N rats. Neurochemical evidence for differential adrenomedullary and sympathoneural responses during hypoglycemia in all three rat strains is inconsistent with Cannon's view of a functionally unitary sympathoadrenal system. Lewis rats have deficient CRH responses to some stressors but not to others, or else pituitary-adrenomedullary responses in this setting depend on mechanisms other than CRH release in the brain. Both explanations are inconsistent with the doctrine of non-specificity, the main tenet of Selye's stress theory.
To address potential involvement of muscle basal lamina and membrane cytoskeleton proteins in the etiology of non-dystrophinopathy muscular dystrophies, we examined the immunostaining intensity and distribution of laminin subunits (A, B1, B2 and M), type IV collagen, dystrophin and spectrin in skeletal muscle biopsies from 64 myopathic patients (17 Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy: FCMD, 13 congenital muscular dystrophy unrelated to FCMD: other CMD, 16 Duchenne muscular dystrophy: DMD, and 18 other neuromuscular diseases. In FCMD muscle, we found a significant reduction of laminin M (merosin; a striated muscle specific basal lamina-associated protein) with approximately 26% of levels seen in controls by quantitative immunofluorescence. Other CMD and DMD muscles showed less dramatic reductions (78%, 80%, respectively). The localization of laminin M was also abnormal in FCMD muscle. Laminin B1 and B2 showed abnormalities similar to those observed with laminin M, but were less marked. Laminin A was only detected in rare regenerating fibers in control biopsies, whereas it was seen around most muscle fibers in FCMD patients, and in dystrophin deficient muscle fibers from DMD patients and its carrier. Staining intensity of type IV collagen in FCMD muscle was not significantly different from the other diseases. These findings may implicate a primary or central role for the basal lamina in FCMD muscle.
We examined muscle biopsies from patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD: 39 patients) and Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD: 11 patients), female DMD-carriers (4 patients), and control subjects (26 persons) for the expression of dystrophin and utrophin. Control subjects showed all fibers to be dystrophin-positive, while utrophin staining was negative or weak. On the other hand, muscles from DMD patients showed the inverse staining patterns: dystrophin was negative and utrophin staining strong. Thus, there was a reciprocal pattern of expression between dystrophin and utrophin. This reciprocal relationship was confirmed to some extent at the single-fiber level in female carriers of DMD showing a mosaic immunostaining of dystrophin. We consider that utrophin may have a function similar to that of dystrophin, and compensate to some extent for dystrophin deficiency in DMD.
1. Experiments were performed to determine the change in membrane properties of genioglossal (GG) motoneurons during development. Intracellular recordings were made in 127 GG motoneurons from rats postnatal ages 1-30 days. 2. The input resistance (R(in)) and the membrane time constant (t(aum)) decreased between 5-6 and 13-15 days from 84.8 +/- 25.4 (SD) to 47.0 +/- 18.9 M omega (P &lt; 0.01) and from 10.0 +/- 4.2 to 7.3 +/- 3.3 ms (P &lt; 0.05), respectively. During this period, the rheobase (Irh) increased (P &lt; 0.01) from 0.13 +/- 0.07 to 0.27 +/- 0.14 nA, and the percentage of cells exhibiting inward rectification increased from 5 to 40%. Voltage threshold (Vthr) of the action potential remained unchanged postnatally. 3. There was also a postnatal change in the shape of the action potential. Specifically, between 1-2 and 5-6 days, there was a decrease (P &lt; 0.05) in the spike half-width from 2.23 +/- 0.53 to 1.45 +/- 0.44 ms, resulting, in part, from a steepening (P &lt; 0.05) of the slope of the falling phase of the action potential from 21.6 +/- 10.1 to 32.9 +/- 13.1 mV/ms. The slope of the rising phase also increased significantly (P &lt; 0.01) between 1-2 and 13-15 days from 68.4 +/- 31.0 to 91.4 +/- 44.3 mV/ms. 4. The average duration of the medium afterhyperpolarization (mAHPdur) decreased (P &lt; 0.05) between 1-2 (193 +/- 53 ms) and 5-6 days (159 +/- 43 ms). Whereas the mAHPdur was found to be independent of membrane potential, there was a linear relationship between the membrane potential and the amplitude of the medium AHP (mAHPamp). From this latter relationship, a reversal potential for the mAHPamp was extrapolated to be -87 mV. No evidence for the existence of a slow AHP was found in these developing motoneurons. 5. All cells analyzed (n = 74) displayed adaptation during the first three spikes. The subsequent firing pattern was classified into two groups, adapting and nonadapting. Cells at birth were all adapting, whereas all cells but two from animals 13 days and older were nonadapting. At the intermediate age (5-6 days), the minority (27%) was adapting and the majority (73%) was nonadapting. 6. The mean slope of primary range for the first interspike interval (1st ISI) was approximately 90 Hz/nA. This value was similar for both adapting and nonadapting cells and did not change postnatally.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Properties of single motoneuron/muscle-unit combinations were determined for tibialis anterior (TA) in rats anesthetized with pentobarbital. The TA observations were systematically compared with those obtained earlier by the use of the same techniques from rat medial gastrocnemius (MG). 2. TA motoneurons were investigated with regard to afterhyperpolarization (AHP; total duration 32-74 ms, amplitude 0.39-4.96 mV) and axonal conduction velocity (41-79 m/s). TA muscle-unit measurements included the time course of the isometric twitch (time-to-peak force 10.8-18.0 ms; total duration 42-92 ms), the maximum tetanic force (22-217 mN), and a measure of fatigue sensitivity (fatigue index 5-100%). The range of twitch and AHP durations (&quot;speed range&quot;) was markedly smaller in the present TA material than for MG. 3. The mean duration of the TA motoneuronal AHP (49 +/- 8 ms, mean +/- SD) was close to that of its muscle-unit twitch (56 +/- 12 ms). Thus an &quot;average&quot; speed match existed between TA motoneurons and their muscle fibers. 4. For TA there was no correlation between the time courses of AHP and twitch. Thus there was for TA no &quot;continuous&quot; speed match between the motoneurons and their muscle fibers. 5. For TA twitches or AHPs studied separately, there was a significant correlation between different time course measures. Furthermore, compared with TA units having relatively fast twitches, those with slower twitches tended to show 1) a smaller maximum tetanic force and 2) a greater AHP amplitude. Fatigue-resistant units tended to have slower twitches than fatigue-sensitive ones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Extracellular recordings from hippocampal area CA1 lasting 2-8 h posttetanus were used to evaluate the duration of long-term potentiation (LTP) at two key developmental ages. 2. At day 11 LTP consistently endured for approximately 1 h before declining to baseline by 2.5 h posttetanus. The response could then be repotentiated, and in some cases, the repotentiation lasted longer than the original potentiation. 3. At day 15 two patterns of potentiation were observed. The first pattern was similar to that observed at day 11 in that the potentiation did not persist; however, it did endure for approximately 2-2.5 h before declining to baseline by 4 h posttetanus. In the second pattern the potentiation persisted indefinitely; these responses were monitored for 6-8 h posttetanus. 4. These patterns are similar to the temporal phases of LTP that have been revealed in adult rat hippocampus through pharmacological manipulations. They may reflect developmental changes during which the different cellular mechanisms underlying LTP become sequentially activated. 5. These findings are important for several reasons. First, because the different temporal phases of LTP seem to be added stepwise during development, animals of different ages could be used explicitly to elucidate the underlying cellular mechanisms of these phases in LTP. Second, because LTP is a candidate mechanism for some forms of learning and memory, these results have implications for sequential steps in the ontogeny of learning and memory. Finally, because studies of LTP have used animals of widely varying ages, including these two ages, it is important to consider whether differences in the developmental properties of LTP could influence experimental observations.
1. Principal cells in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) are part of a circuit in the superior olivary complex (SOC) that processes binaural information important for sound localization. MNTB cells have two voltage-dependent currents active near rest that contribute to these cells' highly nonlinear membrane properties and shape their responses to synaptic input. One of these currents, a low-threshold, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-sensitive K+ current, has been studied previously under current clamp. Using the single-electrode voltage-clamp technique, we have investigated the other of these currents, a hyperpolarization-activated, mixed cation current (Ih), in brain slices of the rat SOC. 2. Ih is responsible for a prominent &quot;sag&quot; in the voltage response to a steady hyperpolarizing current recorded under current clamp in MNTB cells. In voltage-clamp recordings, hyperpolarizing voltage steps from the resting potential elicited a large inward current that activated and deactivated with biexponential kinetics. Activation time constants were voltage dependent, with tau 1 and tau 2 = 246 and 1620 ms at -75 mV and 107 and 560 ms at -100 mV. 3. Ih was blocked by 1-5 mM cesium and had a reversal potential of -43 mV. Steady-state activation curves derived from tail currents yielded a half-activation voltage of -75.7 mV and slope factor of 5.7 mV, corresponding to &lt; 10% activation of Ih at rest. 4. Application of norepinephrine (15-20 microM) or 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP) (1 mM) caused a depolarizing shift in the steady-state activation curve and decreased the activation time constants. The shift in the activation curve resulted in a large increase in the activation of Ih at rest, an inward shift in the holding current, and an increase in the resting membrane conductance. In current-clamp recordings, this increase in the resting activation level of Ih resulted in membrane depolarization of 2-3 mV in the absence of 4-AP, and 5-10 mV in the presence of 4-AP, an increase in the input conductance, and a reduction in the voltage sag in response to hyperpolarizing currents. 5. The resulting change in the resting point of MNTB cells exposed to norepinephrine or 8-Br-cAMP is likely to alter the responses of these cells to synaptic input, both via the direct effect on the resting membrane conductance and by changing the activation of the low-threshold, 4-AP-sensitive potassium current.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

We have established an in vitro model of ischemia incorporating the combination of anoxia with glucose deprivation, which is toxic to PC12 cells. In this model, nerve growth factor (NGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and epidermal growth factor (EGF) improve PC12 cell survival. K252a, a specific inhibitor of NGF-induced trk p140 autophosphorylation, did not alter the neuroprotection provided by EGF or bFGF, yet it completely abolished the protection provided by NGF. Activation of protein kinase A (PKA) with dibutyryl-cAMP also protected during ischemia, although it was not additive with the effect provided by growth factors. Furthermore, growth factors protected a PKA-deficient mutant as effectively as the parental cell line; thus, activation of PKA is protective against ischemia but is not necessary for the action of peptide growth factors. Neither the stimulation of protein kinase C (PKC) with acute phorbol ester treatment nor the downregulation of PKC with chronic high-dose phorbol ester treatment resulted in an altered response to growth factors in either the PC12 wild type or PKA-deficient mutant. Thus, protection by peptide growth factors depends on neither PKA nor PKC. Furthermore, downregulation of PKC alone was protective, indicating that PKC may contribute to toxicity. Interestingly, treatment with the kinase inhibitor H-7 was neuroprotective and may have enhanced the neuroprotective effect of NGF. In contrast, staurosporine, a broadly acting kinase inhibitor, inhibited the neuroprotective effect of NGF, but not of EGF or FGF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This is an analysis of whether biomechanical or kinematic variables are controlled by descending reticulospinal commands to the spinal cord during escape responses (C-starts) in the goldfish. We studied how the animal contracted its trunk musculature to orient an escape trajectory. We used trunk EMG recordings as a measure of the reticulospinal output to the musculature and we simultaneously gathered high-speed cinematic records of the resulting movements. We found that the escape trajectory is controlled by (1) the relative size of the agonist versus the antagonist muscle contractions on two sides of the body and (2) the timing between these contractions. We found no separate signal for forward propulsion (or force) apart from the initial stage 1 bending of the body. Rather, the neural specification of force is embedded in the commands to bend the body. Thus, our findings demonstrate the importance of the angular kinematic components, or direction changes, caused by the descending reticulospinal command. This new direction change concept is important for two reasons. First, it unifies the diversity of C-start movement patterns into a single and rather simple quantitative model. Second, the model is analogous to the systematic EMG and kinematic changes observed by others to underlie single joint movements of limbs in other vertebrates such as primates. As in these cases, the fish capitalizes on the mechanical properties of the muscle by setting the extent and timing of agonist and antagonist contractions. This, plus the fact that sensory feedback is likely to be minimal, may enable the animal to reduce the number of computational steps in its motor commands used to produce the escape response. Because horizontal body movements in fish are a fundamental vertebrate movement pattern produced by a highly conserved brainstem movement system, our findings may have general implications for understanding the neural basis of rapid movements of diverse body parts.
The development of the personal computer and its mass storage capabilities has enabled long-term digitization of voltage records at high sampling rates. This paper presents a program that employs algorithms to analyze a sampled record for spontaneously occurring events. A detection algorithm employs amplitude and temporal parameters to identify the onsets of these events. Other algorithms then characterize size and shape features of these events. Examples of the results of these algorithms are given for intracellularly recorded excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). These algorithms permit rapid and accurate quantitation of tens of thousands of events that may occur over many minutes. It is suggested that this set of algorithms may be applied to biological events other than synaptic potentials.
Other than children under the age of 5 years, the highest incidence of new onset epilepsy occurs in the population over 65 years of age. Risk factors in this age group include stroke, head trauma, dementia, infection, alcoholism and aging. Clinically, seizure behavior may be confused with other neurological impairments, thus delaying accurate diagnosis. Concomitant drug therapy affects the choice of antiepileptic drugs. Neuroscience nurses need to identify high-risk patients, recognize and document seizure activity and adverse drug reactions and interactions, and modify traditional seizure first aid for the frail elderly. An understanding of the psychosocial impact of epilepsy is necessary when offering education and support to the patient and family.
Neuropeptide FF (FLFQPQRFamide, NPFF) is an octapeptide implicated in morphine analgesia, tolerance and dependence. Many of the behavioral effects of NPFF have also been observed with the invertebrate neuropeptide Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-amide (FMRFamide), which binds to NPFF receptors because of its low homology to the C-terminal portion of NPFF. A competitive ligand binding assay was used to characterize NPFF receptors in rat spinal cord and a strong requirement was found for the C-terminal Arg-Phe-amide. It was found that FMRFamide (Ki = 1.8 nM) bound with lower affinity than NPFF (0.26 nM) but it was about 7-fold more potent than PQRFamide (12 nM). This finding explains the similar bioactivities of NPFF and FMRFamide. The Gln2 appeared to be the cause of the relatively low potency of PQRFamide, based on the binding specificity of NPFF receptors for a series of FMRFamide analogs. In contrast to the Arg-Phe-amide, substitutions at the first and second positions of FMRFamide were generally tolerated, with the most potent analogs being PMRFamide (Ki = 0.54 nM), FFRFamide (0.25 nM) and FWRFamide (0.42 nM). Among the most potent ligands was a pentapeptide containing a photoreactive Phe analog, D-Tyr-(p-benzoyl-Phe)-norLeu-Arg-Phe-amide (Ki = 0.23 nM). It was found that dansyl-PQRFamide and dansyl-RFamide also bound to NPFF receptors with Ki values of 6.1 and 73 nM, respectively. The radioligand binding and G-protein coupling of NPFF receptors were not altered by chronic morphine treatment.
Acute administration of cocaine increases expression of the transcription factor genes c-fos and zif268 in the striatum. This response is thought to be mediated via D1 dopamine (DA) receptors, as it is blocked by the selective D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390. However, the directly acting D1 receptor agonists, apomorphine and SKF 38393, do not mimic cocaine's activation of these genes raising the possibility that D1 receptor activation is necessary, but not sufficient, to trigger transcription factor expression. Because cocaine blocks uptake of norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-HT), as well as DA, we examined whether cocaine's ability to inhibit NE and 5-HT uptake may contribute to its induction of c-fos and zif268 expression in striatum. In examining the effects of selective monoamine uptake inhibitors, we observed that fluoxetine or citalopram, selective inhibitors of 5-HT uptake, potentiated the ability of mazindol, a DA and NE uptake inhibitor, to induce zif268 and c-fos expression, even though these 5-HT uptake inhibitors had no effect when administered alone. In contrast, the selective NE uptake inhibitor, desipramine, administered alone, or in combination with fluoxetine, did not increase expression of zif268 or c-fos. Furthermore, selective denervation of 5-HT projections by p-chloroamphetamine treatment attenuated the increase in zif268 and c-fos expression induced by cocaine in the striatum. In contrast, selective lesions of NE projections with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride failed to block cocaine's activation of these genes in the striatum. Taken together, these findings indicate that cocaine's ability to induce striatal expression of c-fos and zif268 is mediated by its effects on both the 5-HT and DA systems.
The 2-aryl-indole-3-acetamide derivatives, 2-hexyl-indole-3-acetamide (FGIN-1-27) and 2-hexyl-indole-3-acetamide-N-benzene-tricarboxylic acid (FGIN-1-44) displaced [3H]1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1- methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline-carboxamide([3H]PK 11195) and [3H]4-chlorodiazepam ([3H]4'CD) from binding sites located on the rat brain mitochondrial DBI receptor complex (MDRC) with Ki values in the nanomolar range. Both 2-aryl-indole-3-acetamide derivatives acted as agonists at the MDRC and thereby stimulated the rate of pregnenolone synthesis in isolated rat brain mitochondria; this effect was inhibited by PK 11195, an MDRC ligand that does not possess steroidogenic activity. FGIN-1-27 and FGIN-1-44 failed to bind to other transmitter receptors, including gamma-aminobutyric-A receptors. When administered orally to rats, both FGIN-1-27 and FGIN-1-44 reduced fear of novelty in the elevated plus maze test. This action was prevented by PK 11195, but not by flumazenil. FGIN-1-44, which was rapidly converted to FGIN-1-27 in the rat brain, was 3 to 4 times more potent than FGIN-1-27 in reducing fear of novelty because of its greater bioavailability. FGIN-1-27 increased the brain pregnenolone content in adrenalectomized-castrated rats pretreated with trilostane (in order to prevent metabolism of pregnenolone to progesterone). This increase was blocked by pretreatment with PK 11195. Although FGIN-1-27 and FGIN-1-44 increased the corticosterone concentration in adrenal glands and plasma of hypophysectomized rats in a PK 11195-sensitive manner, both drugs failed to increase adrenal steroidogenesis in sham-operated rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
(+)-(2S,3S)-3-(2-methoxybenzylamino)-2-phenylpiperidine (CP-99,994) binds selectively and with high affinity (Ki = 0.25 nM) to neurokinin (NK)-1 tachykinin receptors in a human cell line and in guinea pigs where it acts as an antagonist as evidenced by its blockade of substance P-induced excitation of locus coeruleus neurons in vitro. Subcutaneously administered CP-99,994 antagonized locomotor activity in guinea pigs induced by intraventricular infusion of [Sar9,Met(O2)11]-substance P (50 micrograms) with an ID50 = 0.59 mg/kg, indicating that CP-99,994 penetrates into the central nervous system. Orally administered CP-99,994 potently blocked (ID50 = 4 mg/kg) the leakage of Evans blue dye into trachea and bronchi elicited by exposure of guinea pigs to aerosol capsaicin (1 mM). CP-99,994 has reduced affinity (IC50 = 3 microM) for the L-type calcium channel in contrast to CP-96,345 (IC50 = 27 nM) an earlier nonpeptide antagonist. Thus, CP-99,994 represents an important pharmacological tool for investigating the physiological role of substance P and a potentially novel therapeutic agent for treating a variety of diseases.
In 1G, the apparent time constant (Td) of postrotatory SPV decay with the head tilted face down is 55% of that with head erect (Te). This phenomenon is called &quot;nystagmus dumping&quot; and has been attributed to G effects on VOR velocity storage. Similarly, postrotatory sensation duration with head tilted (Dd) is 32% of that when head erect (De). In parabolic flight, Te and De are 70% of 1-G values, but a pitch back dumping movement produces no further change. Te, Td, and Dd have not previously been measured in orbital flight. VOR and sensation duration was tested in 4 crewmembers in 4 preflight, 1 inflight (days 4 or 5) and 4 post flight sessions. Bitemporal EOG was recorded with eyes open in darkness. Instructions were to &quot;gaze straight ahead,&quot; and indicate when &quot;rotation sensation disappears or becomes ambiguous&quot;. Subjects were rotated CW and CCW head erect for 1 min at 120 degrees/s, stopped, and EOG was recorded for another 1 min. This procedure was then used to study dumping, except that immediately after chair stop, subjects pitched their head forward 90 degrees. SPV was calculated using order statistic filtering, and dropouts removed using an iterative model fitting method. Te and Td were determined by logarithmic linear regression of mean SPV for each subject. In orbit, 90 degrees pitch movement produced rapid subjective dumping, but not nystagmus dumping. Dd was noticeably shorter (&quot;almost instantaneous&quot;) compared to preflight Dd. Te and Td in orbit were similar to preflight Te for 3/4 subjects (rather than to preflight Td as expected). No consistent VOR gain changes were seen in orbit. Although Te is known to decrease acutely in parabolic flight, a longer time constant was measured in 3/4 subjects after 4-5 days adaptation to weightlessness, suggesting a return of angular velocity storage.

Mammalian gravity receptors (maculas) are morphologically organized for weighted, parallel distributed processing of information. There are two basic circuits: 1) highly channeled, type I cell to calyx; and 2) distributed modifying, type II cells to calyces and processes. The latter circuit should be the more adaptable since it modifies final output. To test this hypothesis, rats were flown in microgravity for 9 days aboard a space shuttle and euthanized shortly after landing. Hair cells and ribbon synapses from maculas of 3 flight and 3 ground control rats were studied ultrastructurally in blocks of 50 serial sections. Synapses increased by approximately 41% in type I cells and by approximately 55% in type II cells in flight animals. There was a shift toward the spherular form of ribbon synapse in both types of hair cells in flight animals (P &lt; or = 0.0001), a near doubling of pairs in the flight rats (P &lt; or = 0.0001), and an increase, by a factor of 12, in groups of synapses in type II cells (P &lt; or = 0.0001). Current findings tend to support the stated hypothesis and indicate that mature utricular hair cells retain synaptic plasticity, permitting adaptation to an altered gravitational environment.

The antioxidant defense alteration in young and old senescence accelerated mice (SAM) was studied by examining superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, thiobarbituric acid (TBA) reactivity, and reduced glutathione (GSH) level in brain and liver tissues. The changes were compared with those in age-paired ddY mice, a strain exhibiting normal aging. SAM mice showed an age-dependent increase in SOD activity in liver, and an age-dependent increase in TBA reactivity in both the brain and the liver; they also showed an age-dependent decrease in the GSH level in the brain and the liver. When compared with ddY mice, SAM mice showed a higher SOD activity in the brain (at both 3 and 11 months old), a lower GSH level in the liver (at 3 months old), and a higher TBA reactivity in the liver (at 3 months old). These findings suggest that the mechanism of senescence acceleration in SAM mice is to some extent related to free radical damage.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a progressive deterioration of cognitive functions. Recent studies have shown that, in addition to the classically described lesions (plaques and tangles) found in AD, this neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by neuronal and synaptic loss and by synapto-axonal pathology. Stepwise regression analysis has shown that the major correlate of cognitive deficiency is the synapse loss in the prefrontal cortex, contributing about 70% of the strength of the correlation with global psychometric tests. We review evidence that supports the theory that most of the synaptic loss in the neocortex is derived from loss of cortico-cortical associational input into the modules. This hypothesis also predicts that neuritic plaque formation in the neocortical modules could represent an aberrant sprouting reaction of associational fibers responding to abnormal growth stimuli or to local damage. On these bases, it is also proposed that the cellular substrate of AD pathology is synapto-axonal, while in certain other forms of dementia such as Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease (CJD) and HIV encephalitis (HIVE) it is primarily dendritic.
Estradiol has been shown to act in the central nervous system to promote neuronal growth, differentiation, and synaptic plasticity. Recent evidence indicates that estrogens exert these effects by enhancing the expression of genes that encode key proteins of the neuronal cytoskeleton and synaptic membranes. In a previous report, we demonstrated a sex-related difference in the developmental expression of Class II beta-tubulin (RBT(1)) mRNA, which encodes a neural-specific tubulin isotype. This difference, not shared by Class IV beta-tubulin mRNA or the mRNAs encoding neurofilament proteins, was restricted to the hypothalamus. RBT(1) mRNA levels were found to decrease in both sexes during postnatal development, but significantly earlier in females than in males, suggesting that the difference is steroid-dependent. The present experiments demonstrate that 17beta-estradiol increases, in a stereospecific manner, RBT(1) mRNA levels in the hypothalamus of developing female rats. The effect was also region-specific, us it was not detected in either the cerebral cortex or the cerebellum. The increase in RBT(1) mRNA levels was observed after either in vivo administration of 17beta-estradiol or in vitro exposure of the hypothalamus to the steroid, and it was evident during both neonatal-infantile development (4 to 12 days of age) and near the time of puberty (29 days of age). The effect was detected by RNA blot hybridization and verified by a sensitive, sequence-specific ribonuclease (RNase) protection assay. In vitro exposure of hypothalamic fragments containing the arcuate/ventromedial nucleus-median eminence region of 28-day-old animals to 17beta-estradiol prevented the decline in RBT(1) mRNA levels that follows selective blockade of mRNA synthesis via pharmacological inhibition of RNA polymerase II. The results suggest that the neurotrophic effects exerted by 17beta-estradiol during early postnatal development of the hypothalamus and in the arcuate/ventromedial nuclei at the time of puberty are, at least in part, mediated by an increase in RBT(1) mRNA levels, the consequence of an estradiol-dependent increase in RBT(1) mRNA stability.
In order to explore the effect of aberrant sprouting in the CNS, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) was administered into the neocortex of adult rats. PMA is a growth-promoting agent that activates and eventually downregulates protein kinase C (PKC), and induces in the rat the expression of several genes, including amyloid precursor protein (APP). We found that multiple injections of 100 nM PMA into the rat neocortex promote, in the first week postinjection, a widespread vacuolization of the neuropil with a subsequent disruption of the synapses in the injection site, followed, at d 15, by the formation of abnormally distended clusters of neurites that resembled aberrant, sprouting axons. At d 30, fewer aberrant sprouts were observed, and many degenerating neurites were found. At the ultrastructural level, the PMA-induced abnormal neurites at d 7-15 resembled growth cones, whereas the dystrophic neurites at d 30 contained abundant dense and laminated bodies. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that the abnormal neurites in the areas of denervation and PMA administration were positive with antisynaptophysin and antigrowth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), with an increased APP immunoreactivity surrounding them. APP immunoreactivity around the injection site was mostly associated with pyramidal neurons and glial cells. Control experiments, where saline alone or 4 alpha-phorbol 12, 13-didecanoate (PDD, an inactive phorbol derivative) was injected, failed to show aberrant sprouting neurites. Further immunohistochemical analysis showed that the PMA-treated animals presented increased amyloid beta immunoreactivity in the pyramidal cells at the site of injection, when compared with control injections. These findings suggest that aberrant sprouting induced by overstimulation could be followed by neurodegeneration. Alternatively, PKC downregulation could directly induce the neurodegeneration, with a secondary sprouting response.
We have previously demonstrated fucosyltransferase (FT) activity on mouse germ cell surfaces at different stages of spermatogenesis. To complement these findings, here we report FT activity on the Sertoli cell (SC) surface. SC isolated and cultured from 20-day-old rat testes displayed FT activity with a Vmax of 12.5 pmoles/mg protein/min and a Km of 22 microM, while purified Sertoli cell plasma membranes (SCPM) showed FT activity with a Vmax of 10 pmoles/mg protein/min and a Km of 18.2 microM for GDP-[14C]-L-fucose. Fucosyltransferase activities were 16.7 and 2.6 pmoles/mg protein/min in SC and SCPM, respectively; approximately 16% of FT activity is, therefore, on the cell surface. To test whether the expression of FT activity in SC was regulated by hormones and growth factors, SC were cultured in serum-free medium supplemented with insulin, transferrin, sodium selenite, and epidermal growth factor (medium 4F) or in 4F plus follicle-stimulating hormone, testosterone, hydrocortisone, and vitamin E (medium 8F). We found that FT activity in SC is not modulated by these hormones or growth factors (4F or 8F). For comparison with FT, galactosyltransferase (GalTase) activities in SC and SCPM were also determined. SC displayed GalTase activity with a Vmax of 50 pmoles/mg protein/min and a Km of 38.5 microM, while SCPM showed GalTase activity with a Vmax of 25 pmoles/mg protein/min and a Km of 20.8 microM for UDP-[3H]-galactose. Galactosyl-transferase activities were 29.2 and 9.6 pmoles/mg protein/min in SC and SCPM, respectively. Therefore, approximately 33% of the total cell GalTase activity was detected on the surface membranes of rat Sertoli cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Psychophysical experiments in combination with microneurography and intraneural microstimulation in awake human subjects have yielded some useful information on somatosensory functions under normal and pathologic conditions. Normally, pain is signaled by nociceptive afferents, and tactile sensations are evoked from activation of low-threshold mechanoreceptors. Following tissue injury, nociceptors are sensitized, and their enhanced responsiveness correlates with hyperalgesia to heat and in some cases to mechanical stimuli. In addition, ongoing activity in sensitized nociceptive afferents may lead to central sensitization in such a way that normally nonpainful gentle stroking the skin evokes pain from activation of low-threshold mechanoreceptors. This particular change in signal processing in the central nervous system is restored when the ongoing nociceptive input is interrupted, whereas other forms of central sensitization can outlast the duration of the nociceptive input.
The search for the identification of the sensory apparatus encoding muscle pain sensation in humans is recounted. Basic neurophysiologic animal studies, leading to a description of slowly conducting afferent from muscle and definition of high threshold polymodal muscle nociceptors, and pioneer psychophysic human studies together with recent microneurographic experiments in humans are described. The phenomena of muscle pain broad localization and distant referral are discussed, and clinical implications are extrapolated to interpret muscle pain as a localizing sign of mononeuropathy or radiculopathy. The identification of human muscle nociceptors has defined the scientific standard to test emerging clinical descriptions having muscle pain as a symptom.
It is possible to learn more about peripheral nerve function in human subjects than is obtainable with routine nerve conduction studies, and thereby to study the basis of &quot;positive&quot; symptoms, such as paresthesias. Using microneurography, ectopic impulse activity in cutaneous afferents has been recorded in patients suffering from neurologic disorders and in normal subjects in whom paresthesias were provoked by hyperventilation, prolonged tetanization of cutaneous nerves and ischemia. Using relatively simple modifications of standard nerve conduction techniques, the increases in axonal excitability responsible for this ectopic activity have been documented in human volunteers. Hyperventilation increases axonal excitability but does not change supernormality, probably because Na+ channels are activated by the decrease in [Ca2+] on the axonal membrane. Prolonged tetanic stimulation and ischemia probably share similar mechanisms. At least in motor axons, postischemic ectopic activity occurs when the hyperpolarization that results from activation of the Na+/K+ pump lowers the membrane potential below the equilibrium potential for K+. A high extracellular [K+] can then result in an inward current producing depolarization and possibly triggering regenerative processes.
Fatigue is a common but poorly understood symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD). Using previously validated scales, we asked 58 nondemented PD patients and 58 controls to fill out questionnaires assessing fatigue and depression and found that PD patients were more depressed and more fatigued than age-matched controls. Although fatigue correlated with depression but not with disease severity, many nondepressed patients had significant complaints of fatigue.
We measured the concentrations of the monoamines, their precursors, and their metabolites, and the activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in basal ganglia and cortical regions of postmortem brains from cases with histologically verified pure Alzheimer's disease (AD), AD with diffusely distributed Lewy bodies (Lewy body variant [LBV]), and normal controls. Dopamine and homovanillic acid (HVA) were severely depleted in basal ganglia of the LBV cases but were not significantly altered in pure AD cases; tyrosine hydroxylase levels in putamen were also significantly reduced in LBV but not AD cases. These reductions in basal ganglia dopamine and HVA suggest that LBV cases have a level of dopamine depletion similar to Parkinson's disease (PD). Additionally, ChAT activity in caudate and norepinephrine concentration in putamen were significantly reduced in the LBV group, which may have contributed to the absence of resting tremor and the milder presentation of parkinsonian features in this group compared with classic PD. In frontal, parietal, and temporal cortex, activity of ChAT in the LBV group was significantly reduced compared with controls and lower than in pure AD.
In the striatum, dopamine generates arachidonic acid (AA) and induces synaptic depression. Here, we report that Na+ channels are a target for AA in both cultured and acutely isolated striatal neurons. AA depressed veratrine-induced Na+ influx and neurotransmitter release. Whole-cell voltage clamp revealed that peak Na+ currents are depressed, and steady-state inactivation shifts -15 mV in the presence of AA. Furthermore, inactivation was accelerated, and recovery from inactivation was delayed. These actions of AA were not produced by AA metabolites or protein kinase C activation. In addition, AA reduced both the amplitude and frequency of action potentials and depressed spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents without affecting miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents. These data suggest that AA modulates presynaptic, Na(+)-dependent action potentials, thereby contributing to striatal synaptic depression.
Cultured myoblasts, but not myotubes, from rat skeletal muscles were infected with the RW strain of mumps virus. Such myoblasts then fused to form myotubes containing viral antigen. The infected myotubes showed a significant decrease in the number of dorsal, linear acetylcholine receptor (AChR) aggregates as determined by FITC-conjugated alfa-bungarotoxin. Infected myotubes co-cultivated with spinal cord cells showed no increase in the number of dorsal, linear AChR aggregates, compared to normal, uninfected myotubes. In addition, an increased proliferation of the myoblasts, which remained uninfected in the infected cultures, was noted. This may indicate a release of a growth stimulating factor from the virus containing cells. This study shows that mumps virus infection can lead to an altered receptor organization in a morphologically preserved cell.
Muscle biopsies were obtained from 33 consecutive HIV-infected patients with symptoms suggestive of muscle disorder. Twenty-three patients had clinical evidence of myopathy; 18 of these had been taking zidovudine (AZT) for between 8 and 28 months, and were found to have a multifocal necrotizing myopathy with little or no inflammation. However, the remaining five clinically myopathic patients, who had never received AZT or had stopped treatment at least 5 months earlier, had either a necrotizing myopathy which appeared indistinguishable for that seen in patients taking the drug, or an inflammatory myopathy. The 10 clinically non-myopathic patients showed no significant histological abnormalities. Tubuloreticular inclusions (TRI), in capillary endothelial cells, were found in all clinically myopathic cases but were not seen in five out of ten clinically non-myopathic cases. We suggest that AZT causes a myopathy only when an underlying HIV-related inflammatory myopathy is present. The drug appears to substantially reduce the inflammatory reaction in the muscle, but this may recur when the drug is stopped. The appearance of TRI may be the first manifestation of HIV activity in muscle.
Adenosine was found to decrease the amplitude of presynaptic fiber spikes recorded in stratum radiatum of the CA1 region of the hippocampus following stimulation of the Schaffer collateral and commissural afferents. The presynaptic fiber spike reflects currents activated in the presynaptic fibers and nerve terminals of this projection. However, the effect of adenosine was largely the result of: (a) temporal overlap between the presynaptic fiber spike and the field EPSP response and (b) an indirect effect most likely related to the hyperpolarization of CA3 neurons giving rise to the Schaffer collateral fibers. When the CA3 region was separated by a knife cut from the CA1 region and the field EPSP blocked with 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, the effect of adenosine was markedly reduced, but was still significant (4.4 +/- 1.4% reduction in the amplitude of the presynaptic fiber spike). However, this action was not mimicked by the Ca2+ channel antagonist cadmium, suggesting that it did not reflect an inhibition of Ca2+ currents by adenosine. This effect was not observed in the presence of the K+ channel antagonists Ba2+ or diaminopyridine. These results suggest that adenosine may have a small hyperpolarizing effect on the presynaptic nerve terminals, but this is unlikely to be the mechanism by which adenosine modulates transmission in this brain region.
Increases in mRNA levels for c-fos, c-jun, junB, hsp70 and NGFI-A were observed in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus following 7 min ischaemia in the Mongolian gerbil. The response was rapid and transient (30 min to 4 hr) for NGFI-A, junB and c-fos mRNA. In contrast c-jun mRNA remained increased for several hours. Hsp70 increased in the dentate gyrus 1 hr after the insult, returned to control values at 4 hr and showed a secondary increase at 24 hr. At 24 hr increased hsp70 mRNA was observed in other regions of the CNS, i.e. CA1, CA2, CA3 and cortex. The non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine, attenuated the increases in IEG expression and was neuroprotective. In contrast the kappa opiate receptor agonist, enadoline, protected the CA1 neurones from degeneration but did not inhibit the increased levels of IEG mRNA. Increases in hsp70 mRNA were reduced to baseline by both enadoline and dizocilpine. These results suggest that inhibition of IEG expression is not a prerequisite for neuroprotection. However, hsp70 was predictive of neuronal protection and may be a useful assay in this and related models.
Antipsychotic drugs provide effective relief from hallucinations but do not improve, and may even induce, other symptoms of schizophrenia. Tardive dyskinesia, which is often associated with intellectual impairment, is generally attributed to chronic therapy with antipsychotic drugs. However, the possible contribution of medication to cognitive impairment is not easily dissociated from the underlying progression of the disease. Recently evidence has accumulated from studies performed in patients and experimental monkeys that augmentation of catecholamine function may improve performance on certain cognitive tasks. Further investigation of the role of catecholamines in cognition is warranted in order to assist development of antipsychotic drugs with fewer undesirable effects and entirely new approaches to therapy for cognitive impairment in schizophrenia.
The protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid was used to investigate the role of protein phosphatases in regulating the release of amino acids from synaptosomes. Okadaic acid increased the basal release of the amino acids glutamate, aspartate and GABA. The effect was specific in that taurine was not released by either KCl or okadaic acid and there was no synaptosomal lysis or change in ATP/ADP ratios in the presence of okadaic acid. The okadaic acid-stimulated release of amino acids was, however, only a small proportion of that produced by KCl depolarisation. Since okadaic acid raised synaptosomal protein phosphorylation levels to those equivalent to that produced by KCl depolarisation, it is unlikely therefore that there is a direct causal relationship between protein phosphorylation and the release of amino acids. Nevertheless, that release of amino acids from synaptosomes can be elevated under basal conditions by okadaic acid treatment does suggest that okadaic acid-sensitive protein phosphatases have a modulatory role in this process.
The effects of differential rearing on synaptic morphology in the granule cell layer of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) were examined in adult rats. Forty-day-old male rats were housed in one of three ways: individually (isolated condition, IC); with four males per cage (unisexual condition, UC); or with two males and two females per cage (social condition, SC). After 2 months, the animals were killed for electron microscopy. Two types of synapses were classified: (1) perforated synapses, which are characterized by discontinuities in their postsynaptic thickenings, and (2) non-perforated synapses. The length of the synaptic contact zone as well as the area and the length of the perimeter of both the pre- and postsynaptic terminals were measured in each observed synapse. For perforated synapses, the length of the synaptic contact zone was significantly greater in the UC and the SC than in the IC. For the presynaptic terminals of perforated synapses, the area was greater in the UC and the SC than in the IC, and the length of the perimeter was greater in the UC than in the IC. In contrast, there was no difference in the area and the length of the perimeter among the three groups for postsynaptic terminals. For non-perforated synapses, there was no statistically significant difference in either the area or the length of the perimeter of pre- and postsynaptic terminals among the three experimental groups, although the length of the synaptic contact zone was greater in the SC than in the IC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP serve as second messengers in a variety of neural cells, modulating their metabolic and electrical activity. The cyclic GMP-stimulated cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase, an enzyme whose hydrolytic activity is allosterically regulated by cyclic GMP in peripheral tissues, could play an important role in the regulation of cyclic nucleotide levels in the brain. To study the presence and distribution of cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase in the rat brain, we cloned a portion of rat liver cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase complementary DNA by polymerase chain reaction, using degenerate phosphodiesterase-specific oligonucleotide primers. Northern blot analysis of rat tissues reveals abundant expression of cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase messenger RNA in the brain. Northern blot analysis of brain subregions shows especially strong expression in hippocampus and cortex, modest expression in the remainder of the forebrain and in the midbrain, and little expression in cerebellum and hindbrain. In situ hybridization studies with cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase riboprobes confirm these northern blot results, and delineate cell groups with high levels of expression. Medial habenular nucleus is intensely labeled, as is hippocampus in the vicinity of pyramidal and granule cell bodies in areas CA1, CA2, CA3, and dentate gyrus. Other elements of the limbic system also contain cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase messenger RNA, including olfactory and entorhinal cortices, subiculum, and amygdala. Additional cortical regions show more diffuse expression of cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase messenger RNA, as do the basal ganglia. Cerebellum, thalamus, and hypothalamus do not show appreciable specific labeling. These studies demonstrate the presence of cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase messenger RNA in specific regions of the rat brain, and suggest that the cyclic GMP-stimulated phosphodiesterase might modulate neuronal activity by regulating intracellular cyclic AMP levels in response to changes in intracellular cyclic GMP levels.
In the present experiments, we investigated the influence of chronic modifications of circulating levels of corticosterone on the locomotor response to amphetamine. Different groups of rats were adrenalectomized and implanted subcutaneously with pellets releasing different amounts of corticosterone (0-200 mg). A wide range of corticosterone concentrations was reached in order to saturate selectively either the type I (mineralocorticoid) or the type II (glucocorticoid) corticosteroid receptors. The locomotor response to d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg) was studied 10-14 days later. We found that adrenalectomy reduced the response to d-amphetamine by 33% and that a normal response was restored with pellets releasing physiological concentrations of corticosterone (50-mg pellets), and was potentiated in animals with pellets releasing high amounts of corticosterone mimicking chronic stress situations (200-mg pellets). The correlation between plasma corticosterone concentration, locomotor activity following d-amphetamine and thymus weight, which is a reliable indicator of glucocorticoid action, shows that the influence of the locomotor response to d-amphetamine administration is likely to be mediated via a type II receptor. Since the locomotor activating effect of peripheral administration of d-amphetamine has been shown to depend on the integrity of the dopaminergic innervation of the nucleus accumbens, the effect of d-amphetamine at different doses (0, 1, 3, 10 micrograms/microliter) injected directly into the nucleus accumbens was studied. The results demonstrated that removing the circulating corticosterone induced a similar decrease of the locomotor activity elicited by d-amphetamine injection in the nucleus accumbens. This response was restored in animals with the 50- and 200-mg pellets.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study examined the synaptic relation between the primary afferent terminals and intrinsic neuronal elements in the rat cuneate nucleus. For this purpose, experimental degeneration after multiple cervicothoracic dorsal rhizotomies or anterograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were used to identify the primary afferent terminals, while immunogold postembedding staining was employed to identify the GABA-immunoreactive boutons. The combined procedure allowed us to demonstrate a direct synaptic relationship between the primary afferent terminals and GABA-immunoreactive boutons. At least two types of synaptic relation were observed between the primary afferent terminals, identified by their degenerating features or labeled by wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, and the immunogold-labeled GABA-immunoreactive boutons (i) a GABA-immunoreactive bouton making a simple presynaptic contact with the primary afferent terminal; and (ii) a synaptic glomerular complex in which the centrally located primary afferent terminal was postsynaptic to a GABA-immunoreactive bouton and presynaptic to dendrites closely associated with it; both terminals were sometimes presynaptic to a common dendrite. It is speculated from this study that the incoming impulses from the forelimb area are modulated by the GABA-immunoreactive boutons in the cuneate nucleus of the rat.
Retinae from embryonic rats transplanted over the midbrain of newborn host rats establish connections with visual centres of the host brain, which mediate a pupilloconstrictor response in the host eye when the transplant is stimulated by light. The changes in the size of the host pupil can be measured accurately with a pupillometry system. We have taken advantage of the additional observation that while grafts between rat strains, as between Long Evans and Sprague-Dawley strains, may survive indefinitely, they can be induced to reject by skin grafting from the strain providing the donor retinal tissue. Combining pupillometry with skin grafting provides a useful way of examining correlated anatomical and behavioural changes associated with graft rejection from its earliest stage to the point of overt destruction. Even within three days of skin grafting, the amplitude and speed of constriction as well as the response latency all showed significant enhancement from normal, and this was sustained for a further week or more. Response deterioration followed during the second week post-skin grafting, but the exact timing varied considerably among animals. Anatomical observations of the process of retinal rejection showed the first invasion of lymphocytes to occur between days 5 and 7 and total degeneration of the retinal transplant and its projections to occur by two to three weeks post-skin grafting. The lymphocytic infiltration was preceded by upregulation of microglia, which expressed both class I and II major histocompatibility antigens and by activation of astrocytes identified by their expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein. Within the target region of retinal transplant axons, major histocompatibility antigen expression and astrocytic responses preceded degeneration of transplant derived axons (demonstrated by the Fink-Heimer stain) and there was no evidence for any lymphocytic lymphocytic infiltration during transplant rejection. These observations show that the earliest stages of microglial activation are accompanied by an enhancement of response parameters, but that the functional failure finally occurs only at an advanced stage of graft destruction. The absence of lymphocytic infiltration into areas receiving terminals from axons of transplant origin, even though these contain significant numbers of reactive microglia, suggests that the terminal axonal processes are not a primary target for the immune response.
We were interested to discover whether microglia could play a role in the remodelling of the adult CNS or participate in adaptations to physiological rather than pathological changes. We have studied microglia in the neurohypophysis of adult mice since microglia normally interact with neurons in this tissue and the biochemical and anatomical consequences of osmotic stress on the neurohypophysis are well known. In this study, we have examined microglial immuno-phenotype and numbers synthesizing DNA in the neurohypophysis of adult mice to establish whether these cells respond to progressive osmotic stress. Neurohypophyseal F4/80+ microglia underwent a large synchronous burst of DNA synthesis 48 h after initiation of osmotic stress (drinking 2.5% saline). The labelling index (percentage of F4/80+ cells labelled by [3H]thymidine) 1 h after injection the isotope rose to 17% from a control value of less than 1%. On the third day of treatment the labelling index had returned to control levels. In contrast, non-microglia cells in the neurohypophysis and microglial cells elsewhere in the brain did not show this response. The increase in DNA synthesis was not accompanied by signs of microglia activation commonly observed in inflammatory models. They did not acquire an &quot;activated&quot; or &quot;hypertrophic&quot; morphology, nor was their staining with a panel of antibodies greatly altered. A small up-regulation of CD45 expression was the only phenotypic change detected. Thus, neurohypophyseal microglia respond to increased neurosecretory activity during the adaptation to osmotic stress in a distinctive way which differs from microglia reactions to inflammatory stimuli elsewhere in the CNS.
We investigated the temporal profile of heat shock protein 70 induction in the rat hippocampus using immunohistochemistry to clarify the mechanism of ischemic tolerance following preconditioning with sublethal ischemia. Although a 6-min period of forebrain ischemia produced severe neuronal damage to the hippocampal CA1 subfield, preconditioning with 3 min of ischemia followed by three days of reperfusion protected against the CA1 neuronal damage after 6 min of ischemia. Immunohistochemical staining against heat shock protein 70 showed that the protein is induced in CA1 pyramidal cells one, three and seven days after 3 min of ischemia, the immunostaining being most intense after three days. Heat shock protein synthesis was observed in CA1, CA3 and dentate hilar neurons one and three days after 6 min of ischemia, both with and without preconditioning. In addition, the heat shock protein was stained in the CA1 2 h and seven days after 6 min of ischemia with preconditioning, but the intensity of staining was relatively weak at these time points. The results suggest that stress response induced by sublethal ischemia protects against ischemic neuronal damage, and that the induced stress response, including heat shock protein 70 synthesis during and immediately after the second ischemic episode, is correlated with the protection because late induction of the heat shock protein did not prevent neuronal death.
In small animals the damaging effects of repetitive ischemia are more severe than a single insult of similar duration. Prolonged release of glutamate may correlate with the degree of damage. We report the protective effects of CGS-19755 (an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker), hypothermia or CGS-19755 in combination with mild hypothermia, in a gerbil model of repetitive ischemia. We used 3 min of forebrain ischemia and repeated it for a total of three times as 1-h intervals. Damage was assessed seven days after the insult. In the group where only CGS-19755 was used, significant neuronal protection was evident in the hippocampus (CA1 and CA3), striatum, and medial geniculate nucleus. With hypothermia significantly less damage was seen in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus (CA1 and CA4), and substantia nigra reticulata. When CGS-19755 was combined with mild hypothermia the effects of repetitive ischemia were completely abolished in all but one gerbil. Compared to hypothermia alone, significant protection was seen in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus (sibiculum, CA1 and CA4), striatum, medial geniculate nucleus, thalamus, and substantia nigra reticulata. The use of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockers may protect the brain in repetitive ischemia. Combination with hypothermia may further enhance this protection.
In the olfactory bulb, the activity of the output neurons, the mitral cells, is under inhibitory control exerted by GABAergic interneurons, the granule cells. Although the mechanisms of this inhibition are well known from in vitro studies, its physiological role in controlling mitral cell activity in response to odours has never been investigated. This study planned to improve understanding of the involvement of granule cells. To do so, GABAA-synaptic mechanisms were altered using GABAA antagonists in order to observe the consequences on mitral cell electrophysiological responses to odours, delivered over a wide concentration range. Due to the laminar organization of bulbar cell populations, the antagonists picrotoxin or bicuculline were injected into the bulbar ventricle in order to block granule cell inhibitory action at first. Surprisingly, the early consequence of the antagonist injection was a decrease in cell responsivity: response spike frequencies were lowered while thresholds were occasionally shifted toward higher concentrations. This initial depressive effect was followed by a recovery of control excitability and, later, by an increase in excitability: spike bursts became more sustained in frequency and in duration. At the same time, in most of the cells studied, spontaneous activity became bursting. The early depressive effect of GABAA antagonists is discussed in terms of an enhancement of the inhibitory influence of granule cells on mitral cells. This might reflect a blocking action of the antagonists at the level of GABAergic synapses located on granule cells themselves. The late effect, an increase in excitability, is explained as the consequence of the alteration of the functioning of dendrodendritic synapses between granule and mitral cells leading to a disinhibition of the latter. The comparison of the present findings with others obtained when antagonists were applied on to glomerular layers led us to infer that granule cell inhibition would be devoted to limiting mitral cell responses in frequency and in duration rather than to adjusting their response threshold. The chronology of the effects observed strongly supports the fact that, following the intraventricular injection, the antagonists acted primarily in the deep layers of the bulb. Nevertheless, due to free diffusion starting from the injection site, the possibility that drugs act later in the glomerular layer can not be rejected. It can be concluded that, in addition to its extensive involvement through intrinsic interneurons, GABA might also control the strength of the inhibition exerted by granule cells on mitral cells via centrifugal fibres.
The persistent excitatory effects of the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine-M were investigated in guinea-pig olfactory cortex neurons in vitro (28-30 degrees C) using a single-microelectrode current-clamp/voltage-clamp technique. In 40% of recorded cells (type 1), bath-application of oxotremorine-M (2-10 microM; 1-2 min) induced a strong membrane depolarization, an increase in input resistance and a sustained neuronal discharge lasting over 30 min following agonist washout. A large depolarizing stimulus applied during the action of oxotremorine-M, evoked a slow post-stimulus afterdepolarization (approximately 10-15 mV) lasting approximately 30 s. Injection of steady negative current at the peak of this response produced a slow repolarization of the membrane potential (half-time approximately 0.6 min) towards a plateau level (&quot;hyperpolarization recovery&quot;); these effects of oxotremorine-M were slowly reversed on washout or by application of atropine (1 microM). In a second population of neurons (type 2; 39% of total), oxotremorine-M produced a large depolarization, a resistance increase and repetitive firing that did not persist after agonist washout; these neurons failed to generate a prominent slow afterdepolarization on stimulation, and showed no hyperpolarization recovery effect. Their resting membrane properties were not significantly different from those of type 1 cells. The remaining proportion of cells (type 3) elicited little or no muscarinic response to oxotremorine-M and no slow afterdepolarization; these cells showed characteristics spike fractionation (pre-potentials) during an evoked train of action potentials.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of seven different binding sites for the transmitters L-glutamate (L-glutamate binding sites and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor), GABA (GABAA receptor), noradrenaline (alpha 1 receptor), acetylcholine (muscarinic M1 and M2 receptors) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine1 receptor) are analysed in the primary visual cortex (area 17) of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, using quantitative autoradiography. All binding sites show a well-defined laminar pattern, which changes sharply at the cytoarchitectonic border to area 18. The quantitative data show that the distribution of different receptors is relatively invariant across the cortical layers. Almost all receptors show a maximum in supragranular layers, low densities in layers IVA/IVB and a second maximum in layer IVC. Statistical analysis of these similarities in laminar distribution patterns of different receptors (co-distribution) reveals, as in other brain regions and species, that L-glutamate binding sites are co-distributed with N-methyl-D-aspartate, GABAA, and muscarinic M1 and M2 receptors. This may reflect the structural basis of a possible interaction between these receptors and their respective transmitters on the level of single cortical layers. Further co-distributions are found between N-methyl-D-aspartate, GABAA and M1, as well as between alpha 1 and M1 and finally between M1 and M2 receptors. Since not all receptors are co-distributed, the similarities in laminar patterns reveal specific aspects of the neurochemical organization of the cortex when receptors of different transmitter systems are analysed in the same brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dynamics of orientation tuning was studied by a flashing light bar in 233 single units of cat primary visual cortex. Orientation tuning was plotted by the criterion of spike number in successive fragments of responses with a step of 10 or 20 ms. Preferred orientation and the width of orientation tuning were measured for each of such curves. It was found that successive dynamic change of preferred orientation during response was typical for 63% of units under study, while such change of orientation tuning width was typical for 93%. Neurons with or without shift in preferred orientation differed in their response characteristics: latency and duration of discharge, its frequency and response rise time, as well as quality of orientation tuning. Possible functional significance of two groups of cortical units, &quot;scanners&quot; (with systematic preferred orientation shift) and &quot;timers&quot; (without it), is discussed in accordance with the idea of spatiotemporal orientation coding in the primary visual cortex.
Odorant signal processing takes place in a diverse group of primary olfactory areas which receive direct input from the olfactory bulb. Orbitofrontal cortices participate in olfactory functions, but the pathways through which they receive olfactory or other input have not been clearly defined. The retrograde tracers horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent dyes were injected in orbital cortices to study their afferent cortical connections. Labeled neurons in primary olfactory areas (prepiriform cortex, anterior olfactory nucleus and olfactory tubercle) were directed mainly to a posterior orbitofrontal region and to a lesser extent the neighboring caudal part of area 13. There was no evidence of direct projections from primary olfactory areas to the rostral parts of area 13, or to areas 12 or 11. Most labeled neurons in primary olfactory areas were directed to agranular cortices, fewer projected to dysgranular areas, and there was no evidence that any reached granular cortices. The areas which received the most robust olfactory projections showed the lowest degree of laminar organization among prefrontal cortices. Early processing in the olfactory system thus takes place in areas which differ sharply on structural grounds from &quot;early&quot; eulaminate post-Rolandic sensory cortices. In addition to olfactory cortical projections, numerous labeled neurons in transitional (limbic) cortices were directed to orbital areas, and fewer but still substantial numbers of afferent neurons were found in eulaminate cortices. Unlike post-Rolandic unimodal sensory areas, which seems to be committed to the processing of input from one sensory modality via sequential and/or parallel pathways, caudal orbital areas received highly distributed input from primary olfactory areas, and in addition, from gustatory, visual, auditory and somatosensory areas. The structural and connectional features of olfactory recipient orbital cortices thus differ markedly from those observed in other sensory association areas and suggest a mode of processing adapted early in cortical evolution.
The combined volume of an asymmetric cytoarchitectonic area is smaller than that of symmetric homologs. Asymmetry reflects fewer numbers of neurons in the smaller of the two sides. In this study we examined two types of neurons to check whether lateral differences in neuronal numbers affect different types of neurons comparably in the neocortex of the rat. As with overall neuronal numbers, both parvalbumin-immunoreactive (mostly long projection) neurons, and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive interneurons increase in number in the larger of the two sides. Moreover, the concentration of parvalbumin- but not vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons also increases on the larger side. Thus, there may be qualitative as well as quantitative differences in the connectivity of the larger side of an asymmetric architectonic region.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus in the anterior hypothalamus contains a circadian oscillator that is responsible for 24-h rhythms in several behavioral, endocrine and autonomic processes. Efferent suprachiasmatic projections are likely to transmit rhythmic information to brain nuclei controlling these functions. The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus is considered to be a target of the suprachiasmatic nucleus due to its important role in autonomic and endocrine regulation. The present study applied extracellular electrophysiological techniques to intact animals to look for a possible interaction between suprachiasmatic nucleus efferents and identified neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. Results showed that electrical stimulation of the suprachiasmatic nucleus induced an increase in the excitability of 87% of paraventricular neurons that project to the median eminence and are situated in the medial and dorsal parvocellular subnucleus; neurons with similar projections but located in the periventricular subnucleus displayed a reduction in firing rate following suprachiasmatic stimulation. Electrical activation of the suprachiasmatic nucleus provoked a decrease in excitability in 75% of paraventricular neurons in the posterior magnocellular subnucleus that send axons to the posterior pituitary and in 85% of paraventricular neurons, located in the medial parvocellular subnucleus, that project to the dorsal vagus complex in the brainstem. The data imply that functional and selective neural connections exist between suprachiasmatic nucleus efferents and specific cell groups within the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. These projections would be able to convey rhythmic information to certain endocrine and autonomic functions. The anatomical and neurochemical characteristics of the underlying pathways remain to be determined.
Entrainment of the circadian pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic nucleus is accomplished by two neural pathways, the retinohypothalamic and geniculohypothalamic tracts. The geniculohypothalamic tract, which originates from the intergeniculate leaflet and a portion of the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, is composed of fibers immunoreactive to neuropeptide Y. To assess the processing of photic information by the geniculohypothalamic tract, neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of rats kept under various external lighting conditions was determined by enzyme immunoassay of micropunched tissues. Neuropeptide Y levels in the suprachiasmatic nucleus steadily increased when rats were exposed to continuous light and reached a peak in 2 h before returning to basal level. The amount of increase did not depend on intensity and duration of light exposure. A light pulse as short as 5 min elicited a similar rise in neuropeptide Y, indicating that the response is due to the sudden transition from dark to light. This response, however, was only observed when the dark to light transition occurred at circadian time 0 (subjective dawn) of the pacemaker. A light pulse at circadian time 0, which effectively induces the increase in neuropeptide Y level, does not significantly shift the phase of the circadian rhythm. This observation indicates that the photic pathway utilizing neuropeptide Y may be functional only when the endogenous circadian rhythm is synchronized to external light and dark cycles. Administration of an excitatory amino acid antagonist (MK-801) blocked the increase of neuropeptide Y by light, while an agonist (N-methyl-D-aspartate) induced similar facilitatory effects to that of light on the neuropeptide Y level in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus. These results suggest that the geniculohypothalamic tract processes photic information so as to facilitate distinction of the transition between light and darkness that occurs either at subjective dawn or dusk.
Expression of the messenger RNAs encoding the five different muscarinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes was examined in intracardiac neurons from the rat and guinea-pig heart by in situ hybridization techniques. Newborn guinea-pig intracardiac neurons were studied in dissociated cell culture preparations employing both 35S- and digoxigenin-labelled oligonucleotide probes specific for the m1, m2, m3, m4 or m5 muscarinic receptor messenger RNAs. When 35S-tailed oligonucleotides were used, all intracardiac neurons in culture were found to express m1, m2, m3 and m4, but not m5 messenger RNAs. However after hybridization with digoxigenin-tailed probes, only m1 and m2 transcripts were detected. This may reflect differences in the sensitivity of the two techniques. Further to these experiments, intracardiac ganglia in sections of adult rat heart were studied employing m1-, m2-, m3- or m4-specific, 35S-labelled oligonucleotides, and again, all intracardiac neurons expressed messenger RNA for each of these four muscarinic receptor subtypes. Atrial myocytes in culture were only labelled by [35S]- and digoxigenin-tailed m2 oligonucleotides. No other heart cell type seen expressed messenger RNA for any of the muscarinic receptors. The expression of four different muscarinic receptor transcripts by intrinsic neurons of the heart provides the molecular basis for the diverse muscarinic actions observed in these and other autonomic ganglia.
Selective, 35S-labeled, oligonucleotide probes were designed from sequences of the rat beta-1 and beta-2 adrenoceptor messenger RNAs for use in situ hybridization experiments on sections of unfixed rat brain and spinal cord. After hybridized sections were exposed to film or dipped in autoradiographic emulsion, specific and selective labeling patterns characteristic for each receptor messenger RNA and region of the central nervous system were observed. For example, labeling for beta-1 messenger RNA was found in the anterior olfactory nucleus, cerebral cortex, lateral intermediate septal nucleus, reticular thalamic nucleus, oculomotor complex, vestibular nuclei, deep cerebellar nuclei, trapezoid nucleus, abducens nucleus, ventrolateral pontine and medullary reticular formations, the intermediate gray matter of the spinal cord and in the pineal gland, while beta-2 messenger RNA labeling was strongest in the olfactory bulb, piriform cortex, hippocampal formation, thalamic intralaminar nuclei and cerebellar cortex. In some of these regions the beta-1 labeling seemed mainly confined to the cell nucleus. Whether or not this apparently nuclear labeling is specific, i.e. indicates synthesis of beta-1 receptor, remains to be established. However, all labeling patterns described disappeared when excess unlabeled probes were added to their respective radiolabeled probes or when sense probes were employed. Since the in situ method labels only cell bodies that produce the messenger RNA for these two beta receptor subtypes, a comparison between these maps and those of past autoradiographic studies mapping the location of central beta receptors using drugs as radioligands may produce further insights regarding the pre- and postsynaptic localization of these receptors in the various parts of the central nervous system circuitry.
A 110,000 mol.wt laminin-binding protein from newborn mouse brain recognizes a neurite promoting laminin A chain site and is related to the beta-amyloid precursor protein. In the present study, we examined the expression of 110,000 mol.wt laminin-binding protein in brains of adult mice, rats, and non-human primates. Essentially identical immunoreactivities were observed across species with distinct staining of cortical pyramidal neurons with apical dendrites, cerebellar basket cell axons, hippocampal mossy fibers, and fine labeling of processes throughout the brain. Colocalization of immunoreactivities to 110,000 mol.wt laminin-binding protein and to laminin in neurons of the adult rat brain was observed. Electron microscopy demonstrated that 110,000 mol.wt laminin-binding protein-like immunoreactivity is intracellular and is possibly associated with the neuronal cytoskeleton. Western blot analysis revealed that anti-110,000 mol.wt laminin-binding protein also recognizes a 140,000 mol.wt protein in the pellet, in addition to the 110,000 mol.wt protein in the Triton soluble extract. Antibody fractions specific to the two reactive protein species (110,000 mol.wt and 140,000 mol.wt) exhibited cross-reactivity on immunoblots and revealed similar immunohistochemical staining in adult brain. Results suggest a significant interaction between laminin-like molecules and 110,000 mol.wt laminin-binding protein-like molecules in normal brain function, in response to CNS injury and possibly in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Calcitonin-producing cells are endocrine derivatives of the neural crest and have several neuron-like properties. Expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule in calcitonin-producing cells was examined using two types of antibodies to neural cell adhesion molecule: monoclonal antibody 12E3 recognizes the polysialic acid portion of highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule, and monoclonal antibody AF11 and polyclonal antiserum react with the polypeptide portion common to three major isoforms of neural cell adhesion molecule. An immunohistochemical study revealed that highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule was expressed both in fetal rat thyroidal calcitonin-producing cells and in a calcitonin-producing cell line, rMTC 6-23, established from explantable neoplasm of rat calcitonin-producing cells. The neural cell adhesion molecule in the rMTC 6-23 cells was further characterized by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis. Two anti-neural cell adhesion molecule monoclonal antibodies, 12E3 and AF11, revealed a broad positive band around 200,000-250,000 mol. wt in solubilized proteins. When the polysialic acids were eliminated by neuraminidase treatment, the immunoreactivity to monoclonal antibody 12E3 was completely abolished, and core polypeptide corresponding to neural cell adhesion molecule with a molecular weight of 120,000 was detected by monoclonal antibody AF11. These results suggest that cells of the calcitonin-producing cell line express on their surfaces highly polysialylated 120,000 mol. wt form of neural cell adhesion molecule polypeptide.
Spontaneous neuronal bursting occurs in many areas of chick forebrain. Day-old chicks trained using a one-trial task to avoid a methylanthranilate-coated bead (methyl-chicks) show a significant increase in bursting when compared to chicks trained to peck a water-coated bead (water-chicks). This increase occurs in two forebrain areas: the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale and the lobus parolfactorius. Bursting was recorded from the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale of anaesthetized methyl- and water-chicks at eight time-points over the period 1-9 h post-test. Data merged over this period showed that methyl-chicks displayed an overall increase in bursting in both left and right hemispheres when compared to water-chicks. When burst activity was compared against time, bursting in methyl-chicks was significantly elevated only during the period 3-7 h post-test. Maximal bursting in methyl-chicks was seen 6-7 h post-test. These results suggest that the training-induced increase in bursting seen in the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale of methyl-chicks is not a simple, generalized increase with time but rather has a significant temporal aspect. These results may have particular relevance to previously proposed models of memory formation in the chick.
Using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique on acutely dissociated and cultured adult rat sensory neurons, we characterized the K+ currents by voltage dependence, kinetics, calcium dependence, and pharmacology. In the presence of Ca channel blockers, the cells heterogeneously expressed transient and sustained outward K+ currents. The transient current was a high-threshold A-current which activated at potentials greater than -30 mV and was blocked by 4-aminopyridine. Some of the sustained current was classified as a delayed rectifier. It demonstrated shallow voltage-dependent inactivation and was blocked by tetraethylammonium. Capsaicin produced large reductions in both transient and sustained currents with an EC50 of 8 microM. Likewise, dendrotoxin partially blocked both currents but with an EC50 of 21 nM. In the absence of Ca channel blockers, a prominent Ca-dependent K+ current was observed. The kinetics of whole-cell potassium currents varied widely among cells, perhaps reflecting the different functional properties of sensory neurons. We also investigated the effects of elevating intracellular cyclic AMP and applying opioids on K+ currents. Membrane-permanent analogs of cyclic AMP and phosphodiesterase inhibitors caused small reductions in voltage-dependent outward current. In contrast, forskolin produced a large reduction in outward current. This response was not solely mediated by cyclic AMP, since large responses were elicited with an inactive congener, 1,9-dideoxyforskolin, but not with the active, water-soluble congener, 7-deacetyl-6-[N-acetylglycyl]-forskolin. Surprisingly, opioids had no effect on resting or voltage-dependent K+ conductances. However, opioid inhibition of Ca2+ currents and Ca-dependent K+ currents was observed. The failure to demonstrate opioid modulation of resting or voltage dependent K+ currents suggests that modulation of Ca2+ currents is the principal mechanism for the inhibitory effect of opioids on sensory neurons.
It has previously been shown that an intracellular serine/threonine kinase known as extracellularly signal-regulated kinase, also known as microtubule-associated protein kinase, is phosphorylated and activated in response to a range of hormones, growth factors (e.g. nerve growth factor) and neurotransmitters (e.g. N-methyl-D-aspartate) in a variety of cells including neurons. Extracellularly regulated kinases phosphorylate transcription factors, cytoskeletal proteins and enzyme targets. As such they are believed to function in neuronal signal transduction. In situ hybridization histochemistry using synthetic oligonucleotide probes has been used to identify cells in the adult rat central nervous system containing messenger RNAs coding for two isoforms of extracellularly regulated kinase. Extracellularly regulated kinase-2 messenger RNA was observed in many regions including the cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb, hippocampus, amygdala, basal ganglia (except the globus pallidus and endopeduncular nucleus), basal nucleus, thalamus, hypothalamus, brain stem nuclei, cerebellum and neurons in the spinal cord. Extracellularly regulated kinase-1 messenger RNA was confined to fewer regions than extracellularly regulated kinase-2 messenger RNA. Hybridization signals for extracellularly regulated kinase-1 were seen in the olfactory bulb, cortex, regions of the hippocampus, amygdala, nucleus basalis of Maynert, substantia nigra, some hypothalamic and brainstem nuclei and cerebellum, as well as neurons of the spinal cord. Of particular interest, extracellularly regulated kinase-1 messenger RNA was absent from all regions of the basal ganglia and thalamus. Furthermore, extracellularly regulated kinase-1 was almost absent from the CA1 region, whereas extracellularly regulated kinase-2 was present in all neurons of the hippocampus. There were no CNS regions that expressed extracellularly regulated kinase-1 but not extracellularly regulated kinase-2; however, neurons of the dorsal root ganglia showed extracellularly regulated kinase-1 but not extracellularly regulated kinase-2 messenger RNA. Although extracellularly regulated kinase-1 and extracellularly regulated kinase-2 expression was selectively neuronal in the brain, extracellularly regulated kinase-1 messenger RNA was localized to glia in the spinal cord. The distinct cellular distribution of individual extracellularly regulated kinases in the adult rat CNS suggests that they play unique signalling roles.
The duration of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of awake rats was examined following systematic manipulation of the number of stimulus trains delivered. This was correlated with the induction of immediate early genes in separate groups of animals given identical stimulus regimes. Following 10 trains of stimulation, long-term potentiation decayed with a time constant of up to several days (long-term potentiation 2), and this correlated with the appearance of an increase in the messenger RNA and protein levels of zif/268. Increasing the number of stimulus trains resulted in a greater probability of eliciting long-term potentiation with a time constant of several weeks (long-term potentiation 3), as well as increasing the induction of zif/268, c-Jun, Jun-B, Jun-D and Fos-related proteins. When 10 trains were delivered repeatedly on up to five consecutive days, only the zif/268 protein levels showed associated changes. These data provide support for the hypothesis that long-term potentiation 3 involves mechanisms additional to those for long-term potentiation 2. One possible mechanism is altered gene expression, initiated by immediate early gene transcription factors such as zif/268 and possibly homo- or heterodimers of Fos and Jun family members, that then contributes to the stabilization or maintenance of long-term potentiation 3.
Adenosine has been shown to be a major regulator of neuronal activity in convulsive disorders, exerting its anticonvulsant effect through central A1 adenosine receptors. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of generalized tonic-clonic seizures induced by pentylentetrazol on regional changes in A1 adenosine receptor density and distribution in the mouse brain by in vitro quantitative autoradiography. As radioligand the specific agonist of A1 receptors [3H]cyclohexyladenosine was used. After two consecutive (once daily) pentylentetrazol-induced convulsions a widespread upregulation of A1 receptor density was detected with a marked enhancement in structures that mediate seizure activity like hippocampus, mamillary bodies, septum, substantia nigra, thalamic nuclei and cerebral cortices. On the contrary, in basal ganglia a significant downregulation of A1 receptors was observed. These results indicate that: (i) the observed increases or decreases in A1 receptor density are organized in selective anatomical structures related to seizure development rather than uniform in the brain; and (ii) since the upregulation of A1 receptors is sufficient to enhance the physiological depressive response of adenosine, the overall evoked increases seen here may lead to a stronger inhibitory tone and accordingly to a more efficient anticonvulsant effect of endogenous adenosine.
Administration of N-methyl-DL-aspartate (85 mg/ml) was given by infusion (0.14 ml/min) until a clonic seizure was elicited. In situ hybridization was used to assess regional levels of four immediate early gene messenger RNA levels (c-fos, c-jun, junB, and a nerve growth factor induced gene, NGFI-A). Messenger RNA levels were highest at 25 min following infusion of N-methyl-DL-aspartate. c-jun messenger RNA levels remained elevated for over 2 h; however, c-fos, junB and, NGFI-A messenger RNA levels had returned to control levels by this time. Expression was detected in the hippocampus, hypothalamus and piriform cortex. Pre-treatment (30 min prior to N-methyl-DL-aspartate) with the anticonvulsant drugs dizocilpine maleate (1 mg/kg) and HA 966 (200 micrograms, i.c.v.) resulted in significantly reduced immediate early gene messenger RNA levels in the hypothalamus and piriform cortex, and attenuated levels in the hippocampus. Pre-treatment with the anticonvulsant agent enadoline (3 mg/kg), given at an anticonvulsant dose, did not result in reduced immediate early gene messenger RNA levels. These results suggest that monitoring immediate early gene expression may lead to advances in the understanding of the mechanism of action of many pharmacological agents, such as the kappa-opioid agonist enadoline.
The lesion of serotonergic neurons (by an intraventricular injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine) potentiated the conditioned place aversion induced by the 5-hydroxytryptamine1C/5-hydroxytryptamine2 antagonist mianserin in rats. This effect was selective for mianserin as the same lesion suppressed the conditioned place aversion induced by the benzodiazepine inverse agonist FG-7142. Previous results had shown the involvement of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1C receptors in the conditioned place aversion induced by mianserin [Rocha et al. (1993) Behav. Pharmac. 4, 101-106]. It was thus of interest to investigate the effect of the lesion on these receptor binding sites. Autoradiographic binding studies showed that the lesion significantly increased the concentration of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1C binding sites in various brain regions, including the amygdala, the hippocampus and the nucleus accumbens. Contrastingly, in these same brain regions, in situ hybridization histochemistry did not reveal an alteration of the level of messenger RNA coding for these receptors. On the one hand, correlating potentiation of the aversive effects of mianserin and increase of 5-hydroxytryptamine1C binding sites in the limbic system represent an interesting step in the comprehension of the molecular and motivational effects of serotonergic drugs. On the other hand, showing a dissociation between the expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine1C receptors and their corresponding messenger RNA, suggest that post-transcriptional mechanisms are involved in the regulation of these receptors.
Ethanol ingestion affects the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system resulting in increased diuresis, dehydration and hyperosmolality. We studied the supraoptic nucleus, of the hypothalamus, in ethanol-treated rats, to determine if ethanol alone and/or the associated disturbances of water metabolism lead to structural alterations in a nucleus known to play a central role in fluid homeostasis. Groups of male and female rats were ethanol-treated until 12 and 18 months of age and compared with age-matched pair-fed controls. Twelve and 18-month-old control groups and 12-month-old water control groups (rats submitted to chronic dehydration) were also included in this study in an attempt to differentiate between the effects of undernutrition and dehydration/hyperosmolality, and the specific neurotoxic effects of ethanol. We estimated the volume of the supraoptic nucleus and the numerical density of its neurons and calculated the total number of supraoptic neurons. The volume of both supraoptic neurons and neuropil were also estimated. In immunostained material the ratio of vasopressin to oxytocin neurons and the cross-sectional areas of the two neuronal types were evaluated. There was marked neuronal loss in alcohol-treated rats, but the volume of the supraoptic nucleus was increased. The increase in the volume of the supraoptic nucleus correlated with and was due to increases in the volume was particularly marked for vasopressin neurons. No significant differences were found between controls and pair-fed controls in any of the parameters investigated. In water control rats, the volume of the supraoptic nucleus and of the supraoptic neurons and neuropil was also greater than in pair-fed controls. However, the variations found were not as marked as in ethanol-treated rats and there was no cell loss. These findings reveal, for the first time, that chronic ethanol consumption affects the morphology of supraoptic neurons and neuropil and, consequently, the structure of the entire supraoptic nucleus. Moreover, this study supports the view that ethanol has direct neurotoxic effects on supraoptic neurons because the alterations that occur are not mimicked in animals in which water metabolism alone is disturbed.
The hypothesis of a &quot;stable estimator&quot; was proposed in the preceding article as a circuit computing an internal estimate of a body movement variable and endowed with regulating properties. Such a circuit would exist for each variable, and would be embedded in a particular folium of the cerebellar cortex and the related paths of the brainstem nuclei and the inferior olive. In this article, the action of the premotor orders on the stable estimator circuit is studied, at initiation and during execution of voluntary movements. A feedback loop via the cerebellar cortex would control on-going movements and maintain the efficacy of the stabilizing sensorimotor reaction, while preventing its interfering with the movement. The regulating loop via the inferior olive would have a short-term role in initiating movements and would boost insufficient stabilizing reactions. The discrepancy between internal estimates of the same variable would be reflected in motion sickness.
To describe how the central nervous system combines sensory messages, the hypothesis of a &quot;stable estimator&quot; is proposed: the central nervous system would construct internal estimates of the physical variables characterizing the body movements (e.g. head rotational velocity in space), while a regulating circuit would optimize the process of estimation of each variable, according to the available information and the overall performances of the sensorimotor reactions. The stable estimator of each variable would be embedded in a definite folium of the cerebellar cortex and the related cerebellar and brainstem nuclei. It would be controlled by the related part of the inferior olive. The estimate of each physical variable would be constructed by complementing the message from a dedicated sensory system (e.g. the semi-circular canals, which measure head rotational velocity in space) by neural messages related to the same variable (e.g. eye velocity in the head and retinal slip). Thus, the estimate would be accurate over the widest possible physiological ranges of frequency and velocity. The complementing signals would result from combining estimates of other variables (such as gaze velocity and eye velocity in the orbit), according to rules reproducing the relationships between physical variables. From the same complementing signals, the message from the dedicated sensory system would be predicted, and it is argued that this predictive function resides in the cerebellar cortex. The inferior olive would compare an actual signal about the performance of a sensorimotor reaction to signals of expected performance, computed from the various internal estimates of the variables which determine this performance. Any erroneous setting in a stable estimator would cause differences between the actual and the expected values. Then the inferior olive would compute an error signal directing compensatory functional plasticity. Finally, the whole estimating circuit would be regulated so that the internal coherence between neural messages and the performance of sensorimotor reactions would be achieved. Anatomical identifications and rules of functional plasticity are proposed.
Synaptic reorganization occurs in the hippocampus following various forms of seizure activity and injury, and may contribute to epileptogenesis. To address the hypothesis that neurotrophic factors play an inductive role in synaptic reorganization following seizures, we directly measured neurotrophic activity in rat hippocampal extracts after kainate injection or prolonged stimulation of the perforant path. Serial dilutions of hippocampal extracts were added to cultures of chick dorsal root ganglia, which are known to require trophic support from nerve growth factor and other neurotrophins, or ciliary ganglia neurons, which require trophic support from ciliary neurotrophic factor. Neurotrophic activity was significantly increased in hippocampal extracts harvested from 12 h to 2 months after kainate treatment, with the peak effect seen at seven days. This neurotrophic activity was substantially blocked by an anti-nerve growth factor antibody. Extracts at seven days also showed a significant increase in ciliary neurotrophic factor-like activity. Sulfide/silver histochemistry, which stains dentate granule cell axon terminals, revealed that mossy fiber sprouting was evident two weeks following kainate treatment and increased progressively over the next two to six weeks. Perforant path stimulation that produced hyperexcitability in the dentate gyrus, but no sprouting, failed to induce changes in neurotrophic activity. These results suggest there are significant increases in neurotrophic factors following kainate-induced seizures, and the increases may be related to kainate-induced hippocampal injury rather than seizures per se. Furthermore, the timecourse of increased neurotrophic activity parallels that of mossy fiber reorganization, and is consistent with the hypothesis that neurotrophic factors play a role in the injury-induced synaptic reorganization seen in epilepsy.
The mechanism of delayed death of pyramidal cells in the hippocampal CA1 region and the acute death of various types of hilar neurons after ischemia is still unknown. Excitotoxicity may play a role in ischemic cell death, a prerequisite of which is the development of increased excitability or an enhanced excitatory transmission in the selectively vulnerable subfields of the hippocampus. Such changes may take place upon the loss or malfunction of local inhibitory neurons in the early postischemic period. In the present study we examined the vulnerability of non-pyramidal neurons containing a recently discovered calcium binding protein, calretinin, in the rat hippocampus following 15 min ischemia induced by four-vessel occlusion. Immunostaining for calretinin enabled us to visualize a new type of spiny non-pyramidal cell in the hippocampus specifically associated with the mossy fiber system. This cell type is present exclusively in regions where mossy fiber terminals occur, i.e. in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and in stratum lucidum of the CA3 subfield. A selective loss of immunoreactivity in these neurons was already observed at 12-24 h after ischemia, when the pyramidal cells in the CA1 region showed no signs of damage. At a survival time of two to three days, most if not all spiny calretinin-immunoreactive cells had disappeared from the hippocampus. Other types of calretinin-containing GABAergic neurons were also reduced in number, but only at a time when CA1 pyramidal cells also started to degenerate, i.e. two to three days after ischemia. We speculate that the early loss of spiny calretinin-containing cells, together with other non-pyramidal cells associated with the mossy fiber system (somatostatin-containing neurons and mossy cells of the hilus), may result in pathological network activity in the hippocampus, which may ultimately lead to an increased excitatory transmission and delayed pyramidal cell death in the CA1 region.
At the skeletal neuromuscular junction the released neurotransmitter, acetylcholine, is eliminated within some milliseconds. This time course is known with great precision through the electrical response of target cells. At the sympathetic neuroeffector junction the fast electrical response is not mediated by noradrenaline but by a cotransmitter: ATP. The slow electrical response and the slow component of smooth muscle contraction are principally mediated by noradrenaline. These responses are two orders of magnitude slower than the electrical response to ATP. Therefore, great uncertainty remains regarding the kinetics of noradrenaline appearance and elimination. Here, the local noradrenaline concentration at the surface of the isolated rat tail artery was electrochemically monitored in real time using a carbon fibre electrode. We have shown that the time course of the neurogenically released noradrenaline is at least one order of magnitude faster than the resulting contraction. The kinetics of noradrenaline inactivation by neuronal reuptake were also precisely measured.
Microglia, the resident tissue macrophages of the central nervous system, have a highly differentiated morphology and do not express many of the antigens typically associated with other tissue macrophages. Activation of microglia is associated with a change in morphology and an increase in their repertoire of antigen expression. Microglia become activated in many neuropathological conditions including chronic neurodegenerative diseases and human immunodeficiency virus neuropathology, yet little is known of the mechanisms involved. Here we demonstrate for the first time that microglia can be activated and induced to divide and/or undergo apoptosis via a beta 2-integrin (complement receptor type 3, CR3, Mac-1 or CD11b/CD18) using an anti-CR3 monoclonal antibody (McAb5C6). This antibody, which has been shown to block myelomonocytic recruitment during central nervous system inflammation, is unique in that it can cross the intact blood-brain barrier to activate microglia. Since CR3 not only binds the iC3b component of the alternative complement cascade but also denatured proteins this suggests a potential route for microglia activation in neuropathological conditions.
Previous autoradiographic studies in rats using [3H]CP55,940 have demonstrated the cannabinoid receptor to be located on the axon terminals of striatal efferent neurons projecting to the globus pallidus and substantia nigra. Because these neurons are selectively lost in Huntington's disease, a loss of [3H]CP55,940 binding is predicted in the substantia nigra of the Huntington's disease brain. We have used autoradiography to compare the binding of [3H]CP55,940 in the substantia nigra of Huntington's disease and neurologically normal brains. The results have demonstrated that cannabinoid receptors in the normal human substantia nigra are discreetly localized within the substantia nigra pars reticulata. In contrast, the Huntington's disease brains show a massive loss (97.5%) of cannabinoid receptor binding in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. These results show that in the substantia nigra of the human brain cannabinoid receptors are located on striatonigral terminals which degenerate in Huntington's disease.
Although measurement of chromogranin A in the bloodstream is of value in sympathoadrenal investigations, little is systematically known about chromogranin A in cerebrospinal fluid, despite substantial knowledge about its occurrence and distribution in brain. We therefore applied a homologous human chromogranin A radioimmunoassay to cerebrospinal fluid, in order to evaluate the properties and stability of cerebrospinal fluid chomogranin A, as well as its relationship to central noradrenergic neuronal activity, to peripheral (plasma) chromogranin A, and to disease states such as hypertension, renal failure and Parkinsonism. Authentic, physically stable chromogranin A immunoreactivity was found in cerebrospinal fluid (at 37-146 ng/ml; mean, 87.0 +/- 6.0 ng/ml in healthy subjects), and several lines of evidence (including 3.39 +/- 0.27-fold higher chromogranin A in cerebrospinal fluid than in plasma) indicated that it originated from a local central nervous system source, rather than the periphery. Cerebrospinal fluid chromogranin A values were not influenced by administration of effective antihypertensive doses of clonidine or propranolol, and were not related to the cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of norepinephrine, methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, or dopamine-beta-hydroxylase; thus, cerebrospinal fluid chromogranin A was not closely linked to biochemical or pharmacologic indices of central noradrenergic neuronal activity. Cerebrospinal fluid chromogranin A was not changed (P &gt; 0.1) in essential hypertension (84.2 +/- 14.0 ng/ml) or renal failure (72.2 +/- 13.4 ng/ml), despite a marked (7.1-fold; P &lt; 0.001) increase in plasma chromogranin A in renal failure, and a modest (1.5-fold; P = 0.004) increase in plasma chromogranin A in essential hypertension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have utilized biochemical, molecular biological, and functional neurochemical measurements to investigate the integrated and long-term effects of a single dose of nicotine on the noradrenergic system in the central nervous system of the rat, from enzyme induction to transmitter release. We have found that a single systemic injection of nicotine (0.8 mg/kg) increases messenger RNA for the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines, tyrosine hydroxylase, two to six days later in the noradrenergic cell body region, the locus coeruleus (and not in the dopaminergic cell body regions, substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area). This was then followed by a time-dependent increase in enzyme activity, measured in vitro, in terminal regions of the ascending dorsal noradrenergic bundle up to four weeks later. Functionally, the increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the terminals four weeks after a single administration was associated with an increase in the capacity to release noradrenaline in the hippocampus, measured using in vivo microdialysis in freely moving animals. This occurred in response to an acute systemic nicotine injection (0.4 mg/kg) but not to a local, intrahippocampal, challenge with 250 microM nicotine. These experiments have revealed a long-term effect of nicotine on noradrenergic activity in the central nervous system, associated with induction of tyrosine hydroxylase. This is accompanied by a time-dependent increase in terminal tyrosine hydroxylase activity and an increase in noradrenaline release.
We have examined the influence of chronic GM-1 treatment (20 mg/kg i.m. for 16 consecutive days) on the extent of dopaminergic damage induced by acute 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administration in cynomolgus monkeys using immunohistochemical and neurochemical analysis. The total number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons was reduced in different catecholaminergic mesencephalic regions of MPTP-treated monkeys such as substantia nigra pars compacta, mainly in the ventral portion of the nucleus (39% reduction), substantia nigra pars lateralis (31%), peri- and retrorubral catecholaminergic cell group and ventral tegmental area (A8 and A10 respectively, 20% reduction). A similar degree of neuronal loss was observed in the MPTP+GM-1-treated animals, suggesting that GM-1 ganglioside does not exert a protective effect against MPTP-induced dopaminergic cell loss. Moreover, no neurochemical recovery from the striatal dopaminergic depletion induced by MPTP was found after GM-1 treatment. However, the optical density of tyrosine hydroxylase fibers and the cellular tyrosine hydroxylase content were increased in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area of the MPTP-treated monkeys which received GM-1 ganglioside, compared with animals treated only with the neurotoxin. These results indicate that GM-1 does not protect against cell death but exerts a neurotrophic effect on surviving dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain of MPTP-lesioned monkeys, suggesting that GM-1 ganglioside may be potentially useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus functions as the circadian clock in the mammalian brain. Communication between the cells of the suprachiasmatic nucleus is likely to be responsible for the generation and accuracy of this biological clock. Communication between many cells of the brain is mediated by action potentials that pass down the axon and cause release of neurotransmitters at the neuronal synaptic junction. Additional mechanisms of cellular communication appear to operate in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Several lines of evidence point to multiple modes of cellular communication: these include the continuing operation of the clock after Na(+)-mediated action potentials have been blocked, the orchestrated metabolic rhythms of suprachiasmatic nucleus cells prior to synaptogenesis, the entrainment of fetal to maternal rhythms, and the rapid recovery of function after suprachiasmatic nucleus transplants into arrhythmic rodents. Possible alternative means of intercellular communication in the suprachiasmatic nucleus are examined, including calcium spikes in presynaptic dendrites, ephaptic interaction, paracrine communication, glial mediation, and gap junctions. This paper identifies and examines some of the unanswered questions related to intercellular communication of suprachiasmatic nucleus cells.
We examined the effects of single and multiple systemic injections of nicotine on the expression of five immediate early genes in the rat superior cervical ganglion by in situ hybridization histochemistry. A single nicotine injection resulted in a rapid and transient activation phase of nerve growth factor I-A, c-fos and jun-B at 20 min, and a later and less prominent activation of c-jun, which stayed high from 20 to 60 min. there was a parallel slow and long-lasting activation of jun-D, which remained high 4 h after nicotine treatment. Tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA, but not neuropeptide Y mRNA, was also induced by nicotine. Denervation of the ganglion did not prevent the induction of immediate early genes, but the nicotine antagonists hexamethonium and mecamylamine completely blocked the induction of immediate early genes, indicating that nicotine acted directly on receptors present on ganglion cells. When repeated nicotine injections were given, there was a refractory period of 1-2 h for c-fos, nerve growth factor I-A and jun-B induction. Repeated nicotine injections at 1-h intervals prevented about 80% of c-fos, nerve growth factor I-A and jun-B mRNA induction seen after a single injection. Because nicotine is known to induce immediate early genes in the adrenal glands as well, we examined whether similar kinetics of the gene induction could be seen in the adrenal medulla. However, no refractory period for repeated nicotine treatment or down regulation of the induction of the immediate early genes could be demonstrated in the adrenal medulla. The results show that sympathetic neurons respond to nicotine with altered expression of immediate early genes. Nicotine-induced expression of immediate early genes may be mediated and regulated by different factors in neuronal and endocrine noradrenergic cells.
The ewe's ability to selectively recognize her lamb depends upon vaginocervical feedback to the brain stimulating an interest in lamb odours. This process is facilitated by previous maternal experience. We have used in vivo microdialysis to measure changes in the release of intrinsic transmitters in the olfactory bulb (glutamate, dopamine and GABA) at parturition to determine if their release profiles differ depending upon the ewe's past maternal olfactory experience. Glutamate and GABA release increased significantly at parturition in multiparous but not primiparous ewes. Dopamine release increased in both groups but mean basal levels of this transmitter were significantly higher in primiparous ewes during the pre-partum period and the first few hours postpartum. The changes in the underlying neural circuitry which determine these differences are established within 6 h of parturition, as revealed by artificial stimulation of the reproductive tract. This procedure renders the system plastic enabling adoption of strange lambs and, contingent, on this, the release of intrinsic transmitters no longer differs between the two groups of ewes. Pharmacological challenges to the olfactory bulb using retrodialysis in nulliparous and multiparous (maternally inexperienced and experienced) ewes produced significant differences between the groups for induction of glutamate and GABA release, but not that of dopamine. K+ challenges produced greater increases in glutamate and GABA release in multiparous than in nulliparous ewes, while dopamine release did not differ with experience. Glutamate receptor blockade produced increases in glutamate ase without changing GABA release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The chemical nature of the central transmitter responsible for fast excitatory events and other related phenomena is analysed against the historical background that has progressively clarified the structure and function of central synapses. One of the problems posed by research in this field has been whether one or more of the numerous excitatory substances endogenous to the brain is responsible for fast excitatory synaptic transmission, or if such a substance is, or was, a previously unknown one. The second question is related to the presence in the CNS of three main receptor types related to fast excitatory transmission, the so-called alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionic acid, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. This implies the possibility that each receptor type might have its own endogenous agonist, as has sometimes been suggested. To answer such questions, an analysis was done of how different endogenous substances, including L-glutamate, L-aspartate, L-cysteate, L-homocysteate, L-cysteine sulfinate, L-homocysteine sulfinate, N-acetyl-L-aspartyl glutamate, quinolinate, L-sulfoserine, S-sulfo-L-cysteine, as well as possible unknown compounds, were able to fulfil the more important criteria for transmitter identification, namely identity of action, induced release, and presence in synaptic vesicles. The conclusion of this analysis is that glutamate is clearly the main central excitatory transmitter, because it acts on all three of the excitatory receptors, it is released by exocytosis and, above all, it is present in synaptic vesicles in a very high concentration, comparable to the estimated number of acetylcholine molecules in a quantum, i.e. 6000 molecules. Regarding a possible transmitter role for aspartate, for which a large body of evidence has been presented, it seems, when this evidence is carefully scrutinized, that it is either inconclusive, or else negative. This suggests that aspartate is not a classical central excitatory transmitter. From this analysis, it is suggested that the terms alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionic acid, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, should be changed to that of glutamate receptors, and, more specifically, to GLUA, GLUK and GLUN receptors, respectively. When subtypes are described, a Roman numeral may be added, as in GLUNI, GLUNII, and so on.
The ability of acidic fibroblast growth factor to elicit a trophic response in the nervous system of the rat was tested in vitro and in vivo. Treatment of cultured septal cells with acidic fibroblast growth factor resulted in an elongation of glial processes as assessed by immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein. Increased choline acetyltransferase was also observed. The responses to acidic fibroblast growth factor in vivo were studied in rats trained in a spatial memory task, using the Morris water maze. Randomly selected animals were subjected to unilateral cortical devascularization. This lesion results in partial unilateral infarction of the neocortex, and in retrograde degeneration of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Animals were tested post-lesion for memory retention and were then killed for morphological studies. Intracerebroventricular administration of acidic fibroblast growth factor (0.6 microgram/h for seven days starting at surgery) prevented the lesion-induced impairment in this test, and reduced the nucleus basalis magnocellularis cholinergic degeneration, as assessed by morphometric choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactivity and radioenzymatic assay for choline acetyltransferase activity. The preservation of the phenotype of injured cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis by acidic fibroblast growth factor was indicated by the maintenance of the cross-sectional area of cell bodies and mean length of neuritic processes one month after surgery. The effect of acidic fibroblast growth factor in non-cholinergic cells remains to be investigated. It is suggested that acidic fibroblast growth factor may alleviate the lesion-induced deficit in the memory retention task by preventing disruption of functional connections between nucleus basalis magnocellularis and intact cortical areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It has recently become clear that the neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, interacts specifically with nociceptive sensory neurons during development and maturity. Indeed, it may serve as a critical link between inflammation and the hyperalgesia that ensues in adult animals. Nerve growth factor is normally expressed in limiting amounts in target tissues of sensory and postganglionic sympathetic neurons. In the present study we have altered the basal level of nerve growth factor expression in the skin by producing transgenic mice that express a fusion gene construct containing either a sense or antisense nerve growth factor complementary DNA linked to the K14 keratin promoter. The K14-nerve growth factor transgene (sense or antisense) is abundantly expressed in skin from approximately embryonic day 15 and is then constitutively expressed throughout the life of the animal. In light of the fact that systemic administration of nerve growth factor to neonatal or adult rats leads to hyperalgesia, we have asked whether mice expressing the sense K14-nerve growth factor transgene exhibit similar sensory abnormalities and whether mice expressing the antisense nerve growth factor complementary DNA were hypoalgesic. Here we show that mice over-expressing nerve growth factor in skin display a profound hyperalgesia to noxious mechanical stimulation. Additionally, K14-nerve growth factor antisense mice displayed a profound hypoalgesia to the same stimuli.
A panel of monoclonal antibodies has been produced against alpha-latrotoxin using black widow spider venom. Five of them were characterized relative to their affinity for alpha-latrotoxin and ability to modify the main toxin effects--to increase calcium permeability of synaptosomes, to stimulate the neurotransmitter release and to form the ion channels in artificial lipid membrane. The results reported here show that: (i) the monoclonal antibodies do not alter the alpha-latrotoxin affinity for the membrane acceptor; (ii) two monoclonal antibodies, A6 and A24, can simultaneously inhibit the alpha-latrotoxin induced Ca2+ uptake and GABA release; (iii) monoclonal antibodies A4 completely block the toxin-induced Ca2+ uptake, but decrease partially the rate of GABA release; (iv) monoclonal antibodies A15 that do not modify the alpha-latrotoxin ability to stimulate Ca2+ uptake and GABA release are able to alter the properties of channels formed by the toxin in the artificial lipid bilayer. From these data we hypothesize that the alpha-latrotoxin molecule has separate functional sites which provide a high-affinity binding to the membrane acceptor, the toxin-induced Ca2+ uptake and toxin-stimulated neurotransmitter release. A separate part of alpha-latrotoxin molecule is responsible for the formation of cationic channels in the artificial lipid bilayer.
Modulation of glycine receptor-ionophore complex by internally perfused cyclic AMP was investigated and compared to that of GABA in the acutely dissociated ventromedial hypothalamic neurons using whole-cell and outside-out patch-clamp techniques. Cyclic AMP significantly reduced both GABA- and glycine-gated chloride currents. The reduction in glycine-induced chloride current was specific in that only the fast-desensitizing one gated by high concentrations of glycine (30-100 microM) was affected. Cyclic AMP did not modulate the non-desensitizing current induced by lower concentrations (6-10 microM). Addition of N-[-2-(methylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide dihydrochloride, a protein kinase A inhibitor, did not have a significant effect on its own but prevented the attenuation of fast desensitizing glycine current induced by cyclic AMP. Both the reversal potential and inactivation kinetics of glycine current were not affected by the activation of protein kinase A, suggesting that cyclic AMP-mediated attenuation is not due to an enhancement of desensitization. In outside-out patch studies intracellular perfusion of cyclic AMP reduced the open probability of the 100 microM glycine-activated channels without affecting that of the 6 microM glycine-activated channels. In conclusion, cyclic AMP selectively modulates the channel open frequency of the glycine receptor when activated at higher concentrations through a protein kinase A-mediated phosphorylation.
The distribution of cells stained immunocytochemically for the cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase was compared to the pattern of substance P immunoreactivity in the caudate nucleus of adult cats using a double-label immunocytochemical protocol and three-dimensional reconstructions of adjacent sections single-labeled for either substance P or choline acetyltransferase. Substance P immunoreactivity was distributed in a highly complex mosaic within the caudate nucleus of the cat. In the dorsal caudate nucleus, substance P-rich zones consisting of either clusters of substance P-positive cell bodies or fibers were seen against a lighter staining background. The density of cholinergic neurons was found to be significantly greater within these substance P-rich patches in comparison to surrounding regions. The pattern of substance P immunoreactivity within the ventral caudate nucleus differed from that in more dorsal regions. Clear substance P-rich patches were not seen in this region, but a large substance P-rich area consisting of a dense plexus of substance P-containing fibers was visible. Embedded within this substance P-rich area were fairly discrete patches of light substance P staining. As in the dorsal caudate nucleus, increased numbers of cholinergic neurons and processes were associated with substance P-rich regions in the ventral caudate nucleus. Choline acetyltransferase-positive perikarya also appeared to be concentrated in substance P-rich areas in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. The results of this study suggest that a close relationship exists between the distribution of substance P fibers and cholinergic perikarya in the striatum of the cat.
Ageing axonal dystrophy was studied electron microscopically in the gracile nucleus of a very old Japanese monkey (28 years of age) from the standpoint of comparative neuropathology. It was revealed that the Japanese monkey has characteristics different from albino rats concerning the ultrastructure of the dystrophic axonal spheroids. Spheroids in the former animal contained no traces of so-called layered loops of membrane nor coiled tubular rings etc. which have been interpreted in cases of albino rats and other animal species as morphological expression of secondary metamorphosis of primarily accumulated normal axoplasmic organelles at the presynaptic boutons. Instead, spheroids in the Japanese monkey contained dense homogeneous osmiophilic granules and screwnail-like filament crystalloids, which have not been found in other animal species including albino rats. These abnormal substructures were already present in the early stage of axonal dystrophy and tended to occupy a large volumetric proportion of gigantic spheroids. It was concluded that these substructures constitute essential components of formed spheroids in combination with smooth axoplasmic reticulum, and that they represent primary products of axonal dystrophy and not the secondary products of metamorphosis like coiled tubular rings or layered loops of membrane described above. The enormous accumulation of smooth axoplasmic reticulum in other animal species including albino rats is characterized by the formation of a dense tridimensional reticular network. In the Japanese monkey, this process is characterized by massive dense parallel aggregation of straightened tubules of apparently smooth axoplasmic reticular origin rather than by formation of tridimensional network.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of distractor clustering on target detection were examined in two experiments in which subjects attended to binaural tone bursts of one frequency while ignoring distracting tones of two competing frequencies. The subjects pressed a button in response to occasional target tones of longer duration (Experiment 1) or increased loudness (Experiment 2). In evenly spaced conditions, attended and distractor frequencies differed by 6 and 12 semitones, respectively (e.g., 2096-Hz targets vs. 1482- and 1048-Hz distractors). In clustered conditions, distractor frequencies were grouped; attended tones differed from the distractors by 6 and 7 semitones, respectively (e.g., 2096-Hz targets vs. 1482- and 1400-Hz distractors). The tones were presented in randomized sequences at fixed or random stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs). In both experiments, clustering of the unattended frequencies improved the detectability of targets and speeded target reaction times. Similar effects were found at fixed and variable SOAs. Results from the analysis of stimulus sequence suggest that clustering improved performance primarily by reducing the interference caused by distractors that immediately preceded the target.
Idebenone (6-(10-hydroxydecyl)-2,3-dimethoxy-5-methyl-1,4-benzoquinone) is a benzoquinone that has been shown to improve cognitive function in animals subjected to cerebral ischemia and in rats with lesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system. Because the cognitive deficits observed in aged rats have been associated with decreased cerebral blood flow and basal forebrain cholinergic dysfunction, it was hypothesized that IDE might improve cognition in aged animals. In the present study, the effects of idebenone on cognitive function in aged Long-Evans rats were assessed using a battery of tests that evaluated attention, habituation, and spatial learning. Selective attention was assessed using an overshadowing paradigm, where IDE (30 mg/kg, IP) was injected 30 min prior to compound cue exposure. IDE enhanced the overshadowing effect in aged rats. The Morris water maze was used to assess spatial learning, where IDE (3 mg/kg, IP) was injected daily throughout the course of training. IDE did not improve the impaired performance of aged rats in the Morris task. Habituation was tested by measuring recovery from gustatory neophobia. IDE (30 mg/kg, IP) was injected 30 min prior to the first exposure to the novel taste. IDE normalized habituation rate in aged rats. It was concluded that IDE improves some forms of acquisition in aged rats, and may do so by decreasing general reactivity to novel stimuli.
The effects of acute, subacute, and chronic treatment with haloperidol, lithium, and valproate on inositol phosphate (IP) formation were examined. Acute treatment with haloperidol or the combination of haloperidol and lithium significantly reduced IP basal cortical levels. Subacute (three days) treatment with lithium decreased the IP basal level in the frontal cortex. Chronic treatment with haloperidol (14 and 28 days) caused a significant attenuation of carbachol-sensitive IP accumulation in the frontal cortex and striatum and a significant decrease in norepinephrine (NE)-induced IP formation in the frontal cortex (14 and 28 days) and striatum (28 days). Lithium treatment for 14 days produced a significant reduction in the IP basal cortical value, and a significant reduction in cortical carbachol- and NE-induced IP formation was found after 28 days of lithium treatment. The combination of haloperidol and lithium for 28 days decreased the striatal carbachol- and cortical NE-induced IP accumulation and caused a significant increase in NE-sensitive IP formation in the striatum at 14 days. Valproate treatment for 28 days was associated with a significant attenuation in striatal agonist-stimulated IP formation. Therefore, three drugs with different specificities for primary neurotransmitters may have common effects on second-messenger systems.
Human and cat high sensation seekers tend to show increasing amplitudes (augmenting) of the P1 and N1 components of the visual evoked potential (VEP) to increasing intensities of light flash, whereas low sensation seekers show VEP reducing. Roman high-avoidance (RHA) and Roman low-avoidance (RLA) rats have behavioral traits comparable to human and cat high and low sensation seekers, respectively. RHA rats show greater exploration, activity, and aggression than do RLA rats. Rats of each Roman line and Wistar rats were anesthetized with chloral hydrate and maintained at a stable moderate anesthetic level. VEPs to each of five flash intensities were computer averaged for each rat. The slopes of P1 amplitudes as a function of flash intensity were significantly greater in the RHA than the RLA rats. RHA rats were clear augmenters; RLA rats had almost flat amplitude-intensity functions. The Wistar rats had slope functions that were similar to those of the RLA rats. This study shows that the relationship between sensation-seeking behavior and VEP augmenting and reducing has a heritable base and extends across species from human, cat, and rat. In addition, we demonstrate a rat model of this relationship that yields advantages of genetic homogeneity and a short generational time, and provides access to a wealth of behavioral data and experimental manipulations available for the rat.
Sex differences in animal models of anxiety and depression that employ external stimuli have been previously reported. This study examined the effect of gender on pharmacologically induced anxiety in rats coupled with novel handling, injection, and activity in an open-field test. The anxiogenic compound FG 7142 significantly decreased male open-field exploratory at 5, 10, and 20 mg/kg, while rearing behavior was decreased only at the 20 mg/kg dose. Female rats were more resistant to the effects of FG 7142 on open-field exploratory behavior, decreasing open-field activity, and rearing behavior only after the administration of a dose of 40 mg/kg. In addition, a significant sex difference was observed in the open-field activity of rats injected with the vehicle control. Male rats were less active but showed a similar level of rearing behavior when compared to female rats. The greater sensitivity of male rats to the activity-suppressant effects of FG 7142 could explain the sex differences observed in several other animal models of anxiety and depression.
The major component of amyloid plaque cores and cerebrovascular amyloid deposits found in Alzheimer disease is the beta/A4 peptide, which is derived from the Alzheimer amyloid protein precursor (APP). Recent evidence suggests that abnormalities in beta/A4 peptide production or beta/A4 peptide aggregation may underlie cerebral amyloidosis. In the present study, treatment of cells with phorbol dibutyrate, which activates protein kinase C, and/or okadaic acid, which inhibits protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, reduced beta/A4 peptide production by 50-80%. These effects were observed with APP695 and APP751 expressed in stably transfected CHO cells, as well as with endogenous APP in human glioma (Hs 683) cells. Phorbol dibutyrate also decreased beta/A4 peptide production in cells expressing various mutant forms of APP associated with familial Alzheimer disease, one of which was reported to manifest greatly increased beta/A4 peptide production in cultured cells. Mastoparan and mastoparan X, compounds which can activate phospholipase C and hence protein kinase C, also decreased beta/A4 peptide production in CHO cells stably transfected with APP695. A model is presented in which decreases in beta/A4 peptide production can be achieved by accelerating the metabolism of APP through a nonamyloidgenic secretory pathway.
Proust detailed inexplicable behavior long before the neurobiologists Goddard and McIntyre in 1972 demonstrated that intermittent repetition of harmless stimuli can cause &quot;kindling&quot; of a seizure (with or without motor convulsions). Such brief seizures can occur especially in the evolutionarily old limbic system which mediates basic drives, their concomitant emotions, and certain aspects of memory. It appears that in humans the influence of specific external stimuli that revive the memory of repeated past experiences may &quot;kindle&quot; a transient episode of limbic overactivation. Thereupon the normal balance between the limbic and frontal lobe systems is disturbed (for a few minutes) as are normal human decision making and control of action. Linked with such a transient frontolimbic imbalance is out-of-character behavior, psychosis (hallucinations or delusions), autonomic activation, and severe distortion of affect and of action, culminating in extreme cases in a &quot;Limbic Psychotic Trigger Reaction,&quot; as proposed by Pontius in 1981, in motiveless homicidal acts with mostly preserved consciousness and memory for the acts.
Monopolar needle electromyogram (EMG) was recorded simultaneously from trapezius myofascial trigger points (TrPs) and adjacent nontender fibers (non-TrPs) of the same muscle in normal subjects and in two patient groups, tension headache and fibromyalgia. Sustained spontaneous EMG activity was found in the 1-2 mm nidus of all TrPs, and was absent in non-TrPs. Mean EMG amplitude in the patient groups was significantly greater than in normals. The authors hypothesize that TrPs are caused by sympathetically activated intrafusal contractions.
This discussion was selected from the weekly staff conferences in the Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco. Taken from a transcription, it has been edited by Nathan M. Bass, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Medicine, under the direction of Lloyd H. Smith Jr, MD, Professor of Medicine and Associate Dean in the School of Medicine.
The intravascular actin scavenger system depolymerizes and sequesters actin released after tissue injury. Studies were carried out to determine if this system is active in the extracellular space during wound repair. Using burn wound fluid as a noninvasive means for analyzing the wound environment, we measured actin accumulation and actin complex formation with the plasma proteins responsible for scavenger function. Actin at concentrations as high as 0.25 mg/ml ( approximately 5 micromol/L) was found in burn wound fluid samples from 9 of 11 patients. Wound fluid also contained the two plasma proteins that bind actin-gelsolin (both plasma and cytoplasmic forms) and Gc protein. Because actin in wound fluid was complexed with gelsolin and Gc protein, we conclude that the components of the actin scavenger system are functional in wound tissue. In addition, proteolysis of gelsolin, but not actin or Gc protein, appeared to occur at the wound site. Gelsolin proteolysis was accompanied by the appearance of 49 kd gelsolin fragments, and wound fluid samples lacking intact gelsolin also contained high metalloproteinase levels.
Alterations in hippocampal cholinergic activity associated with different types and/or stages of learning were explored using measures of sodium-dependent high-affinity choline uptake (SDHACU) in the hippocampus of C57BL/6 mice. Animals were divided into 'active' subjects submitted to memory testing before being killed and 'quite' controls. 'Active' subjects were trained in a radial-arm maze on either a discrimination task (mixed Working Memory (WM)-Reference Memory (RM) task) or a Delayed-Non-Matching-To-Place task (more selective WM-task). In the discrimination task mice were sacrificed after either the 1st, 2nd, 3rd or 9th daily session of training and at intervals of either 30 s, 15 min, 24 h or 9 days post-test. In the DNMTP-task all subjects of the 'active' groups were sacrificed after 12 days of training at either 30 s or 24 h post-test. Results showed that: (1) Both types of training induced an immediate (30 s post-test) increase of hippocampal SDHACU as compared to 'quite' control condition. (2) In the discrimination task, this immediate increase in SDHACU was followed by a decrease leading to a long-lasting (24 h and 9 days) inhibition of this cholinergic marker. This secondary decrease in SDHACU occurred earlier (15 min post-test) at the end (9th session) than at the beginning (1st-3rd sessions) of training. Thus, as training progressed there was a shortening of the testing-induced cholinergic activation. (3) By contrast, in the DNMTP-task, SDHACU was still increased at the interval of 24 h following the last session of DNMTP-training. (4) The amplitudes of both the immediate (30 s) increase and subsequent secondary (15 min) decrease in SDHACU after the last (9th) session of discrimination training were significantly related to the rate of acquisition and behavioural profile for individual animals. Subjects that had displayed better response accuracy across the 9 days of training exhibited the highest SDHACU at 30 s post-test and the lowest at 15 min post-test. These results are discussed in the context both of previous findings on the effects of training on cholinergic activity, and of contemporary models of hippocampal function. It is suggested that (1) an increase in hippocampal cholinergic transmission during testing would facilitate the acquisition of a 'relational' kind of informations (spatial WM and RM); (2) the post-training consolidation (spatial RM) of information would be facilitated by a decrease and long-lasting inhibition of hippocampal cholinergic activity.
The peptide toxin omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx) has been shown to be a high affinity ligand for N-type calcium channels in the brain. We have employed [125I]omega-CgTx to localize N-type channels in human hippocampus and cerebellum using autoradiography. Ten micron thick slide-mounted tissue sections of human cerebellum and hippocampus were labeled with [125I]omega-CgTx under various conditions. Specific binding to human cerebellum was virtually irreversible and saturable. It was displaceable by the N-channel antagonist, omega-conotoxin MVIIA, but not by L- or P-channel ligands. Binding sites were heterogeneously distributed with denser binding in the molecular layer than the granule cell layer of cerebellum and with specific laminar patterns evident in the hippocampus. [125I]omega-CgTx should be a useful tool for the study of N-type calcium channels in human brain tissue.
The development of a novel immunological method called the &quot;reporter epitope&quot; technique to probe the transmembrane topology of integral membrane proteins is described. Using this method, synthetic oligonucleotides encoding epitopes (reporter epitopes) for well characterized monoclonal antibodies (reporter mAbs) were inserted at various locations within the human acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha 1 subunit cDNA. The engineered subunits were then expressed along with Torpedo beta 1, gamma, and delta subunits in Xenopus oocytes, and the transmembrane location of the site of insertion was determined by the binding of the 125I-labeled reporter mAbs to whole oocytes. Control reporter epitope insertions at alpha 347 exhibited the expected cytoplasmic location. Reporter epitopes inserted at alpha 429 are located on the extracellular surface. Reporter epitopes that are 16-48 amino acids long do not disrupt assembly or function of hybrid AChRs when inserted near the carboxy terminus (at alpha 429) or in the large cytoplasmic domain (at alpha 347). However, because two reporter epitopes inserted at alpha 157 obliterated subunit assembly and a third reporter epitope when tolerated at this position was inaccessible from the extracellular surface and only marginally accessible after detergent solubilization of the AChRs, a definitive transmembrane location for this region was not possible. Nonetheless, the use of this approach has been successfully demonstrated, and it may be generally applicable to the study of other integral membrane proteins.
This study, carried out in human cerebral cortical membranes, confirms previous findings in human substantia nigra that serotonin-5-O-carboxymethyl-glycyl[125I]tyrosinamide ([125I]GTI) labels a homogeneous population of recognition sites consistent with a 5-HT1D receptor pharmacology. In addition the results indicate that, under the assay conditions described, [125I]GTI specifically labels the 5-HT1D beta recognition site since ketanserin and ritanserin display a low affinity consistent with their activities at this subtype of the 5-HT1D receptor.
A compromise or deregulation in signal transduction cascades could adversely affect cellular functions and possibly contribute to cell death. In recent years, it has become increasingly apparent that pronounced activation of neuronal signal transduction systems is a characteristic of AD brain. There is evidence that signal transduction systems play a role in the formation or development of these pathological features of AD. Aberrant activity and localization of components of signaling mechanisms (growth factors, their receptors, protein kinases, phosphoprotein phosphatases, and phosphoproteins) are closely associated with the intracellular accumulation of PHF, the extracellular deposition of amyloid, and the formation of neuritic plaques in AD brain. In particular, immunohistochemical studies reveal increased levels of neuronal staining for APP, possibly an important growth factor in AD, both in frontal cortex and hippocampus. Anti-APP immunostaining is also associated with the neuritic component of plaques. Additionally, PKC(beta II) immunostaining is increased in the neuronal cell body and neuropil of AD samples, particularly in association with plaques, suggesting a postsynaptic involvement of this enzyme. On the other hand, PKC(beta I) immunostaining is associated with axonal staining particularly in the sprouting neurites of plaques. Sprouting neuritic components of plaques are immunopositive with other growth-associated proteins, such as GAP43, MARCKS, and spectrin. Immunoreactivity of other members of signal transduction systems such as Fos and stathmin are all increased in AD hippocampal neurons. On the other hand, several protein kinases and phosphoproteins were immunolocalized to tangles. Thus, the hyperactivation and dysfunction of signal transduction systems could be involved in the pathogenesis of AD.
The cholinergic dysfunction present in Alzheimer's disease (AD) might be due to a specific vulnerability of cholinergic neurons linked to neurotrophic imbalance, neuroimmune impairment, and/or direct effects of beta-amyloid deposition and NFT formation in ACh neurons. The presence of abnormal epitopes exposed on neuronal membranes may contribute to the activation of resting microglia initiating a neuroimmune cascade leading to cell destruction. According to this hypothesis, a multifactorial treatment in AD should produce: 1) inhibition of beta-amyloid and NFT formation; 2) restoration of neuronal membrane integrity; and 3) control of neuroimmune auto-aggression. Since interleukin-1 (IL-1) is an APP gene promoter showing a progressive increase in body fluids in parallel with mental deterioration in AD patients, we have studied the effects of CDP-choline on cognition, several biological parameters, and IL-1 beta production in AD and multi-infarct dementia (MID) in order to elucidate whether this compound alone or in combination with other drugs is able to restore immune function and improve mental performance in senile dementia.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system which may affect up to 50% of the population over the age of 85 years. The etiology of AD is unknown and there is currently no cure for the disease. Well-documented losses in cholinergic and other neurotransmitter systems have provided a focal point for attempting pharmacological interventions in AD to ameliorate some of the cognitive deficits that occur. However, current systemic strategies have met with limited success. An alternative strategy, that has been pursued in animal models of neurodegenerative disease, is to augment neurotransmitter function within the brain through tissue transplantation. Such implants have an advantage over conventional drug therapies in that the cells can be precisely placed within compromised areas of the brain. We have pursued a strategy of designing cells, through the use of molecular biology techniques, to produce neurotrophic factors and neurotransmitters. Recently, we developed a primary fibroblast cell line that was genetically modified to express choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). In vitro, these cells produced and released acetylcholine at levels that varied with the amount of choline in the culture media. When implanted into the hippocampus of rats, the in vivo microdialysis technique revealed that the ChAT-expressing fibroblasts continued to produce and release acetylcholine after grafting. Most importantly, the levels of acetylcholine synthesized by the cells could be regulated by the localized infusion of choline in the vicinity of the grafts. These results confirmed previous work which indicated that engineered fibroblasts provide an effective delivery vehicle of different substances to the brain. While the intracerebral implantation of genetically modified cells will not cure AD, the continuing development of this strategy may ultimately provide a powerful approach for ameliorating the devastating cognitive impairments which are a hallmark of this disease.
The amyloid beta/A4 protein precursor (APP), a large transmembrane protein, is expressed ubiquitously in many organisms, as well as in a variety of cultured cells. Studies of the synthesis and processing of APP have revealed several intricate metabolic pathways for this protein. One of these pathways involves the cleavage of APP in the middle of the beta/A4 domain and results in the secretion of the large amino-terminal portion of the protein. The biological function of this secreted form of APP has been the subject of intense investigation by several groups and various activities have been described for the different domains of APP studied. Our initial approach was to create a fibroblast cell line in which APP expression is dramatically reduced. These fibroblasts, called A-1, have a very slow growth rate. Addition of exogenous APP in the medium of A-1 cells restores their growth to the level of normal parent fibroblasts, demonstrating a growth factor-like activity for the secreted form of APP. Using APP fragments made in bacteria as well as synthetic peptides, we have been able to locate the active site of APP within a domain of 17 amino-acids (Ala319-Met335). This domain of APP can stimulate neurite extension of cultured neuroblastoma cells and it is proposed that APP mediates this effect through binding to a cell surface receptor, triggering intracellular transduction mechanisms. Thus, the secreted form of APP can function as a growth and/or differentiation factor and the site involved in these activities is within a 17-mer domain in the middle of the molecule. Our current lines of research seek to further characterize the mechanisms of APP function as well as its activity in vivo.
The Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a phosphoprotein, and the phosphorylation state of APP at Ser655 can be regulated by protein kinase C, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, and okadaic acid-sensitive protein phosphatases. Other enzymes may also play a role at Ser655 of APP and, perhaps, at other residues. Signal transduction via protein phosphorylation regulates APP metabolism. In particular, APP processing via the nonamyloidogenic secretory cleavage pathway is increased following the activation of protein kinase C or the inactivation of okadaic acid-sensitive protein phosphatases. The mechanism(s) by which protein phosphorylation regulates APP secretory cleavage include (among others): substrate activation, substrate redistribution, protease activation and/or protease redistribution. Current experimental evidence will be discussed, addressing the relative importance of each of these possibilities and the implications for these events in the modulation of beta/A4-amyloidogenesis.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the extracellular deposition in the brain and its blood vessels of insoluble aggregates of the amyloid beta peptide (A beta). This peptide is derived from a large integral membrane protein, the beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP), by proteolytic processing. The A beta has previously been found only in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease or advanced aging. We describe here the finding that A beta is produced continuously by normal processing in tissue culture cells. A beta and closely related peptides were identified in the media of cells transfected with cDNAs coding for beta APP in a variety of cell lines and primary tissue cultured cells. The identity of these peptides was confirmed by epitope mapping and radiosequencing. Peptides of a molecular weight of approximately 3 and approximately 4 kDa are described. The 4 kDa range contains mostly the A beta and two related peptides starting N-terminal to the beginning of A beta. In the 3 kDa range, the majority of peptides start at the secretase site; in addition, two longer peptides were found starting at amino acid F(4) and E(11) of the A beta sequence. To identify the processing pathways which lead to the secretion of these peptides, we used a variety of drugs known to interfere with certain cell biological pathways. We conclude that lysosomes may not play a predominant role in the formation of 3 and 4 kDa peptides. We show that an acidic environment is necessary to create the N-terminus of the A beta and postulate that alternative secretory cleavage might result in the formation of the N-terminus of A beta and related peptides. This cleavage takes place either in the late Golgi, at the cell-surface or in early endosomes, but not in lysosomes. The N-terminus of most of the 3 kDa peptides is created by secretory cleavage on the cell surface or within late Golgi.
Synaptotagmin (syt), a synaptic vesicle-specific protein known to bind Ca2+ in the presence of phospholipids, has been proposed to mediate Ca(2+)-dependent neurotransmitter release. We have addressed the role of syt in neurotransmitter release in vivo by generating mutations in synaptotagmin (syt) in the fruitfly and assaying the subsequent effects on neurotransmission. Most embryos that lack syt fail to hatch and exhibit very reduced, uncoordinated muscle contractions. Larvae with partial lack-of-function mutations show almost no evoked excitatory junctional potentials (EJPs) in 0.4 mM Ca2+ and a 15-fold reduction in EJP amplitude in 1.0 mM Ca2+ when compared with heterozygous controls. In contrast, we observe an increase in the frequency of spontaneous miniature EJPs in the mutants. These results provide in vivo evidence that syt plays a key role in Ca2+ activation of neurotransmitter release and indicate the existence of separate pathways for evoked and spontaneous neurotransmitter release.

Previous work has suggested that vasa nervorum are 'tonically' vasodilated by substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) arising from perivascular afferent nerve fibers. Local application of specific receptor antagonists of SP or CGRP results in constriction of vasa nervorum. In this work, we examined the responsiveness of vasa nervorum to epineurial spantide and spantide II (SP antagonists) and hCGRP (8-37) (CGRP antagonist) using serial hydrogen clearance curves in the rat sciatic nerve. Vasoconstriction from spantide and hCGRP (8-37) was dose-dependent, and was slightly greater with spantide than hCGRP (8-37). Spantide II induced vasoconstriction comparable to that of spantide. The vasoconstrictive effects of both spantide and hCGRP (8-37) were eliminated by concurrent systemic treatment with with either phentolamine or nimodipine. The findings support the hypothesis that SP or CGRP blockade interrupts 'tonic' peptide vasodilatation and permits vasoconstriction, perhaps by unopposed adrenergic action mediated through calcium channels. The findings however do not exclude a unique direct vasoconstrictive action of the peptide antagonists.
The aim of this study was to assess the effect of Alzheimer's disease has on the functional integrity of several signal transduction proteins. The relative levels of the G-protein alpha subunits Gs alpha-L, Gs alpha-S, Gi alpha-2 and G(o) alpha were measured by western blotting and found to be unchanged in membranes prepared from Alzheimer-diseased frontal cortex or hippocampus compared to control brains. However the activity of the G-protein associated enzyme, high affinity GTPase, was found to be reduced in the frontal cortex (reduced by 25%) and by a similar magnitude in the hippocampus (reduced by 27%) of Alzheimer subjects. The same membrane preparations were also assayed for the activity of adenylate cyclase. Basal enzyme activity was not significantly altered in Alzheimer diseased hippocampus, but was markedly reduced (by 45%) in the frontal cortex. The ability of fluoride and aluminium ions to stimulate adenylate cyclase was not significantly changed in either brain region. This suggests that G-proteins, especially Gs, are still able to interact with this enzyme. These results indicate that although the presence of Alzheimer's disease does not significantly alter G-protein levels, changes have taken place in the overall activity of these proteins. However this alteration does not affect their ability to stimulate adenylate cyclase activity.
The influence of rostral portions of the trigeminal sensory complex on adrenal and autonomic function was assessed by microinjections of L-glutamate (500 or 5 mM, 100 nl) directed at subnucleus interpolaris (Vi) or at the nucleus principalis/subnucleus oralis level (Vp/Vo) in chloralose-anesthetized cats. Microinjections of glutamate (500 mM) within Vi evoked prompt (by +1 min) dose-related increases in the adrenal secretion of epinephrine (+11.4 +/- 2.5 ng/min, P &lt; 0.001), adrenal blood flow (+0.19 +/- 0.06 ml/min, P &lt; 0.05), mean arterial pressure (+6.6 +/- 3.0 mmHg, P &lt; 0.025) and heart rate (+8.0 +/- 2.7 beats/min, P &lt; 0.01, n = 16). Microinjections of lower doses of L-glutamate (5 mM, n = 7) within Vi had no effect. Microinjections of 500 mM glutamate within VP/Vo (n = 15) or within the spinal trigeminal tract (n = 13) had no consistent effect on adrenal or autonomic function. Plasma concentrations of ACTH were not altered significantly by glutamate regardless of dose or of the site of injection. The results suggest that local release of glutamate within Vi, but not within Vp/Vo, influences adrenal and autonomic function. Together with previous results obtained after injections of glutamate within subnucleus caudalis, these data indicate that glutaminergic input to both Vi and to more caudal portions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus contribute to the control of autonomic function such as that which often accompanies trigeminal nociception.
Using a competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and appropriate internal standards, we have analyzed absolute amounts of the alpha 6 GABAA receptor subunit mRNA in the postnatally developing cerebellum and neocortex. The PCR data have shown that absolute amounts of the alpha 6 receptor subunit mRNA in the cerebellum increase dramatically (nearly 100-fold) during the second postnatal week, reaching maximal levels by postnatal day 21 (1 fmol/microgram total RNA). The absolute amount of the alpha 6 GABAA receptor subunit mRNA in the cortex at postnatal day 1 was 2 amol/microgram total RNA and increased to 7 amol/micrograms total RNA by postnatal day 14. No further increase in alpha 6 mRNA expression in the adult cortex was observed. Microscopic analysis of emulsion coated and counterstained sections indicated that alpha 6 GABAA receptor subunit mRNA labeling was only detected in the internal granule cell layer and not in either the external granule cell layer or in migrating granule cells. The alpha 1 GABAA receptor subunit mRNA increased in the cerebellar cortex with a similar temporal profile, although its distribution extended to additional cell types (Purkinje cells, stellate/basket cells and possibly cerebellar astrocytes). The temporal expression of these two GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs is coincident with the formation of synaptic contacts in the granule cell dendrites suggesting that afferent pathways innervating these neurons following cell migration may play a critical role in increasing the expression of mRNAs encoding the alpha 1 and alpha 6 GABAA receptor subunits.
In order to investigate the physiological significance of plasminogen, which is produced by and secreted from microglia, we determined the effects of plasminogen on the development of primary cultured mesencephalic neurons from 16-day-old embryonic rats. Plasminogen markedly increased dopamine uptake and the dopamine content of cultured neurons. Furthermore, the number of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, which was determined by immunostaining with tyrosine hydroxylase antibody, was significantly increased in the presence of plasminogen. However, plasminogen had only a slight effect on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) uptake and glutamic acid decarboxylase activity in mesencephalic neurons. The effect on dopaminergic neurons was also observed in the culture in the presence of cytosine arabinoside. In addition, plasminogen had no effect on the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells. These results suggest that plasminogen acts directly on neurons and enhances the development of dopaminergic neurons in a rather selective manner.
Pleckstrin homology (PH) domains are difficult to find in protein sequence databases with widely used computer programs. A simple program developed to overcome this difficulty identified three proteins containing previously unrecognized PH domains; the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase (beta-ARK), the tecA protein kinase and the insulin receptor substrate protein IRS-1. The region of beta-ARK containing the novel PH domain coincides with that previously shown to bind the beta gamma subunits of trimeric G-proteins, suggesting a general hypothesis for PH domain function. PH domains were then found at the N-termini of the tecA homologues Btk and itk. In line with the hypothesis a point mutation in the PH domain of Btk is associated with defects in signal transduction.
One of the monocytic cell colony stimulating factors produced by thymic myoid cells, a 100 kDa factor, was purified by reversed phase HPLC and found to be homologous to the secreted form of proteoglycan 1 (biglycan) core protein. This biglycan associated colony stimulating factor did not carry an immunological motif of macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF), but predominantly stimulated the proliferation and differentiation of monocytic lineage cells from bone marrow cells, nonadherent thymic cells and peritoneal exudate cells.
A diazepam-insensitive subtype of benzodiazepine receptor has been identified in the cerebella of several species, including man. t-Butyl-8-chloro-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5-a][1,4] benzodiazepine 3-carboxylate (ZG-63) was recently described as a selective, high affinity ligand at diazepam-insensitive benzodiazepine receptors. This compound was tritiated, and its properties as a radioligand evaluated in rat brain membranes. Consistent with the high affinity and selectivity described for the non-radioactive form of this compound, saturation analyses of [3H]ZG-63 binding to cerebellar diazepam-insensitive and other, diazepam-sensitive benzodiazepine receptors revealed Kd values of 2.6 +/- 0.2 nM and 10.6 +/- 1.4 nM, respectively. The density (Bmax) of cerebellar diazepam-insensitive receptors labelled with [3H]ZG-63 was not significantly different from values obtained with the prototypical diazepam-insensitive receptor ligand [3H]Ro 15-4513, representing approximately 30% of total cerebellar benzodiazepine receptors. [3H]ZG-63 also labelled cortical diazepam-sensitive benzodiazepine receptors, with Bmax values that were not significantly different from those obtained with [3H]flunitrazepam. Diazepam-insensitive benzodiazepine receptors in rat cerebral cortex could be detected with [3H]ZG-63, but the densities of these sites are a very minor component (&lt; or = 5%) of total benzodiazepine receptors. In the presence of GABA, [3H]ZG-63 behaved as a 'gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) -positive', 'GABA-negative', and 'GABA-neutral' ligand at cortical diazepam-sensitive receptors, cerebellar diazepam-sensitive receptors, and cerebellar diazepam-insensitive benzodiazepine receptors, respectively. This profile differs from the prototype diazepam-insensitive receptor ligand, [3H]Ro 15-4513. Competition studies demonstrated a very high correlation (r2 = 0.98; P &lt; 0.002) between the potencies of a series of benzodiazepine receptor ligands to inhibit [3H]ZG-63 and [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to cerebellar diazepam-insensitive receptors. The high affinity and selectivity of [3H]ZG-63 for diazepam-insensitive receptors (diazepam-insensitive/diazepam-sensitive ratio of approximately 0.25) together with a GABA-shift profile which differs from Ro 15-4513 suggests that this compound may be useful in elucidating the function(s) of this benzodiazepine receptor subtype.
Chronic, but not acute treatment of mice with nimodipine and diltiazem produce significant increases in the IC50 of glycine to inhibit [3H]5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid binding in cerebral cortex. Such adaptive changes in the ligand binding properties of the NMDA receptor complex are also manifested following chronic treatment with antidepressants from every principal therapeutic class. These findings indicate voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonists would be strong candidates for rigorous clinical trials in depressive disorders.
A patient with a mitochondrial myopathy and biochemically proven profound complex I deficiency has a new mutation in mtDNA. This A-to-G transition at position 3302, involving the aminoacyl stem of tRNA(Leu(UUR)), is associated with abnormal mitochondrial RNA processing. Northern analysis demonstrates marked accumulation of a polycistronic RNA precursor containing sequence for 16 S rRNA, tRNA(Leu(UUR)), and ND1. Comparison of skeletal muscle and skin fibroblasts suggests that the processing error may be quantitatively less severe in this tissue, and biochemical analysis shows that fibroblasts do not express a biochemical defect despite containing the mutation. Important qualitative differences in the processing of this RNA precursor were found when comparing muscle and skin fibroblasts. In muscle, processing appears to occur first at the 5'-end of the tRNA, generating 16 S rRNA plus a tRNA + ND1 intermediate. In fibroblasts, processing occurs at the 3'-end of the tRNA, generating a 16 S rRNA + tRNA intermediate. We suggest that the mutation at position 3302 induces abnormal mitochondrial RNA processing that is linked to the biochemical defect (profound loss of complex I activity), either by qualitative or quantitative abnormalities in the ND1 message. The restriction to skeletal muscle of both the processing error and the biochemical defect suggests that the observed tissue differences in RNA processing play a protective role in skin fibroblasts.
At least three distinct ryanodine receptor genes appear to be expressed in mammalian brain. We have used biochemical and immunological methods to characterize the major form of ryanodine binding protein purified from brain. [3H]Ryanodine binding to the purified brain receptor is stimulated by Ca2+, ATP, KCl, and phosphorylation and is inhibited by calmodulin, Mg2+, and ruthenium red. Immunoblot and immunoprecipitation analysis using a panel of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against skeletal and cardiac muscle ryanodine receptors, and two novel polyclonal antibodies against the brain ryanodine receptor, reveals that the major form of ryanodine receptor expressed in brain is immunologically similar to the cardiac ryanodine receptor, but is distinct from the skeletal muscle receptor. Digestion of cardiac and brain ryanodine receptors with trypsin or alpha-chymotrypsin generates similar proteolytic patterns as detected by immunoblot analysis or by autoradiography after labeling with a hydrophobic probe, suggesting that the two proteins are similar in both their large cytoplasmic and hydrophobic transmembrane domains. Taken together, these data indicate that the cardiac ryanodine receptor/Ca2+ release channel is the major form of ryanodine receptor expressed in brain, and that it likely functions in releasing Ca2+ from caffeine-sensitive intracellular Ca2+ stores in neurons by a mechanism of regulated Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release.
Neuromagnetic fields were recorded from human subjects as they listened selectively to sequences of rapidly presented tones in one ear while ignoring tones of a different pitch in the opposite ear. Tones in the attended ear evoked larger magnetic brain responses than did unattended tones in the latency ranges 20-50 msec and 80-130 msec poststimulus. Source localization techniques in conjunction with magnetic resonance imaging placed the neural generators of these early attention-sensitive brain responses in auditory cortex on the supratemporal plane. These data demonstrate that focused auditory attention in humans can selectively modulate sensory processing in auditory cortex beginning as early as 20 msec poststimulus, thereby providing strong evidence for an &quot;early selection&quot; mechanism of auditory attention that can regulate auditory input at or before the initial stages of cortical analysis.
Lesions of the cholinergic nucleus basalis of Meynert elevate the ex vivo synthesis of beta amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) in the cerebral cortex, a major projection region. We have found that this elevation is reflected by increased levels of beta-APP mRNA. The induction is rapid (occurring 60 min after placement of the lesion) and persistent (remaining for at least 45 days after lesioning). Two other subcortical lesions, which result in reductions of cortical adrenergic and serotonergic innervation, similarly induced cortical beta-APP. The beta-APP induction is reversible and does not require loss of the subcortical neurons. Infusion of lidocaine, a calcium antagonist that disrupts neurotransmitter release, into the nucleus basalis of Meynert leads to the temporary reduction of released acetylcholine in the cortex. In this model, beta-APP mRNA levels are elevated shortly after the infusion of lidocaine (90 min) but return to preinfusion levels 7 days after the lidocaine treatment. However, metabolic stresses of the brain, including chronic physostigmine, glucocorticoid, and diabetogenic treatments, fail to induce the beta-APP response. These results suggest that the induction of beta-APP is a specific response to the loss of functional innervation in the cortex. Importantly, these studies show that cortical beta-APP is induced by lesions that mimic the neurochemical deficits most frequently observed in Alzheimer disease.
Previous reports using various protein kinase inhibitors have suggested that protein kinase activity is necessary for both the induction and maintenance of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular phenomenon likely to contribute to mammalian memory formation. We designed and characterized a selective peptide substrate for protein kinase C (PKC), corresponding to amino acids 28 to 43 of the neuronal protein neurogranin, and used the substrate to obtain direct biochemical evidence for activation of PKC in both the induction and maintenance phases of LTP. As the effect cannot be accounted for by either of two well-known mechanisms for persistent PKC activation, membrane insertion, or proteolysis, the persistent activation of PKC in the maintenance phase of LTP appears to occur via another mechanism. The maintenance phase of LTP is associated with decreased immunoreactivity of PKC, an effect that can be reversed with phosphatase treatment. Thus, PKC appears to be both phosphorylated and persistently activated in the maintenance phase of LTP.
Using radioenzymatic assays, activities of MAOA and MAOB were measured in autopsied brain tissue from cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma and in material from an equal number of age-matched subjects who were free from hepatic, neurological or psychiatric disorders. Activities of both MAOA and MAOB were significantly increased in frontal cortex and caudate nucleus, two brain regions shown previously to be the site of functional and morphological alterations of astrocytes and increased concentrations of the acid metabolites of dopamine and serotonin. These findings suggest that increased monoamine metabolism and subsequent modifications of monoaminergic synaptic function could contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy.
Hypoxia decreases acetylcholine (ACh) synthesis and release in vitro, and ACh synthesis in vivo; however, its effect on extracellular concentration of ACh in vivo is not known. The calcium channel blocker nimodipine is a cerebrovascular dilator which also increases extracellular ACh in vivo. Therefore, it may provide protection from the effects of hypobaric hypoxia on the cholinergic system either via its effects on vascular function or by direct action on the nervous system. This study examined the effect of hypobaric hypoxia on extracellular ACh and choline levels, as measured by microdialysis, as well as the effects of nimodipine under hypoxia. Microdialysis guide cannulae were implanted into the hippocampal region of male Fischer rats so that probes would sample from the CA1 and DG regions. Animals were then exposed for eight hours to a simulated altitude of 5,500 m (18,000 ft) or tested at sea level for an equivalent duration. HPLC with electrochemical detection was used for analysis of the dialysates. At 5,500 m extracellular ACh levels in the placebo-treated group were significantly lower than the sea level group values. This decrement was reversed by nimodipine administered i.p. immediately preceding altitude ascent (10 mg/kg) and 250 min post-altitude ascent (10 mg/kg). These data suggest that nimodipine may provide protection from the detrimental effects of hypoxia on hippocampal cholinergic function.
We report here the presence of a receptor specific for endothelin-3 (termed ETc receptor or ETcR) on Xenopus laevis dermal melanophores. Activation of ETcR causes the dispersion of the pigment granules within the melanophores. The EC50 for ET-3 to induce the pigment dispersion is 24 +/- 7 nM, compared to greater than 10 microM for both ET-1 and -2. This effect desensitizes in a manner that is dependent on both time and the concentration of ET-3 used to stimulate the cells. A cDNA encoding for ETcR was isolated by a polymerase chain reaction-mediated DNA amplification strategy using degenerate oligonucleotides prepared based on conserved regions of other known G-protein-coupled receptor sequences and by the subsequent screening of a frog melanophore cDNA library. The cloned cDNA consists of 2,240 nucleotides, with an open reading frame coding for 444 amino acids containing an initial 20-amino acid signal sequence. The predicted mature peptide consists of 424 amino acids with a heptahelical structure common to the G-protein-coupled receptor surperfamily. Its deduced amino acid sequence is 47 and 52% identical to ETA and ETB receptors, respectively, while ETA and ETB are 48% identical to each other. Expression of cDNA in HeLa cells, which do not contain endothelin receptors, enables the cells to specifically bind [125I]ET-3. Competition binding experiments performed on HeLa cells transiently expressing pETc show that the apparent Ki values for ET-3 and ET-1 to displace [125I]ET-3 are 45.5 +/- 16 and 114 +/- 22 nM, respectively.
Saposins are a family of four small glycoproteins, all of which are derived from prosaposin, and are involved in the lysosomal hydrolysis of various sphingolipids. Results from this investigation demonstrate that saposins A-D bind to galactosyl- and glucosylceramide. The binding was highly dependent on the solution pH; maximum binding of glucosylceramide to all saposins occurred at pH 7. Maximum binding of galactosylceramide to saposins B and D occurred at a more basic pH (8.5). The binding of glucosylceramide to saposins was significantly inhibited by Mg2+, Ca2+, or Zn2+. Although maximum binding of sulfatide to saposins A, C, and D occurred at acidic pH, the binding to saposin B was maximum at pH 8.5. Saposin A also bound sphingomyelin or phosphatidylcholine at neutral pH. No significant binding was evident between these lipids and saposins B-D at any pH value. The existence of saposin-lipid complexes was further confirmed in selected samples by gel filtration, isoelectric focusing, and a TLC binding assay. We have also shown that galactosylceramide bound to saposins A-D was efficiently transported to a rat brain microsomal fraction. This result suggests that saposins and possibly their precursor, prosaposin, may be involved in membrane biogenesis such as the assembly of myelin and plasma membranes.
Effects of kainic acid lesions of the striatum on reafferentation of the striatum produced by intraventricular substantia nigra (SN) grafts were investigated. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the SN received intrastriatal kainic acid lesions or sham lesions, and then received fetal (E16) SN or sciatic nerve grafts in the lateral ventricle. The depth of reafferentation of the striatum by catecholaminergic neurites from SN grafts was significantly increased in rats with kainic acid-induced striatal lesions, as compared to the sham-lesioned controls. No reafferentation was seen in the control animals with sciatic nerve grafts. These data suggest that striatal injury promotes the growth of dopaminergic neurites from SN grafts.
Basal extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites in both ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (Acb) were simultaneously monitored by in vivo brain microdialysis in laboratory rats. Microinjection of 12 micrograms or 24 micrograms delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC), the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana and hashish, into the VTA produced a dose-dependent increase in somatodendritic DA levels in VTA but failed to produce any simultaneous change in extracellular DA in Acb. Direct delta 9-THC perfusion (5 x 10(-5) and 2 x 10(-4) M) into Acb via the microdialysis probes caused a significant increase in extracellular DA levels in Acb. These findings suggest that (1) delta 9-THC has a facilitating effect on somatodendritic DA efflux, and (2) the elevation of Acb DA levels seen in our previous studies with systemic administration of delta 9-THC may result from local actions of delta 9-THC at or near the DA terminal projections in Acb.
Positron emission tomography was used to investigate the neural substrate of stereopsis. Changes in cerebral blood flow were measured in nine volunteers while they judged the orientation of a rectangular cyclopean shape in random dot stereograms. This experimental condition was compared with two control conditions, one having a two-dimensional shape but no cyclopean stimulus, the other having neither shape nor cyclopean stimulus. Blood flow increases were observed in areas 17 and 18 in the right hemisphere when comparing experimental with control conditions; blood flow decreases occurred in the right inferotemporal cortex. Results indicate that stereopsis begins in posterior visual areas in the right cerebral hemisphere. Under ambiguous stereoscopic conditions, participation of more anterior areas in the temporal lobe may be elicited.
In the present study we observed a loss in excess of 1/3 of the copper transport and anti-oxidant protein ceruloplasmin in both the gray and white matter from superior temporal gyrus in Alzheimer's diseased brains compared to age-matched controls. A decrease in ceruloplasmin could be reflected in decreased cellular metabolic processes such as the electron transport system and a decrease in the ability of the brain to protect itself from oxidative damage. Both decreased metabolic activity and an increase in oxidative insults are known to be associated with the neurological events in Alzheimer's disease, but the mechanism by which these phenomena occur are unknown. These results coupled with previous reports from this laboratory on iron regulatory proteins in the brain suggests one way in which cellular dysfunction and oxidative stress occurs in AD may be through a loss of ability to maintain a balance of essential metals.
The depression of the amplitude of extracellularly recorded monosynaptic excitatory field potentials in the lumbar spinal cord of pentobarbitone anaesthetised rats and cats by three thienyl derivatives of GABA: 4-amino-3-(2-thienyl)-butanoic acid; 4-amino-3-(2-thienyl-5-methyl)-butanoic acid and 4-amino-3-(2-thienyl-5-chloro)-butanoic acid was reversibly blocked by the (-)-baclofen antagonist 3-aminopropyl-diethoxymethyl-phosphinic acid (CGP 35348). These compounds, of which the most potent, the 5-chloro derivative, was weaker than (-)-baclofen, thus activate baclofen receptors in the cat and rat spinal cord.
In the present study we investigated the presence of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in the retinas of different animal species. CRH significantly stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in homogenates of calf, pig, rabbit and guinea pig retinas. The stimulatory effects were concentration-dependent with half-maximal responses occurring at 20-30 nM CRH. The enzyme activities increased by 37-80% at the maximal concentration of CRH (1 microM). On the other hand, adenylyl cyclase activities of chicken and pigeon retinas were poorly stimulated by CRH. In calf, pig and rabbit retinas, the CRH effect was completely antagonized by the CRH receptor antagonist alpha-helical CRH 9-41 and required the presence of GTP. The stimulatory response elicited by CRH was also found to be not additive with that produced by either vasoactive intestinal peptide or dopamine. These results provide evidence for the presence in retinas of different animal species of functional CRH receptors, an important criterion for the classification of CRH as a retinal neurotransmitter.
Many lines of evidence suggest that the cerebellum is involved in motor control. But what features of these movements are encoded by cerebellar neurons? For slow-tracking eye movements, the activity of Purkinje cells in the ventral paraflocculus of the cerebellum is known to be correlated with eye velocity and acceleration. Here we show that the complex temporal pattern of the firing frequency that occurs during the ocular following response elicited by movements of a large visual scene can be reconstructed by an inverse-dynamics representation, which uses the position, velocity and acceleration of eye movements. Further analysis reveals that the velocity and acceleration components can provide appropriate dynamic drive signals to ocular motor neurons, whereas the position component often has the wrong polarity. We conclude that these Purkinje cells primarily contribute dynamic command signals.
The classical plasma protein antithrombin III (ATIII), an inhibitor of the blood coagulation cascade, is a member of the serpins that are gaining import in the nervous system. In this study, we examined the presence of ATIII in the pathological lesions of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Antibodies to ATIII consistently detected approximately 58-kd protein(s) on immunoblots of cerebral cortex and brain microvessels. Immunocytochemical studies showed ATIII reactivity within amyloid deposits, neurites associated with plaques, and neurofibrillary tangles in neocortex and hippocampus of virtually all the AD cases examined. In some cases, astrocytes were also stained, suggesting ATIII in these cells. ATIII immunoreactivity in neurofibrillary tangles was further defined by electron microscopy, which showed it to be associated with paired helical filaments. Using the polymerase chain reaction technique to amplify ATIII complementary DNA, we found low levels of messenger RNA expression, relative to liver, in control human brain samples, and these were increased in AD samples, particularly in the white matter. Our results suggest the increased presence of ATIII commensurate with astrogliosis and association with the neurofibrillary pathology of AD. We conclude that in concert with other amyloid-associated serine protease inhibitors, ATIII may play a role in the pathogenesis of cerebral amyloidosis.
During pregnancy or after experimental manipulations of ovarian hormone levels, Syrian hamsters exhibit changes in energy balance and body fat content without modifying their food intake. The present experiments determined whether fluctuations in voluntary exercise play a role in these changes in energy balance, as they appear to do in other species. As expected, pregnant hamsters maintained a constant level of food intake and lost approximately 40% of their body fat. These animals did not show the abrupt decrease in activity after mating that is seen in rats. Instead, they maintained their high, premating level of running wheel activity until the last 3 days of pregnancy. Similarly, ovariectomy and replacement therapy with estradiol or estradiol+progesterone caused substantial changes in energy balance in the absence of significant changes in food intake or running wheel activity. These findings indicate that, unlike rats, Syrian hamsters do not exhibit substantial changes in voluntary exercise during pregnancy or in response to manipulations of ovarian steroid levels. Therefore, neither changes in food intake nor in voluntary exercise play any important role in the pregnancy- or steroid-induced changes in energy balance in Syrian hamsters.

Receptor binding assays and in vitro macroautoradiography were used to analyze muscarinic cholinergic receptors (MCR) in the cerebral frontal cortex of Alzheimer's disease (AD), senile dementia of Alzheimer type (SDAT), and age-matched control brains at autopsy. Total MCR binding, detected by [(3)H]quiniclinidyl benzilate binding, did not differ significantly between the 3 groups. The concentrations of M1 subtype (M1-R), detected by [(3)H]pirenzepine binding, and high affinity state MCRs, however, were significantly lower in AD than in control and SDAT frontal cortices. No differences were detected in the affinity of these receptors for their ligands. The MCRs in AD frontal cortex were more sensitive to the agonist carbachol than were control MCRs. Autoradiography revealed a complete destruction of the laminar distribution of MCR and M1-R in AD and SDAT frontal cortices. Forskolin and phorbol ester binding sites, used to analyze second messenger systems, were significantly and markedly reduced in AD frontal cortex. In addition, coupling between MCR and second messenger systems was supersensitive in AD frontal cortex. Our findings that there are alterations in the structural distribution of MCR as well as reductions and abnormalities in second messenger systems in AD cerebral frontal cortex, suggest that drug therapy with acetylcholine precursors, choline esterase inhibitors and muscarinic agonists cannot eliminate symptoms in dementia patients. Furthermore, they point out the need for techniques to diagnose the disease prior to disintegration of the neuronal network, and the need for therapies to delay or prevent the progression of structural changes.
Simple systems for electrical stimulation (1-4 channels) with either surface, percutaneous, or implanted electrodes during locomotion were assessed in 10 subjects who had chronic, incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI). On average, the speed of locomotion was increased by 4 m/min independently of the subject's speed of locomotion without stimulation (0-50 m/min) while oxygen consumption was reduced somewhat. These simple systems can provide practical help, particularly for incomplete SCI subjects who can stand but are lacking or have very limited ability to walk. Further improvement in locomotion requires stabilization and reduction in the duration of the stance phase of locomotion.
Little is known about the factors that control individual differences in susceptible to motion sickness. A serendipitous observation in our laboratory that most Chinese subjects become motion sick prompted this study. We used a rotating optokinetic drum to provoke motion sickness and compared gastric responses and symptom reports of Chinese, European-American, and African-American subjects. There was no difference in the responses of European-American and African-American subjects; however, Chinese subjects showed significantly greater disturbances in gastric activity and reported significantly more severe symptoms. We suggest that this hyper-susceptibility presents a natural model for the study of physiological mechanisms of nausea and other symptoms of motion sickness.
Compensatory vertical eye movement gain (CVEMG) was recorded during pitch oscillation in darkness before, during and immediately after exposures to the stimulus rearrangement produced by the Preflight Adaptation Trainer (PAT) Tilt-Translation Device (TTD). The TTD is designed to elicit adaptive responses that are similar to those observed in microgravity-adapted astronauts. The data from Experiment 1 yielded a statistically significant CVEMG decrease following 15 min of exposure to a stimulus rearrangement condition where the phase angle between subject pitch tilt and visual scene translation was 270 degrees; statistically significant gain decreases were not observed following exposures either to a condition where the phase angle between subject pitch and scene translation was 90 degrees or to a no-stimulus-rearrangement condition. Experiment 2 replicated the 270 degrees-phase condition from Experiment 1 and extended the exposure duration from 30 to 45 min. Statistically significant additional changes in CVEMG associated with the increased exposure duration were not observed. The adaptation time constant estimated from the combined data from Experiments 1 and 2 was 29 min.
Suzie, a ten year old child well known on our pediatric neuroscience ward at a children's hospital in British Columbia, was admitted in August 1991 for continuing seizures and unmanageable behaviour after her fourth epilepsy surgery. She was to remain with us for a total of nine months. Very soon, it became apparent that we had an untenable situation on the ward. On the one hand, seizure control was poor and Suzie required hospitalization to adjust her medications and to treat frequent episodes of status epilepticus. On the other hand, her behaviour was seriously disruptive to other patients and staff, as well as presenting a safety concern. Negative behaviours fell into three categories--disinhibition, aggression and hyperactivity. Through slides and video tape, we will introduce Suzie and describe the progression of her disease. We will discuss, using a Nursing Case Management Model, how we took over her care, accessed community resources and eventually even accompanied her to Montreal for a right hemispherectomy. The &quot;Suzie Experience&quot; forced administration and staff to devise creative solutions and empowered nurses on the ward to implement new and unique strategies.
Conversion Disorders involve the psychogenic loss or disturbance of sensory, motor or other physical functions in a manner suggestive of neurologic or other somatic disease but without any actual finding of the latter. These problems are subconscious, with patients not being able to control their symptoms. Jean-Marie Charcot, in the 19th century, was fascinated with this disorder and his work, followed by that of Sigmund Freud, laid the foundation for our modern concept of Conversion Disorder. Multiple Sclerosis, with its fluctuating and unpredictable symptoms has frequently been erroneously diagnosed in these cases. The often bizarre, flamboyant presentations, while interesting, pose many difficult and complex management problems. This paper will describe three of the more severe and disabled examples of this condition seen in the London Multiple Sclerosis Clinic and an attempt will be made to uncover common patient characteristics. Current thoughts regarding the management of these patients will be outlined, the emphasis being on helping neuroscience nurses develop an approach which is informed, positive and compassionate.
When singly housed under laboratory conditions, male Syrian golden hamsters routinely attack novel conspecific intruders introduced into their home cages. As we report here, after being repeatedly defeated by a larger, more aggressive intruder, such normal territorial aggression on the part of the resident hamsters is replaced by defensive behavior and flight. We have found that such conditioned defeat (CD) can be reliably induced by a series of 5-min trials with an aggressive intruder whether these trials are spread over 4 days or are all given on the same day. A useful behavioral criterion for the appearance of CD during acquisition is the first occurrence of anticipatory flight (AF), i.e., the first time the resident flees from the next aggressive intruder before being attacked. CD shows generalization: Animals trained to the AF criterion (AF Group) subsequently show defensive behavior toward, and even flee from, intruders which show absolutely no sign of aggressiveness. Animals in the AF Group persisted in such defense behavior for two test sessions; animals given three additional defeat trials beyond the appearance of AF (AF + 3 Group) showed a greater magnitude and persistence of defense and flight. A comparison of CD-trained animals which met a non-aggressive intruder (NAI) every day for 5 days to similarly trained animals which met the intruder only on the fifth day after acquisition suggests that CD diminishes passively as a function of time and not as the consequence of repeated encounters with a nonaggressive stimulus animal. We also found that near ideal NAIs could be prepared by treating nonaggressive hamsters with high doses of diazepam: animals so treated locomote more or less continuously around the cage virtually ignoring the subject. An unexpected observation was that subjects in the AF Group tended to closely follow these diazepam-treated, rapidly locomoting NAIs around the cage. Following may be an example of the &quot;risk assessment&quot; activities directed toward a potential threat. The development of a rapid and reliable technique for inducing CD in hamsters sets the stage for further physiological and pharmacological work on this interesting phenomenon.
The effects of chronic nicotinic receptor blockade on the performance of learning and memory tasks were determined using chlorisondamine, a compound which produces central nicotinic cholinergic receptor blockade that lasts for several weeks after a single icv administration. Chlorisondamine treatment did not affect the acquisition of spatial information in the Morris water maze or in the radial arm maze, tasks in which performance is reportedly disrupted by acute administration of the nicotinic antagonist, mecamylamine. Chlorisondamine also did not affect performance in the inhibitory avoidance task and did not alter the memory enhancement found in this task after post-training administration of nicotine. Mecamylamine, however, completely blocked the memory-enhancing effects of nicotine. In contrast to the differential ability to chlorisondamine and mecamylamine to block nicotine's memory-enhancing effects, these antagonists produced comparable blockade of nicotine's effects on open field behavior. It is unlikely that the different effects of systemically administered mecamylamine and centrally administered chlorisondamine on nicotine-induced memory enhancement are due to mecamylamine's peripheral effects, since hexamethonium, a peripherally active nicotinic antagonist, did not block nicotine-induced memory enhancement. The different pattern of effects of mecamylamine and chlorisondamine may be related to compensatory mechanisms being selectively induced by chronic blockade produced by chlorisondamine and not by acute blockade produced by mecamylamine. Alternatively, different effects of these two nicotinic cholinergic antagonists on the performance of learning and memory tasks might be related to selective actions of these compounds at nicotinic receptor subtypes or at nonnicotinic receptors.
The time course for vulnerability to the amnestic effects of the cholinergic antagonist, scopolamine, during the postacquisition period has been investigated. We have examined the effects of post-test injections of scopolamine (1 mg/kg ip) given at different times from 30 s for up to 6 h following the end of the first acquisition session of a concurrent spatial discrimination (reference memory) protocol in an 8-arm radial maze on subsequent long-term (24 h) retention performance in C57BL/6 mice. Results show that the immediate (30 s) post-test injection of scopolamine-HCl on Day 1 produces marked perturbation (amnesia) of long-term retention as attested to by significant deficits in various indices of spatial discrimination performance gain on Day 2 as compared to control subjects injected either with scopolamine-MBr or saline. The severity of this scopolamine-induced amnesia declines only slightly as a function of the treatment period 30 s-3 h post-test. However, no evidence for amnesia is observed if scopolamine-HCl injections are delayed for 6 h postsession. This important latter observation attests to the absence of any significant proactive effects of scopolamine on the ability of mice to perform the retention test via possible long-term effects on attention, motivation, or locomotor performance. These results thus constitute evidence for the existence of a limited (30 s-3 h) time gradient for vulnerability of the early memory trace to disruption by scopolamine. The present results are discussed in relation to our previous direct neurochemical observations describing the differential time courses of intervention of the ascending septohippocampal and nBM-cortical cholinergic pathways in the postlearning period. In particular, the presently observed time window concerning post-test vulnerability to scopolamine-induced amnesia corresponds more closely to the time course of the acute activation of the nBM-cortical cholinergic pathway, induced by testing with the same spatial memory protocol as used in the present study in mice.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationships (SAR) for a series of conformationally restricted analogues of the selective cholecystokinin (CCK) antagonist CI-988 and some closely related analogues are described. A series of appropriately substituted cis- and trans-amino decalins are prepared that mimic the through bond distances between the functional groups in the parent compound CI-988 whilst restricting bond rotation. This strategy has led to conformationally more rigid derivatives that have increased CCK-B receptor binding affinity.
1. Glycine is an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the spinal cord and brainstem. The mechanism of this inhibition is via binding of glycine to specific receptors, increasing transmembrane Cl- conductance and hyperpolarizing neurones. Strychnine selectively antagonizes these effects. The role of glycinergic neurones in supraspinal regions is poorly understood. 2. Effects of glycine on release of catecholamines in the striatum were examined by microdialysis in freely-moving rats. Transcription of the genes encoding strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors was assessed in the striatum and substantia nigra, by use of reverse transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction. 3. Glycine administered via the microdialysis probe dose-dependently increased concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, in the perfusate, indicating increased local release and metabolism of dopamine. Strychnine markedly attenuated these responses. Whereas striatal tissue did not contain mRNA for either the adult or neonatal form of strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor, nigral tissue contained a message for the adult form. 4. The results suggest that dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra synthesize strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors and transport the receptors to terminals in the striatum. Occupation of the glycine receptors then exerts a net stimulatory effect on striatal dopamine release in vivo.
1. Sympathetic neurones derived from superior cervical ganglia of neonatal rats and maintained in tissue culture were used to investigate the modulation of neurotransmitter release by presynaptic receptors. Three week old cultures of neurones were loaded with [3H]-noradrenaline to label endogenous neurotransmitter stores. Release of noradrenaline was evoked by depolarization with raised extracellular K+ in the presence of desipramine and corticosterone to prevent uptake of released catecholamine. 2. Potassium (55 mmol l-1) depolarization for 30 s caused more than a four fold increase in 3H overflow from basal levels but this increase was reduced by up to 40% in the presence of exogenous noradrenaline (1 mumol l-1). The inhibition by noradrenaline of depolarization-evoked overflow was blocked by the alpha 1/alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, phentolamine. Phentolamine alone did not increase K(+)-evoked 3H overflow. 3. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine, produced a concentration-dependent block of the inhibition by noradrenaline of K(+)-evoked overflow, while the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin, was without effect at concentrations up to 0.1 mumol l-1. 4. The beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, propranolol, neither reduced K(+)-evoked overflow nor increased the degree of inhibition caused by the addition of 1 mumol l-1 noradrenaline. 5. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine (1 mumol l-1) was less effective than noradrenaline at inhibiting K(+)-evoked overflow, while the alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist, phenylephrine (1 mumol l-1) had no significant effect. 6. The L-channel calcium blocker, nicardipine (1 mumol l-1) significantly inhibited 3H overflow evoked by K+. In the presence of L-channel block, however, noradrenaline still inhibited residual evoked overflow.7. In the presence or absence of nicardipine, pertussis toxin pretreatment (1 nmol 1-1) reduced, but did not prevent, the effect of noradrenaline (1 micromol 1-1). Pertussis toxin alone caused a significant enhancement of K+-evoked 3H overflow.8. The data indicate that on postganglionic neurones of cultured rat sympathetic ganglia there are alpha 2-adrenoceptors that modulate neurotransmitter release, but no functional beta-adrenoceptors that mediate an enhancement of transmitter release. The data suggest further that in this preparation the mechanism of alpha2-adrenoceptor modulation may involve pertussis toxin sensitive and insensitive G-proteins and effects on calcium channels other than L-type.
1. We investigated the effects of the non-peptide NK1 receptor antagonist, CP-96,345, its inactive enantiomer CP-96,344, and the racemic mixture (+/-)-CP-96,345, on the binding of [3H]-nimodipine and [3H]-diltiazem to L-type calcium channels in rat cerebral cortex membranes. In isolated peripheral tissues containing tachykinin receptors, the effects of (+/-)-CP-96,345 have been compared with those of diltiazem. 2. In guinea-pig trachea, (+/-)-CP-96,345 produced antagonism of responses to the selective NK1 agonists [Sar9, Met(O2)11]SP and substance P-methyl ester that was apparently competitive in nature (pKB 7.0-7.5), while in guinea-pig ileum the antagonism was not surmountable. 3. The reduction of maximum responses by (+/-)-CP-96,345 in the guinea-pig ileum was not selective; it was obtained with muscarinic agonists and other agents, and was also observed in the portal vein of the rat where NK1 receptors are not present. 4. The tissue-specific reduction of maximum responses by (+/-)-CP-96,345 in ileum was reproduced by diltiazem. 5. (+/-)-CP-96,345 produced a concentration-dependent enhancement of [3H]-nimodipine binding to rat cerebral cortex membranes with a maximal stimulation of 186 +/- 29% above control (EC50 83.2 nM). Scatchard analysis revealed that (+/-)-CP-96,345 increased the affinity of [3H]-nimodipine for its binding sites without affecting Bmax (control: KD = 0.32 nM; with 100 nM (+/-)-CP-96,345: KD = 0.074 nM). 6. CP-96,345, CP-96,344, and the racemate all inhibited [3H]-diltiazem binding in rat cerebral cortex membranes with Ki values of 22.5 nM, 34.5 nM and 29.9 nM respectively; a similar value was obtained for diltiazem itself (33.6 nM). In comparison, CP-96,345 and ( +/- )-CP-96,345 inhibited the binding of[125I]-Bolton-Hunter-conjugated substance P in this tissue with Ki values of 59.6 nM and 82.0 nM respectively, while CP-96,344 had no measurable affinity (IC50&gt; 10 microM).7. Substance P and a range of ligands selective for NK1, NK2, or NK3 receptors had no significant effect at 10 microM on either [3H]-diltiazem or [3H]-nimodipine binding.8. The results indicate that in addition to possessing affinity for the NK1 receptor, the non-peptide antagonist, CP-96,345, displays high affinity for [3H]-diltiazem binding sites on L-type calcium channels.The functional effect that may be observed in integrated models will be a consequence of either property, or be a composite effect of NK1 receptor antagonism and L-channel blockade.
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that patients with SAD have significantly different physiological responses to light than healthy age- and sex-matched controls. We studied retinal contrast sensitivity, visual evoked EEG responses, and melatonin suppression by, and cerebral blood flow response to, full-spectrum artificial daylight. There was no significant difference between 10 patients and 11 controls in retinal contrast sensitivity, or amplitude or latency of N2, P2, P100 or P300 on EEG. We compared melatonin suppression in 12 SAD patients and 12 controls. During exposure to 500 lux and 1500 lux artificial daylight both the SAD patients and controls had a significant melatonin percentage suppression; however, the percentage suppression did not differ significantly between the SAD patients and the controls. In addition, we carried out a small pilot study into the effect of light on cerebral blood flow in four SAD patients and four controls. Before exposure to 1500 lux artificial daylight there was no significant difference between patients and controls in global, regional or cerebral hemispheric blood flow. After light exposure the SAD patients and controls had a significantly different percentage change in cerebral blood flow. We suggest that patients with SAD do not have significantly physiological responses to light than controls, except perhaps in cerebral blood flow. Furthermore, mechanisms other than supersensitivity of melatonin suppression must explain both the pathophysiology of the disorder and its response to treatment with light.
Two lines of mice which were selectively bred for high (Long Sleep; LS) and low (Short Sleep; SS) reactivities to a sedative dose of ethanol, are also differentiated by agents that act at the GABAA-receptor complex. Since this supramolecular complex may also modulate immune function, measures of immunity have been examined in these lines. In the present study the immune responsiveness before and after an allogeneic priming stimulus was investigated. Lower mitogen-induced T-cell proliferation, mixed leukocyte reaction, and cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity were found in unprimed LS compared to unprimed SS mice. In contrast, the LS line exhibited a marked augmentation of these responses after priming, while the SS mice appeared unresponsive to this challenge. Addition of splenocytes or cell-free splenic cultures from primed mice to cultures from unprimed mice suggested that differences in priming-induced cell-to-cell interactions, rather than the release of a soluble helper factor(s) into the medium, are responsible for the marked augmentation of the secondary response in LS, compared to SS mice. Fewer T-helper and T-suppressor/cytotoxic cells were found in LS compared to SS mice, and this was unaffected by priming. These results extend previous findings demonstrating a higher natural killer cell activity and rate of tumor rejection in LS mice and suggest that these lines may be useful in studying the regulatory role of the GABAA complex in immune function.
As an iatrogenic movement disorder, tardive dyskinesia (TD) offers a unique opportunity to study brain-behavior relationships. The authors provide a brief overview of TD and discuss its association to cognitive dysfunction. It is argued that, given the complexity of the variables involved in the study of TD, there is pressing need for greater applications of neuropsychological research paradigms to help elucidate this disorder.
Circadian rhythms are a ubiquitous adaptation of eukaryotic organisms to the most reliable and predictable of environmental changes, the daily cycles of light and temperature. Prominent daily rhythms in behavior, physiology, hormone levels and biochemistry (including gene expression) are not merely responses to these environmental cycles, however, but embody the organism's ability to keep and tell time. At the core of circadian systems is a mysterious mechanism, located in the brain (actually the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus) of mammals, but present even in unicellular organisms, that functions as a clock. This clock drives circadian rhythms. It is independent of, but remains responsive to, environmental cycles (especially light). The interest in temporal regulation--its organization, mechanism and consequences--unites investigators in diverse disciplines studying otherwise disparate systems. This diversity is reflected in the brief reviews that summarize the presentations at a meeting on circadian rhythms held in New York City on October 31, 1992. The meeting was sponsored by the Fondation pour l'Etude du Systme Nerveux (FESN) and followed a larger meeting held 18 months earlier in Geneva, whose proceedings have been published (M. Zatz (Ed.), Report of the Ninth FESN Study Group on 'Circadian Rhythms', Discussions in Neuroscience, Vol. VIII, Nos. 2 + 3, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1992). Some speakers described progress made in the interim, while others addressed aspects of the field not previously covered.
Changes in striatal dopamine uptake sites, D2 receptor and preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA levels provoked by unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DA) pathway were studied by quantitative autoradiography and in situ hybridization (ISH) in rats sacrificed at different post-lesion delays. The disappearance of DA terminals as visualized with the labelling of dopamine uptake sites with [3H]GBR 12935 became significant 36 h after the lesion and was almost complete at a delay of 7 days. PPE mRNA amounts significantly increase (+24%) already at the shortest delay studied (9 h after the lesion) while the labelling of the uptake sites on DA terminals was not affected. The time course increase of PPE mRNA levels was progressive until 21 days post-lesion where it reached its maximum (+132%) and remained stable up to the latest delay studied (60 days). Conversely D2 mRNA contents remained unchanged up to 5 days post-surgery and then increased relatively quickly since at 7 days post-lesion their levels were near (+21%) the maximum observed which was reached at 21 days post-lesion (+32%). This study suggests a time-dependent differential sensitivity to the degree of DA denervation of both major components implicated in the striatopallidal output.
Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to determine the age-related changes in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA and cholecystokinin (CCK) mRNA in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) of the rat. Coronal sections (10 microns) were cut in a cryostat through the VTA and SNc of brains from 3 months and 33 month old Sprague-Dawley rats and immediately adjacent sections hybridized with 35S-labelled 45-mer oligonucleotide probes specific for either the rat TH or CCK genes. The mRNA levels of each gene were estimated by computerised densitometric analysis of the signal on X-ray film autoradiograms and estimation of the number of mRNA expressing cells as well as the density of expression per cell (grain density) was made from high resolution emulsion autoradiograms. Analysis of the TH mRNA on X-ray film autoradiograms indicated that the levels averaged 25% lower in the SNc (P &lt; 0.01) and 18% lower in the VTA (P &lt; 0.05) of the old rats. However, analysis of the emulsion autoradiograms showed that this reduction in TH mRNA in the VTA and SNc in the old rats was not due to a loss of TH mRNA expressing cells but due to a reduction in the hybridization signal per expressing cell.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the neocortex, as well as in many other brain regions, neurons responding to similar stimulus features are usually found close to one another. Here we examine the possible role of gap junctional communication in forming and defining these local neuronal groupings, examples of which may be the columns found in the neocortex of virtually all mammalian species. We have approached this question experimentally in cortical brain slices using calcium imaging to visualize multicellular activity patterns, and tracer injections to identify the anatomical pattern of gap junction coupling in the developing neocortex. Our results suggest that dendrodendritic gap junctional communication may be involved in the formation of local connectivity, most likely by synchronizing electrical or biochemical activity among neighboring neurons.
Various processing principles have been suggested to be governing the resolution of quantifier scope ambiguities in sentences such as Every kid climbed a tree. This paper investigates structural principles, that is, those which refer to the syntactic or semantic positions of the quantified phrases. To test these principles, the preferred interpretations for three grammatical constructions were determined in a task in which participants made speeded judgments of whether a sentence following a doubly quantified sentence was a reasonable discourse continuation of the quantified sentence. The observed preferences cannot be explained by any single structural principle, but point instead to the interaction of several principles. Contrary to many proposals, there is little or no effect of a principle that assigns scope according to the linear order of the phrases. The interaction of principles suggests that alternative interpretations of the ambiguity may be initially considered in parallel, followed by selection of the single interpretation that best satisfies the principles. These results are discussed in relation to theories of ambiguity resolution at other levels of linguistic representation.
Running fractal dimensions were measured on four channels of an electroencephalogram (EEG) recorded from a normal volunteer. The changes in the background activity due to eye closure were clearly differentiated by the fractal method. The compressed spectral array (CSA) and the running fractal dimensions of the EEG showed corresponding changes with respect to change in the background activity. The fractal method was also successful in detecting low amplitude spikes and the changes in the patterns in the EEG. The effects of different window lengths and shifts on the running fractal dimension have also been studied. The utility of fractal method for EEG data compression is highlighted.
The introduction of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) over the past several years has made a major impact on the treatment of depression and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Agents in this heterogeneous group of compounds are generally better tolerated and less toxic than the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), which they have in many respects superseded. This review summarizes available data on paroxetine, the newest SSRI to receive approval for the treatment of depression.
Alzheimer's disease paired helical filaments contain abnormally phosphorylated tau (PHF-tau) which has reduced electrophoretic mobility on sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide electrophoresis. We have investigated the effects of cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) on recombinant human tau isoforms and two recombinant tau fragments. PKA phosphorylated tau and reduced its electrophoretic mobility, phosphorylation towards the C-terminus of tau having a major influence on this property. Substitution of serine396 (phosphorylated in PHF-tau) or serine416 (phosphorylated by calcium/calmodulin kinase II) by alanine demonstrated that these are not major sites for PKA phosphorylation. Although the phosphorylated forms of tau generated by PKA are not identical to those of PHF-tau, PKA may be involved in the generation of PHF-tau in Alzheimer's disease via phosphorylation of additional, as yet unidentified, sites on tau.
Growth cones provide crucial guidance to neurons in response to appropriate targets and other environmental cues. We have cocultured ciliary neurons with myotubes and utilized antibodies to GAP-43 (a neuron-specific, growth-associated phosphoprotein) and MAP-2 (a cytoskeletal marker for dendrites) together with immunofluorescence microscopy to characterize the changes in patterns and polarity that ciliary nerve growth cones undergo when they contact a &quot;proper&quot; target. Our results show that ciliary neurons plated alone or cocultured with fibroblasts have one or two axons, but, when cocultured with myotubes, most cells have 4 or 5 axons showing GAP-43 immunoreactivity. The mean number of axons per cell soma was 1.9 +/- 0.9 micron2 (SEM) when ciliary neurons were plated alone and 3.4 +/- 0.1 when ciliary neurons were cocultured with myotubes. Differences in growth cone size were readily apparent in these two types of cultures. In coculture with myotubes the neuronal growth cone lamelopodia occupied 20-30 microns2 with an average area of 25.0 +/- 2.3 microns2 (SEM) whereas those neurons plated alone or in the presence of fibroblasts occupied an average area of 56.3 microns2 +/- 4.1 microns2 (SEM). The number of growth cone filopodia depended on culture condition. In nerve-muscle cocultures, the average number of filopodia per growth cone was 3.6 +/- 0.2 (SEM), whereas in ciliary cultures plated in the absence of myotubes the number of filopodia was 6.8 +/- 0.4 (SEM). These results indicate that muscle cells or the factors they release can regulate the growth and topography of axons and their growth cones.
The embryonic zebrafish is rapidly becoming an important model system for studies of early events in vertebrate development. We review recent work describing the development of zebrafish neural crest and experimental studies examining the cellular, molecular, and genetic mechanisms of crest development.
Growth/trophic factors, encountered by dispersing neural crest cells, affect the development of different crest-derived subpopulations. Here, we address the dependence by cells of the crest-derived melanogenic lineage on Steel factor (SLF). Specifically, we have asked when SLF-responsive cells first appear in cultured neural crest cell populations and whether there is a defined period during which this melanogenic subpopulation requires the presence of the SLF. We demonstrate that survival of a melanogenic subpopulation of cultured murine crest cells requires SLF for a critical period, which begins only after the second day of dispersal in vitro. We also conclude that the critical period of SLF dependence lasts about 4 days, ending about the time that melanocytes differentiate, as indicated by the presence of functional melanosomes, but before their overt melanization. Finally, we demonstrate that although the final stages of melanogenesis (i.e., melanization) do not appear to require SLF, this process may be enhanced by extended exposure to high levels of SLF in vitro.
Little is known about the cellular mechanisms that cause some cells to stop dividing while leaving neighboring cells free to continue dividing. Such events occur during development of the Xenopus retina; all cells of the embryonic eyebud are mitotic, but by stage 37 (St 37), only cells at the ciliary margin continue to proliferate as neighboring cells become post-mitotic. The mechanisms that control these different proliferative fates remain unknown. One possibility is that total cell number regulates the initial number of proliferative cells at the ciliary margin. To test this hypothesis, we reduced the cell number by surgically removing a portion of the embryonic eyebud, including part of the prospective proliferative zone. Cell counts confirmed that the numbers of both the mitotic, undifferentiated cells and the post-mitotic, differentiated cells were reduced following the partial ablation. A regression analysis suggested that the initial number of undifferentiated cells was a fixed proportion of the total number, but that this proportion was increased by the partial ablation. This increase occurred for all stages that the partial ablation was performed, from early optic vesicle to mid optic cup stages. The proportion of undifferentiated cells was normal in sham-operated retinas, indicating that the increase in partially ablated retinas was induced by tissue removal and not by wound healing. Analyses of clones derived from single precursors, labeled with a fluorescent lineage tracer, indicated that the rate of proliferation was the same in partially ablated and sham-operated retinas. Measurements of bromodeoxyuridine incorporation directly confirmed that at the ciliary margin cell division time was unchanged after partial ablation. Our observations are most consistent with the hypothesis that the proportion of undifferentiated cells was increased because cells that would have become post-mitotic remained proliferative after the partial ablation. Furthermore, cell-cell interactions most likely play a major role in controlling the initial number of proliferative cells in the tadpole retina.
Cardiovascular and metabolic adjustments during stress involve participation of the sympatho-adrenal and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical systems, which interact at several levels. The present study investigated the effects of removal of endogenous glucocorticoids on indices of norepinephrine release and metabolism and of catecholamine biosynthesis in sympathetic nerves, at baseline and in response to immobilization stress (IMMO) in rats. Plasma levels of the catecholamine precursor dihydroxyphenylalanine, norepinephrine (NE), the NE metabolites dihydroxyphenylglycol and methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, dopamine, and the dopamine metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid were measured in adrenalectomized, adrenal-medullectomized, or sham-operated conscious rats, with or without glucocorticoid treatment (25 mg/kg.24 h cortisol for 7 days by osmotic minipumps), at rest and after 5, 20, 60, and 120 min of IMMO. Adrenalectomy eliminated plasma levels of epinephrine and corticosterone and augmented IMMO-induced increments in levels of NE, dihydroxyphenylglycol, methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, dihydroxyphenylalanine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and homovanillic acid. Adrenal-medullectomy reduced plasma epinephrine, but not corticosterone, to undetectable levels at baseline and did not augment stress-induced responses of any of the measured compounds. Cortisol administration (plasma levels approximately 600 pmol/ml) reversed the augmentation of catecholaminergic responses in adrenalectomized rats. The results indicate that adrenalectomy stimulates several aspects of sympatho-neural function, including stress-induced increments in NE release, reuptake, metabolism, and turnover and in catecholamine biosynthesis. This augmentation was absent in adreno-medullectomized rats, indicating that the loss of adrenomedullary hormones after adrenalectomy does not appear to contribute to the augmentation. Since cortisol treatment reversed or prevented this augmentation, loss of feedback inhibition by endogenous glucocorticoids appears to be the basis of the enhanced responses. Thus, the results suggest that endogenous glucocorticoids restrain responses of catecholamine turnover, synthesis, release, reuptake, and metabolism in sympathetic nerves in this stress model.
Adrenalectomy (ADX) activates CRH neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and increases hypothalamic norepinephrine (NE) turnover in vitro. Immobilization (IMMO) markedly increases the release of NE into extracellular fluid in the PVN. The present study assessed whether ADX affects the release of NE in the PVN in vivo in conscious rats at baseline and during IMMO and whether cortisol (CORT) treatment attenuates the effects of ADX. Concentrations of NE, the NE metabolites dihydroxyphenylglycol and methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, and the dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were measured in microdialysate samples beginning 24 h after implantation of a microdialysis probe in the PVN. Seven to 10 days after ADX or ADX plus CORT (20 mg/kg.day via osmotic minipump), animals underwent IMMO for 2 h. Adrenalectomized rats had slightly higher baseline microdialysate NE, dihydroxyphenylglycol, methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol, and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels and much larger IMMO-induced responses of these compounds than did sham-operated rats. CORT treatment abolished the ADX-induced augmentation of these responses. The results indicate that ADX, by removing endogenous glucocorticoids, augments IMMO-induced release and turnover of NE and amplifies the responses of catecholamine synthesis. Glucocorticoids, therefore, appear to exert feedback inhibition on stress-induced increments in the release of NE and catecholamine biosynthesis in the PVN.
The education of medical students about epilepsy is often fragmentary and incomplete. Basic information regarding the classification of epileptic seizures, epilepsy syndromes, first aid for seizures, and practical use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may not be covered in medical school curricula. In this report we describe reasons why the study of epilepsy provides a relatively unique opportunity to integrate concepts related to basic neuroscience and clinical neurology. Furthermore, we present a curricular framework that may prove useful for the education of medical students about epilepsy.
Patients with refractory epilepsy, despite no fixed physical deficit, are often socially and psychologically handicapped. Currently available outcome measures for epilepsy do not adequately address these manifestations or their influence on well-being and quality of life. A patient-based health-related quality of life (HRQL) model for epilepsy including physical, social and psychological domains was constructed. It contains previously validated measures of anxiety, depression, happiness, overall mood, self-esteem, mastery, social satisfaction and general health and a specifically designed seizure severity scale with patient- and carer-based components. The psychometric properties of this model were evaluated in the context of the trial of a potential new antiepileptic drug. All the scales, except the Social Problems Questionnaire, have acceptable internal consistency (alpha 0.69-0.85) in this patient population. Construct validity is indicated by the ability of the scales to differentiate between groups of patients predicted to have different levels of psychosocial function. Treatment effects were detected by the patient (P = 0.017) and carers (P = 0.035) subscales of the seizure severity scale, the happiness (P = 0.003) and the mastery (P = 0.003) scales. Despite obvious deficiencies preliminary analyses are encouraging. This model provides a framework for investigating the complex interaction between the physical, social and psychological manifestations of epilepsy. The model has potential as an outcome measure for use in longitudinal studies and as a measure of disability for use in cross-sectional studies designed to compare quality of life in different populations of people with epilepsy.
In this study we investigated the involvement of the cerebellum in high voltage spike-and-wave spindles, a rodent model of petit mal epilepsy. High voltage spindles, recorded epidurally from the sensorimotor neocortex, were correlated with single or multiple unit activity in the cerebellar cortex and deep cerebellar nuclei. The majority of neurons or neuronal groups in the cerebellum (77.9%) fired rhythmically and phase-locked with the high voltage spindles, either during the spike (43.2%; n = 41) or during the wave (34.7%; n = 33) component of the high voltage spindle. Tremor of the head and neck musculature, recorded with an accelero-meter, occurred during the high voltage spindle in approximately half of the rats. When present, rhythmic movement occurred predominantly during the wave phase of the high voltage spindle. The remaining half of the rats did not show tremor during high voltage spindles but, nevertheless, had cerebellar units that burst during the spike or wave phase of the high voltage spindle. These latter results demonstrate that phase-locked bursting of cerebellar units during high voltage spindle is independent of rhythmic movement. The findings suggest that rhythmic output from the cerebellum may contribute to the maintenance of generalized petit mal seizures.

We describe the development of the olfactory bulb (OB) glomeruli, focusing on the role of purported astroglial-associated boundary molecules, as potential guidance factors in glomeruli formation. Glomeruli are unusual structures within the OB formed by extremely tight bundles of afferent fibers that fail to grow deeply into the brain. Using olfactory marker protein antibodies, we found that olfactory axons of stage E17-E18 rat embryos were organized into long strands at the outer-most edge of the bulb. By E20-E21 the axons clustered and formed small spheres and by PD1 they gathered into distinct glomeruli. Prior to and during the transformation of olfactory afferents into glomeruli, there was an enhanced expression of cytotactin/tenascin (CT) and chondroitin sulfate-containing proteoglycan (CS-PG) associated with VIM/GFAP-positive astroglial cell processes at the base of the glomeruli. During later stages of development (PD3-PD9), the GFAP-positive astroglial processes beneath and within the base of the glomeruli showed intensified GFAP staining while maintaining expression of CT and CS-PG. Some astroglial processes had extended and others went even further peripherally into the olfactory nerve layer (ONL) to encapsulate and fully infiltrate the glomeruli. By PD9, CS-PG and CT levels increased inside and outside the glomeruli. However, by PD15 both molecules had decreased inside the glomeruli but remained highly concentrated around the glomeruli to form rings. Thus, at later stages, axon/glia interactions which result in astroglial rearrangement and matrix alterations in relation to the glomeruli occur. Western blots of stage E20 bulb proteins revealed the presence of three proteoglycan core proteins each containing chondroitin-6-sulfate moieties. In addition, a type of keratan sulfate (KS) glycosaminoglycan was present in a core protein not associated with chondroitin-6-sulfate. Our data suggest that astroglial-associated ECM molecules CT and CS-PG, and perhaps KS-PG, present in the core of the early developing OB, could form a molecular &quot;wall&quot; that helps confine ingrowing olfactory axons within the ONL at the outer edge of the astroglial territory. We suggest that the astroglia do not precisely regulate the specific shape of the glomeruli, but rather play a fundamental role in directing the gross position at which formation of the synaptic glomeruli will occur.
Neither the physiological function of sigma (sigma) receptors nor the cellular mechanism responsible for the pharmacological effects of sigma receptor ligands is known. We now report that sigma receptor ligands noncompetitively inhibit nicotine-stimulated catecholamine release from bovine adrenal chromaffin cells in a concentration-dependent and reversible manner. The rank order of potency of ligands to inhibit nicotine-stimulated catecholamine release is significantly correlated (P &lt; 0.005) with that observed in radioligand binding assays selective for the sigma 1 receptor subtype. This naltrexone-insensitive effect is paralleled by an inhibition of nicotine-stimulated increases in [Ca2+]i. Sigma ligands were without effect on catecholamine release or [Ca2+]i in the absence of nicotine. In addition, nicotine accelerated the association of the sigma receptor selective radioligand, [3H](+)pentazocine, to adrenal medullary homogenates while having no effect on the rate of ligand dissociation, consistent with a sigma ligand binding site closely associated with and allosterically modulated by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Thus, the actions of agonists at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in bovine chromaffin cells are modulated by sigma 1 receptor selective ligands.
Fifty-nine NotI linking clones have been isolated from a flow-sorted chromosome 22 cosmid library and mapped using fluorescence in situ hybridization and/or a panel of somatic cell hybrids. Fourteen clones map to the short arm of chromosome 22, 31 to the long arm, and 9 to other chromosomes; 5 clones could not be unambiguously mapped. To identify potentially informative genetic markers, the chromosome 22 clones were screened for poly(CA) sequences; 24 positively hybridizing clones, 10 on the long arm and 14 on the short arm, were identified. These clones will be useful for constructing a long-range restriction map of chromosome 22 and may facilitate the cloning of chromosome 22 genes.
There is abundant evidence for substantial long-term prophylactic efficacy of lithium in bipolar manic-depressive disorders. Interruption of such treatment carries an extraordinarily high risk of recurrence within several months, even after several years of stability. Even a sharp reduction in dose may carry some risk. Gradual discontinuation of lithium was accompanied by markedly reduced risk of early recurrence. There is suggestive evidence that the phenomenon of high risk of recurrence after abrupt interruption of maintenance treatment may occur with other disorders and treatments, including neuroleptics in schizophrenia and possibly antidepressants in recurrent depression. The phenomenon of discontinuation-associated iatrogenic risk of early recurrence of major psychiatric illness has clear clinical implications. These include the need to evaluate safer methods of interrupting long-term maintenance treatment, particularly when clinical indications for rapid cessation are compelling and gradual discontinuation is not feasible. Questions also arise concerning interpretation of existing experimental studies of maintenance treatments that require interruption of treatment, reduction of dose, or crossover to a placebo, as well as the ethical and scientifically unambiguous design of future studies of this kind.
The stereociliary bundles of hair cells from the basilar papilla of the red-eared turtle were examined with transmission and high resolution scanning electron microscopy to provide a description of their morphology, orientation and inter-ciliary connections for comparison with physiological observations. Bundles on hair cells in the basilar membrane region are of a uniform shape and orientation, but bundles on the apical and basal limbus are distinct in having elongated kinocilia more than twice the length of the tallest stereocilia. Bundles in the basilar membrane region show a roughly two-fold increase in height from 5 to 9 microns from base to apex. Electrical recordings from isolated hair cells indicate that the bundle height is inversely proportional to the cell's characteristic frequency. It is argued that the change in dimensions is insufficient to contribute significantly to the cochlea's frequency selectivity. The cytoplasm adjacent to the kinocilium is filled with microtubules and large vesicles, and there are coated pits in the apical membrane which, it is suggested, may be indicative of rapid turnover of the membrane in this region.

We have recently found that the complement factor H (H) was the precursor of the major macrophage chemotactic factor in the delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction site in the skin and was converted to the factor by an unidentified trypsin-like protease in plasma. Thrombin and plasmin are also present in the site, and we, therefore, examined the possibility that these proteases converted H to be monocyte chemotactic. Intact H caused no monocyte migration, although it was able to do so after incubation with thrombin, but not with plasmin. The activity was chemotactic rather than chemokinetic and was absorbed by an anti-H IgG-conjugated column. The generation of monocyte chemotactic activity from H was dependent on incubation time with thrombin and also the protease activity of thrombin, and the activity was seen at concentrations of H lower than 10(-8) M. The inhibitory activity of H for C3b-Bb was not affected by incubation with thrombin or plasmin. Incubation of H with thrombin, but not with plasmin, generated a hydrophobic molecule, in a time-dependent manner, which had monocyte chemotactic activity. These results show that H becomes a monocyte chemotactic factor due to cleavage by thrombin, which converts H to a more hydrophobic molecule and also suggest that thrombin-treated H induces monocyte migration in the DTH reaction site.
This report presents the changes in various autonomic and respiratory variables during the practice of Brahmakumaris Raja yoga meditation. This practice requires considerable commitment and involves concentrated thinking. 18 males in the age range of 20 to 52 years (mean 34.1 +/- 8.1), with 5-25 years experience in mediation (mean 10.1 +/- 6.2), participated in the study. Each subject was assessed in three test sessions which included a period of meditation, and also in three control (non-mediation) sessions, which included a period of random thinking. Group analysis showed that the heart rate during the meditation period was increased compared to the preceding baseline period, as well as compared to the value during the non-meditation period of control sessions. In contrast to the change in the heart rate, there was no significant change during meditation, for the group as a whole, in palmar GSR, finger plethysmogram amplitude, and respiratory rate. On an individual basis, changes which met the following criteria were noted: (1), changes which were greater during meditation (compared to its preceding baseline) than changes during post meditation or non-meditation periods (also compared to their preceding baseline); (2), Changes which occurred consistently during the three repeat sessions of a subject and (3), changes which exceeded arbitrarily-chosen cut-off points (described at length below). This individual level analysis revealed that changes in autonomic variables suggestive of both activation and relaxation occurred simultaneously in different subdivisions of the autonomic nervous system in a subject. Apart from this, there were differences in patterns of change among the subjects who practised the same meditation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Occupational stress in nursing has been a popular topic for investigation. While many practice areas have been studied, the neurosurgical intensive care units (ICUs) and neuromedical/surgical units have largely been overlooked. Using interviews, this exploratory study examined aspects of neurosurgical nursing that were perceived as stressful by staff. Findings suggest that being exposed to life and death situations among young children, being short of essential resources, being on duty with too few staff and dealing with aggressive relatives constituted major stressful events. The frequency of occurrence of stressors was also investigated; working unsocial hours, being short of essential resources, being exposed to life and death situations in adults, and dealing with fluctuations in workload were cited as common happenings. Stressors perceived as having the most effect on work included being exposed to life and death situations among children and adults and being short of essential resources. Comments made by staff suggest that performance at work is adversely influenced by stress. While no neurosurgery-specific stressors were identified, the conclusion from this study is that intensely stressful events do occur in these ICUs and although such events may not happen often, they can adversely affect work performance, according to the staff involved.
Elevated levels of beta 2-microglobulin and neopterin in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been associated with neurologic complications of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The effect of zidovudine (ZDV) on these markers was assessed by studying the effect of ZDV treatment duration on CSF levels in a cohort of 145 HIV-positive men who were receiving ZDV. CSF beta 2-microglobulin and neopterin levels were significantly lower in those who had been taking ZDV for an intermediate period of time (46-365 days) than in those who had received ZDV either long term (&gt; 365 days) or short term (1-45 days). CSF quinolinic acid levels were independent of duration of ZDV administration. A second CSF evaluation was available after 1 year for 54 HIV-positive men (19 of whom were also in the first cohort) and 11 HIV-negative controls. Patients who had started ZDV between lumbar punctures showed a significant decrease in CSF beta 2-microglobulin, but in those who had been receiving ZDV for &gt; 1 year beta 2-microglobulin increased (p = 0.001). The effect was not observed with neopterin (p = 0.14). (Quinolinic acid levels were not studied longitudinally.) Finally, we observed that CSF levels of beta 2-microglobulin, neopterin, and quinolinic acid correlated strongly with each other in HIV-positive individuals (r = 0.7, p &lt; 0.0001), even though ZDV might have different effects on these markers. In conclusion, we report that initiation of ZDV therapy is associated with a transient decrease in CSF levels of beta 2-microglobulin and neopterin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intermittent stretch of the anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) muscle produces fiber hypertrophy without fiber hyperplasia (J. Appl. Physiol. 74: 1893-1898, 1993). This study was undertaken to determine if a progressive increase in load and duration of stretch would induce extremely large muscle fiber areas or if the fibers would reach a critical size before the onset of fiber hyperplasia. Weights ranging from 10 to 35% of the bird's mass were attached to the right wing of 26 adult quail while the left wing served as the intra-animal control. The stretch protocol was as follows: day 1 (10% wt), days 2 and 3 (rest), day 4 (15% wt), days 5-7 (rest), day 8 (20% wt), days 9 and 10 (rest), days 11-14 (25% wt), days 15 and 16 (rest), and days 17-38 (35% wt). Birds were killed after 12, 16, 20, 24, and 28 days of stretch not including rest days. Muscle mass increased 174% (12 days), 196% (16 days), 225% (20 days), 264% (24 days), and 318% (28 days). Muscle length increased 60% (12 days), 34% (16 days), 59% (20 days), 50% (24 days), and 51% (28 days). Mean fiber area increased 111% (12 days), 142% (16 days), 75% (20 days), 90% (24 days), and 39% (28 days). Fiber number, which was measured histologically, increased significantly by 82% only in the 28 days of stretch group. The percentage of slow tonic fibers did not change for any of the time points examined.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the present study, we describe the effects of perivascular microapplication of the potent vasoconstrictor peptide endothelin-1 (ET-1; (120 pmol in 3 microliters), delivered via a guide cannula stereotaxically positioned above the left cerebral artery (MCA) of the conscious male Sprague-Dawley rat. Ten minutes after the administration of Et-1, mean arterial blood pressure had increased by 20% and profound reductions in local cerebral blood flow (up to 93%) were observed within those brain areas supplied by the MCA. In addition, significant increases in local cerebral blood flow were observed within the globus pallidus (100%), substantia nigra pars reticulata (48%), ventrolateral thalamus (65%), and dorsal hippocampus (74%) ipsilateral to the insult. Twenty-four hours following the insult, the pattern of ischaemic damage was similar to that reported previously following permanent occlusion of the rat MCA. It is suggested that perivascular microapplication of Et-1 may provide a useful model for the study of the functional disturbances associated with focal cerebral ischaemia in the conscious rat.
Two consecutive measurements of resting CBF were carried out in normal volunteers (n = 25) using H2(15)O positron emission tomography. Absolute whole-brain blood flow (WBBF; ml 100 g-1 min-1, mean +/- SD) for the first (40.3 +/- 6.4) and second (39.3 +/- 6.5) measurements was not significantly different (mean % difference 2.3 +/- 8.7). Analysis of regions of interest showed no significant differences in absolute regional CBF (rCBF) and normalized (rCBF/WBBF) rCBF. Left-right differences were also not significant. These data demonstrate the reproducibility of resting CBF measurements in normal humans.
N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) is an acidic dipeptide found in high concentration throughout the rat central nervous system. NAAG has been proposed as a neurotransmitter/modulator in some excitatory glutamatergic pathways where it is released by a Ca(2+)-dependent process with neuronal activity. Previous immunocytochemical studies have revealed few neurons exhibiting NAAG-like immunoreactivity (LI) in the forebrain, especially in putative glutamatergic neurons. In this study, we present a detailed map of NAAG-LI in rat forebrain utilizing a modified fixation technique that markedly enhances sensitivity. NAAG-LI is located in most of the putative glutamatergic pathways in the forebrain including pyramidal neurons in motor and sensory cortices and the hippocampal formation. Co-localization of NAAG-LI to cholinergic systems of the forebrain was quite extensive with the exception of the striatal local circuit neurons. A noteworthy feature of NAAG-LI-positive neuronal groups is that they were often configured in hierarchical relationships. For example, the pyramidal neurons of the motor cortex and the motor neurons of the brainstem and and spinal cord expressed NAAG-LI; also, several inter-related components of the limbic system stained for NAAG-LI. Taken together, these findings indicate that NAAG is a neuropeptide localized to subpopulations of neurons throughout forebrain as well as in brainstem and spinal cord.
This study attempted to establish criteria for distinguishing patients with genuine memory problems from those who are attempting to simulate amnesia. The performance of simulators and genuine amnesics was compared under distraction conditions in which subjects had to count backwards between presentation and recall, and under no-distraction conditions in which the retention interval was unfilled. Genuine amnesics performed significantly worse than controls under distraction conditions, but did not perform significantly worse than controls under no-distraction conditions. However, those attempting to fake amnesia performed significantly worse than controls under no-distraction as well as under distraction conditions. They also exaggerated the memory deficit overall relative to genuine amnesics. It is suggested that these two criteria might be used successfully in clinical settings to assist in the detection of simulators.
Event-related potential (ERP) and cued-recall performance were used to investigate the influence of (a) context, (b) repeating a word's meaning to word repetition priming, and (c) repetition on the ERP difference related to memory (Dm). Sentences ended with either nonhomographs or homographs. For nonhomographs, either the sentence context, the final word, both, or neither were repeated. Homographs were repeated in their original context or in new sentences that biased the same or an alternative meaning. Large repetition effects were found for all words repeated in their original contexts; in contrast, changing contexts led to no repetition effects whether the meaning of the repeated words was preserved or not. These results favor an episodic contribution to word repetition priming and suggest a common process for Dm and repetition.
Most sympathetic neurons contain one or more neuropeptides in addition to catecholamines. Although the regulation of catecholamines has been studied extensively, comparatively little is known about the regulation of neuropeptides. Since glucocorticoids and preganglionic innervation regulate catecholaminergic properties in chromaffin cells, we examined the effects of these factors on a co-localized neuropeptide, leucine enkephalin (L-Enk), in adult rat sympathetic neurons in vivo. Lowered serum glucocorticoid levels as a consequence of bilateral adrenalectomy resulted in a reduction of ganglionic L-Enk content that was reversed by exposure of adrenalectomized animals to the synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone. Surgical denervation of the SCG eliminated L-Enk-IR preganglionic fibers and caused a dramatic increase in the number of L-Enk-IR neurons. Inhibition of the enkephalinergic component of the preganglionic innervation by chronic exposure to the opiate receptor antagonist naloxone increases the number of L-Enk-IR cell bodies and total ganglionic L-Enk content. None of the experimental manipulations noticeably altered the number or distribution of NPY-IR neurons, suggesting that the effects of glucocorticoids and the innervation on ganglionic L-Enk levels were specific and not simply an alteration of the biosynthetic state of the cells. These results demonstrate that circulating glucocorticoids and the preganglionic innervation regulate L-Enk levels in sympathetic neurons. Since both glucocorticoid levels and preganglionic activity are known to be altered by stressful stimuli, acute regulation of sympathetic L-Enk levels may constitute an important component of the autonomic response to stress.
The expression of TrkB mRNAs was investigated in rat retina and optic nerve. A 11.5 kb transcript that encodes full-length TRKB was found to predominate in Northern blots of retinal RNA. By in situ hybridization, this trkB expression was concentrated in the ganglion cell and inner nuclear layers. Furthermore, an antibody to the full-length TRKB immunostained retinal ganglion cells and their axons. In contrast, Northern blots of optic nerve RNA showed a prominent 9.5 kb band that encoded a form of the TRKB receptor lacking the tyrosine kinase domain. This species was also detected in both the sciatic nerve and cultured astrocytes and C6 glioma cells. These results suggest that neurons express the full-length TRKB containing the tyrosine kinase domain, while non-neuronal cells express the truncated form of the receptor. These two classes of TRKB may mediate different neurotrophic actions in the retina and optic nerve.
In order to assess the nature of spatial cues in determining the characteristic projection sites of sensory neurons in the CNS, we have transplanted sensory neurons of the cricket Acheta domesticus to ectopic locations. Thoracic campaniform sensilla (CS) function as proprioceptors and project to an intermediate layer of neuropil in thoracic ganglia while cercal CS transduce tactile information and project into a ventral layer in the terminal abdominal ganglion (TAG). When transplanted to ectopic locations, these afferents retain their modality-specific projection in the host ganglion and terminate in the layer of neuropil homologous to that of their ganglion of origin. Thus, thoracic CS neurons project to intermediate neuropil when transplanted to the abdomen and cercal CS neurons project to a ventral layer of neuropil when transplanted to the thorax. We conclude that CS can be separated into two classes based on their characteristic axonal projections within each segmental ganglion. We also found that the sensory neurons innervating tactile hairs project to ventral neuropil in any ganglion they encounter after transplantation. Ectopic sensory neurons can form functional synaptic connections with identified interneurons located within the host ganglia. The new contacts formed by these ectopic sensory neurons can be with normal targets, which arborize within the same layer of neuropil in each segmental ganglion, or with novel targets, which lack dendrites in the normal ganglion and are thus normally unavailable for synaptogenesis. These observations suggest that a limited set of molecular markers are utilized for cell-cell recognition in each segmentally homologous ganglion. Regenerating sensory neurons can recognize novel postsynaptic neurons if they have dendrites in the appropriate layer of neuropil. We suggest that spatial constraints produced by the segmentation and the modality-specific layering of the nervous system have a pivotal role in determining synaptic specificity.
Serotonin 5-HT2 receptor-mediated intracellular Ca2+ mobilization was investigated in rat glioma C6BU-1 cells. The receptors became desensitized after previous exposure to 5-HT in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The desensitization of 5-HT2 receptor-mediated intracellular signaling appeared to be homologous because previous exposure to 5-HT did not alter the response to other transmitters such as thrombin or isoproterenol and because previous exposure to thrombin or isoproterenol did not diminish the response to 5-HT. The desensitization induced by pretreatment with 5-HT was potently prevented by the naphthalenesulfonamide derivative W-7, a calmodulin antagonist, when it was cosupplied with 5-HT. Furthermore, the preventive effect of W-7 was greater than that of W-5, a weak analogue of W-7, and than that of H-7, a nonselective inhibitor of protein kinases. These results suggest that 5-HT2 receptor-mediated Ca2+ mobilization can be desensitized homologously after prolonged exposure to 5-HT in a calmodulin-dependent manner in rat glioma C6BU-1 cells.
&quot;Synaptodendrosomes&quot; are subcellular fractions that contain pinched-off axon terminals and dendrites. These fractions are a potential source of RNAs that are localized in dendrites. However, these fractions may also contain RNAs that are seen in situ in neuronal cell bodies and glia. To evaluate whether synaptodendrosomes could be used as a source of dendritic RNA, we studied the RNA content of this fraction as compared with RNA isolated from total forebrain and a cell body-enriched fraction. RNA was analyzed by gel electrophoresis, oligo-dT chromatography, and northern blot hybridization. RNA from synaptodendrosomes contained a greater proportion of low-molecular-weight nonpolyadenylated RNAs. RNAs known to be present in dendrites (mRNA for the alpha subunit of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and the polymerase III transcript BC1) were detected in synaptodendrosomes; RNAs that are restricted to neuronal and glial cell bodies (mRNAs for the 68-kDa neurofilament protein, 43-kDa growth-associated protein, beta-tubulin, and beta-actin) were present only at low levels. However, the mRNA for glial fibrillary acidic protein (seen in situ in glial cell bodies and processes) was present at high levels in the synaptodendrosomes. These results support and extend previous studies indicating that a limited subset of mRNAs is present in neuronal and astrocyte processes and reveal that both of these types of mRNAs are present in synaptodendrosomes. Thus, synaptodendrosomes may be useful as a source of dendritic RNAs, but it will be necessary to develop strategies to subtract mRNAs present in astroglial processes.
Two further cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) in association with cadaveric dura mater grafts are described. The clinical features of all such reported cases resemble more closely those of sporadic CJD, in contrast with kuru and the cases of CJD which have arisen after therapy with human pituitary-derived growth hormone. This observation may reflect the route of inoculation of the agent.
1. Isolated extracellular neuronal responses to cutaneous stimulation were simultaneously recorded from corresponding peripheral representations in the ventrobasal nucleus and primary somatosensory cortex of intact, halothane-anesthetized rats. Thalamic and cortical neurons representing hairy skin on the forelimb were activated by hair movements produced by a series of 50 or 100 discrete air jets. A corresponding set of neurons representing the glabrous pads of the hind paw were activated by a similar number of punctate mechanical displacements. 2. Cortical electrode penetrations were histologically reconstructed, and 118 neurons in the glabrous skin representation exhibited cutaneous responses that were categorized into supragranular, granular, or infragranular groups according to their laminar position. Minimum latencies of cortical neurons responding to glabrous skin displacement were analyzed, and significant differences were found in the distribution of minimum latencies for the different cortical layers. Mean values for minimum latencies in the infragranular and granular layers were 15.8 and 16.3 ms, respectively, whereas supragranular neurons were characterized by minimum latencies having a mean of 20 ms. The differences between these groups suggests that stimulus-induced afferent activity reaches infragranular and granular layers before contacting supragranular neurons. Average latencies were also calculated on responses occurring during the 1st 20 trials, but the cortical distributions of these values overlapped considerably, and differences between the laminar groups were not statistically significant. 3. In several recording sites, two cortical neurons were recorded simultaneously, and the response latencies of these matched pairs were often substantially different despite the similarity in laminar position. This result indicates that laminar location is not the only determinant of response latency and that serially organized circuits are distributed within, as well as between, cortical layers. 4. From a sample of 302 neurons exhibiting cutaneous responses within histologically identified regions of thalamus or cortex, a set of 143 pairs of neurons recorded simultaneously from both regions was available for cross-correlation analysis. Significant thalamocortical interactions were found in 38 neurons pairs. Analysis of these significant interactions revealed that thalamocortical connection strength, as measured by neuronal efficacy, was two to four times larger for neuron pairs having the cortical cell in granular layer IV than for neuron pairs having an extragranular layer cortical neuron. There was no difference in thalamocortical connection strength between neuron pairs containing supra- or infragranular cortical neurons. 5. Summed peristimulus time histograms revealed stimulus-locked inhibition of spontaneous activity in 4% (8/195) or cortical and 18% (20/107) of thalamic neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Much of the work on forebrain ischemia in the hippocampus has focused on the phenomenon of delayed neuronal death in CA1. It is established that dentate granule cells and CA3 pyramidal cells are resistant to ischemia. However, much less is known about interneuronal involvement in CA3 or ischemic injury in the dentate hilus other than the fact that somatostatin neurons in the latter lose their immunoreactivity. We combined two sensitive methods--heat-shock protein (HSP72) immunocytochemistry and a newly developed Gallyas silver stain for demonstrating impaired cytoskeletal elements--to investigate the extent of ischemic damage to CA3 and the dentate hilus using the four-vessel-occlusion model for inducing forebrain ischemia. HSP72-like immunoreactivity was induced in neuronal populations previously shown to be vulnerable to ischemia. In addition, a distinct subset of interneurons in CA3 was also extremely sensitive to ischemia, even more so than the CA1 pyramidal cells. These neurons are located in the stratum lucidum of CA3 and possess a very high density of dendritic spines. In silver preparations, they were among the first to be impregnated as &quot;dark&quot; neurons, before CA1 pyramidal cells; microglial reaction was also initiated first in the stratum lucidum of CA3. Whereas CA1 damage was most prominent in the septal half of the hippocampus, hilar and CA3 interneuronal damage had a more extensive dorsoventral distribution. Our results also show a far greater extent of damage in hilar neurons than previously reported. At least four hilar cell types were consistently compromised: mossy cells, spiny fusiform cells, sparsely spiny fusiform cells, and long-spined multipolar cells. A common denominator of the injured neurons in CA3 and the hilus was the presence of spines on their dendrites, which in large part accounted for the far greater number of mossy fiber terminals they receive than their non-spiny neighbors. We suggest that the differential vulnerability of neuronal subtypes in these two regions may be attributed to their extremely dense innervation by the mossy fibers and/or the presence of non-NMDA receptor subtypes that are highly permeable to calcium. In addition, early impairment of these spiny CA3 cells and hilar neurons after ischemia may be causal to delayed neuronal death in the CA1 pyramidal cells.
Intracellular recording sin the cricket cercal system show that the synaptic terminals of a single sensory neuron can facilitate at one target, the medial giant interneuron (MGI), and simultaneously depress at another target, interneuron 10-3. A quantal analysis of transmission at these synapses demonstrates that facilitation and depression are properties of the presynaptic cell. For facilitating synapses contacting MGI, the mean quantal content (m), determined from the probability of the failures, increases for the second EPSP, while the quantal size (q) remains constant. Similarly, an analysis of depression for those synapses contacting 10-3 supports a presynaptic mechanism for depression. Since facilitation and depression are presynaptic and their expression at the synapses of a single, identified sensory neuron are correlated with the target interneuron, we conclude that these properties are regulated locally, at the synapse, possibly by an interaction with the postsynaptic cell.
In the chick embryo, the segmental pattern of motor outgrowth depends on guidance cues provided by sclerotome cells. Motor axons preferentially invade the anterior sclerotome but avoid the posterior sclerotome. To determine how motor growth cone motility is influenced by these cells, we used videomicroscopy to analyze the behavior of motor growth cones as they confronted identified sclerotome cells in vitro. After contact, motor growth cones invariably avoided posterior sclerotome cells by either branching or turning. Both types of avoidance behavior were initiated by a local inhibition of veil protrusion: veils failed to progress along the contacting filopodia. This inhibition was specific to veils since contact failed to alter the number of filopodia protruded. Moreover, motor growth cones turned away from posterior cells despite more persistent filopodial contacts with these cells than with the laminin substratum. In no case did contact with posterior cells cause a complete loss of growth cone motility or a complete collapse of growth cone structure. In contrast, motor growth cones exhibited a selective affinity for anterior cells, preferring the surfaces of these cells to the laminin substratum. Contact with anterior cells stimulated a generalized increase in protrusive activity: contact caused a net increase in the extension of veils and filopodia both locally and at sites distant from the site of contact. Contact also elicited a localized thickening of contacting processes, suggesting that contact with anterior cells promotes neurite consolidation. This behavior of motor growth cones in vitro suggests that both an inhibition of veil formation by posterior cells and an enhancement of motility and axon consolidation by anterior cells contribute to the preferential advance of motor axons into anterior sclerotome in vivo. We suggest that patterned outgrowth results from the juxtaposition of two contrasting environments that differentially influence growth cone motility.
Recent physiological work has used quantal analysis to investigate the properties of synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation in hippocampal area CA1. These analyses have revealed changes in the strength of excitatory post-synaptic responses following long-term potentiation that could be mediated by cellular mechanisms in the presynaptic element, in the postsynaptic element, or in both elements. In these studies, either minimal stimulation, presumably involving a single presynaptic axon, or recordings from pairs of CA3 and CA1 cells have been used. Interpretation of these quantal analyses requires knowledge about whether single or multiple synapses occur between the presynaptic axon and its target CA1 pyramidal cells. Here, light and serial electron microscopy was used to begin to examine this question and a related question concerning the ultrastructure of spines on multiple-synapse boutons. Light microscopic analyses of Golgi preparations revealed that about 20% of the axons occurring in stratum radiatum come into close apposition with two to four different dendrites of a target CA1 cell. An &quot;apposition&quot; was defined as a point where the axons and dendrites crossed in the same focal plane and therefore were sufficiently close to allow a dendritic spine to reach the axon and possibly establish a synaptic contact. An additional 4% of the axons wound back and forth across individual dendrites, possibly forming multiple synapses closely spaced along the dendrites. Serial electron microscopy revealed that 24% of the individual axonal boutons in stratum radiatum make synapses with multiple dendritic spines arising from either the same or different dendritic segments. Two adjacent boutons of the same axon could also be found to synapse with different spines of the same dendrite. Together with the light microscopic analysis, these observations suggest that multiple synapses occur between single axons in stratum radiatum and their target CA1 cells, and that at least some of these synapses may occur at different electronic distances. If these multiple synapses have different physiological strengths, then they may obscure or smooth peaks in the frequency histograms that are used for quantal analyses. A three-dimensional analysis was done to compare the dimensions of pairs of dendritic spines synapsing with individual axonal boutons. When the pairs of spines associated with a single bouton arose from different dendrites, at least some of which were likely to have come from different cells, the differences between their volumes and the areas of the postsynaptic densities were on average 100% and ranged up to 650%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Following unilateral striatal dopamine depletion, the hemiparkinsonian rat exhibits rotational behavior in response to amphetamine and apomorphine. The rotational behaviors induced by these drugs are thought to reflect an asymmetry in presynaptic striatal dopamine release and an asymmetry in postsynaptic striatal dopamine receptor function, respectively. Grafts of adrenal medulla cells in the lateral ventricle of hemiparkinsonian rats have been reported to reduce behavioral asymmetry. More than one profile of behavioral recovery, however, is observed. Some animals show a graft-induced decrease only in the response to apomorphine, but others show a decrease in the response to amphetamine, and still others show a decrease in the behavioral responses to amphetamine and apomorphine. In this report, amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced turning behaviors were determined in hemiparkinsonian rats prior to and following intraventricular grafts of adrenal medulla or control tissue. Both bilateral intrastriatal microdialysis in freely moving animals and quantitative dopamine receptor autoradiography procedures were conducted in each animal so as to determine the relations between pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic measures as well as the association between these measures and the different profiles of behavioral recovery after adrenal medulla grafts. We report here that in animals with an adrenal medulla graft-induced decrease in the behavioral response to amphetamine, the balance between the two striata in extracellular striatal dopamine concentrations and D2 dopamine receptor binding was restored. Furthermore, enhanced extracellular striatal dopamine concentrations were highly correlated with the graft-induced symmetry in striatal D2 dopamine receptor binding. In contrast to animals with decreased amphetamine-induced turning, in animals with a graft-induced decrease exclusively in response to apomorphine, the presynaptic symmetry was not restored and there was a significantly smaller effect on D2 receptor binding. We conclude that those animals that show decreased amphetamine-induced turning after adrenal medulla grafts had the most effective grafts, and suggest that methods designed to optimize this behavioral profile are most likely to lead to enhanced clinical efficacy with this procedure.
We examined whether L-aspartate (ASP) and L-glutamate (GLU) both function as endogenous neurotransmitters in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus. Radioligand displacement experiments using 3H-DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (3H-AMPA) to label AMPA/kainate receptors and 3H-cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine carboxylic acid (3H-CGS-19755) to label NMDA receptors confirmed that GLU (Ki approximately 500 nM) but not ASP (Ki &gt; 1 mM) has high affinity for AMPA/kainate receptors whereas GLU (Ki approximately 250 nM) and ASP (Ki approximately 1.3 microM) both have high affinity for NMDA receptors. Elevating extracellular potassium concentration (50 mM, 1 min) evoked the calcium-dependent release of both ASP (approximately 50% increase) and GLU (approximately 200% increase) from hippocampal slices and from minislices of area CA1. Reducing extracellular glucose concentration (0.2 mM) reduced GLU release, enhanced ASP release, and reduced AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated responses more than NMDA receptor-mediated responses (to 7% and 34% of control, respectively). Fiber volleys, antidromic population spikes, membrane potential, input resistance, and ATP content all were not affected by glucose reduction. Unlike low glucose, the inhibitory neuromodulator adenosine (5 microM), which reduces ASP and GLU release to a similar extent, reduced AMPA/kainate and NMDA receptor-mediated population EPSPs similarly (to 11% and 12% of control, respectively). AMPA/kainate and NMDA receptor-mediated population EPSPs were also similarly reduced by 0.4 microM TTX (to 32% and 22% of control, respectively) and similarly enhanced by 10 microM 4-aminopyridine (to 206% and 248% of control, respectively). Finally, NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs measured by whole-cell recording decayed faster in low glucose (73 msec vs 54 msec) but not in adenosine (73 msec vs 78 msec). Together, these results confirm that ASP and GLU are both involved in excitatory synaptic transmission at the Schaffer collateral-commissural terminals in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus.
Premenstrual experiences were studied in 112 non-complaining women using the Premenstrual Assessment Forms I (for positive experiences), II (for distressing experiences) and the bi-directional Visual Analog Scale. Overall, 27% of women reported no or minimal changes, 20% reported predominantly negative experiences, and 18% predominantly positive feelings. However, the commonest experience was a mixed picture with coexisting positive and negative feelings in 35% of the subjects. Severe premenstrual changes were noted in only nine (8%) of the women. None had a late luteal phase dysphoric disorder. The 26 items of the Premenstrual Assessment Forms I and II were factor analyzed by the principal components method using a varimax rotation. Four factors were derived. Factor I had 12 items indicating negative experiences. Factor II had seven items indicating positive feelings. The other two factors have vegetative features (like sleep and bowel changes) and sexual feelings. The findings also indicated that research needs to be directed towards understanding the mixed group of symptoms rather than the excessive emphasis on negative feelings.
Lay explanations and attributional patterns about somatization related to vaginal discharge, a folk illness characterized by undue concern about passing (normal) vaginal discharge and believing that their symptoms are caused by this, were surveyed systematically in 200 consecutive women patients with predominant somatic complaints and 138 normal healthy women. Misattribution was reported 3.5 times more often by women with somatic complaints as compared to the normal women. Sixteen women were absolutely certain that their discharge was totally responsible for their symptoms and illness. Thus, somatization related to vaginal discharge seems to be a frequent undetected problem in women with somatic symptoms.
Plasma amino acid levels were measured following oral glycine loading in 43 patients with motor neurone disease (MND), eight normal subjects and 18 neurological disease controls with wasting or spasticity from a variety of other causes. Levels at baseline and 1.5 h after loading did not differ, but at 4 h, plasma glycine levels in MND patients remained significantly higher than in normal and neurological controls (P &lt; 0.013). Cerebrospinal fluid glycine levels, which were maximal at 2.5 h, were also significantly higher in MND patients than neurological controls (P &lt; 0.04). These observations suggest a defect of glycine 'housekeeping' in the central nervous system in MND which may be relevant to the pathogenesis of the disease.
We examined the contribution of the histamine H2-receptor to the histamine-induced wheal response in squirrel monkeys and guinea pigs. Intradermal injection of histamine, 2-pyridylethylamine (a selective H1-agonist), and dimaprit (a selective H2-agonist) dose-dependently induced the wheal response in squirrel monkeys and guinea pigs, although the reaction to dimaprit was much weaker than that to the other agonists. Chlorpheniramine dose-dependently depressed the wheal response in squirrel monkeys and guinea pigs at doses of 0.03-1 mg/kg and 0.03-3 mg/kg, p.o., respectively. However, famotidine, ranitidine and cimetidine had no effect at doses up to 30, 100 and 300 mg/kg, p.o. in guinea pigs and up to 1, 10 and 400 mg/kg, p.o. in squirrel monkeys, respectively. Cimetidine (3-300 mg/kg, p.o.) dose-dependently potentiated the inhibitory effects of chlorpheniramine (0.1 mg/kg, p.o.) in guinea pigs, but had no effects in squirrel monkeys. Famotidine and ranitidine did not alter the response to chlorpheniramine in either animal. These results suggest that the histamine H2-receptor plays only a minor role in the histamine-induced wheal response in squirrel monkeys and guinea pigs.
Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs), together with protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs), are involved in the regulation of cell activation, growth, and differentiation. To further elucidate the fine tuning of cell growth and differentiation through tyrosine phosphorylation, we tried to isolate mouse receptor-type PTP (RPTP) cDNA clones by screening mouse brain cDNA libraries with mouse CD45 PTP domain probes under reduced-stringency conditions. Characterization of isolated cDNA clones for RPTP showed that the cytoplasmic region contains two tandem repeats of PTP domain of about 230 amino acids with intrinsic phosphatase activity. The extracellular region was composed of immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domains and fibronectin type III (FN-III)-like domains. The gene was highly homologous to human PTP delta (HPTP delta) and thus was named MPTP delta (murine counterpart of HPTP delta). The MPTP delta gene appeared to generate at least three species of mRNA, which differ in the composition of the extracellular domain: type A, one Ig-like and four FN-III-like domains; type B, one Ig-like and eight FN-III-like domains; and type C, three Ig-like and eight FN-III-like domains. Interestingly, the 5' untranslated region and the leader peptide of types A and B were completely different from those of type C. Northern (RNA) blot analysis demonstrated that brain, kidney, and heart cells express three mRNA species of about 7 kb. Antibody directed against part of the extracellular domain of type A MPTP delta recognized a 210-kDa protein in brain and kidney lysates. In situ hybridization of brain samples revealed that MPTP delta mRNA is present in the hippocampus, thalamic reticular nucleus, and piriform cortex, where some Src family PTKs have been also demonstrated to exist. Although MPTP delta mRNA was not detected in lymphoid tissues, all of the pre-B-cell lines tested and one of three B-cell lines tested expressed MPTP delta mRNA, whereas antibody-producing B-cell hybridomas and T-cell and macrophage lines did not. Finally, the MPTP delta locus was tightly linked to the brown (b) locus on mouse chromosome 4.
In the gracile axonal dystrophy (GAD) mutant mouse, the dying-back type axonal dystrophy of the primary afferent neurons in the gracile tract of the spinal cord was marked by severe gliosis characterized by the hypertrophy and proliferation of the fibrous astrocytes. Immunocytochemical observation for substance P (SP) revealed that SP-positive cells increased in the lesioned sites, primarily in the gracile nucleus of the medulla and subsequently in the gracile fasciculus of the spinal cord. The combined immunostaining of both SP and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) indicated that a strong correspondence exists between GFAP-positive networks and SP-positive grains, suggesting that SP was accumulated in the cytoplasm of astrocytes. The networks of SP-positive astrocytes spread all over the gracile tract and were densest at the subpial membrane. Similar lesions and SP activity were detected along the marginal zone of the lateral and ventral funiculi. Using an electron microscope, in addition to SP-positive axonal terminals in the gracile nucleus, most SP-positive cells in the gracile tract were identified as reactive astrocytes whose processes surrounded myelinated and nonmyelinated axons, and extended their foot processes to the blood vessels. By in situ hybridization histochemistry of SP mRNA, we confirmed the synthesis of SP in the astrocytes. Although the functional significance of SP within astrocytes is not established here, these results imply that the astrocytes may play a role as a gliotransmitter through which the progress of axonal degeneration in the spinal cord was modified.
The bovine enkephalin gene is responsive to multiple signaling pathways in primary chromaffin cell cultures. We examined the effects of activation of the calcium and protein kinase A pathways on accumulation of enkephalin peptide and mRNA, gene transcription, and chromatin structure in the 5' region of the gene. We show here that the increase of enkephalin mRNA and peptide after depolarization of chromaffin cells with KCl or activation of adenylate cyclase with forskolin is preceded by an increase in enkephalin gene transcription. Both enkephalin peptide and mRNA were reduced by co-treatment of KCl- or forskolin-stimulated cultures with phorbol esters. Three enhancer sequences that were previously shown to be responsive to calcium, protein kinase A, and phorbol esters in the human gene in vitro were identified in the bovine enkephalin promoter, identifying a potential locus of control for these pathways in vivo. DNase I hypersensitivity mapping identified two tissue-specific sites that are associated with enkephalin gene expression in adrenal medulla and chromaffin cells; site 1 is in the promoter, which contains the three enhancer elements, and site 2 is in the first intron. These results suggest that regulation of the enkephalin gene in primary chromaffin cells by the calcium, protein kinase A, and protein kinase C signaling pathways occurs by modulation of transcription factor activity at several discrete loci on the enkephalin gene.
We constructed a series of chimeric neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor (nAChR) alpha subunits to map the location of amino acid residues that determine the pharmacological properties of these receptors. The alpha 2 and alpha 3 subunits form pharmacologically distinct nAChRs upon expression, in combination with the beta 2 subunit, in Xenopus oocytes. The alpha 2 beta 2 subunit combination is insensitive to the nicotinic antagonist neuronal bungarotoxin (NBT) and is much more sensitive to nicotine than to ACh. In contrast, the alpha 3 beta 2 subunit combination is potently inhibited by NBT and is much less sensitive to nicotine than to ACh. Chimeric subunits were constructed by replacing portions of alpha 2 or alpha 3 with the analogous portion of the other alpha subunit. Pharmacological analysis of receptors formed by these chimeric subunits, in combination with beta 2, revealed that amino acid residues involved in determining NBT sensitivity were located within sequence segments 84-121, 121-181, and 195-215. Amino acid residues that determine agonist sensitivity were located within sequence segments 1-84 and 195-215. Within region 195-215, we used site-directed mutagenesis to demonstrate the importance of Gln-198 of alpha 3 (proline in alpha 2) in determining both the antagonist sensitivity and the agonist sensitivity of neuronal nAChRs.
An index based on 12 electrophysiological parameters (conduction velocities, F-latencies, and amplitudes) was constructed to obtain an overall estimation of peripheral nerve conduction. The index was expressed as the mean deviation (in SD) compared to controls standardized for age or height. The stability of the index was tested by repeated examinations during intervals of several months in healthy subjects. The use of a compound index enabled detection of slight impairments of nerve conduction. The relatively low interrecording variability of the index makes it suitable to follow the progression of a polyneuropathy.
We examined Fisher 344 female rats aged 6, 27, and 33 months old. Prior to sacrifice and morphometric analyses of forebrain cholinergic neurons all rats underwent behavioral characterization in a spatial learning task using the Morris water maze. Performance on the spatial task permitted subsequent grouping of the 27- and 33-month-old animals into impaired or nonimpaired groups. Importantly, the percentage of animals that displayed spatial impairments increased sharply with advancing age. Quantitative assessment of the size and density of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive neurons throughout the basal forebrain revealed a significant enlargement of forebrain cholinergic neurons within 27-month-old nonimpaired rats compared to 6-month-old rats and 27- and 33-month-old impaired animals. This increase in size was most noted in the medial septum and nucleus of the diagonal band. Significant decreases in the density of ChAT-positive neurons was observed only in the nucleus of the diagonal band of 27-month-old impaired rats compared to 6-month-old controls. Although the significance of enlarged forebrain cholinergic neurons is unclear, we discuss the possibility that within aged rodents neuronal swelling is an active event and represents an early manifestation of the aging process and may constitute a restorative and/or compensatory event in that these rats are relatively asymptomatic with respect to their behavioral deficits. In addition, we discuss in some detail various technical and life effect issues which may vary the outcome of investigations of aged rodents.

Pathfinding is a fundamental behavior of migrating neuroblasts and advancing growth cones. We have analyzed this behavior in culture using mouse neuroblastoma (N1E-115) cells grown on a chemically patterned surface. The patterned surface was defined photolithographically and consisted of intersection 10-micron-wide pathways. The pathways were coated with positively charged amines and separated by regions bound with uncharged alkanes. Cells and growth cones were guided along the pathways and made choices at intersections. Whereas migrating cells made random choices at intersections, growth cones displayed a preference for advancing straight ahead. Interference reflection microscopy (IRM) revealed that pathfinding by cells and growth cones was correlated with greater overall attachment to aminated regions, although cell bodies and appendages also attached to adjacent alkanated regions. Thus guidance was not simply due to contact inhibition by alkanes; rather, it was due to &quot;preferential&quot; adhesion to aminated surfaces. Gray level analysis of IRM images demonstrated that focal and close contacts were made on both surfaces, indicating that preferential adhesion was not the result of tighter attachment to aminated surfaces. Fluorescent labeling of F-actin and microtubules indicated that preferential adhesion was not due to compartmentalization of these cytoskeletal structures on aminated regions. We propose that preferential adhesion involved a signal transduction mechanism that discriminated between positively charged and uncharged molecules. Such a mechanism could contribute to pathfinding by neuroblasts and growth cones along extracellular matrix proteins in vivo.
Abnormal T2-weighted signal intensity in the hippocampus may be difficult to detect visually, and T2 mapping provides an objective means of assessing signal abnormality. We investigated 50 adult outpatients suffering from intractable partial epilepsy with MRI optimized to detect hippocampal and cortical gray matter abnormalities, and with MR T2 relaxation mapping. The range of normal hippocampal T2 relaxation times is small (99 to 106 msec), and the measurements are reproducible between observers. There were abnormal hippocampal T2 relaxation times in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the site of seizure origin in 70% of patients studied, with the more severe abnormality in the ipsilateral hippocampus in all cases. All hippocampal T2 measurements greater than 116 msec were associated with temporal lobe epilepsy and pathologic or MRI evidence of hippocampal sclerosis, or both. Bilateral abnormalities were present in 29% of cases with hippocampal sclerosis.

The effects of (+/-) CP 96,345 and L-668,169 on NK1-, NK2- and NK3-receptor mediated contractile responses were compared in guinea-pig and rat isolated smooth muscle tissues. Both (+/-) CP 96,345 and L-668,169 inhibited NK1-mediated responses in guinea-pig ileum (pA2 = 9.3 and 6.4 respectively) but not in rat bladder (pKB = &lt; 6 and &lt; 5.5 respectively) consistent with species differences in NK1-receptor pharmacology. Both compounds showed some selectivity in inhibiting NK1-receptor evoked responses in guinea-pig ileum compared to their inhibitory effects on NK2-receptor mediated responses in guinea-pig bladder and rat ileum and NK3-mediated responses in guinea-pig ileum and rat portal vein.
The binding of three, structurally distinct, 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptor radioligands was characterized in rat cerebral cortex, rabbit ileum myenteric plexus and NG-108-15 neuroblastoma cells. The density of sites labeled by the three ligands in rat cortex or in rabbit ileum was markedly different. [3H]Quipazine labeled more sites than [3H]GR 65630 in rat cortex (4.0-fold) and rabbit ileum (1.8-fold), but not in NG-108-15 cells. [3H]Quipazine also labeled a greater density of sites than [3H]granisetron in rat cortex (7-fold) but not in NG-108 cells. [3H]Quipazine binding in rat cortex and rabbit ileum, but not in NG-108-15 cells, was displaced by non-radiolabeled GR 65630 in a manner consistent with an interaction with more than one site. These data indicate that not all 5-HT3 receptor radioligands recognize the same population of 5-HT3 binding sites with equivalent density and further suggest the existence of subtypes of 5-HT3 receptor binding sites in rat cortical and rabbit myenteric plexus preparations.
Clozapine (CLZ) and its metabolites norclozapine (NOR) and clozapine-N-oxide (NOX) were assayed in rat serum and brain tissue after intraperitoneal injection of CLZ. Clozapine levels rose with dose, averaging 28 ng/ml (87 nmol/L) serum per milligram/kilogram dose. Brain- and serum-CLZ levels correlated closely, averaging 24-fold higher in brain. Norclozapine and NOX averaged approximately 58% and 13% of CLZ in serum, respectively, whereas in brain, NOR was detected only at doses greater than or equal to 10 mg/kg (approximately 5.6% of CLZ) and NOX was undetectable. Levels peaked within 30 minutes, and elimination of CLZ from brain and CLZ or NOR from blood was very rapid (half-life = 1.5 to 1.6 hours). A week of daily dosing with CLZ led to no accumulation of drug in brain; a week of fluoxetine pretreatment increased analyte concentrations (serum, 86%; brain, 61%), but valproate had little effect.

We investigated the influence of electroconvulsive shock treatment on the opioid-mediated inhibition of serotonin (5-HT) release. The overflow of [3H]serotonin elicited by high potassium (30 mM) in superfused slices of rat hippocampus was significantly inhibited in the presence of two agonists, mu-selective [D-Ala2,N-methyl-Phe4,Gly5ol]enkephalin (DAGO) and delta-selective [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin (DPDPE) in control animals. The repeated (once daily for 7 days) electroconvulsive shock treatment significantly reversed the inhibitory effect of both DAGO and DPDPE. Single electroconvulsive shock (1 day) had no effect on DAGO inhibition, on the contrary a trend to antagonism of the DPDPE effect was reported. These results suggested that the opioids are associated with the experimental induced seizures and that the ECS treatment might regulate the serotonin release throughout the opioid receptor system.
The question has been raised as to whether neuromelanin, a by-product of catecholamine metabolism which accumulates during aging in primate midbrain neurons, contributes to the selective vulnerability of subgroups of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. 1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) a metabolite of 1-methyl, 4-phenyl, 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is toxic to dopaminergic neurons, particularly in primates, producing a motor syndrome similar to that observed in Parkinson's disease. To test whether this neurotoxin preferentially affects melanized neurons, the survival of melanized and non-melanized catecholaminergic neurons was analysed after MPTP intoxication in the midbrain of the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis). Experiments were performed on six animals chronically treated with MPTP (two were severely disabled, four moderately affected) and two age-matched control monkeys. Two populations of neurons were examined on regularly spaced sections throughout the midbrain: catecholaminergic neurons, identified by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry and neuromelanin-containing neurons, visualized by Masson's method. The total number of neurons of each type was estimated in the different midbrain catecholaminergic cell groups using computer assisted image analysis. In the midbrains of control animals not all catecholaminergic neurons contained neuromelanin. The percentage of melanized neurons compared to the total population of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons was high in the substantia nigra pars compacta (81.5%) and in the locus coeruleus (98%), intermediate in the substantia nigra pars lateralis (70%), in the catecholaminergic cell group A8 (50%), and in the ventral tegmental area (41.5%) and almost nil in the central gray substance. In MPTP-treated monkeys, the severity of the loss of catecholaminergic neurons was variable within the different midbrain cell groups, though of similar intensity in severely and mildly disabled monkeys. A relationship was found between the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the different mesencephalic cell groups of MPTP-intoxicated animals and the percentage of melanized neurons they normally contain (r = 0.98; P = 0.04). The percentage loss of catecholaminergic neurons in the locus coeruleus, the only noradrenergic cell group studied, was lower than expected from the correlation curve obtained for dopaminergic cell groups. Altogether, these findings indicate: (i) that dopaminergic neurons are more vulnerable to MPTP-toxicity than noradrenergic neurons; and (ii) that among dopaminergic neurons, those containing neuromelanin are more susceptible, indicating a possible role of neuromelanin in MPTP-toxicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings from neurons in the dorsal root ganglion and dorsal horn, in an in vitro spinal cord-dorsal root ganglion preparation, were used to investigate the role of large and small afferent fibers in the sensory synaptic transmission of the superficial dorsal horn. Raising the extracellular potassium concentration from 3.1 to 25-50 mM in the dorsal root ganglion compartment evoked a large amplitude depolarization and blocked action potentials in the large neurons of dorsal root ganglion, and it synaptically excited dorsal horn neurons. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials that were evoked by electrical stimulation of large myelinated fibers, but not those evoked by activation of small unmyelinated fibers, were blocked by the potassium treatment of the dorsal root. Tetrodotoxin (0.3-10 microM), when applied to the sensory neurons, abolished action potentials in large myelinated fibers but had no effect on the potassium-induced depolarization of the soma of large neurons of the dorsal root ganglion. Bath application of tetrodotoxin to the dorsal root ganglion blocked the postsynaptic potentials evoked in dorsal horn neurons by electrical stimulation of large fibers (stimulus intensity 10-20V, 0.02 ms) but failed to block postsynaptic potentials induced by electrical stimulation of slow fibers (stimulus intensity &gt; 35 V, 0.5 ms). In addition, the tetrodotoxin failed to block the synaptic activation of dorsal horn neurons which was induced by the application of high potassium to sensory neurons. Capsaicin (10-100 microM, 10 s), applied to the sensory neurons, resulted in a prolonged synaptic activation of the dorsal horn neurons and a subsequent long lasting desensitization. During the period of capsaicin desensitization, synaptic activation of dorsal horn neurons by application of high potassium to the dorsal root ganglion and electrical stimulation of slow fibers was blocked. The opioid receptor agonist (D-Ala2, D-Leu5)-enkephalinamide (1 microM), applied to the spinal cord slice, abolished the dorsal horn neuron excitation evoked by electrical or chemical activation of slow primary afferent fibers. These findings indicate that high concentrations of K+ applied to the dorsal root ganglia selectively activate a primary afferent input to the dorsal horn, which is capsaicin sensitive and tetrodotoxin resistant.
The extent and duration of cholinergic hypofunction induced by long-term ethanol consumption was investigated in the rat. Ethanol (20% v/v) was administered to male adult Wistar rats as a sole source of fluid for three or six months. Control rats received tap water. The body weight, food and fluid intake in ethanol-treated rats were lower than in control rats throughout the treatment. After three months of ethanol consumption, and one week withdrawal, acetylcholine release in freely moving rats, investigated by microdialysis technique coupled to high-performance liquid chromatography quantification, was significantly decreased by 57 and 32% in the hippocampus and cortex, respectively, while choline acetyltransferase activity was significantly decreased (-30%) only in the hippocampus. A complete recovery of choline acetyltransferase activity and acetylcholine release was found after four ethanol-free weeks. Conversely, after four weeks of withdrawal following six months of ethanol treatment, the recovery in acetylcholine release was not accompanied by that in choline acetyltransferase activity, which remained significantly lower than in control rats in both cortex and hippocampus. The ability of rats to negotiate active and passive avoidance conditioned response tasks, tested after four ethanol-free weeks, was strongly impaired in both three- and six-month ethanol-treated rats. In conclusion, our experiments demonstrate that the development of a long-lasting cholinergic hypofunction requires at least six months of ethanol administration. The hypofunction affects choline acetyltransferase activity and acetylcholine release differently, and undergoes a remarkable recovery.
Disruption of neuromuscular contact by nerve-crush during the early postnatal period results in the death of a large proportion of affected motoneurons. Increased activity and abnormal reflex responses are evident in those that survive. We have studied the aberrant dendritic morphology of surviving cells and have attempted to correlate the observed alterations in morphology with the above experimental findings. Motoneurons supplying the extensor hallucis longus muscles of the rat were retrogradely labelled with cholera toxin subunit-B conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. The dendritic tree of labelled cells was analysed in adult animals having undergone unilateral sciatic nerve-crush at birth. Unoperated control animals were also examined. Following nerve-crush at birth, total visible dendritic length was more than 30% smaller than control cells in the transverse plane. This decrease was confined largely to the medially directed segments of the dendritic field and appeared to be due to a reduction in dendritic branching combined with a failure to achieve the correct branch length. There was no overall change in total visible dendritic length in the longitudinal plane, but a reorientation of dendrites in favour of rostrodorsal regions was observed. There was no alteration in dendritic length in cells contralateral to the nerve injury. These results show that nerve injury during early postnatal development produces lasting changes in the distribution of motoneuron dendrites. The localized nature of these changes may explain the altered activity and induced death of motoneurons seen after neonatal nerve-crush.
The addition of nicotine decreased neuritic outgrowth in PC12 cells in culture. This effect occurs as early as one day after addition of nicotine to the culture medium in a concentration-dependent manner. The nicotine-induced decline in neurite outgrowth was prevented by d-tubocurarine (10(-4) M) indicating that the effect was mediated through a nicotinic receptor. alpha-Bungarotoxin (10(-8) M) was also able to inhibit the nicotine-induced decrease in process formation in a dose-dependent manner. The concentrations of alpha-bungarotoxin required to affect process outgrowth correlated with those required to inhibit radiolabelled alpha-bungarotoxin binding. alpha-Bungarotoxin had no effect on [3H]noradrenaline release, a functional response mediated through the alpha-bungarotoxin-insensitive neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, suggesting that alpha-bungarotoxin specifically interacts with the neuronal alpha-bungarotoxin receptor. The present results suggest a functional role for the neuronal nicotinic alpha-bungarotoxin receptor in neurite outgrowth.
Differential vulnerability in the hindbrain neurons was examined immunohistochemically during hindbrain ischemia in the gerbil. Hindbrain ischemia was produced by extracranial occlusion of the bilateral vertebral arteries just before their entry into the transverse foramen of the cervical vertebra. Local cerebral blood flow was measured by quantitative autoradiographic technique after 5 min of ischemia and was reduced to less than 5 ml/100 g per min in the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla, indicating that severe and reproducible hindbrain ischemia was induced immediately after occlusion. For immunohistochemical investigation, four gerbils each were used for each ischemic period of 5, 10, 15, and 30 min. Immunohistochemical lesions, detected by the reaction for microtubule-associated protein 2, were visible in the lateral vestibular nucleus and the cerebellar interpositus nucleus even after 5 min of ischemia. These results suggested that these areas were more vulnerable than others, although blood flow was markedly reduced in various regions of the hindbrain. In contrast, areas related to respiratory or cardiovascular control were rather resistant to ischemia. The present study suggests that selective vulnerability during hindbrain ischemia depends mainly on different metabolic characteristics inherent to various neurons in the hindbrain.
Midbrain dopamine neurons project extensively throughout the vertebrate forebrain and influence a wide variety of brain functions. These neurons, which are believed to form a major brain reward system, are involved in initiation and control of motor programs, addictive behaviors, and determination of mood. Given their critical role in behavioral function, relatively little is known about their fundamental cellular physiological and pharmacological properties. A long-term dissociated culture system for postnatal rat dopamine neurons was developed to permit both acute and chronic studies of these cells. Dopamine neurons were dissociated from slices of ventral midbrain from neonatal rat pups and maintained in cell culture for several months. The dopaminergic phenotype was confirmed by catecholamine fluorescence and by tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry. After four weeks in culture, dopamine neurons had cell bodies 10-40 microns in diameter, displayed either fusiform or multipolar morphology, and had processes with varicosities of 0.5-2 microns in diameter. Electrophysiological recordings were made from 71 dopamine neurons identified by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine fluorescence after six to 67 days in culture. The neurons had resting potentials of -51 +/- 5 mV, broad action potentials with durations of 2.9 +/- 1.3 ms, and the majority of the neurons (65%) displayed anomalous rectification. Most dopamine neurons in culture fired spontaneously in a pacemaker-like manner with a frequency of 2.3 +/- 1.3 Hz, or in a bursting pattern, typically having two to seven action potentials per burst. All neurons tested had glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors, and 90% of neurons responded to dopamine or quinpirole with inhibition of firing, suggesting the presence of dopamine autoreceptors. Some neurons were inhibited by concentrations of quinpirole as low as 10 nM. The results show that midbrain dopamine neurons can be maintained in dissociated cell culture for periods of several months. These neurons can be identified prior to electrophysiological recording, and they express many of the physiological characteristics that have been reported for midbrain dopamine neurons in vivo.
The clinical potential of transplants of fetal dopaminergic neurons is limited by the fact that the percentage of cells surviving in such grafts is in general quite low. This report investigates the use of basic fibroblast growth factor administration (given either as a pretreatment or by repeated intrastriatal infusions) to promote the survival and behavioural efficacy of embryonic dopamine-rich nigral transplants in rats. Pretreatment of the graft tissue by brief incubation with basic fibroblast growth factor increased the survival of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (presumed dopaminergic) neurons in the grafts in comparison to control grafts, and accelerated the recovery in the transplanted animals in tests of drug-induced rotational asymmetry. However, the clear advantage seen in the rotation test conducted three weeks after transplantation had disappeared by nine weeks. The moderate effects of pretreatment were markedly enhanced by repeated intrastriatal infusion of basic fibroblast growth factor into the host animals over 20 days following transplantation. This resulted in &gt; 100% increase in the number of dopaminergic neurons surviving in the grafts, and was accompanied by a significantly greater recovery of the rats' rotational asymmetries which persisted over the full nine weeks of testing. However, the repeated intracerebral infusions induced an inflammatory reaction in the striatum, and the associated trauma both complicates the interpretation of the mechanism of observed recovery and compromises the utility of this route of basic fibroblast growth factor administration for promoting graft survival.
A novel class of enteric neurons projecting directly from the rectal wall to the spinal cord, &quot;rectospinal neurons&quot;, was investigated in rats by combined retrograde neuronal tracing, immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy. Rectospinal neurons were almost confined to myenteric ganglia of the distal rectum below the pelvic diaphragm and were labeled preferentially by injections into spinal cord segments L6/S1. Injections into more rostral spinal cord segments resulted in hardly any labeled enteric neurons. Dorsal and ventral rhizotomy experiments indicated an almost exclusive projection of rectospinal neurons through dorsal roots L6/S1 to the respective spinal cord segments. Among various peptides immunostained, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and calcitonin gene-related peptide were selectively found in rectospinal neurons, which were also shown to contain calbindin, neurofilament protein- and peripherin-immunoreactivity. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and calbindin-immunostaining were frequently co-localized in the same perikarya, while calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive rectospinal neurons probably represented a separate population. Neonatal capsaicin treatment did not significantly reduce the number of rectospinal neurons. Electron microscopy revealed synaptic contacts on the surface of rectospinal neurons. Taken together, these results establish rectospinal neurons as an anatomically and neurochemically distinct class of enteric neurons. Synaptic contacts on rectospinal neurons suggest that these neurons may function as a direct link from the enteric to the central nervous system, thus indicating that connections between these two networks are reciprocal.
The accessory olfactory system constitutes a sensory system specifically involved in regulating neuroendocrine function and reproductive behavior. The chemosensitive structure of this system, the vomeronasal organ, exclusively innervates the accessory olfactory bulb, which in turn projects via mono- or disynaptic pathways to a limited number of regions implicated in endocrine and sexual function, including the amygdala and hypothalamus. The present study investigated synaptic processing between the different levels of this sensory system, with particular focus on the input from the accessory olfactory bulb to the medial amygdala and the reciprocal connections between the medial amygdala and the ventromedial hypothalamus. Extracellular single-unit recordings were obtained from medial amygdala neurons in anesthetized female rats to study the synaptic responses elicited by stimulation of the olfactory bulb and hypothalamus. Locally applied agonists and antagonists of amino acid neurotransmitters were tested for their ability to mimic and block these synaptic responses in an attempt to identify the neurotransmitters involved in the stimulated pathways. Electrical stimulation of the accessory olfactory bulb induced orthodromic responses in 88% of 288 medial amygdala neurons, with 67% showing orthodromic inhibition and 21% showing excitation as the shortest-latency response. Many cells displayed multiphasic responses with both orthodromic excitation and inhibition. In separate experiments, main olfactory bulb stimulation also produced excitatory (39%) or inhibitory (50%) orthodromic responses in medial amygdala neurons (n = 105), but the latency and distribution of responses were significantly different than with accessory olfactory bulb stimulation. Stimulation of the ventromedial hypothalamus also had prominent excitatory (29%) or inhibitory (59%) orthodromic actions on the majority of amygdala neurons. Out of 288 cells tested with both accessory olfactory bulb and ventromedial hypothalamus stimulation, 79% were orthodromically responsive to both areas, whereas only 3% responded to neither area. Fourteen (6%) medial amygdala neurons were antidromically activated from the ventromedial hypothalamus, and 11 of these 14 cells were simultaneously orthodromically responsive to accessory olfactory bulb stimulation, indicating that the accessory olfactory bulb can influence medial amygdala neurons that project directly to the hypothalamus. Iontophoretic application of drugs to the medial amygdala revealed that glutamate and GABA consistently mimicked the orthodromic excitatory and inhibitory responses, respectively, from both the accessory olfactory bulb and ventromedial hypothalamus. In some cases, ejection of bicuculline could block or reverse excitation of the orthodromic inhibitory responses, whereas kynurenic acid could eliminate the orthodromic excitation, indicating that excitatory and inhibitory amino acid transmitters are at least partially involved in these pathways.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Fetal hippocampal neurons were stereotaxically transplanted to five-day-old ischemic CA1 lesions in adult rat hippocampi. The recipient brains were examined 14 or 100 days later. The grafts survived well, and transplanted cells usually formed clusters in the host CA1 subfield. In vitro receptor autoradiography was employed to map the following receptors, the ligands indicated in parentheses being used for labeling: muscarinic cholinergic ([3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate), adenosine A1 ([3H]cyclohexyladenosine), kainate ([3H]kainic acid), spirodecanone ([3H]spiperone), opioid ([3H]naloxone), and GABAA ([3H]muscimol). The receptor autoradiographic technique showed significant binding of the six ligands in all hippocampal grafts two weeks after transplantation. One hundred days following transplantation, almost all receptors, especially muscarinic cholinergic, adenosine A1 and opioid receptor bindings in grafts, had significantly increased compared to bindings two weeks after transplantation. At this time, kainate and muscarinic cholinergic receptors in grafts had increased up to the near normal level of the CA1 in the hippocampus. Interestingly, adenosine A1 receptors in the grafted side had significantly increased not only in the CA1 but also in the stratum oriens of the CA3 compared with that in the non-grafted side. The increase of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding corresponded well with the innervation of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers at 100 days after grafting. These results demonstrate that the transplanted neurons, which showed both pre- and post-synaptic autoradiographic markers in the ischemic CA1 lesions, are able to develop their properties and express the nature of normal hippocampal neurons.
In order to determine whether newly born cells in the dentate gyrus of the adult rat express the neuronal marker, neuron-specific enolase, or the glial marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein, we performed combined immunohistochemistry and autoradiography on brains from adult rats perfused at various times ranging from 1 h to four weeks following [3H]thymidine administration. Light-microscopic examination revealed a negligible number of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells showing neuron-specific enolase immunoreactivity during mitosis. However, by two weeks after [3H]thymidine administration, a significant increase in the density of [3H]thymidine-labeled neuron-specific enolase-immunoreactive cells was detected. Three weeks following [3H]thymidine injection the majority of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells (&gt; 70%) were immunoreactive for the neuronal marker. At the four-week time-point, [3H]thymidine-labeled neuron-specific enolase-immunoreactive cells were indistinguishable from neighboring granule cells. In contrast, glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity was observed in a small but significant number of [3H]thymidine cells at the 1-h time-point and the proportion of labeled cells that were immunoreactive for this cell marker did not increase with time. [3H]Thymidine-labeled cells that were immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein typically showed morphologic characteristics of radial glia at all time-points. At the 1-h time-point, the majority of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells were observed in the hilus (&gt; 60%) with the remainder being located in the granule cell layer. However, with a four-week survival-time most [3H]thymidine-labeled cells (&gt; 85%) were located in the granule cell layer. The majority of newly born cells in the adult dentate gyrus differentiate into neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracerebral or intraperitoneal injections of kainic acid, an agonist at a class of glutamate receptors, have been extensively used to model temporal lobe epilepsy. In the present study we compared the types and distributions of selectively vulnerable neurons in the ipsi- and contralateral hippocampi following unilateral kainate injections into the CA3 subfield in order to examine whether &quot;proximal&quot; or &quot;distant&quot; neuronal damage resembled the pathology, and possibly also the mechanism, of human temporal lobe epilepsy. The degeneration of principal cells in the different hippocampal subfields was visualized by silver impregnation, and the loss of various types of non-principal cells was studied by immunostaining for the calcium binding proteins parvalbumin, calbindin-D28k and calretinin, as well as for somatostatin. In the first series of experiments various concentrations (ranging from 0.1 to 1 mg/ml) and volumes (0.5-2 microliters) of kainate were tested to induce reproducible damage in the contralateral hippocampus. The optimal dose, employed in the subsequent vulnerability studies, was found to be 3 x 0.5-microliter injections (over a period of 10 min) of a concentration of 0.33 mg/ml under ether anaesthesia, which was discontinued immediately after injection. Anaesthesia with equithesin was found to prevent contralateral cell death. Most if not all pyramidal cells in the CA3 region degenerated on the ipsilateral side, whereas the dentate granule cells, and the majority of CA1 pyramidal cells were resistant. A strikingly different pattern was found on the contralateral side, where CA1 pyramidal cells were almost completely lost, but the CA3 region (with the exception of CA3c) and the dentate gyrus remained intact. Three subpopulations of non-principal cells were found to be vulnerable in both hemispheres, the hilar somatostatin cells, spiny calretinin cells and mossy cells, as well as the spiny calretinin cells in stratum lucidum of CA3. The other subpopulations were resistant, except for those within the effective injection site. We propose that the &quot;distant&quot; (contralateral) damage resembles the pattern, and probably also the mechanism, of cell death in human temporal lobe epilepsy, whereas the ipsilateral damage does not.
The striatum is especially vulnerable to hypoxic-ischemic injury, both in adulthood and during development. Striatal injury is likely to play a major role in the chronic abnormalities of motor control which occur as a consequence of developmental hypoxia-ischemia. Previous studies have shown that two striatal neuron phenotypes, cholinergic and NADPH-diaphorase-positive, are resistant to developmental hypoxia-ischemia, but little is otherwise known of patterns of vulnerability among other striatal neurons. In particular, there has been no data available about patterns of vulnerability within the major striatal neuron group, the medium-sized neurons. Since a major anatomical and functional organization of these neurons is in their localization to either the striosome or the matrix compartments, we have examined the effect of developmental hypoxia-ischemia on these compartments using a quantitative morphologic analysis of immunostaining for the calcium-binding protein calbindin-D28k. We have found that there is a predominant loss of the striosome compartment; in the presence of a mean loss of 33% of total striatal area, there was a 49% decrease in striosomal area. There was also a 41% reduction in the number of striosomes, and a small (14%) but significant decrease in the mean area of individual striosomes. The striosome loss was uniform in the rostrocaudal dimension. At a cellular level, the density of calbindin-positive neurons, expressed as number per unit area, was preserved. While there are several possible explanations for the selective loss of the striosome compartment, one hypothesis is that the lower level of calbindin within these neurons makes them more vulnerable to increases in intracellular calcium, which has been postulated to play a role in hypoxic-ischemic injury. The predominant loss of the striosome compartment following hypoxic-ischemic injury may lead to an imbalance with the functionally distinct matrix system. Such an imbalance may contribute to the abnormalities of motor control observed after this form of injury.

Neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease is characterized by a selective loss of particular cell populations. Several recent lines of evidence suggest that beta-amyloid protein directly contributes to the disease's progression and is likely responsible for the observed pattern of neuronal death. We have previously demonstrated that aggregated beta-amyloid peptides are neurotoxic to cultured neurons. We now report that a neuronal population exhibiting GABA-immunoreactivity is resistant to beta-amyloid-induced toxicity in vitro, a finding consistent with observations in the Alzheimer brain. Determination of the intrinsic neuronal characteristics responsible for resistance to beta-amyloid may prove beneficial in both understanding the mechanism(s) of beta-amyloid neurotoxicity and halting the disease's progressive neuronal degeneration.
Extracellular ATP acts on P2-purinoceptors of peripheral effector cells, and this is the basis for its function as a (co-)transmitter in peripheral efferent neurons. ATP also acts on P2-receptors of neuronal cell bodies or dendrites, and this is the basis for its function as a fast excitatory transmitter at neuroneural synapses. A third site of action is axon terminals. In the vas deferens of the mouse, noradrenaline and ATP are postganglionic sympathetic co-transmitters, and exogenous ATP acts on P2-purinoceptors of the sympathetic terminals to inhibit release of noradrenaline. Here we show that two P2 antagonists, suramin and Reactive Blue 2, increase the release of noradrenaline in mouse vas deferens. The increase is only obtained when there has been preceding nerve activity and is largely independent of the postjunctional response. These findings indicate a physiological function for axon terminal P2-purinoceptors: they mediate a novel prejunctional negative feedback in which released ATP inhibits subsequent transmitter release.
Experimental autoimmune dementia is a rat model designed to examine the potential role of anti-cholinergic neurons antibodies in neuronal degeneration in dementia and Alzheimer's disease. We have previously shown that sera of patients with Alzheimer's disease contain antibodies which bind specifically to the high molecular weight neurofilament protein of the purely cholinergic electromotor neurons of Torpedo. Production of such antibodies in experimental autoimmune dementia rats by prolonged immunization with the Torpedo cholinergic high molecular weight neurofilament subunit results in accumulation of antibodies in the septum and hippocampus of the immunized rats, in a marked decrease in the density of forebrain cholinergic neurons, and in memory deficits. In the present study we characterized the open-field behavior of experimental autoimmune dementia rats, and examined whether, like in dementia, the spatiotemporal organization of their behavior is impaired. The results obtained revealed that experimental autoimmune dementia rats travel shorter distances; explore a smaller part of the open-field; and perform less round-trips to the key location--the home base--in reference to which their behavior is normally organized. The shrinkage of the explored space and the reduced number of round trips are independent of the amount of locomotion and represent a deterioration in the organization of behavior in time and space. These behavioral changes are specific to the anti-cholinergic immune response of experimental autoimmune dementia rats as they are not observed in rats which were immunized with chemically heterogeneous high molecular weight neurofilament subunit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sera of Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome patients contain antibodies which bind specifically to the high molecular weight neurofilament protein of Torpedo cholinergic neurons. We have recently shown that prolonged immunization of rats with this antigen results in the accumulation of IgG in neurons in the septum and hippocampus of the immunized rats and in cognitive impairments. This animal model is termed experimental autoimmune dementia. In the present study we examined whether the anti-cholinergic high molecular weight neurofilament subunit immune response of the experimental autoimmune dementia rats affects forebrain cholinergic neurons. This was performed immunohistochemically utilizing a monoclonal antibody to nerve growth factor receptor, a specific marker of cholinergic neurons in the forebrain. The results obtained revealed significant decreases in the density of cholinergic neurons in the medial septal nucleus and diagonal band of the experimental autoimmune dementia rats. These decreases are specific to the anti-cholinergic high molecular weight neurofilament subunit immune response of the experimental autoimmune dementia rats and are not observed in control rats which were immunized with chemically heterogeneous high molecular weight neurofilament subunit. The decrease in density of forebrain cholinergic neurons in experimental autoimmune dementia rats may mimic pathogenic processes in Alzheimer's disease and supports a role for anti-cholinergic high molecular weight neurofilament subunit antibodies in the degeneration of cholinergic neurons in the disease.
The effects of unilateral basal forebrain stimulation on the tone-evoked responses recorded in the auditory cortex ipsilateral and contralateral to the stimulation site, were investigated in fully awake rats. After 10 tone alone presentations, 20 pairing trials were given during which the basal forebrain stimulation was followed by the tone 30 ms later. Ten test-tones were presented immediately, 15 min and 1 h after pairing. Immediately after pairing, the short-latency &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; tone-evoked responses were enhanced in the ipsilateral but not in the contralateral cortex. This enhancement did not persist 15 min later. Systemic atropine injection prevented the ipsilateral facilitation. The responses to the tone were not modified when tested after 20 basal forebrain stimulations delivered in the absence of the tone. These results are the first demonstration in awake animals that an activation of the auditory cortex by cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain is able to facilitate cortical responsiveness. A temporal contiguity between the cholinergic activation and the neuronal discharges elicited by the sensory stimulus is required for the facilitation to take place. The results are compared to previous ones obtained in anesthetized animals, and the functional role of cholinergic activation from the basal forebrain in cortical processing is discussed.
Regulation of the developing nervous system involves attraction, guidance and modification of innervating neurons by target cells through diffusible and membrane-related factors. The trophic effects from specific cell types remain to be investigated and characterized. In a series of experiments in which human fetal mesencephalic dopaminergic cells were co-cultured with target or non-target neurons or glial cells in direct or contiguous contact, we demonstrate that striatal glial cells (target-derived glia) can enhance dopaminergic neuron survival by up to 400% compared to either non-target cell co-cultures or mesencephalic controls. When in direct contact with striatal neurons, a greater proportion of dopaminergic neurons had a more differentiated morphology. The enhancement of dopaminergic neuron survival by target-derived glia appears to be mediated both by direct contact, possibly through target membrane-specific phenomena, and by diffusible substances, whereas non-target glia appear to exert the trophic effects predominantly through the latter mechanism. The finding that target neurons influence mainly dopaminergic neuron differentiation and target glia their survival indicates multiple, target cell type-specific regulation of innervating neuron development. These findings also have relevance to the establishment of neuronal cultures for neural transplantation.
The effect of repeated administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine was studied behaviorally and biochemically in grafted versus non-grafted rats with a 6-hydroxydopamine unilateral lesion of the dopaminergic nigro-striatal pathway. Non-grafted rats receiving 14 injections of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine increased their contraversive circling while grafted rats did not, even after fourteen injections. The density of striatal dopamine receptors was examined by autoradiography using the ligands [3H]-SCH 23390 for dopamine D1 receptors and [3H]-spiperone for D2 receptors. In rats with a lesion of the nigro-striatal dopaminergic pathway, an increase of [3H]-SCH 23390 and [3H]-spiperone binding in the lesioned striatum was observed when compared with the striatum on the intact side. Chronic treatment with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine led to a further increase in D1 receptor density in the lesioned as well as the intact side. A similar pattern was observed for D2 receptors although the change did not reach significance. A graft of fetal nigral neurons brought the density of both D1 and D2 receptors on the lesioned side back to the level of the intact side. This is observed both in acutely or chronically L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine treated rats. This study suggests that nigral grafts protect the striatum against L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine-induced supersensitivity. It appears that the graft preserves the symmetry of the striatum even though there is an increase of D1 dopamine receptors. These results suggest that a fetal nigral graft could prevent the induction of 3-4-dihydroxyphenylalanine- induced dyskinesia in parkinsonian patients.
While intrastriatal transplants of dopamine-rich ventral mesencephalic tissue are effective in reversing a variety of drug-induced behaviors in the rat Parkinson model, previous studies have failed to obtain significant graft-induced effects on deficits in certain aspects of complex sensorimotor behaviors. In the present study we have applied a modified cell suspension transplantation procedure, which allows more reproducible and consistent ventral mesencephalic transplants of large size, as well as more wide-spread distribution of the ventral mesencephalic tissue over multiple graft sites within the denervated caudate-putamen. Using this approach it has for the first time been possible to obtain significant amelioration of the lesion-induced deficits in skilled forelimb use and in the rats ability to switch from one behavior (eating) to another (orientation towards tactile stimuli), so-called disengage behavior. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the mesostriatal dopamine pathway received a total of 450,000 fetal ventral mesencephalic cells, implanted either as two large deposits along a single injection tract (&quot;Macro&quot; grafts), or as 18 small deposits along six injection tracts in the head of the denervated caudate-putamen (&quot;Micro&quot; grafts) and the behavioral changes were studied up to three months after transplantation. On the drug-induced tests, both types of transplants reversed amphetamine- and D1-receptor agonist-induced turning, and produced a partial (50-75%) reduction in apomorphine-induced and D2-receptor agonist-induced turning. On the spontaneous sensorimotor tests, both types of grafts reversed the deficit in simple sensorimotor orientation. In addition, the Micro-grafted animals (which produced the most extensive reinnervation of the denervated striatum) showed a significant improvement in skilled forelimb use and in response latency in the disengage behavior test. Although the large sized Macro-grafted animals showed a similar trend, it did not reach significance. Moreover, the Micro grafts had a more pronounced effect on spontaneous turning behavior in a conditioned response test. The improvement in response latency in the disengage test was significantly correlated with the dopamine level in the nucleus accumbens, whereas the magnitude of the conditioned turning response was significantly correlated with the dopamine levels in the head of the caudate-putamen. The results show that intrastriatal nigral transplants, despite their ectopic placement, can ameliorate lesion-induced deficits also in more complex sensorimotor behaviors. This improved graft effect is likely to depend on both extensive dopaminergic reinnervation throughout the head of the caudate-putamen, as well as on closer integration of the grafted nigral tissue with the host striatal circuitry.
The intersynaptic membranes of the rat brain cortex were found to remain firmly attached to one another after perfusion of strongly anisotonic solutions. Brains perfused with depolarizing and excitotoxic agents showed abundant, apparent intermingling of mitochondria and synaptic vesicles. The results suggest (i) that the intersynaptic membranes are not separated from one another by an essentially fluid intersynaptic medium as it is commonly assumed, but rather firmly attached to one another by a layer of faintly osmiophilic yet remarkably stable, water-insoluble material; and (ii) that the synaptic vesicles may be involved in adenosine triphosphate carriage. Well established multidisciplinary data are presented which appear to be in line with both possibilities.
A novel modification of the stimulated cobalt uptake technique has been used to identify rat dorsal root ganglion cells expressing capsaicin and bradykinin receptors. The technique involves incubating intact dorsal root ganglia in vitro in a modified Krebs solution in which cobalt chloride has been substituted for calcium. Activation of dorsal root ganglion cells by capsaicin or bradykinin in the presence of the cobalt ions results in cobalt influx into the excited cells. Histochemical methods were then used to visualize the intracellular accumulation of cobalt, and labelled cells were counted and characterized. Capsaicin (2 microM) or bradykinin (500 nM) applied for 20 min induced cobalt uptake in 13.8 +/- 0.6 and 9.6 +/- 0.5% of neuronal profiles in dorsal root ganglia (L4), respectively, a significantly larger number than stained in control ganglia (in the absence of agonists: 1.8 +/- 0.7%). The longest diameter of the soma of stained dorsal root ganglion cells following capsaicin and bradykinin perfusion were significantly different from each other and from the non-labelled population (17.5 +/- 0.7 and 24.5 +/- 0.2 microns for capsaicin; 23.2 +/- 0.9 and 25.5 +/- 0.4 microns for bradykinin; labelled and non-labelled cells, respectively). The distribution of cell diameters revealed that while capsaicin-sensitive cells were exclusively small-sized, bradykinin-sensitive cells were predominantly small and medium sized. The selective bradykinin-2 receptor antagonist HOE-140 (5.0 microM) blocked the bradykinin-induced staining (2.16 +/- 0.02%) but not that of capsaicin. The bradykinin-1 agonist [des-Arg9]-bradykinin did not induce any significant increase in stained cells over the control number (2.2 +/- 0.7%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Six isozymes of protein kinase C were analysed in the rat cerebellum using immunohistochemistry. The results revealed a non-uniform distribution of protein kinase C delta among Purkinje, basket, and stellate cells. Serial-section mapping of the delta immunoreactivity revealed that (i) the number and intensity of labeled Purkinje cells increased from rostral to caudal while labeled basket-stellate cells decreased caudally; (ii) the majority of Purkinje cells were labeled in the nodulus, flocculus, and paraflocculus while the anterior lobules were mostly negative; and (iii) labeled Purkinje cells formed distinct parasagittal bands in lobules 6-9 of the paravermis and vermis. The banding of protein kinase C delta within subsets of Purkinje cells suggests units of cerebellar circuitry with specific signaling properties through protein phosphorylation. The visual-vestibular regions of the cerebellum contained the highest amount of the isozyme.
gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid is a naturally occurring compound which induces bilaterally synchronous spike and wave discharges in rats. The gamma-hydroxybutyric acid model of absence seizures simulates clinical absence seizures behaviorally as well as electrographically. The present study was undertaken in order to establish the role of the high-affinity gamma-hydroxybutyric acid binding sites in the generation of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced spike and wave discharges. Spike and wave discharges induced by gamma-hydroxybutyric acid were recorded with the aid of bipolar depth electrodes implanted in discrete regions of thalamus, cortex and hippocampus. In the present study we found that ventroposterolateral, ventroposteromedial, medial and the reticular nuclei of the thalamus discharged synchronously with the cortical generation of spike and wave discharges. In the cortex, the superficial layers (I-IV) of frontoparietal cortex generated spike and wave discharges, whereas no spike and wave discharges were recorded from deeper layers (V-VI) of frontoparietal cortex. At the onset of spike and wave discharges induced by gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, a rapid but reversible upregulation of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid binding sites was observed. This increased [3H]gamma-hydroxybutyric acid binding was characterized by an increase in the number of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid sites with no significant change in their affinity for gamma-hydroxybutyric acid. Moreover, the change in [3H]gamma-hydroxybutyric acid binding was observed only in those thalamic structures and cortical layers which were found to be involved in the generation of spike and wave discharges induced by gamma-hydroxybutyric acid. The CA3 field or dorsal hippocampus possesses the highest density of [3H]gamma-hydroxybutyric acid binding sites of all brain regions. However, no significant change in [3H]gamma-hydroxybutyric acid binding was observed in this region nor was the CA3 field involved in the generation of spike and wave discharges during gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced absence-like seizures. These findings confirm that gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced absence-like seizures originate from thalamocortical pathways and that the onset of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced spike and wave discharges is directly related to the regulation of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid binding sites in those regions which constitute the involved thalamocortical loop.
Alz-50 is a monoclonal antibody that recognizes normal tau proteins as well as phosphorylated tau proteins that are associated with paired helical filaments in Alzheimer's disease. To establish an accurate baseline for future pathological studies, we examined the distribution of Alz-50 immunoreactivity in normal human brain from infancy to senescence. We found extensive staining patterns of somata and axonal profiles in the striatum, amygdala, hypothalamus, brainstem and spinal cord in all normals at all ages. Similar normal staining patterns were seen in the brains of patients who had suffered trauma, tumors, cerebral infarcts, grade 1 periventricular hemorrhages, and in those who had suffered from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, multi-systems atrophy and Shy-Drager syndrome. An absence of cell body staining and only minimal axonal staining was noted in the same brains with immunocytochemistry using PHF-1, a monoclonal antibody generated against paired helical filament proteins from Alzheimer brains. The characteristic staining pattern of Alz-50 in normal brains is substantially more extensive than has previously been recognized. This pattern, which presumably describes a specific class of tau proteins, must be distinguished from the pathological staining observed in neurodegenerative diseases.
Anatomical advances have led to a reappraisal of the organization of hippocampal circuitry. However, it is not clear whether the functional connectivity is fully determined by the anatomical connectivity or whether it is significantly modified by feed-forward inhibition and modulatory inputs. Therefore, we have mapped CA1 responses evoked by stimulation of ipsilateral and contralateral CA3 in vivo. Population spike amplitude and threshold were plotted to produce response maps. All CA3 subregions projected diffusely to ipsilateral CA1. However, a pattern of maximal response emerged. Caudal CA3 stimulation evoked the maximal responses septally, while rostral CA3 responses were maximal temporally. The ipsilateral CA3 response maps were compared with those produced by stimulation at the homotopic point in the contralateral CA3. The CA1 areas of maximal functional connectivity were the same implying that there is convergence of the input to CA1 from homotopic CA3 sites in the two hippocampi. Although a response in CA1 was evoked widely, our results suggest that the functional connectivity is ordered, within and between the dorsal hippocampi, and that it is consistent with the recent anatomical data. The present findings allow more precise study of the propagation of normal and abnormal neuronal activity, within and between the dorsal hippocampi. Information on the site and speed of propagation of neuronal activity would be necessary for the development of a physiologically realistic model of hippocampal computation.
Thalamocortical neurons located in the large-celled district of the cat intralaminar centrolateral nucleus were found to discharge spike-bursts with unusually high frequencies (800-1000 Hz) during spindle oscillations of the electroencephalogram. In chronically implanted animals, similar spike-bursts were also fired during wakefulness and rapid eye movement sleep, two behavioral states in which other thalamocortical neurons tonically fire single spikes. Such high-frequency spike-bursts recurred with a fast rhythm of 20-40 Hz during waking and rapid eye movement sleep. Intracellular recordings under barbiturate anesthesia showed that, during spindle oscillations, the spike-bursts of intralaminar neurons are generated by brief low-threshold spikes with a much shorter refractory phase than in other thalamocortical cells. Depolarizing pulses from the resting membrane potential triggered fast oscillations (20-80 Hz) crowned by short high-frequency (800-1000 Hz) spike-bursts. During the inter-spindle epochs, the &quot;tonic&quot; firing of these neurons was, in fact, a fast oscillation (30-40 Hz) of the membrane potential leading to single spikes or spike-doublets. Autocorrelograms computed from inter-spindle epochs, at relatively depolarized levels, confirmed the presence of multiple peaks at this fast rhythm. The properties of these neurons make them well suited for the distribution of fast rhythms during arousal and rapid eye movement sleep over the cerebral cortex.
We have studied the effects of basic fibroblast growth factor on rat embryonic mesencephalic neurons in vitro. Basic fibroblast growth factor promotes the survival of dopaminergic neurons in vitro, the effect increasing with dose and reaching a maximum at 10 ng/ml. In the absence of basic fibroblast growth factor the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-stained (tyrosine hydroxylase positive) neurons declines to almost zero within 14 days, whereas in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor numbers remain almost constant from three to 28 days in vitro. This effect of basic fibroblast growth factor is abolished by preventing non-neuronal cells from appearing in the cultures, apart from a basic fibroblast growth factor-mediated increase in the numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells during the first two days in vitro. The presence or absence of non-neuronal cells also influences dopaminergic neuronal morphology, the neurons having more, longer, and more varicose processes in the absence of astrocytes. Survival of dopaminergic neurons in vitro in the absence of basic fibroblast growth factor is very dependent on plating cell density, but in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor this dependency vanishes. It is also possible to make survival independent of plating density by growing the cultures on inverted coverslips, which have the effect of concentrating secreted molecules in the thin layer of medium between coverslip and dish. Our conclusions from these experiments on plating density are that astrocytes probably constitutively secrete a small amount of a trophic factor which promotes survival of dopaminergic neurons, and that the rate of production of this factor is greatly increased by basic fibroblast growth factor. If basic fibroblast growth factor is withdrawn from cultures after two or seven days the dopaminergic neurons soon die. However, if basic fibroblast growth factor is withdrawn after 14 days, after the period of naturally occurring cell death of these neurons, there is no increase in dopaminergic neuronal death compared to controls in which basic fibroblast growth factor treatment is maintained. If basic fibroblast growth factor is used to improve the survival of dopaminergic neurons grafted in vivo, it should therefore be sufficient to treat the grafts for 14 days.
The four vessel occlusion model of severe transient global ischaemia in Wistar rats has been used to study changes in the extracellular concentration of amino acids in hippocampus and striatum during and after ischaemia. We have investigated the effect of a pyrimidine derivative. BW1003C87 [5-(2,3,5-trichlorophenyl) pyrimidine-2,4-diamine 1.1 ethanesulphonate], 10 or 20 mg/kg, administered before or after ischaemia, on the amino acid accumulation and the pathological outcome. BW1003C87, 10 or 20 mg/kg, given intraperitoneally 20 min prior to ischaemia significantly reduces the extracellular accumulation of the amino acid in hippocampus and in striatum. BW1003C87, 10 or 20 mg/kg, injected 20 min prior to and 4 h after ischaemia protects against the hippocampal (CA1) and the striatal lesions. Administration of BW1003C87, 20 mg/kg, at 0 and 4 h or at 2 and 6 h post-ischaemia, significantly reduces CA1 lesions whereas no significant protection is seen in the striatum. These data indicate that BW1003C87 is able to inhibit the extracellular accumulation of amino acids during severe forebrain ischaemia. The compound is also a potent neuroprotector in this model (in which N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists fail to protect CA1 neurons). The effect of BW1003C87 on ischaemic glutamate release may contribute to protection in the striatum; it cannot explain the neuroprotection in CA1 since delayed administration is still highly protective. An action on voltage-sensitive sodium channels may contribute to the effects on amino acid release and to the cerebroprotective effect.
The importance of the cholinergic innervation of the neocortex in cognitive functions has been shown in a number of clinical and animal studies. Until recently, attempts to study the mode of action of acetylcholine in the neocortex have concentrated on muscarinic effects, whereas cholinergic actions mediated by nicotinic receptors have been difficult to demonstrate. The present work was undertaken to study the mechanism of action of nicotinic agents on cortical neurons and compare it to muscarinic effects by means of intracellular recordings in a slice preparation. The study was performed in the prelimbic area of the rat prefrontal cortex, a cortical region particularly involved in cognitive processes. Recordings were made from pyramidal cells located in layers II/III and synaptic potentials were evoked by stimulation of superficial cortical layers. Iontophoretic applications of nicotinic agonists (nicotine, dimethylphenylpiperazinium, cytisine) increased the amplitude of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential mediated by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors in 14% (22/159) of cells. This effect was abolished by the selective nicotinic blocker, neuronal bungarotoxin (IC50 = 0.6-0.7 microM) and by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (IC50 = 20-30 microM), whereas hexamethonium, mecamylamine, curare and alpha-bungarotoxin were ineffective. The nicotinic agonists did not change resting membrane potential, input resistance or current-voltage relationship. They also did not affect the depolarizations produced by glutamate applied by iontophoresis in the somatic or dendritic area. In contrast, the muscarinic agonists (muscarine, acetyl-beta-methylcholine) decreased the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic potential in 100% of the neurons tested. Atropine was more effective (IC50 = 0.08 microM) than pirenzepine (IC50 = 2 microM) to antagonize the muscarinic action. These effects were observed in the absence of any direct postsynaptic change in membrane potential or input resistance, provided that the site of the iontophoretic application was more than 100 microM distant from the soma. The muscarinic agonists did not influence the actions of iontophoretically applied glutamate. These results suggest that nicotinic and muscarinic agonists modulate excitatory synaptic transmission mediated at dendritic sites by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors, possibly through a presynaptic action. Thus ascending cholinergic systems may take part in information processing in the prefrontal cortex through the control of ongoing excitation to pyramidal cells.
The effects on lumbar motoneurons of thoracic cord stimulation were investigated in the neonatal rat hemisected spinal cord in vitro using intracellular recording. Four responses were evoked--a fast, excitatory postsynaptic potential, a second component to the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential, a fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential and a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. The fast (CNQX-sensitive) excitatory postsynaptic potential was probably monosynaptic, was blocked by CNQX, (10 microM) and showed a frequency-dependent run-down at stimulation frequencies between 0.1 and 1 Hz. A slower component to the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential ((+-)-2-amino-5- phosphono-valeric acid-sensitive excitatory postsynaptic potential) was blocked by (+-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM). Following fast excitatory postsynaptic potential blockade with both CNQX and (+-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, a fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential was revealed. This reversed at a membrane potential close to resting and was incompletely blocked by either bicuculline (30 microM) or strychnine (10 microM). The slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was a delayed depolarization associated with a small increase in input resistance (20%) and was insensitive to block by CNQX and/or (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. It increased in amplitude on membrane depolarization and decreased on hyperpolarization and was potentiated by cocaine (3 microM) and citalopram (0.1 microM), but not by desipramine (5 microM). The slow excitatory postsynaptic potential was blocked by ketanserin (1 microM) and by LY 53857 (1 microM). It is concluded that a non-glutamatergic transmitter is involved in generating the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential possibly 5-hydroxytryptamine acting at 5-hydroxytryptamine 2 receptors.
The turnover rate of dopamine and serotonin and the level of glutamate in superior colliculus are increased in adult, neonatally enucleated rats compared with normal control adult animals. Moreover, immunocytochemical data showed that the stratum zonale and the stratum griseum superficiale of the superior colliculus, specifically of bienucleated rats, display a dense network of serotonin-immunoreactive fibres, suggesting an increase in serotoninergic innervation. At the electron microscope level, serotonin-immunoreactive fibres and large postsynaptic serotonin-immunoreactive profiles exhibiting microtubules could be observed in the stratum zonale and the stratum griseum superficiale of the bienucleated rat. These results suggest that neonatal enucleation produces reorganization of serotoninergic and glutamatergic inputs. It is possible that serotonin may exert a profound influence upon collicular function.
alpha 2-Adrenergic receptors mediate a large portion of the known inhibitory effects of catecholamines on central and peripheral neurons. Molecular cloning studies have established the identity of three alpha 2-adrenergic receptor genes from several species that encode the A, B and C subtypes of the receptor. The rat alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor, as defined by sequence similarity, is the orthologue of the human alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor. In this paper, we report the development of rabbit antisera directed against a portion of the third intracellular loop of the rat alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor and the histochemical localization of alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor-like immunoreactive material in the brainstem and spinal cord of the adult rat. Our antisera detected alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor-specific punctate staining associated with neuronal perikarya. alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor-like immunoreactivity was widely, but heterogeneously, distributed in the brainstem and spinal cord, predominantly in areas involved in the control of autonomic function. Double labelling with antisera to tyrosine hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine-N-methyl-transferase revealed that alpha 2A-adrenergic receptor-like immunoreactivity is present in most, perhaps all, noradrenergic and adrenergic cells of the brainstem. alpha 2A-Adrenergic receptor-like immunoreactivity was detected in a small percentage of the dopaminergic cells of the A9 and A10 groups. This study provides the first description of the specific immunohistochemical localization of alpha 2A-adrenergic receptors using a subtype-specific polyclonal antibody. The results support the view that alpha 2-adrenergic receptors are involved in central cardiovascular control and suggest that the catecholaminergic autoreceptors of central noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons are the A subtype of the alpha 2-adrenergic receptors.
Herpes viruses have been used as retrograde transsynaptic tracers to identify pathways from the CNS to specific target tissues. We used herpes simplex virus to identify central nervous system neurons responsible for control of the kidney. Herpes simplex type 1 or herpes simplex type 2 was injected into rat kidneys and herpes simplex type 1 was microinjected into hamster and guinea pig kidneys. After three to seven days, ganglia, spinal cords and brains were examined using immunohistochemistry to visualize the virus-infected neurons. Our first experiments demonstrated that rats were not susceptible to infection with neurotropic strains of herpes simplex type 1. Injections of a wildtype strain of herpes simplex type 2 into rat kidneys led to nonspecific infection of many central nervous system neurons and glia. In contrast, herpes simplex type 1 injections in hamsters and guinea pigs caused specific infection of limited numbers of neurons in approximately one-third of the animals and the study was continued using hamsters. Sympathetic preganglionic neuron labelling was found in the ipsilateral intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord as well as the lateral funiculus. Most infected preganglionic neurons were located in the seventh to the ninth thoracic spinal segments. Infected neurons were not found in the dorsal or ventral horn of the spinal gray matter and only one or two cells were found in the brainstem. Sympathetic preganglionic neuron morphology was usually normal, showing detailed dendritic arborizations, and lysis was infrequent. Small infected cells were sometimes observed close to sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Because herpes simplex type 1 virus was not detected immunocytochemically in ganglionic neurons in these same hamsters, the polymerase chain reaction was used in some additional hamsters to detect viral DNA in the T12 and T13 chain ganglia and splanchnic ganglia ipsilateral to the kidney injected with herpes simplex type 1. Finally, the overall distribution of renal postganglionic and splanchnic preganglionic neurons in hamsters was examined for comparison to the number and locations of virus-labelled neurons. Retrograde transport of the fluorescent dye FluoroGold demonstrated that (i) renal postganglionic neurons are distributed in the T10-L1 chain ganglia and in the prevertebral splanchnic ganglion and (ii) splanchnic preganglionic neurons are located in the T3-T12 spinal segments, predominantly in the intermediolateral and funicular spinal autonomic nuclei. In conclusion, herpes simplex type 1 virus infected an exclusive population of &quot;renal&quot; neurons in hamsters without lysis and with little cellular reaction to the infection after a survival period of three days, permitting these neurons to be studied in detail.
The efferent connections of the hypothalamic area, where grooming can be elicited by local electrical stimulation or injection of various substances, were studied using iontophoretic injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. This hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; consists of parts of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and of the dorsal hypothalamic area. The specificity of these efferents for the hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; was investigated by comparison with efferents of hypothalamic sites adjacent to this area. In addition, the distribution of oxytocinergic fibres was studied, since oxytocinergic neurons are present in the hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; and oxytocin is possibly involved in grooming behaviour. The efferents of the hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; as well as of hypothalamic sites surrounding this area and the oxytocinergic fibres studied do not form well determined bundles, but rather spread out throughout the hypothalamus. Clusters of fibres could be traced rostrally and caudally, forming diffuse fibre &quot;streams&quot;. Three rostral, two thalamic and three caudal fibre &quot;streams&quot; have been distinguished along which efferent fibres innervate different brain areas. The many varicosities on labelled fibres &quot;en passant&quot; suggest that hypothalamic fibres are able to influence many parts of the brain along their way. The anterior periventricular area, the median preoptic nucleus, the ventral tegmental area and nucleus of the solitary tract were found to be more or less specifically innervated by hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; fibres and oxytocinergic fibres. Other brain areas, like the septum, the medial amygdaloid nucleus, the central gray and the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus were found to receive efferent projections from the hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; and hypothalamic loci outside this area, as well as from the oxytocinergic system. Within the septum and the mesencephalic central gray, differences in the spatial organization of terminating fibres from the hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; and hypothalamic &quot;non-grooming&quot; sites have been found. Fibres from the grooming area clustered in the ventral part of the lateral septal nucleus, while fibres from surrounding hypothalamic loci innervated other parts of that brain area. In the central gray, fibres from the hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; clustered in rostrodorsal and caudoventral parts. A number of brain areas, that are innervated by hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; fibres and oxytocinergic fibres, like central gray, ventral tegmental area and the noradrenergic A5 area, have been reported previously to be involved in grooming behaviour. It is concluded from the present findings, that the hypothalamic &quot;grooming area&quot; has preferential connections with a number of brain sites, not shared with hypothalamic projections from outside the &quot;grooming area&quot;.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Retrograde axonal transport of fluorescent tracers (primuline, FluoroGold and Nuclear Yellow) from the spinal cord, frontal cortex, lateral hypothalamus to various neuronal groups of the midbrain periventricular gray substance (periaqueductal gray matter) and to the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum in the rat has been studied. Two large groups of serotonin-containing neurons have been found to be localized in the dorsomedial region of the nucleus raphe dorsalis. They are sources of projections into the thoracic segments of the spinal cord. A part of these neurons gives divergent axon collaterals to the frontal cortex and to the spinal cord. Non-collateral projections of the dorsolateral pontine tegmental catecholaminergic neurons to the spinal cord and the frontal cortex have been revealed. The data obtained give support to the fact that antinociceptive effect of stimulation of the &quot;pure analgesic zone&quot; [Fardin et al. (1984) Brain Res. 306, 105-123.] of the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter may be due to direct involvement of the nucleus raphe dorsalis into a descending control over transmitting nociceptive stimuli at the spinal cord level. Neurotransmissive and neuroregulatory roles of separate cortical, hypothalamic and spinal serotonergic projections of the nucleus raphe dorsalis neurons are discussed.
Simultaneous recordings from pairs of locus coeruleus neurons in neonatal rat brain slices previously demonstrated synchronous, subthreshold oscillations of membrane potential (rats &lt; 24 days old) and electronic-coupling between 40% of pairs of neurons from rats less than 10 days old. In the present study, slices from 1-21 day-old rats were stained with avidin-HRP-diaminobenzidine only if a single neuron per slice was impaled for longer than 10 min using an electrode containing biocytin. In slices from rats less than one week old, multiple stained neurons (3.8 +/- 0.6 neurons/slice) were observed in 10 of 11 slices. Apparent contacts between stained neurons were observed at varying distances along dendrites. In rats older than one week significantly fewer multiple stained neurons were observed (three of 20 slices). The proportion of neurons displaying spontaneous subthreshold oscillations of membrane potential decreased with age, and the frequencies of subthreshold oscillations of membrane potential and entrained action potentials increased with age. The presence of multiple stained neurons was not correlated with the occurrence of subthreshold oscillations, cell input resistance, or the number of coupled neurons predicted from the shape of electronic potentials. In recordings from neurons displaying subthreshold oscillations, input resistance was lower and the number of coupled neurons predicted from electrotonic potentials was greater than in those without oscillations. These results suggest that low resistance pathways are common between locus coeruleus neurons in brain slices from rats younger than about one week old, consistent with previous electrotonic-coupling studies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
There is growing evidence that nitric oxide serves as a neurotransmitter released from enteric inhibitory nerves in the gastrointestinal tract. The distribution of nitric oxide synthase suggests that nitric oxide may also be a neurotransmitter within enteric ganglia. Since many actions of nitric oxide are mediated by stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase and a subsequent increase in 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) concentration, targets for nitric oxide in the canine proximal colon were investigated by immunohistochemical localization of cGMP. In the presence of phosphodiesterase inhibitors (M&amp;B 22948, 100 microM and 3-isobutyl-1-methyl-xanthine, 1 mM), exogenous nitric oxide and electrical field stimulation caused an accumulation of cGMP-like immunoreactivity in several cell-types including colonic smooth muscle cells. cGMP-like immunoreactivity was also observed in a subpopulation of neurons in both myenteric and submucosal ganglia. Sequential labeling with the NADPH diaphorase technique showed that 94% of neurons that responded to exogenous nitric oxide with an increase in cGMP-like immunoreactivity were NADPH diaphorase negative. None of the myenteric neurons that responded to electrical field stimulation with an increase in cGMP-like immunoreactivity were NADPH diaphorase positive, and only one submucosal neuron with cGMP-like immunoreactivity was also NADPH diaphorase positive. The electrical field-stimulated increase in cGMP-like immunoreactivity was blocked by nitroarginine (100 microM). An increase in cGMP-like immunoreactivity also occurred in interstitial cells located at the submucosal surface of the circular muscle layer. These cells are interposed between nerve varicosities and smooth muscle cells and may partially mediate neuromuscular transmission. Sodium nitroprusside and nitric oxide also caused an accumulation of cGMP-like immunoreactivity in smooth muscle cells of intramural arterioles and venules. The results of this study further support the role of nitric oxide as a neurotransmitter in colonic muscles, and provide support for the hypothesis that interstitial cells are functionally innervated by enteric inhibitory neurons. The data also suggest that nitric oxide may serve as a neurotransmitter in enteric ganglia.
In neonatal rats the injection of Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow retrograde fluorescent tracers, each into separate cerebellar hemispheres, reveals the presence of double-labelled neurons positioned bilaterally in the inferior olivary complex during the early postnatal period (postnatal day 0 to postnatal day 5). This suggests that those neurons whose axons are able to take up both tracers project to both hemicerebellar during this period of postnatal development. Double-labelled neurons were observed in one- and five-day-old injected postnatal rats, but were absent in older animals (10 and 30 days old). The presence of these neurons coincides with a transient period of poly-innervation of Purkinje cells by climbing fibres. They may thus be participating in transitory interactions preceding the formation of definitive climbing fibre synaptic arrangements in the cerebellar cortex. The technique employed is unable to clearly define the pathway of this transient olivocerebellar projection into the ipsilateral cerebellum; however, in direct evidence--like the topographic distribution of double-labelled neurons relative to tracer injection sites, and the small number of single-labelled neurons within the ipsilateral olivary complex, together with previous data on the axonogenesis of olivary neurons [Bourrat and Sotelo (1988) Devl Brain Res. 39, 19-37]--suggests that these fibres reach the cerebellum through the contralateral inferior cerebellar peduncle and give rise to collaterals, some of which subsequently decussate again within the cerebellum. These fibres probably represent transient collaterals of the normally contralateral olivocerebellar fibres that cross the cerebellar midline and reach mirror-image loci within the ipsilateral hemicerebellum.
To investigate the electrophysiological effects of the stimulation of the metabotropic excitatory amino acid receptors, we applied trans-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate, an agonist of this type of receptors, on presumed rat dopamine cells intracellularly recorded in vitro. Trans-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (3-30 microM, t-ACPD) caused a sustained increase of the spontaneous firing rate and a depolarization. When the membrane potential was held at about the resting level (-50, -60 mV), by the single-electrode voltage-clamp technique, t-ACPD induced an inward current. In 57% of the tested cells the inward current was associated with a decrease of the apparent input conductance. In the remaining cells no obvious changes in membrane conductance were observed. The active form of t-ACPD, (1S,3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate [3-50 microM, (1S,3R)-ACPD] also produced a reversible inward current on the dopaminergic cells and this was antagonized by (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenylglycine (300 microM), a selective antagonist of the (1S,3R)-ACPD-induced depolarization on central neurons. The (1S,3R)-ACPD-induced inward current was not antagonized by L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (100 microM), an antagonist of the t-ACPD-induced activation of inositide synthesis. 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10 microM), an alfa-amino-3-hydroxy-5- methyl-isoxazole propionic acid/kainate antagonist, DL-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (30 microM), an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, and scopolamine (10 microM), a muscarinic antagonist, did not significantly affect the actions of t-ACPD. A block of synaptic transmission obtained by applying tetrodotoxin failed to prevent the action of t-ACPD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Twenty-nine children with a single, unilateral cerebral infarct acquired pre- or perinatally were examined subsequently for an average of 43 months. No consistent pre- or perinatal events were identified to explain the occurrence of the stroke. The children acquired motor milestones at nearly expected times, even in the presence of hemiparesis. In children older than 2 years of age, I.Q. scores all were within the normal range. More than one-half of the children experienced seizures at some time during the follow-up period. Good intellectual and functional motor outcome can be expected in children with isolated perinatal stroke.


The purpose of this review is to familiarize physical therapists with the diagnostic, clinical, and behavioral characteristics associated with fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) and other alcohol-related birth defects. Through review of FAS research studies of both humans and animals, the prevalence, pharmacokinetics, and clinical features of this syndrome are described. Deficits in the areas of cognitive, behavioral, and motor development are also described. Particular attention is given to neuromotor differences and orthopedic abnormalities associated with FAS that may require consultation or intervention from physical therapists.
Rats were allowed to lever press for two types of food pellets of equivalent caloric value and total carbohydrate content. One type of food pellet provided more of the calories as sucrose. During a 16-day prestress period, lever presses for 12 rats were recorded hourly. Following the baseline period, four rats (stressed group) were shaped to pull a ceiling chain to avoid or escape signalled foot shock presented intermittently around-the-clock. Four additional rats (yoked group) were each paired to one of the chain-pulling rats such that the rat trained to pull the ceiling chain controlled stressor termination for both rats. A third group of four rats served as the control group and received no shock. We have previously reported that rats in this model of chronic stress tolerate the paradigm well, continuing to gain weight, eat, drink water, and groom and escape more than 99% of the trials presented. During the baseline period, the sweeter pellet was preferred by most rats, but differences in preference among rats and in preference at different times of day were observed. The preference for the high-sucrose pellet was most marked in the hours preceding lights off. Overall, no changes in food preference were seen as a function of stress condition during the 14-day stress period, although one rat in the yoked group increased preference for the sweeter pellet during stress and returned to prestress food preferences when stress was terminated.

Activity of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system was investigated in rats withdrawn from chronic ethanol administration by single-cell extracellular recordings from dopaminergic neurons of the ventrotegmental area, coupled with antidromic identification from the nucleus accumbens, and by microdialysis-technique experiments in the nucleus accumbens. Spontaneous firing rates, spikes per burst, and absolute burst firing but not the number of spontaneously active neurons were found drastically reduced; whereas absolute and relative refractory periods increased in rats withdrawn from chronic ethanol treatment as compared with chronic saline-treated controls. Consistently, dopamine outflow in the nucleus accumbens and its acid metabolites were reduced after abruptly stopping chronic ethanol administration. All these changes, as well as ethanol-withdrawal behavioral signs, were reversed by ethanol administration. This reversal suggests that the abrupt cessation of chronic ethanol administration plays a causal role in the reduction of mesolimbic dopaminergic activity seen in the ethanol-withdrawal syndrome. Results indicate that during the ethanol-withdrawal syndrome the mesolimbic dopaminergic system is tonically reduced in activity, as indexed by electrophysiological and biochemical criteria. Considering the role of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system in the reinforcing properties of ethanol, the depressed activity of this system during the ethanol-withdrawal syndrome may be relevant to the dysphoric state associated with ethanol withdrawal in humans.
Despite its insensate condition and apparent motoric depression, the anesthetized rat can provide useful information about the systems involved in locomotor initiation. The preparation appears to be particularly appropriate for the study of the appetitive locomotor systems and may be more limited for the study of the circuits involved in exploratory and defensive locomotion. In the anesthetized rat, pharmacological evidence indicates that the preoptic basal forebrain contains neurons which initiate locomotor stepping. Mapping with low levels of electrical stimulation indicates, but does not prove, that a region centered in the lateral preoptic area might be the location of these neurons. Several lines of evidence indicate that locomotor stepping elicited by electrical stimulation of the hypothalamus is mediated by neurons in the perifornical and lateral hypothalamus. Locomotor effects of hypothalamic stimulation persist in the absence of descending fibers of passage from the ipsilateral preoptic locomotor regions but are severely impaired by kainic acid lesions in the area of stimulation. Injections of glutamate into the perifornical and lateral hypothalamus elicit locomotor stepping at short latencies. Anatomical evidence suggests that the two regions are components of a network for appetitive locomotion. The recognition that multiple systems initiate locomotion both clarifies and complicates the study of locomotion. It provides a framework that incorporates disparate findings but it also underscores the need for increased attention to behavioral issues in studies of locomotor circuitry.

This study was designed to better define a protocol for hypervolemic hemodilution in acute cerebral ischemia and investigate the mechanism of action of this therapy. Anesthetized rats (n = 40) were subjected to 6 h of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. At 45 min after MCA occlusion, each rat received one of the following treatment modalities: (1) control, (2) isovolemic hemodilution, (3) hypervolemic nonhemodilution (whole blood), (4) hypervolemic hemodilution (normal saline), and (5) hypervolemic hemodilution (hetastarch). Local cerebral blood flow (CBF) was determined with hydrogen clearance technique, and cardiac output was assessed by measuring the descending aorta blood flow (DAF). Infarction volume was estimated by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining method. Hetastarch infusion increased both DAF and local CBF more than the other treatments, by 98% and by 89%, respectively. Hetastarch also reduced infarction volume the most to 71 +/- 19 mm3 (p &lt; 0.01 versus control 117 +/- 32 mm3). A significant correlation between percent (%) changes in local CBF and % changes in DAF existed in ischemic brain regions, and the hetastarch infusion improved local CBF more prominently in profoundly ischemic regions in contrast to isovolemic hemodilution. These data demonstrated the superiority of hypervolemic hemodilution with hetastarch as compared to other similar treatment modalities for acute cerebral ischemia, and indicate that cardiac output augmentation may be more responsible than decreased blood viscosity for the beneficial effect of hypervolemic hemodilution on local CBF in profoundly ischemic regions, as such ischemic brain tissue can severely lose its regulatory control of CBF to alterations in cardiac output.
The highly selective cardiac-M(2) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonist methoctramine shows a number of concentration-dependent biochemical responses. At micromolar concentrations it interacts allosterically with the mAChR and has 'agonist-like' effects on the phosphoinositide and cyclic AMP second messenger systems. Direct stimulation or inhibition of second messenger systems has been reported to modulate cellular homoeostasis and differentiation. This study showed that methoctramine was toxic, in micromolar concentrations, to the human neuroblastoma cell lines SK-N-SH, LAN-5 and SH-EP1, the last being a clone that does not contain muscarinic receptors. The selective M2 mAChR antagonists 11-{2-[(diethylamino)methyl]-1-piperidinyl}-5,11-dihydro-6H-pyrido(2,3-6)(1-4)benzodiazepine-6-on (AF-DX 116) and gallamine, as well as the selective M1 and M3 antagonists pirenzepine and 4-diphenylacetoxy-n-methylpiperidine (4-DAMP), had no toxic effects. Lithium provided significant protection against methoctramine toxicity, whereas carbamylcholine, pertussis toxin and forskolin had no influence on its toxicity. At micromolar concentrations, the clinically used, non-selective mAChR antagonists ethopropazine, benztropine, trihexyphenidyl and orphenadrine displayed toxicity similar to that of methoctramine. Methoctramine, ethopropazine, benztropine and trihexyphenidyl enhanced significantly [(3)H]thymidine uptake at subtoxic concentrations. These results demonstrate that (a) the toxicity of methoctramine is by way of non-muscarinic mechanism, (b) some anticholinergic drugs commonly used in clinical medicine have toxic properties similar to those of methoctramine and (c) at subtoxic micromolar concentrations anti-muscarinic drugs have some trophic properties.
Hepatotoxic microcystin levels in cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) were assessed by an assay based on inhibition of protein phosphatases type 1 (PP1) and type 2A (PP2A) in crude chicken forebrain extracts using 32P-labelled glycogen phosphorylase as substrate. While cyanobacteria are reported to be devoid of phosphorylase phosphatase activity, two samples obtained from cyanobacterial scums, containing predominantly Anabaena circinalis, were found to contain high levels of a phosphorylase phosphatase activity which completely masked the presence of microcystin. Furthermore, samples containing predominantly Microcystis aeruginosa but increasing Anabaena circinalis contained sufficient phosphorylase phosphatase activity to cause a fourfold underestimation of microcystin levels. Thus, protocols for microcystin toxicity analysis should take into account the possible presence of endogenous phosphatase activity, thereby preventing underestimation of toxin levels.
Neuroendocrine control of feeding behavior is multifactorial, involving a variety of peripheral and central signals. Neuropeptides, catecholamines, and serotonin constitute the signals of the feeding circuitry acting primarily in the brain, especially at the hypothalamic level. In this review, an attempt is made to summarize the recent progress made in our continuing effort to understand the regulation of feeding behavior by neuropeptides, particularly those that stimulate feeding. A special emphasis has been placed on a neuropeptide of the pancreatic polypeptide family-neuropeptide Y (NPY).
A lens-coupled slow-scan CCD camera has been built for transmission electron microscopy (TEM) applications. In this design, a leaded glass window, which is coated with a 20 microns layer of red P20 phosphor, is mounted on the bottom of the microscope. A lens assembly and mirror prism, located outside the microscope vacuum below the leaded glass, relays the image onto a back-thinned 1kx1k charge-coupled device (CCD) detector. This CCD is electronically cooled to below -30 degrees C during operation. It is found that X-ray irradiation, generally found to be annoying in fiber-optically coupled CCD cameras, is completely eliminated by this configuration. The collection efficiency of this system, although not as high as some of the fiber-optically coupled CCD cameras, is high enough to achieve single-electron sensitivity under a high-gain mode.
This study has examined the representation of the dorso-ventral retinal axis in the optic nerve and tract of the ferret, as well as the associated fiber transformations which take place within the chiasmatic region. In one series of experiments, dorsal or ventral retinal lesions were made to induce fiber degeneration along the pathway, from which semi-thin sections were then stained for degenerating myelin. In a second series, implants of the carbocyanine dye, DiI, were made into the caudo-medial or rostro-lateral optic tract in order to label retrogradely the axons as they course through the chiasmatic region. Additional observations were made from the optic pathways of ferrets that had been similarly lesioned or implanted, but employing either a reduced-silver technique to reveal the degenerating axons or horseradish peroxidase as the retrograde label. The axons arising from the dorsal and ventral retina course in the dorsal and ventral parts of the optic nerve posterior to the eye, but as they continue along the nerve they disperse producing a highly impoverished retinotopy in the prechiasmatic portion of the nerve. As they course through the chiasmatic region, however, they become segregated again: dorsal fibers cross the midline relatively caudally while ventral fibers cross further rostrally, although there is overlap between them. Nearer the threshold of the optic tract, the fibers from dorsal and ventral retina undergo a further and more striking segregation, placing the dorsal fibers caudo-medially and the ventral fibers rostro-laterally within the tract. This re-emergence of retinotopic order implicates a fiber-substrate interaction as being responsible for the axonal reordering, and suggests that fiber pre-ordering in the tract contributes to the formation of the orderly projection of the dorso-ventral retinal axis upon central visual targets.
We measured transient and steady-state checkerboard contrast-reversal visual evoked potentials (VEPs) in ten dyslexics, five patient controls, and 11 normals over a range of contrasts and luminances. Latency, amplitude, and phase measurements failed to distinguish the responses of dyslexics from those of normals or patient controls. Decreases in luminance or contrast resulted in an increased latency of the transient VEP in all groups, but these changes also did not distinguish the responses of dyslexics from those of the controls. Response variability was similar in dyslexics and normals, but was increased in subjects with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Performance on standardized psychometric testing did differentiate the dyslexics from controls, but did not correlate with VEP responses.
To investigate the importance of feedback loops in visual information processing, we have analyzed the dynamic aspects of neuronal responses to oriented gratings in cortical area V1 of the awake primate. If recurrent feedback is important in generating orientation selectivity, the initial part of the neuronal response should be relatively poorly selective, and full orientation selectivity should only appear after a delay. Thus, by examining the dynamics of the neuronal responses it should be possible to assess the importance of feedback processes in the development of orientation selectivity. The results were base on a sample of 259 cells recorded in two monkeys, of which 89% were visually responsive. Of these, approximately two-thirds were orientation selective. Response latency varied considerably between neurons, ranging from a minimum of 41 ms to over 150 ms, although most had latencies of 50-70 ms. Orientation tuning (defined as the bandwidth at half-height) ranged from 16 deg to over 90 deg, with a mean value of around 55 deg. By examining the selectivity of these different neurons by 10-ms time slices, starting at the onset of the neuronal response, we found that the orientation selectivity of virtually every neuron was fully developed at the very start of the neuronal response. Indeed, many neurons showed a marked tendency to respond at somewhat longer latencies to stimuli that were nonoptimally oriented, with the result that orientation selectivity was highest at the very start of the neuronal response. Furthermore, there was no evidence that the neurons with the shortest onset latencies were less selective. Such evidence is inconsistent with the hypothesis that recurrent intracortical feedback plays an important role in the generation of orientation selectivity. Instead, we suggest that orientation selectivity is primarily generated using feedforward mechanisms, including feedforward inhibition. Such a strategy has the advantage of allowing orientation to be computed rapidly, and avoids the initially poorly selective neuronal responses that characterize processing involving recurrent loops.

Using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, significantly raised concentrations of immunoglobulin G with affinity for the neurotransmitter dopamine were demonstrated in cerebrospinal fluid from psychotic patients. We have varied the antigen presentation in order to find a conjugate with low unspecific binding. The conjugation of dopamine to carbodiimide-activated poly-L-glutamic acid and that to activated succinimide ester of biotin are described. The use of glutaraldehyde conjugation is not recommended because of the risk of formation of tetrahydroisoquinolines. A strong correlation (r = 0.94, P &lt; 0.001) between the results obtained with dopamine conjugated to poly-L-glutamic acid and dopamine conjugated to biotin was observed. Forty-two human cerebrospinal fluid samples from 20 psychotic patients, (12 with a bipolar disorder and 8 with schizophrenia) and 22 control patients, with various neurological diseases but no apparent psychiatric diseases were investigated. A significantly higher incidence (P &lt; 0.001) of antibodies with affinity for dopamine were found in the group of psychotic patients compared with the neurological control group.

The ryanodine receptor (RR), an intracellular calcium release channel, has been identified in the nervous system but its contributions to neuronal function are unknown. We have utilized immunohistochemical techniques to establish the distribution of RRs in the central nervous system (CNS) of the chick as a step toward elucidating the function of RRs in this system. RR immunoreactivity is observed throughout the brain, most prominently in large neurons. The strongest immunoreactivity is found in cerebellar Purkinje neurons, but nuclei in the motor, visual and vestibular systems are also intensely labeled, and immunoreactive neurons are observed the olfactory bulb and the hippocampus. In these neurons, labeling is prominent in cell bodies, dendrites and axons, but is not observed in the dendritic spines or in plasma membranes. The neuronal RRs bind [3H]ryanodine with high affinity and this activity is regulated by calcium, caffeine, MgCl2/ATP and ionic strength. Multiple forms of the RRs are found in the chicken CNS. Immunoprecipitation and localization studies using RR isoform specific monoclonal antibodies reveal major differences in their distribution. The predominant species in the cerebellum is similar to the skeletal muscle isoform while there is a lower level of expression of either the cardiac or beta skeletal isoforms. In the remainder of the brain, the predominant isoform is similar to the cardiac or beta skeletal muscle isoforms. The broad distribution of RRs in the CNS suggests that calcium release events mediated by these proteins may have a functional role in a diverse array of neurons. Moreover within the populations of neurons expressing RR's, the presence of specific RR isoforms may correlate with specialization in the calcium release events mediated by these proteins.
Anaesthetized C57 BL/6 mice of different ages (young: 5 months; middle-aged: 15 months; and old: 21 months) were used to determine whether aging alters the efficiency of synaptic inhibition and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the lateral septum (LS). Electrical stimulation of the fimbria induced field potentials in the ipsilateral LS comprising two initial negative components (N2 and N3) followed by a positive wave of low amplitude. Paired-pulse experiments showed a facilitation of the N2 component and a concomitant depression of the N3 components. Facilitation of the N2 component was stronger in both middle-aged and old mice as compared to young mice, whereas an inverse pattern of changes was observed for inhibition of the N3 component. High-frequency stimulation of the fimbria produced a persistent increase in the N3 amplitude. This LTP was of significantly higher amplitude in both young and middle-aged mice as compared to old mice. These results suggest that aging impairs both inhibitory processes and synaptic plasticity in the mouse LS, but that inhibitory processes appear to be affected earlier.
A mammalian expression vector that directs expression of murine beta-nerve growth factor (beta-NGF) from a murine sarcoma virus long terminal repeat (LTR) promoter element was constructed and characterized. The vector, designated pLTRSNGF, was stably transfected into murine L-cells, and beta-NGF mRNA and protein levels were quantified and compared to endogenous levels in control L-cells. Transfection of pLTRSNGF resulted in an approximate doubling of both beta-NGF mRNA and mature beta-NGF protein secreted into the media. Transfection of pLTRSNGF into rat PC 12 cells resulted in colonies of autocrine-differentiating cells that extended dense networks of neurites in the absence of added NGF, indicating that the beta-NGF produced from the vector is biologically active.
Glial growth factors (GGFs) were purified from bovine pituitaries using an in vitro rat Schwann cell mitogenesis assay. In addition to an approximately 34-kDa species termed GGF-I, similar in molecular mass to a previously identified molecule (Lemke, G. E., and Brockes, J. P. (1984) J. Neuroscience 4, 75-83), two species named GGF-II and GGF-III were characterized with apparent molecular masses of approximately 59 and approximately 45 kDa, respectively. Highly purified preparations of all species share a similar dose-dependent stimulation of Schwann cell DNA synthesis at nanomolar concentrations. Forskolin synergizes with all three GGFs, shifting their dose dependence 3-8-fold into the sub-nanomolar range. The GGFs, which contain N-linked carbohydrate groups not essential for their in vitro mitogenic effects, are three distinct members of a novel family of glial cell mitogens.
The pharmacological profile of [125I][Tyr4]bombesin binding to gastrin-releasing peptide- and neuromedin B-preferring sites has been investigated in rat cerebral cortex and olfactory bulb membranes, respectively. [125I][Tyr4]bombesin specific binding to cerebral cortex membranes was displayed biphasically by gastrin releasing peptide and [D-Phe6]bombesin-(6-13)-ethyl amide. In the presence of 10 mM neuromedin B, displacement curves for bombesin-related peptides were monophasic with gastrin releasing peptide displaying approximately 100-fold higher affinity than neuromedin B. In olfactory bulb membranes, [125I][Tyr4]bombesin binding was also displaced biphasically by gastrin releasing peptide, [D-Phe6]bombesin-(6-13)-ethyl amide and neuromedin B. In the presence of 10 microM [D-Phe6]bombesin-(6-13)-ethyl ester, displacement curves were monophasic with neuromedin B possessing approximately 10-fold higher affinity than gastrin-releasing peptide. Under these conditions, successive deletion of N-terminal amino acids from bombesin-(1-14) was well tolerated at both sites, with little loss in affinity up to bombesin-(5-14). A 5- to 10-fold drop in affinity was observed at both sites with bombesin-(6-14), whilst the octapeptide acetyl-bombesin-(7-14) displayed similar affinities to bombesin-(1-14). Bombesin-(8-14), -(9-14) and -(10-14) were essentially inactive (IC50 &gt; 10 microM). C-terminal deletion of Met24 (bombesin-(1-13)) resulted in 100-fold loss of affinity at the gastrin-releasing peptide site and complete loss of affinity at the neuromedin B site. Fragments smaller than bombesin-(1-13) were virtually inactive at either site.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The pharmacological profile of FR115427 has been examined using ligand binding and electrophysiological techniques. Binding of [3H]dizocilpine in the presence of L-glutamate was inhibited by the (+) isomers of dizocilpine and FR115427. The corresponding (-) isomers were less active, and stereoselectivity was particularly marked in the case of FR115427. In contrast to dizocilpine, the affinity of FR115427 for [3H]dizocilpine binding sites was little affected by addition of either L-glutamate and/or glycine. In a cortical wedge preparation, FR115427 inhibited N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced responses in a non-competitive, use-dependent manner. Intracellularly recorded excitatory synaptic responses in hippocampal neurones were only partially inhibited by FR115427 thereby confirming a selective effect on the NMDA-mediated component of neuronal excitation induced by the endogenous neurotransmitter. The data suggest that FR115427 is a non-competitive, use-dependent NMDA receptor antagonist with more pronounced stereoselectivity and less marked use dependence than dizocilpine.
The nucleus accumbens is composed of a core region involved in motor functions and a shell region implicated in emotional and motivational processes. Both of these regions receive serotonin- and dopamine-containing afferents. We examined whether the serotonin innervation or relation to catecholamine (mainly dopamine) axons in the nucleus accumbens shows common features or specializations corresponding to the noted functional differences in core and shell subregions. To address this question, we examined the ultrastructure of serotonin-containing axons and their relation to catecholamine-containing afferents in either the core or shell of the nucleus accumbens. Single coronal sections through the rat forebrain were processed for immunoperoxidase labeling of serotonin and immunogold silver labeling of tyrosine hydroxylase, the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme. Varicose processes showing peroxidase product for serotonin by light microscopy were confirmed to be axons and terminals by electron microscopy. In a quantitative analysis of serotonin-immunoreactive terminals forming one or more contacts in single sections, some common features were observed. For the core (n = 120) and the shell (n = 82), 41% formed synaptic junctions with unlabeled dendrites, 75% were in apposition with unlabeled terminals, which often formed asymmetric junctions, and 20% were in apposition with axons or terminals containing tyrosine hydroxylase. Thus, in both the core and shell of the nucleus accumbens, serotonin terminals synapse on postsynaptic neurons and are likely to modulate or be modulated by presynaptic interactions with excitatory axons forming asymmetric junctions and by catecholaminergic afferents. Marked differences in the morphology of serotonin axons were also seen in the core versus shell of the nucleus accumbens. By light microscopy, serotonin-immunoreactive axons were thicker and more varicose than those found in the core. Ultrastructural analysis confirmed that, in contrast to the core, serotonin-immunoreactive axons and terminals in the shell were larger in cross-sectional diameter size (0.7 micron vs. 0.3 micron). Additionally, serotonin axon terminals in the shell contained more numerous immunoreactive large dense core vesicles and more frequently formed symmetric as opposed to asymmetric contacts with dendrites. The larger size and more numerous dense core vesicles in serotonin-immunoreactive terminals in the shell support the concept that serotonin or co-existing neurotransmitter may be more tonically released in the shell versus core of the nucleus accumbens.
In rodents, the facilitation of sexual receptivity by estradiol and progesterone is suspected to be mediated by a network of neurons containing estrogen and progestin receptors. In female guinea pigs, this network would include estrogen receptor-immunoreactive (ER-ir) neurons located within the rostro-ventral ventrolateral hypothalamus (r-vVLH). This hypothesis predicts that a proportion of the neurons projecting to the r-vVLH contains estrogen receptors. This prediction was tested through retrograde tracing combined with immunocytochemistry for estrogen receptors. Retrogradely labelled neurons were particularly abundant within the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), anterior hypothalamus, amygdala, and lateral parabrachial nucleus. As predicted by the hypothesis, retrogradely labelled neurons were mostly observed in estrogen receptor-rich areas. Retrogradely labelled neurons also containing estrogen receptor-immunoreactivity (ER-IR) were primarily found within the MPN, BST, and amygdala. However, a majority of retrogradely labelled neurons did not contain ER-IR. As the preoptic area and the r-vVLH are both responsive to estradiol in the facilitation of sexual receptivity by progesterone, these data are consistent with the hypothesis tested. However, our data also suggest that the network of neurons controlling sexual receptivity may include elements not directly sensitive to estradiol. Finally, the location of retrogradely labelled neurons is discussed with respect to the stimuli provided to the r-vVLH in the context of sexual receptivity facilitated by estradiol and progesterone.
Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were cultured with varying concentrations of ethanol and NGF. At low concentrations of NGF (0.1 ng/ml) moderate initial ethanol levels (250 mg/dl) significantly suppressed neurite outgrowth. Higher NGF concentrations (5 ng/ml) protected against this neurotoxicity. At this higher NGF concentration, neuronal survival was not significantly affected by exposure to 0.25-4 g/dl ethanol, although survival was significantly diminished at 5 and 6 g/dl. Neurite outgrowth was a more sensitive indicator of ethanol neurotoxicity in this population, with significant decreases in process extension seen with 1 g/dl ethanol. When cultures were supplemented with 10 ng/ml NGF, however, process elaboration was significantly greater at 1 g/dl ethanol than that measured with 5 ng/ml NGF, and in fact did not differ from NGF controls. These studies indicate that NGF can provide neuroprotective effects against ethanol toxicity under these conditions. The results are discussed in relation to other recent reports of trophic factor neuroprotection.
Neurons containing immunoreactivity to the endogenous lactose-binding lectin, RL-29, were examined in the L4 segment of the spinal cord of rats with an experimental neuropathy. The cells appeared by 5 days and were also present at 14 and 28 days postoperatively. All neurons were found in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to the injury. The neurons were multipolar and the reaction product revealed the morphology of the primary and secondary dendrites and some axons. Most of the neurons were located in the reticulated region of the dorsal horn, corresponding to Rexed's lamina V. In 14-day neuropathy animals treated with the NMDA-receptor antagonist MK-801, the number of RL-29 cell profiles observed was significantly reduced. Double labeling experiments revealed that spinothalamic tract neurons did not contain RL-29. The results suggest that the neuropathic injury produces a long term, transynaptic change in a subpopulation of dorsal horn neurons, that is mediated by excitatory amino acid transmitters acting at NMDA receptors.
Results of studies with rodents have shown that animals repeatedly injected with the opioid antagonist, naloxone, acquire a hypoalgesic response to thermal nociceptive stimuli. The present study revealed a similar response in the terrestrial pulmonate snail, Cepaea nemoralis. Snails receiving daily injections of naloxone followed by measurements of thermal nociceptive sensitivity also developed hypoalgesia. Daily brief (30-min) exposures to a weak 60-Hz magnetic field (1.0 gauss or 0.1 mT), which acutely antagonize opioid-mediated nociception and antinociception in a manner comparable to that of naloxone, also led to the expression of a hypoalgesic responses. This suggests that opioid antagonist-induced thermal hypoalgesia may be a basic feature of opioid systems. This naloxone- and magnetic field-induced 'analgesia' is consistent with either a facilitation of aversive thermal conditioning and or antagonism of the excitatory, hyperalgesic effects of low levels of endogenous opioids.
Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) is the rate-limiting enzyme in polyamine synthesis and is regulated by both transcription-dependent and transcription-independent mechanisms. We compared the effects of asparagine, an amino acid previously shown to increase ODC activity in adult hippocampal slices, on ODC mRNA and activity in adult and neonatal hippocampal slices. In addition, we evaluated the effects of asparagine on ODC activity following seizure activity elicited by systemic administration of kainic acid (KA) in both adult and neonatal rats. Asparagine produced an increase in ODC gene expression and activity in both adult and neonatal hippocampal slices. The increase in ODC activity elicited by asparagine in hippocampal slices was the same in control animals as in animals sacrificed 16 h after KA-induced seizure activity. The asparagine-elicited increase in ODC activity in neonatal and adult hippocampal slices was blocked by the RNA synthesis inhibitor, actinomycin D. Finally, polyamines produced an inhibition of ODC activity in neonatal hippocampal slices. The results indicate that the regulation of the expression and activity of ODC is similar in neonatal and adult hippocampus.
Male adult rats that displayed limbic seizures between postnatal days 18 and 21 after a single s.c. injection of Li followed 4 h later by a muscarinic agent were trained in a radial arm maze; they were compared with rats that had received the Li-pilocarpine (but had not displayed overt seizures) and to nonhandled controls. Only the rats that had displayed the (preweaned) seizures displayed significant impairment for working memory but not for reference memory. Light microscopy demonstrated histological evidence of earlier damage only within select thalamic structures that are directly associated with the amygdaloid-hippocampal complex. The results are compatible with the hypothesis that early seizures during the time of CA1 hippocampal maturation can produce long-term changes in the efficacy of short-term memory.
The locomotor activity and grooming of conscious freely moving rats were recorded during a 60-min unilateral perfusion of the preoptic area with neuroactive compounds using the microdialysis technique. The GABA agonist, muscimol (10, 20 and 100 microM) induced a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity and grooming which was attenuated by co-perfusion with the GABA antagonist, bicuculline (10 microM), and was blocked by systemic injection of haloperidol, a preferential dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (0.25 mg/kg). Muscimol-induced hyperactivity was associated with a simultaneous increase of striatal extracellular dopamine. These data suggest that the preoptic area is functionally linked with the extrapyramidal dopaminergic system possibly via GABAergic system.

The D2 dopamine receptor expressed in the MMQ cell line was characterized by saturation binding using the D2 dopamine radioligand [3H]spiperone. The KD for spiperone was 41 pM and the Bmax for these sites was 34 fmol/mg protein. Inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation occurred in response to a variety of D2 agonists, and the agonist effects were reversed by D2 antagonists. Pertussis toxin pretreatment abolished agonist inhibition of cAMP accumulation. In addition, the alpha 2-adrenergic agonist UK 14304 inhibited cAMP accumulation; this effect was reversed by an alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist but not by a D2 antagonist, indicating the presence of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors on these cells. Specific oligonucleotide primers were used in the polymerase chain reaction to determine, by restriction enzyme analysis and Southern blotting, that the long form of the two alternatively spliced variants of the D2 dopamine receptor was the predominant variant expressed in these cells.
The authors examined thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) stimulation testing in the neuroendocrine evaluation of DSM-III major depressive disorder in 26 consecutive medication-free, medically healthy patients meeting a primary DSM-III diagnosis of axis II personality disorder. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) responses to TRH challenge were not significantly different between patients with or without major depression at time of study, or between patients with or without a life history of major affective disorder. Further, TSH responses to TRH among 11 healthy male nonpsychiatric controls were not significantly different from those in patients with personality disorders. Comparison of those patients with blunted TSH responses (&lt; 7.0 microU/ml) versus those without blunted response (&lt; or = 7.0 microU/ml) also did not reveal a significant difference. In addition, the TSH response to TRH did not correlate with dimensional assessments of state or trait depression, anxiety, or with past history of suicide attempt or alcohol abuse. These data suggest that TRH stimulation testing has limited utility in the evaluation of major depression or other relevant affective states/traits in personality-disordered patients. Affective symptoms in personality-disordered patients do not seem to be associated with dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis.
Conantokins-T and -G are highly conserved polypeptides derived from Conus venoms. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist properties of these compounds have been attributed to a potent noncompetitive inhibition of polyamine responses. Substitution of the highly conserved gamma-carboxyglutamate residues as well as modification of the N and C termini of conantokin-G abolished the inhibition of polyamine responses at the NMDA receptor complex. However, several of these modified polypeptides closely mimicked the neurochemical profile of polyamines at the NMDA receptor complex. One of these derivatives, Tyr0-conantokin-G, was found to be the most potent compound exhibiting polyamine-like actions at the NMDA receptor complex described to date, approximately 7-fold more potent than spermine. Circular dichroism studies demonstrate a significant alpha-helical content in conantokin-G (27% in aqueous medium). However, this alpha-helicity is not sufficient for the NMDA antagonist action of the parent peptide and is neither necessary nor sufficient for the polyamine-like behavior of several conantokin-G analogs. The modified conantokin-G derivatives described in this report should be useful probes for examining the role of both polyamines and the polyamine recognition site in the operation of the NMDA receptor complex.
Down's Syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder involving mental retardation which is reported to be a condition of accelerated aging. However, few studies exist which examine age-dependent changes in DS and these studies fail to include a control group. In the present study a non-invasive, painless, and easily obtainable measure reflecting age-dependent topographical changes of the skin (skin wrinkling) was obtained in 15 DS subjects, 14 developmentally disabled (DD) (mentally retarded) controls (DD controls) and 16 healthy controls of similar ages ranging from 22 to 51 years. The healthy control group failed to show correlations of skin measures with age, as predicted for the age-range of these subjects, based on results of previous studies. However, the DS group showed significant correlations of all skin measures from relatively non-sun-exposed and sun-exposed skin sites, with age. The DD control also showed significant correlations with age of several but not all skin sites and the correlation coefficients tended to be less than that of the DS; at least, when contrasted with the healthy controls the DS showed greater values of several skin measures suggestive of accelerated skin wrinkling. These results provide evidence for accelerated aging of the skin, and possibly greater effects of sun-exposure on skin wrinkling, in DS and possibly (DD) individuals in contrast to healthy individuals without a genetic disorder and without mental retardation.
A sodium-independent neutral and basic amino acid transporter (NBAT) from rat kidney was recently cloned and its amino acid sequence deduced. We used light and electron microscopic immunoperoxidase labeling to determine the cellular localization of NBAT in rat kidney and small intestine. The localization was carried out using site-directed antisera raised against synthetic peptides within NBAT. The most prominent localization of NBAT was in microvilli of epithelial cells lining renal proximal tubules. Microvilli of small intestinal epithelia were less frequently immunoreactive. Unexpectedly, the most intense labeling in the small intestine was seen within enteroendocrine cells and submucosal neurons. The neuronal labeling was highly localized within dense core vesicles in axon terminals apposed to the basal lamina near fenestrated blood vessels. These results support the proposal that NBAT plays a role in reabsorption of amino acids in renal tubules. In addition, they suggest that NBAT (or NBAT-like proteins) may have multiple functions in the small intestine, including luminal uptake of amino acids and vesicular uptake of related substrates into enteroendocrine cells and enteric neurons.
The L1 antigen has been implicated in adhesion events controlling axonal elongation during formation of major fiber tracts, and promotes neurite outgrowth in culture. It is possible that injury of brain tissue causes neuronal surface molecules such as L1 antigen to be shed, and degradation fragments may therefore be present adjacent to the damage. These L1 fragments might then influence regeneration or injury-induced growth. We have evaluated neurite outgrowth from tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH +) E13 mesencephalic neurons grown in vitro on a substrate of mouse L1 antigen and on L1 degradation fragments separated by molecular weight. Mouse myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), laminin, poly-D-lysine, and fetal calf serum served as control substrates. L1 antibodies were added to one set of cultures (experimental), and compared to control cultures containing normal rabbit serum. After 3 days in vitro, the cultures were stained using an antibody against TH, and the length of the TH + neurites was measured by computer-assisted image analysis in a double-blind fashion. TH+ neurites were significantly longer when grown on L1 antigen, as well as on L1 degradation fragments, as compared to the control substrates. As compared to control normal rabbit serum, L1 antibodies eliminated the neurite-promoting effect of both the L1 substrate and the L1 degradation products. In addition, L1 substrates promoted clustering of TH + cells and the formation of loose bundles of TH + neurites. It is suggested that the L1 substrates influence TH-immunoreactive neurite outgrowth, at least partially, through indirect effects on glial cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Within the amygdala of elderly subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), we recently found evidence suggesting amyloid beta-protein (A beta P) deposition occurs before the appearance of dystrophic neurites. Moreover, these data suggested dystrophic neurites initially lack evidence of cytoskeletal pathology although with time and further maturation, the dystrophic neurites display an altered cytoskeleton as evidenced by their immunoreactivity to Alz-50 and paired-helical filaments (PHF). These findings are of particular relevance to our understanding of the sequence of pathologic events in AD and thus it has become important to determine whether these events are unique to the amygdala or are representative of a more general pattern which can be found throughout the brain. Using a battery of antibodies to markers that are characteristic of AD pathology (i.e., A beta P, PHF, and Alz-50), three peptidergic neurotransmitters (neurotensin, somatostatin, and substance P), and one neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzyme (choline acetyltransferase), we examined the entorhinal cortex (EC) of three groups of subjects (AD, normal elderly, and a group of nondemented elderly with numerous senile plaques). The EC was studied, in part, because it is well recognized as a brain region displaying severe and, most importantly, early pathologic changes. Like the amygdala, we found evidence that amyloid beta-protein immunoreactive (A beta P-IR) and thioflavine-S-positive senile plaques occur within the EC prior to the appearance of transmitter-, Alz-50-, or PHF-immunoreactive dystrophic neurites. We also observed transmitter-immunoreactive dystrophic neurites in the absence of Alz-50 or PHF-immunolabeled dystrophic neurites and transmitter- and Alz-50-IR dystrophic neurites in the absence of those containing PHF. Collectively, these findings were similar to those seen within the amygdala and thus reinforced the concept that A beta P deposition is the primary event in plaque pathology, and this deposition is subsequently followed by the appearance of dystrophic neurites which retain their transmitter phenotype yet lack an altered cytoskeleton. With time, these dystrophic neurites develop cytoskeletal alterations and become immunoreactive to Alz-50 and PHF.
Nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized in mammalian neurons by Ca2+/calmodulin activated NO synthase and functions as a signalling molecule by activating soluble guanylyl cyclases in target cells. We demonstrate here that both NO synthase and NO-activated guanylyl cyclase are present in the brain of the locust Schistocerca gregaria. Our observations indicate, for the first time, that the NO-cyclic GMP signalling pathway exists in invertebrate nervous systems.
Congeners of nitrogen monoxide (NO) are neuroprotective and neurodestructive. To address this apparent paradox, we considered the effects on neurons of compounds characterized by alternative redox states of NO: nitric oxide (NO.) and nitrosonium ion (NO+). Nitric oxide, generated from NO. donors or synthesized endogenously after NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor activation, can lead to neurotoxicity. Here, we report that NO.- mediated neurotoxicity is engendered, at least in part, by reaction with superoxide anion (O2.-), apparently leading to formation of peroxynitrite (ONOO-), and not by NO. alone. In contrast, the neuroprotective effects of NO result from downregulation of NMDA-receptor activity by reaction with thiol group(s) of the receptor's redox modulatory site. This reaction is not mediated by NO. itself, but occurs under conditions supporting S-nitrosylation of NMDA receptor thiol (reaction or transfer of NO+). Moreover, the redox versatility of NO allows for its interconversion from neuroprotective to neurotoxic species by a change in the ambient redox milieu. The details of this complex redox chemistry of NO may provide a mechanism for harnessing neuroprotective effects and avoiding neurotoxicity in the central nervous system.
Behavioural studies and field observations demonstrate that echolocating bats simultaneously perceive range, direction and shape of multiple objects in the environment as acoustic images derived from echoes. Cortical echo delay-tuned neurons contribute to the perception of object range, because focal inactivation of these neurons disrupts behavioural discrimination of range. We report here that response properties of delay-tuned neurons in the cortical tonotopic area of the bat, Eptesicus, transform the sequential arrival times of echoes with different delays into a concurrent, accumulating neural representation of multiple objects at different ranges. The sharpness of delay tuning systematically increases at each best delay in a subpopulation of these neurons while responses to echoes at different delays are accumulated. The resulting concurrent, multiresolution representation of echo delay corresponds to neural implementation of a common representation of images used in computational vision and may provide the basis for representing acoustic images of multiple objects as acoustic 'scenes'.

Immunocytochemical techniques were employed to examine the temporal ordering whereby amyloid beta-protein (A beta P) and neuronal elements collectively come together to form senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Specifically, we addressed three questions: (1) whether A beta P deposition precedes or follows neuritic changes; (2) whether paired helical filament (PHF) formation is an early or late event in the genesis of the dystrophic neurites which participate in plaque formation; and (3) whether the density of senile plaques displays any relationship with the prevalence of PHF or Alz-50 containing neurons. To address these questions we studied the amygdala from a group of patients with AD, a group of nondemented age-matched individuals exhibiting a sufficient number of senile plaques to be classified by neuropathological criteria as AD, and a group of age-matched controls without AD pathology. Amyloid-bearing plaques were demonstrated by A beta P immunolabeling and thioflavine-S staining. Neuritic changes in the form of dystrophic neurites were observed with the aid of antibodies against PHF, Alz-50, as well as antibodies against several neuropeptides (i.e., substance P, somatostatin, and neurotensin) and the acetylcholine biosynthetic enzyme, choline acetyltransferase. By using a graded range of pathologic changes both within and across the patient population to provide us with a means of evaluating plaque deposition from its earliest to most advanced stages of development, we observed in patients and/or regions of the amygdala displaying a mild degree of pathologic change A beta P deposition in the absence of any neuritic changes. With increasing density of A beta P, however, we began to observe dystrophic neurites within plaques. In regions of relatively few plaques, the dystrophic neurites were immunolabeled only with antibodies against the various neurotransmitters and they lacked evidence of cytoskeletal pathology (i.e., Alz-50 or PHF). Only as the density of A beta P increased further within a region, were dystrophic neurites observed that exhibited Alz-50 or PHF. In no instance did we observe a relationship between the density of A beta P deposition and the density of Alz-50 or PHF-immunoreactive neurons. Collectively, our data suggest that the deposition of A beta P is an early pathologic event in senile plaque formation. Thereafter, swollen neurites can be seen in the vicinity of A beta P. This early neuritic response, which can first be visualized by immunolabeling for one or another transmitter substance, is followed by alterations in the cytoskeleton as recognized initially by antibodies to Alz-50 and subsequently by the presence of PHF.
The effects of the kappa-1 opioid receptor agonist (5R)-(5 alpha,7 alpha,8 beta)-N-methyl-N-[7-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-1-oxaspiro[4,5]dec-8-yl]-4- benzofuranacetamide monohydrochloride (CI-977) upon ischemic brain damage have been examined in 15 halothane-anesthetized cats. Focal cerebral ischemia was produced by permanent occlusion of one middle cerebral artery (MCA), and the animals killed 6 h later. The amount of early ischemic brain damage was assessed in coronal sections at 16 predetermined stereotactic planes. Pretreatment with CI-977 (0.3 mg/kg i.v. followed by continuous infusion at 0.15 mg/kg/h until death), initiated 15 min prior to MCA occlusion, significantly reduced the volume of ischemic brain damage (from 2345 +/- 675 mm3 of the cerebral hemisphere in vehicle-treated cats to 1569 +/- 370 mm3 in CI-977-treated cats; P &lt; 0.01). These data indicate that the kappa-1 opioid agonist CI-977 is neuroprotective in a model of focal cerebral ischemia in a gyrencephalic species where key systemic variables have been assessed throughout the entire post-ischemic period.
To explore the novel concept of intrinsic brain regulation of the choroid plexus (CP), we studied the function of the CP exposed to increased intracranial pressure (ICP). The function of the CP was evaluated by in vitro chloride (Cl-) efflux from isolated CP 21 days after kaolin induced hydrocephalus. The Cl- efflux was significantly decreased in animals with elevated intracranial pressure (rate constant, K = 0.024 +/- 0.001 s-1) and enlarged ventricles (K = 0.023 +/- 0.001 s-1) compared to sham animals (K = 0.031 +/- 0.001 s-1). In contrast, the Cl- efflux of CP from animals with normal ICP and ventricular size did not differ from sham animals. These results illustrate the first demonstration of regulation of the CP epithelial function with elevated ICP; they also suggest a brain-CP regulatory mechanism that alters CP function.
The effect of selective D1 and D2 dopamine (DA) receptor agonists and of a mixed D1/D2 agonist on hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) release was investigated. LY 171555 (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.), SKF 38393 (1 to 10 mg/kg, i.p.), CY 208-243 (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) and apomorphine (0.5 to 2 mg/kg, i.p.), at doses stimulating rat behavior, were found to increase the output of ACh in the hippocampus. Maximal increase was observed after LY 171555 1 mg/kg, SKF 38393 10 mg/kg, CY 208-243 2 mg/kg and apomorphine 2 mg/kg (85, 90, 87 and 210%, respectively). The enhancement of ACh release induced by either SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg) or LY 171555 (1 mg/kg) was prevented by the blockade of D1 receptors with SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.). Co-administration of maximally active doses of LY 171555 (1 mg/kg) and SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg) produced an additive effect (about 200%). In contrast to the findings with high doses, low, presynaptic doses of LY 171555 and apomorphine reduced ACh output. Maximal reduction was observed after 0.05 mg/kg for both drugs, (43 and 52%, respectively). These results show that activation of dopaminergic transmission either at D1 and/or at D2 receptors enhances ACh output in the hippocampus.
A series of spirooxazolidine-2,4-dione derivatives related to the putative M1 agonist 2-ethyl-8-methyl-2,8-diazaspiro[4.5]decane-1,3-dione (RS86; 1) were synthesized. The compounds were evaluated as cholinergic agents in in vitro binding assays and in in vivo pharmacological tests including antiamnesic effects using scopolamine-treated mice, hypothermia, and salivation in mice. Four compounds (5a,c,f and 17a) exhibited affinity for cortical M1 receptors and reversed scopolamine-induced impairment of mouse passive avoidance tasks, as did 1. Among these compounds, only 5a exhibited M1-receptor stimulating activity in pithed rats. Structural requirements for muscarinic activity in this series of spirooxazolidine-2,4-dione derivatives were as strict as those reported for spirosuccinimide derivatives including 1. The antiamnesic dose of 3-ethyl-8-methyl-1-oxa-3,8-diazaspiro[4.5]decane-2,4-dione (5a) was 2 orders of magnitude lower than the doses inducing hypothermia and salivation, in contrast to 1 for which the former dose was only 5-10-fold lower than the latter. These results suggest that the 8-azaspiro[4.5]decane skeleton represents a useful template for designing new muscarinic agonists as antidementia drugs.
High-threshold neuronal voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCCs) have been classified into at least three subtypes, including L, N, and P, based on biophysical and pharmacological criteria. We examined K(+)-induced 45Ca2+ flux into rat neocortical mini-slices to determine which of these subtype(s) might be involved in this phenomenon. Neither the L-type Ca2+ channel antagonist isradipine at 10 microM nor the N-type antagonist omega-conotoxin GVIA at 1 microM were effective antagonists of 45Ca2+ flux in this model. However, the P-type Ca2+ channel antagonist, omega-Aga-IVA, blocked 70% of flux at 200 nM, with an IC50 of 17 nM, strongly implicating P-type Ca2+ channel involvement in K(+)-stimulated Ca2+ entry into mammalian nerve terminals. About 30% of the flux response was resistant to the action of omega-Aga-IVA, suggesting that a still uncharacterized subtype of VSCC is involved in Ca2+ entry into mammalian nerve terminals. Both the omega-Aga-IVA sensitive and insensitive components of 45Ca2+ flux were blocked by the diphenylalkylpiperazines, lidoflazine and flunarizine (IC50 = 6.4 microM and 11 microM, respectively), which have dual Na+/Ca2+ channel blocking actions.
Effects of dopamine D2 receptor activation on the forskolin or D1 receptor stimulated formation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP) were investigated in tissue slices of two subregions of the rat nucleus accumbens and in the striatal complex of a lizard. Cyclic AMP production in the tissue was estimated by measuring the conversion of [3H]adenine in a superfusion system. Activation of a D2 receptor appeared to inhibit the D1 receptor agonists or forskolin stimulated formation of cAMP in the rostrolateral but not in the caudomedial part of the rat nucleus accumbens. In the striatal complex of the lizard the formation of cAMP was dramatically stimulated by forskolin, but only marginally by dopamine. Neither the forskolin, nor the dopamine stimulated cyclic AMP formation could be inhibited by activation of D2 receptors. These findings are compatible with previously obtained functional data indicating that especially the caudomedial part of the rat nucleus accumbens has much in common with the striatal complex of the lizard.
Myogenin is a member of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) gene family and converts multipotential mesodermal cells to myoblasts. The four members of the myoD family show unique spatio-temporal expression patterns and therefore may have different functions during myogenesis. Here we inactivate the myogenin gene in order to understand its role in myogenesis. Homozygous mutations are lethal perinatally owing to the resulting major defects in skeletal muscle. The extent of disorganization of muscle tissue differs in three regions. In the latero-ventral body wall, most cells, including myogenic cells, disappear and there is rapid accretion of fluid. In the limbs, cells of the myogenic lineage exist, but they are severely disrupted, and some of them are mono-nucleate with properties of myoblasts. In contrast, there are many axial, intercostal and back muscle fibres to be seen, although fibres are mainly disorganized and Z-lines are not present in most myofibrils. These findings are evidence that myogenin is crucial for muscle development in utero and demonstrate that other members of the myogenic gene family cannot compensate for the defect.
Like our other senses, the auditory system can produce illusions. Prominent among these are distortion products: when listening to two tones, one of frequency f1 and the second of a higher frequency f2, an individual may hear not only these primary tones, but also a difference tone of frequency f2 - f1, a sum tone of frequency f2 + f1, and combination tones of frequencies such as 2f1 - f2 and 2f2 - f1. Discovered by Tartini early in the eighteenth century, these illusory sounds are sufficiently conspicuous that they were employed to carry melodies in classical compositions. Distortion products originate within the cochlea, where they manifest themselves in the basilar membrane's vibration. Here we demonstrate distortion products in individual hair cells of the bullfrog's sacculus, where they emerge from a nonlinearity inherent in the mechanoelectrical transduction process. In addition to offering an explanation for cochlear distortion products, our results suggest that the mechanical properties of hair bundles significantly influence the basilar membrane's motion.
The mean index episode length in 19 consecutive admissions with treatment-resistant bipolar affective disorder was 21.7 months. Four patterns of resistance were identified: rapid cycling (37%), other forms of cycling (32%), chronic depression (26%) and mixed states (6%). Female gender was significantly associated with rapid cycling. Other risk factors for treatment-resistant bipolar disorder, including a high prevalence of family history of affective disorder (72%) and electroencephalographic abnormalities (54% of recordings), were not confined to the rapid cycling group.
This study investigated the effects of a 4-day ethanol exposure on cultured rhombencephalic astroglia. The contents of astroglial protein and DNA, and astroglial uptake of serotonin (5-HT) were determined. Fetal rhombencephalic astroglia were examined because of this laboratory's evidence that in utero ethanol exposure markedly impairs the development of serotonergic neurons, which are located in this fetal brain area, and because of the recently demonstrated importance of local support glia in neuronal development. The results of these experiments demonstrated that protein was significantly reduced in astroglia cultured in ethanol at either 150 or 300 mg/dl. In addition, these astroglia exhibited decreased [3H]5-HT uptake per well. However, no significant ethanol-associated differences were detected when [3H]5-HT uptake was expressed per mg protein rather than per well. In contrast to the effects of a 4-day ethanol exposure, the acute ethanol exposure did not significantly alter astroglial uptake of [3H]5-HT/well. In addition, the 4-day exposure to 50 to 300 mg/dl of ethanol did not significantly alter astroglial DNA content. In summary, it appears that a 4-day exposure of cultured fetal rhombencephalic astroglia to 150 to 300 mg/dl of ethanol reduces astroglial protein content and astroglial 5-HT uptake. A reduction in total astroglial proteins, potentially including those that act as essential growth factors, could contribute to some of the ethanol-associated alterations in central nervous system development.
The glycolytic end product lactic acid induced a rapid transient decrease in cytosolic pH in cultured neurons and astrocytes, as measured by microspectrofluorometry using the fluorescent indicator dye 2',7'-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(and-6) carboxyfluorescein acetoxymethyl ester. Over a physiological range of pH, the initial rate of cellular acidification was a saturable function of the extracellular lactate concentration, suggesting that a saturable transport system mediated lactic acid permeation across the plasma membrane. This transport process displayed stereoselectivity, with a threefold higher rate of intracellular acidification by L-lactic acid than by its D-isomer. Lactic acid-induced acidification occurred in the absence of intracellular ATP, suggesting that transport proceeded independently of the cellular energy charge. These data suggest the existence of a lactic acid carrier in mammalian neuronal and astrocytic plasma membranes, which might serve an acid-scavenging function under conditions of altered pH homeostasis. In the setting of in vivo cerebral ischemia, this carrier may promote the efflux of lactic acid from astrocytes, redistributing it among less metabolically active neurons.
Qualitative analysis of 100 consecutive computed tomographic (CT) studies of the brain in children with symptomatic but untreated acquired immunodeficiency syndrome was performed. After excluding children with associated medical illnesses that might confound the diagnosis of encephalopathy or alter brain structure, an abnormality of at least one of the measures of ventricular size, cortical atrophy, white matter attenuation (leukoaraiosis), or cerebral calcification was found in 86% of the patients studied. Ventricular enlargement was the most common abnormality, followed by cortical atrophy, leukoaraiosis, and cerebral calcification. Cerebellar atrophy was an unexpected but relatively common finding in 12% of the children. Sixty-five percent of the children were encephalopathic at the time of evaluation. All 16 children with cerebral calcification were encephalopathic and had acquired human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through vertical transmission. Encephalopathic children were significantly younger and had significantly greater abnormality ratings on each CT measure when compared with the nonencephalopathic children. Discriminant analysis using age and the qualitative CT measures was applied as a method to identify the presence of encephalopathy. CT measures proved to have a specificity and a sensitivity of only 76%. We conclude that abnormalities of cerebral structure are seen in a high percentage of children symptomatic with HIV. Although most of the children are encephalopathic, CT abnormalities are seen in children without encephalopathy, suggesting presymptomatic brain disease. The presence of cerebral calcification on CT suggests in utero infection with HIV and the presence of encephalopathy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report 3 patients with autopsy-proven Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease who, early in their course, developed abnormal eye movements that included periodic alternating nystagmus and slow vertical saccades. These findings suggested involvement of the cerebellar nodulus and uvula, and the brainstem reticular formation, respectively. Cerebellar ataxia was also an early manifestation and, in 1 patient, a frontal lobe brain biopsy was normal at a time when ocular motor and cerebellar signs were conspicuous. As the disease progressed, all saccades and quick phases of nystagmus were lost, but periodic alternating gaze deviation persisted. At autopsy, 2 of the 3 patients had pronounced involvement of the cerebellum, especially of the midline structures. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease should be considered in patients with subacute progressive neurological disease when cognitive changes are overshadowed by ocular motor findings or ataxia.



1. Whole cell patch clamp recordings of voltage- and tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ currents were made from cultured rat neocortical neurones (E18). The effects of the non-peptide NK1 receptor antagonist, (+/-)-CP-96,345 on Na+ currents was examined, relative to the effect of the local anaesthetic lignocaine and tetrodotoxin. 2. Sodium currents were reversibly depressed by bath application of (+/-)-CP-96,345 with a half-maximally effective concentration of 18 +/- 2 microM at a stimulation frequency of 0.1 Hz. Likewise the concentrations required to half-maximally inhibit sodium currents by tetrodotoxin and lignocaine were 10 +/- 2 nM and 1.3 +/- 0.2 mM respectively. 3. The depression of sodium currents by (+/-)-CP-96,345 (10 microM) was use-dependent in that raising the stimulus frequency from 0.1 Hz to 10 Hz further decreased the magnitude of sodium currents from 60 +/- 5% to 37 +/- 5% of control values respectively. Similarly, the depression of sodium currents by lignocaine (500 microM) and tetrodotoxin (30 nM) was also accentuated by raising the stimulus frequency from 0.1 Hz to 10 Hz. 4. The effect of (+/-)-CP-96,345 was not associated with a change in either the activation or steady-state inactivation characteristics of these currents, suggesting that its mechanism of action was via open channel blockade. 5. These data demonstrate that in addition to antagonizing NK1 receptors, (+/-)-CP-96,345 also acts as a channel blocker on sodium channels at micromolar concentrations, an effect which should be taken into consideration when examining the antinociceptive or anti-inflammatory action of this compound.
1. The cholecystokinin receptors mediating motor responses in a novel smooth muscle preparation from the corpus region of the guinea-pig stomach have been characterized by use of five agonist peptides and the antagonists CI-988, L-365,260 and devazepide. 2. Mucosa-denuded strips of circular muscle were contracted in a concentration-dependent manner by the five cholecystokinin (CCK)-related peptides CCK-8S, pentagastrin, gastrin-I, CCK-8US and CCK-4. 3. CI-988 was a powerful antagonist of the response to pentagastrin with an affinity (pKB = 9.49) similar to that obtained in CCKB receptor binding assays. With CCK-8S as the agonist, CI-988 was approximately 1000 fold less powerful as an antagonist. 4. Devazepide powerfully blocked responses to CCK-8S with an affinity (pKB = 9.54) that was in agreement with reported functional data obtained in pancreatic amylase secretion studies, a system exhibiting CCKA receptor activity. Devazepide displayed lower affinity against pentagastrin than against CCK-8S. 5. CI-988 blocked responses to pentagastrin in an insurmountable manner in the presence of 3 nM devazepide; a concentration previously shown to block the CCKA receptor. The nature of the antagonism observed with L-365,260 was unaltered by the presence of devazepide. 6. The guinea-pig stomach corpus smooth muscle preparation contains both subtypes of CCK receptor and will be useful as a pharmacological tool for investigating the functional effects of novel CCK ligands.
The number of immunocytochemically identified vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT) neurons was determined morphometrically in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of 20 acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients and 10 controls. The AIDS group consisted of 14 homosexual males (age range 25-62 years), four of whom had a probable HIV-1 associated dementia complex, and six non-demented heterosexuals (four males and two females, age range 21-73 years). Ten males without a primary neurological or psychiatric disease served as a control group. The number of OXT-expressing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of both groups of AIDS patients was approximately 40% lower than that of the controls. In contrast, the three groups showed no significant differences in the number of AVP-expressing neurons in the paraventricular nucleus. Since there were no significant differences in the number of AVP and OXT cells between the homosexual and heterosexual subjects with AIDS, the morphological difference in the paraventricular nucleus seems to be related to AIDS and not to sexual orientation. No inflammatory changes were found in the paraventricular nucleus area. The selective changes in the OXT neurons of the paraventricular nucleus may be the basis for part of the neuroendocrine, autonomic dysfunction or vegetative symptoms in AIDS.
The ontogeny of dopamine transporter (DAT) gene expression was studied in the rat brain. DAT mRNA was first detected in neurons of the ventrocaudal mesencephalon on embryonic day 14 (E14). By E18, intensely expressing neurons in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra resembled the pattern found in adult midbrain. DAT mRNA is not abundant in the hypothalamus and the olfactory bulb at any stage of development. These results parallel those noted for tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression in mesencephalon.
The effects of a single administration of muscarinic cholinergic agents on the level of muscarinic M1-receptor messenger RNA (M1-R mRNA) in the rat striatum were studied. Carbachol increased the M1-R mRNA expression rapidly and transiently, while trihexyphenidyl decreased it. These results suggest that muscarinic cholinergic agents participate in the positive regulation of muscarinic receptor mRNA in the early stage after treatment, contrary to the negative regulation in the chronic stage.
In recent years, many established concepts in the theory of human motor development have undergone profound change, and our knowledge has increased greatly. Nevertheless, some outstanding problems remain unsolved. A central problem concerns the redundancy of effective movements, first pointed out by N. A. Bernstein. The human motor system is mechanically complex and can make use of a large number of degrees of freedom. The controlled operation of such a system requires a reduction of mechanical redundancy, effectively by reducing the number of degrees of freedom. More recent work has shown that this problem is hard to solve explicitly by computing solutions to the equations of motion of the system. Equally challenging to traditional computational approaches is the fact the motor systems show remarkable adaptability and flexibility in the presence of changing biomechanical properties of motor organs during development and when faced with different environmental conditions or tasks. Solutions to these problems would have a large impact on a variety of issues in child development. In this article, we stress the importance of the somatic selection of neuronal groups in maps for the progressive transformation of a primary movement repertoire into a set of motor synergies and adaptive action patterns. We present results from computer simulations of a simple motor system that works according to such selectional principles. This approach suggests a provisional solution to Bernstein's problem and provides new parameters to guide experimental approaches to the development of sensorimotor coordination.
This special section, Developmental Biodynamics: Brain, Body, Behavior Connections, celebrates a renewed and revitalized interest in the study of motor development. The renewed interest has been sparked by advances in the neurosciences, biomechanics, and behavioral sciences and, importantly, in the attempts to integrate theories and findings across these disciplines. In this introduction to the special section, we consider the contributions that have led to a reinvigorated field of motor development and to its new interdisciplinary look. We highlight the papers in the special section by discussing how they illustrate related advances across research in the neurosciences, biomechanics, and behavioral sciences and how progress across these domains has come to define and characterize the emerging field of developmental biodynamics.
A 3-year-old boy presented with a 3-day history of total blindness. There were no features of raised intracranial pressure or endocrine disturbance. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed a giant craniopharyngioma measuring 5 x 3 cm. It was located in the suprasellar region and produced a mass effect with compression of the III and both lateral ventricles. The tumour extended downwards into the pituitary fossa. Urgent surgical decompression and subtotal excision of the tumour resulted in complete visual recovery in the right eye. The left eye remained blind. The blindness might have been caused by direct pressure on the optic nerves and chiasma by the tumour. The lack of visual recovery in the left eye may be the consequence of additional ischaemic insult to the left optic nerve. It is concluded that surgical decompression should be carried out in a patient with a giant craniopharyngioma presenting with total blindness before the condition is considered hopeless.

Selegiline (deprenyl) and lazabemide (Ro 19-6327) are inhibitors of monoamine oxidase-B but differ in several other pharmacological properties. We compared 4-week monotherapy trials of each to assess their actions against signs and disabilities of Parkinson's disease (PD). In a group of 20 mildly affected Parkinson patients treated with each drug, there were no statistically significant changes from the pretreatment baseline. There were no differences between the drugs. This work confirms that the symptomatic effects of selegiline against Parkinsonism are small and are likely due to its inhibition of monoamine oxidase-B.
A program was written in assembly language for fast graphics screen dump of neurophysiological data during and after experiments. This program takes approximately 3 s to plot a 1024 x 768 graphics image. A resident program has also been produced, which allows a screen graphics image to be printed by using a keyboard command. A Pascal-compatible object file is available to interface the program with Turbo-Pascal programs.


Caveolae are essential endocytic organelles that use glycosyl-phosphatidyl-inositol (GPI)-anchored membrane proteins to concentrate low molecular weight substances before delivery to the cell. Caveolae and GPI-anchored proteins are uniquely adapted for this task. Recent advances suggest that this endocytic pathway also has an important role in modulating the interaction of a cell with its environment. Many vital functions that occur in this organelle remain to be discovered.
Recent advances in pain research illustrate the analytical power of modern neurosciences in a field previously accessible only to methods of systems biology. Novel molecular and cellular biological techniques have changed the face of pain research by detailing the multiplicity of pain transducing and pain suppressive systems which involve neuronal and hormonal systems acting in concert to help the individual to cope with pain. The introduction of concepts of neuronal plasticity in this field has led to important therapeutical consequences. Novel compounds and new regimens for drug treatment to prevent activity-dependent long-term changes or to facilitate extinction in pain-related systems are emerging.
Over the past two decades there has been an explosive growth in our understanding of phototransduction, leading to the development of a comprehensive scheme for the process. On the basis of this scheme the finer details of the process are being elucidated. Additional protein components and pathways have been identified, successful quantitative models of parts of the process have been developed, and a detailed understanding of the molecular basis of physiological function has begun to emerge. Here we summarize the most recent developments.

A 20-year-old woman with myelomeningocele presented with acute right-ear pain and right hemiplegia which improved, but then progressively deteriorated. Surgery, after MRI, revealed a large arteriovenous malformation (AVM) involving the right side of the upper cervical cord and brainstem. The woman also had two epidermal nevi at the same site as the spinal cord AVMs. There has been no previous report of an association of myelomeningocele, spinal cord AVMs and epidermal nevi syndrome. The same location of the nevus and spinal cord AVMs, with a proposed common pathogenesis, raise the possibility that the association may be more than chance occurrence. Spinal cord AVMs should be considered in patients with myelomeningocele and similar clinical features.
Synaptotagmin is a synaptic vesicle-specific integral membrane protein that has been suggested to play a key role in synaptic vesicle docking and fusion. By monitoring Synaptotagmin's cellular and subcellular distribution during development, it is possible to study synaptic vesicle localization and transport, and synapse formation. We have initiated the study of Synaptotagmin's expression during Drosophila neurogenesis in order to follow synaptic vesicle movement prior to and during synapse formation, as well as to localize synaptic sites in Drosophila. In situ hybridizations to whole-mount embryos show that synaptotagmin (syt) message is present in the cell bodies of all peripheral nervous system neurons and many, if not all, central nervous system neurons during neurite outgrowth and synapse formation, and in mature neurons. Immunocytochemical staining with antisera specific to Synaptotagmin indicates that the protein is present at all stages of the Drosophila life cycle following germ band retraction. In embryos, Synaptotagmin is only transiently localized to the cell body of neurons and is transported rapidly along axons during axonogenesis. After synapse formation, Synaptotagmin accumulates in a punctate pattern at all identifiable synaptic contact sites, suggesting a general role for Synaptotagmin in synapse function. In embryos and larvae, the most intense staining is found along two broad longitudinal tracts on the dorsal side of the ventral nerve cord and the brain, and at neuromuscular junctions in the periphery. In the adult head, Synaptotagmin localizes the discrete regions of the neurophil where synapses are predicted to occur. These data indicate that synaptic vesicles are present in axons before synapse formation, and become restricted to synaptic contact sites after synapses are formed. Since a similar expression pattern of Synaptotagmin has been reported in mammals, we propose that the function of Synaptotagmin and the mechanisms governing localization of the synaptic vesicle before and after synapse formation are conserved in invertebrate and vertebrate species. The ability to mark synapses in Drosophila should facilitate the study of synapse formation and function, providing a new tool to dissect the molecular mechanisms underlying these processes.

We tested the hypothesis that hypothalamic neuropeptide-Y (NPY) is an excitatory signal in the episodic secretion of LH in ovariectomized (ovx) rats and that the suppression of LH secretion that consistently follows intracerebroventricular administration of NPY is due to concurrent release of opioids or CRH, both previously shown to readily inhibit LH release. In the first experiment, ovx rats received continuous intraventricular infusion of either serum containing NPY antibodies (NPY-Ab) or normal rabbit serum (control) at dilutions of 1:5 or 1:1. NPY-Ab infusion at a 1:5 dilution significantly decreased mean plasma LH levels and LH pulse amplitude without affecting LH pulse frequency over a 3-h period of observation. However, infusion of relatively more concentrated NPY-Ab (1:1) markedly decreased not only mean plasma LH levels and LH pulse amplitude, but also the frequency of LH episodes. In the next experiment, we observed that intraventricular administration of NPY (0.2 nmol) suppressed LH release for 60 min. However, blockade of opiate receptors with iv infusion of naloxone (2 mg/h) before and after NPY injection completely counteracted the NPY-induced inhibition of LH release. On the other hand, prior blockade of the CRH receptors with alpha-helical CRH-(9-41) (25 or 100 micrograms/rat) was ineffective in reversing the inhibitory LH response of NPY (0.125 nmol). These results together with our previous demonstration of morphological communication between NPY and beta-endorphin neurons, show that suppression of LH by exogenous NPY in ovx rats may result from concurrent stimulation of opioids, primarily beta-endorphin. However, diminution of all parameters of episodic LH secretion by NPY-Ab affirms the notion that the NPY network is a physiologically important excitatory component of the hypothalamic pulse generator circuitry that regulates episodic LH secretion in rats.
In the pulmonate snail Lymnaea stagnalis, FMRFamide-like neuropeptides are encoded by a multi-exon genomic locus which is subject to regulation at the level of mRNA splicing. We aim to understand the post-translational processing of one resulting protein precursor encoding the tetrapeptide FMRFamide and a number of other putative peptides, and determine the distribution of the final peptide products in the central nervous system (CNS) and periphery of Lymnaea. We focused on two previously unknown peptide sequences predicted by molecular cloning to be encoded in the tetrapeptide protein precursor consecutively, separated by the tetrabasic cleavage site RKRR. Here we report the isolation and structural characterization of a novel non-FMRFamide-like peptide, the 22 amino acid peptide SEQPDVDDYLRDVVLQSEEPLY. The novel peptide is colocalized with FMRFamide in the CNS in a number of identified neuronal systems and their peripheral motor targets, as determined by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. Its detection in heart excitatory motoneurons and in nerve fibres of the heart indicated that the novel peptide may play a role, together with FMRFamide, in heart regulation in the snail. The second predicted peptide, STEAGGQSEEMTHRTA (16 amino acids), was at very low abundance in the CNS and was only occasionally detected. Our current findings, suggestive of a distinct pattern of post-translational processing, allowed the reassessment of a previously proposed hypothesis that the two equivalent sequences in the Aplysia FMRFamide gene constitute a molluscan homologue of vertebrate corticotrophin releasing factor-like peptides.
The anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris Leucoagglutinin (Pha-L) was tested as a fetal cell marker in short-term labeling of a fetal dopaminergic cell suspension and in long-term surviving grafts in vivo. As a model we used the grafting of fetal dopaminergic cells into the denervated caudate putamen of the rat. Short-term labeling revealed that the viability of the fetal cells was not affected by the Pha-L incubation within the 4 h of the test period. Yet, a subtle difference was noticed in the morphological development of the fetal neurons. Whereas many dopaminergic cells in the control suspension developed from an initially round soma to a more triangular or bipolar one, Pha-L-incubated cells maintained their round appearance. Moreover, cells with developing neurites were commonly noted in the control suspension, but were absent after incubation with Pha-L. Long-term effects of Pha-L were studied in three groups of unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, which all received an injection of a fetal dopaminergic cell suspension in the denervated caudate putamen. The first group (T-Pha-L) received dopaminergic cells, prelabeled with Pha-L. The second group (T-saline) received cells incubated with vehicle (saline). The third group (T) received only dissociated cells. Eight weeks after the implantation the morphological analysis showed a minor Pha-L-immunoreactivity inside the labeled grafts. We detected Pha-L-positive fiber particles as well as weakly Pha-L-positive spots, presumably cell bodies. Pha-L-labeled grafts were significantly decreased in graft volume and contained markedly less dopamine-immunoreactive (DAi) cells than the control grafts of groups T-saline and T. The ratio DAi cell type I (cell with &lt; or = 3 processes)/DAi cell type II (cell with &gt; or = 4 processes) was approximately 8 in the control groups and 3 in group T-Pha-L. This suggests primarily a toxic effect of Pha-L and DAi cell type I neurons. Our behavioral data revealed that the Pha-L-labeled grafts did not cause a recovery from lesion-induced motor asymmetries.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
c-fos immunocytochemistry was used to test a functional correlate of neuroplasticity involving nociceptive primary afferent fibers in the partially denervated adult rat spinal cord. Unilateral dorsal root ganglionectomies were made at L1-L4 (chronic side). After 3 weeks, contralateral L1-L4 ganglionectomies (acute side) were made 1 week prior to sacrifice. Two hours prior to perfusion, the animals were anesthetized and their hindlimbs were immersed in a 52 degrees C water bath for 20 s. The spinal cords were then processed for c-fos immunocytochemistry and the numbers of c-fos-immunoreactive cells determined. Following bilateral noxious thermal stimulation of the hindlimbs, the numbers of c-fos-immunoreactive cells in laminae I-II from L3 to L5 were increased by nearly twofold on the chronically deafferented side of the spinal cord (P &lt; 0.05). This finding suggests augmented functional plasticity of nociceptive primary afferent fibers on the chronically denervated side of spinal cord. These observations are discussed with relation to recent demonstrations of enhanced calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity and possible primary afferent fiber sprouting in similar denervation models.
We previously reported that I-cell disease lymphoblasts maintain normal or near-normal intracellular levels of lysosomal enzymes, even though N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase activity is severely depressed or absent (Little et al., Biochem. J., 248, 151-159, 1987). The present study, employing subcellular fractionation on colloidal silica gradients, indicates that both light and heavy lysosomes isolated from I-cell disease and pseudo-Hurler polydystrophy lymphoblasts possess normal specific activity levels of N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase, alpha-D-mannosidase and beta-D-glucuronidase. These current findings are in contrast to those of cultured fibroblasts from the same patients, where decreased intralysosomal enzyme activities are found. Column chromatography on Ricinus communis revealed that N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase in both heavy and light I-cell disease lysosomal fractions from lymphoblasts possesses an increased number of accessible galactose residues (30-50%) as compared to the enzyme from the corresponding normal controls. Endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H treatment of N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase from the I-cell lysosomal fractions suggests that the majority of newly synthesized high-mannose-type oligosaccharide chains are modified to complex-type carbohydrates prior to being transported to lysosomes. This result from lymphoblasts differs from previous findings with fibroblasts, where N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase from I-cell disease and pseudo-Hurler polydystrophy lysosomes exhibited properties associated with predominantly high-mannose-type oligosaccharide chains.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Efficient transduction by acousticolateralis organs requires that a stimulus force principally deflect hair bundles, rather than flex other structural elements. Hair bundles might therefore be expected to provide a large fraction of the impedence to shear motions of otolithic membranes and other accessory structures. We measured the stiffness for shear motions of the bullfrog's saccular otolithic membrane, and determined the stiffness due to a single hair bundle and its associated extracellular filaments; this component is termed the elemental stiffness. Stiffness measurements were made by displacing the base of a flexible probe whose tip was coupled to the otolithic membrane, and simultaneously measuring the flexion of the probe and the displacement of the membrane. The average elemental stiffness, about 1350 microN.m-1, only modestly exceeded the stiffness of individual hair bundles. The hair bundles therefore provide the dominant component of stiffness in the bullfrog's sacculus, and thus account for a significant component of impedance to otolithic-membrane shear. As a corollary, stiffness changes or active movements in hair bundles should influence the mechanical responses of this and other receptor organs.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is an autosomal dominant disease which predisposes to the development of schwannomas, meningiomas, ependymomas, and juvenile cataracts. The NF2 gene (NF2) has recently been isolated and maps to chromosome 22q12 between the loci D22S212 and D22S32. Deletion studies in sporadic and NF2 associated schwannomas and meningiomas, and the presence of inactivating mutations in NF2 in patients suggest that it acts as a tumor suppressor gene. A candidate meningioma gene (MEN) has also been isolated from the same interval. A new highly polymorphic (CA)n marker, D22S268, which maps very near to NF2, has allowed us to identify a kindred with three living affected individuals, where the disease is presumably caused by a large germline deletion. Fluorescence in situ hybridization and pulsed field gel electrophoresis confirm the presence of a 700kb deletion which includes the neurofilament heavy chain subunit gene locus (NEFH), D22S268, NF2 and the putative MEN gene. The absence of meningiomas in this pedigree raises doubts as to the existence of a separate MEN locus in this region. These results support the hypothesis that NF2 results from the inactivation of a tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 22q.
The rare lysosomal storage disease, fucosidosis results from an almost complete deficiency of alpha-L-fucosidase (EC 3.2.1.51). We have identified six new potential disease causing mutations detected by PCR amplification and sequencing of all 8 exons of the alpha-L-fucosidase gene FUCA1. (1) A C to T mutation (Q77X) in exon 1 of two Jewish-Italian siblings. This mutation was present in one allele and was found also in the mother who was of Italian origin. (2) A C to A mutation (W382X) in exon 6 in an Italian patient. This mutation was found in one allele and obliterates a unique Hphl site. (3) A C to A mutation (Y211X) in exon 3 in a Belgian patient. This mutation obliterates a unique Rsal site and was present in both alleles. (4) A homozygous single base (C) deletion in exon 2 in an Italian patient. This deletion results in a frameshift mutation (P141fs) and obliterates a unique Eael site. (5) A homozygous single base (C) deletion in exon 5 in a Portuguese patient, which also results in a frameshift mutation (S265fs). (6) A single base (A) deletion in exon 3 in a Canadian-Indian patient, which also results in a frameshift mutation (S216fs). The S216fs mutation was found in only one allele; the mutation in the other allele is not yet known.
Emerging evidence indicates that trophic interactions that influence brain development are critical throughout life, mediating processes as diverse as learning, memory and regrowth after injury. This review summarizes recent work suggesting that impulse activity regulates trophic interactions in the brain, allowing the conversion of millisecond-to-millisecond signalling into long-term changes in neural circuit function. For example, depolarizing stimuli regulate trophic factor gene expression, an effect mediated by excitatory transmitters. Responsiveness to trophic factors is also regulated by activity, since depolarization increases the expression of trophic receptor genes. Moreover, different excitatory transmitter receptor subtypes mediate trophic or regressive effects, allowing a neural system to precisely memorialize excitatory or inhibitory experiences. A number of open questions are articulated to define potential future directions.
The aim of the present study was to test the capacity of spinal cord scar tissue to assist and sustain axon regrowth. In adult rats and cats the dorsal funiculus (DF) was cut at mid-thoracic or lumbar level, and a superficial incision in the DF rostral to the lesion was made in order to extend the penetrating lesion. Axonal tracing in rats 50-100 days postinjury with anterogradely transported wheatgerm agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase or rhodamine-conjugated dextran demonstrated that nerve fibers had entered the scar tissue. Axon ingrowth in the scar was further indicated by axonal immunoreactivity to the growth-associated protein GAP-43. The scar tissue showed low-affinity neurotropin receptor-like immunoreactivity in association with blood vessels and in the interstitium. The integrity of the blood-brain barrier in the extended dorsal funiculus lesion was disrupted for at least 11 months postinjury, assessed by i.v. injections of free HRP or Evans blue. The present study shows that penetrating injury in the dorsal funiculus produces a CNS environment permissive for axonal sprouting and that PNS influence is not necessary for spinal tract regrowth. A possible relationship between the absence of an intact BBB and injury-induced axonal sprouting is discussed.


The goal of our studies was to characterize the interrelationship between extracellular matrix organization and fibroblast proliferation in response to growth factors. We compared fibroblasts in monolayer culture with cells in contracted collagen matrices that were mechanically stressed or relaxed. In response to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), DNA synthesis by fibroblasts in mechanically relaxed collagen matrices was 80-90% lower than in monolayer culture and 50% lower than in mechanically stressed matrices. Fibroblasts in monolayer and contracted collagen matrix cultures contained similar levels of PDGF receptors, but differed in their autophosphorylation response. Cells in mechanically relaxed matrices showed lowest levels of autophosphorylation, 90% less than cells in monolayer culture. Experiments comparing receptor expression and capacity for PDGF-stimulated autophosphorylation showed that cells in mechanically relaxed collagen matrices never developed normal receptor autophosphorylation. Furthermore, when mechanically stressed collagen matrices were switched to mechanically relaxed conditions, capacity for receptor autophosphorylation decreased within 1-2 h and remained low. Based on immunomicroscopic observations and studies on down-regulation of receptors by PDGF binding, it appeared that most PDGF receptors in monolayer or contracted collagen matrix cultures were localized on the cell surface and accessible to PDGF binding. In related studies, we found that EGF receptors of fibroblasts in mechanically relaxed collagen matrices also showed low levels of autophosphorylation in response to EGF treatment. Based on these results, we suggest that mechanical interactions between cells and their surrounding matrix provide regulatory signals that modulate autophosphorylation of growth factor receptors and cell proliferation.
The tobacco hornworm, Manduca sexta, undergoes several larval molts before transforming into a pupa and then an adult moth. Each molt culminates in ecdysis, when the old cuticle is shed. Prior to each larval ecdysis, the old cuticle is loosened by pre-ecdysis behavior, which consists of rhythmic compressions that are synchronous along the abdomen and on both body sides, and rhythmic retractions of the abdominal prolegs. Both pre-ecdysis and ecdysis behaviors are triggered by a peptide, eclosion hormone. The aim of the present study was to investigate the neural circuitry underlying larval pre-ecdysis behavior. The pre-ecdysis motor pattern was recorded in isolated nerve cords from eclosion hormone-treated larvae, and the effects of connective transections and ionic manipulations were tested. Our results suggest that the larval pre-ecdysis compression motor pattern is coordinated and maintained by interneurons in the terminal abdominal ganglion that ascend the nerve cord without chemical synaptic relays; these interneurons make bilateral, probably monosynaptic, excitatory connections with identified pre-ecdysis motor neurons throughout the abdominal nerve cord. This model of the organization of the larval pre-ecdysis motor pattern should facilitate identification of the relevant interneurons, allowing future investigation of the neural basis of the developmental weakening of the pre-ecdysis motor pattern that accompanies the larval-pupal transformation.
Each abdominal ganglion of the central nervous system of the tobacco hawkmoth, Manduca sexta contains four individually identified lateral neurosecretory cells (LNCs) that undergo a postembryonic transmitter switch in vivo. In the embryonic and caterpillar stages, the primary LNC transmitter is cardioacceleratory peptide 2 (CAP2), a myoregulatory peptide. During metamorphosis, these cells stop expressing CAP2 and instead produce bursicon, a classic insect peptide hormone responsible for cuticular tanning. We have previously reported that this transmitter plasticity is under the control of the insect steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE), which surges twice during the last larval instar. In that report we showed that the CAP2 decline is indirectly regulated by the first 20-HE rise, the commitment pulse (CP). Here we provide evidence that the rise in bursicon levels in the LNCs is directly triggered by the second 20-HE surge, the prepupal peak (PP). We performed several experimental manipulations that exposed LNCs to the PP without the CP; cells treated in this manner exhibited a significant rise in bursicon content. In contrast, bursicon levels remained unchanged in those LNCs exposed only to the CP. Exposure to the PP triggered a precocious increase in bursicon expression in LNCs from the penultimate larval stage. Increased bursicon levels in the LNCs were also induced by direct infusion of 20-HE. Taken together, the results of these experiments suggest that the rise in bursicon in the LNCs during metamorphosis is due to the direct action of the PP on the LNCs. Thus, the two 20-HE surges combine to regulate the CAP2-to-bursicon switch in the LNCs, the first acting indirectly to cause a decline in CAP2 levels and the second triggering a rise in bursicon expression, possibly by a direct action on the LNCs.
Transmitter plasticity, the ability to alter transmitter expression, has been documented in several different preparations both in vivo and in vitro. One of these is the tobacco hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, whose central nervous system contains four individually identified lateral neurosecretory cells (LNCs) that undergo a postembryonic transmitter switch in vivo. In larvae, the LNCs express high levels of a myoregulatory peptide, cardioacceleratory peptide 2 (CAP2). In contrast, the predominant LNC transmitter in adult moths in bursicon, a classic insect peptide hormone responsible for cuticular tanning. Here we show that the CAP2-to-bursicon conversion by the LNCs is a multi-step process beginning with a decline in CAP2 levels midway through the final larval stage. We provide several lines of evidence that this CAP2 drop is regulated by the insect steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE). The LNCs exhibit a fall in CAP2 levels at the beginning of metamorphosis, immediately after the commitment pulse of 20-HE when steroid levels are elevated. LNCs not exposed to this 20-HE rise do not exhibit a decline in CAP2 level. The transmitter switch can also be prevented by using an analog of juvenile hormone to create a larval hormonal environment during the commitment pulse of 20-HE. The CAP2 decline in the LNCs could be directly induced by exogenous steroid application, but only under conditions where the LNCs remained connected to the brain. Thus, the first step in the transmitter switch by the LNCs, the decline in CAP2 levels, is triggered by the commitment pulse of 20-HE, which may act indirectly through a set of steroid-sensitive cells in the brain.
Immunological and virological evidence for persistence of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) in the human nervous system is described in 16/323 (5%) laboratory-confirmed cases of Japanese encephalitis. In 9/16 patients, JEV specific IgM antibodies were detected in the CSF even at 50-180 days after the onset of symptoms. Similarly, in 7/16 patients, apart from IgM antibodies, viral antigen was also present in the CSF beyond the third week of illness and in one patient it could be detected even at 117 days. Infectious virus could be isolated from the CSF beyond the third week of illness in 3/16 patients. In one patient, JEV was isolated from the CSF on three consecutive occasions at 90, 110, and 117 days after onset of clinical symptoms. These findings suggest that JEV persists in the nervous system of a small proportion of patients.
Reversible spinal cord ischemia in rabbits induced a rapid loss of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) activity measured as incorporation of phosphate into exogenous substrates. About 70% of the activity was lost from the cytosolic fraction of spinal cord homogenates after 15 min of ischemia preceding irreversible paraplegia, which takes 25 min in this model. The loss of enzyme activity correlated with a loss of in situ renaturable autophosphorylation activity and a loss of CaM kinase II alpha and beta subunits in the cytosol detected by immunoblotting. CaM kinase II activity in the particulate fraction also decreased but the protein levels of the alpha and beta subunits increased. Thus ischemia resulted in an inactivation of CaM kinase II and a sequential or concurrent subcellular redistribution of the enzyme. However, denaturation and renaturation in situ of the CaM kinase subunits immobilized on membranes partly reversed the apparent inactivation of the enzyme in the particulate fraction. CaM kinase II activity was restored after reperfusion following short (&lt; or = 25 min) durations of ischemia but not after longer durations (60 min) that result in irreversible paraplegia. The ischemia-induced inactivation of CaM kinase II, which phosphorylates proteins regulating many cellular processes, may be important in the cascade of events leading to delayed neuronal cell death.
Analyses of samples of articles in the Journal of Neurochemistry between 1956 (the year of its foundation) and 1990 were used to obtain numerical indices of the history of neurochemistry. Data suggest that the acceleration of neurochemical research did not merely reflect the increase of biochemical research in general and that it involved progressive decreases and increases of interest in major constituents and transmitters, respectively, as indicated by both numbers and citations of papers. Papers on all classes of transmitters increased steadily and in the order of amines &gt; amino acids, acetylcholine &gt; peptides. Within the field of brain metabolism, papers on energy metabolism decreased markedly. Use of techniques other than those of biochemistry/neurochemistry altered strikingly with decreases of histological, electrophysiological, and pharmacological methods and increases of chemical, immunological, and tissue culture methods. Citations by neuroscience core journals between 1975 and 1988 suggest that the relative prominence of neurochemistry within neuroscience has remained constant. Analyses indicate that the influence of the U.S.A. relative to that of other regions has remained fairly steady between 1956 and 1990, but that number of papers from the U.K. has declined, whereas the influences of Western Europe and other areas appear to have recently increased substantially. Sociological changes have been the virtual disappearance of single-author papers, an increase of multiauthorship (&gt; 3), and a recent striking increase of assertive sentence titles.
A possible role for protein kinases in the regulation of free cytosolic Ca2+ levels in nerve endings was investigated by testing the effect of several kinase inhibitors on the increase in cytosolic Ca2+ (monitored with the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fura-2) induced by depolarization with 15 or 30 mM K+. The ability of various drugs to inhibit the cytosolic Ca2+ response appeared to correlate with their reported mechanism of action in inhibiting protein kinases. W-7 and trifluoperazine, drugs reported to inhibit calmodulin-dependent events, were effective inhibitors of the increase in cytosolic Ca2+ induced by high K+ depolarization, as was sphingosine, a drug that inhibits protein kinase C by binding to the regulatory site, but which also inhibits calcium/calmodulin kinase. On the other hand, drugs that inhibit protein kinases by binding to the catalytic site, such as H-7 (1 mM), staurosporine (1 microM), and K252a (1 microM), were ineffective. Activation of protein kinase C, which is blocked by each of these drugs, does not appear to be essential to the maintenance of elevated cytosolic Ca2+ in depolarized synaptosomes. All of the drugs, including sphingosine, that functionally inhibit the depolarization-induced elevation in cytosolic Ca2+ have in common the ability to bind to calmodulin. Because the drugs that inhibit protein kinases by competing with ATP binding at the active catalytic site did not block the response in this system, we suggest that a calmodulin or a calmodulin-like binding site participates in the regulation of Ca2+ increases after depolarization.

Muscarinic receptor-mediated cyclic GMP formation and release of nitric oxide (NO) (or a precursor thereof) were compared in mouse neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells. [3H]Cyclic GMP was assayed in cells prelabeled with [3H]guanine. Release of NO upon the addition of muscarinic agonists to unlabeled neuroblastoma cells (NO donor cells) was quantitated indirectly by its ability to increase the [3H]cyclic GMP level in labeled cells whose muscarinic receptors were inactivated by irreversible alkylation (NO detector cells). Carbachol increased NO release in a concentration-dependent manner, with half-maximal stimulation at 173 microM (compared to 96 microM for direct activation of cyclic GMP formation). The maximal effect of carbachol in stimulating release of NO when measured indirectly was lower than that in elevating [3H]cyclic GMP directly in donor cells. Hemoglobin was more effective in blocking the actions of released NO than in attenuating direct stimulation of [3H]cyclic GMP synthesis. There was a good correlation between the ability of a series of muscarinic agonists to release NO or to activate [3H]cyclic GMP formation directly, and the potency of pirenzepine in inhibiting the two responses. Furthermore, there was a similar magnitude of desensitization of both responses by prolonged receptor activation or stimulation of protein kinase C. NO release was also regulated in relation to the cellular growth phase. A model is proposed in which a fraction of NO generated upon receptor activation does not diffuse extracellularly and stimulates cyclic GMP synthesis within the same cell where it is formed (locally acting NO). The remainder of NO that is extruded extracellularly might travel to neighboring cells (neurotransmitter NO) or might be taken back into the cells of origin (homing NO).
Myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) has been proposed to mediate adhesive interactions during myelin development. We have used the baculovirus expression system to produce a truncated form of this molecule [soluble extracellular domain of MAG (sMAG)] consisting of the complete extracellular ectodomain. Spectroscopic studies indicate a high beta-sheet content, consistent with the prediction of Ig-like structure. Hydrodynamic studies indicate an asymmetric monomer, with a Stokes radius of 4.1-4.6 nm, a sedimentation coefficient of 3.6S, and a frictional ratio of approximately 1.6. We postulate that the outer two Ig-like domains form a unit that folds back over the rest of the molecule. Fluorescence quenching studies indicate that sMAG interacts with divalent cations and may have a functional lectin domain.
54Mn2+ uptake into brain and choroid plexus from the circulation was studied using the in situ rat brain perfusion technique. Initial uptake from blood was linear with time (30 s to 6 min) and extrapolated to zero with an average transfer coefficient of approximately 6 x 10(-5) ml/s/g for brain and approximately 7 x 10(-3) ml/s/g for choroid plexus. Influx from physiologic saline was three- to fourfold more rapid and exceeded that predicted for passive diffusion by more than one order of magnitude. The lower uptake rate from blood could be explained by plasma protein binding as the free fraction of 54Mn2+ in rat plasma was &lt; or = 30%. Purified albumin, transferrin, and alpha 2-macroglobulin were each found to bind 54Mn2+ significantly and to restrict brain 54Mn2+ influx. The results demonstrate that 54Mn2+ is readily taken up into the CNS, most likely as the free ion, and that transport is critically affected by plasma protein binding. The results support the hypothesis that Mn2+ transport across the blood-brain barrier is facilitated by either an active or a passive mechanism.
Rotavirus, which matures and is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, was used to examine how polarized dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord neurons distributed cytoplasmic and endoplasmic reticulum-associated proteins. A remarkable observation was that NS28, a trans-endoplasmic reticulum-membrane protein which functions as a receptor for budding particles, remained in the cell body during the whole course of infection (48 h) while the VP7 glycoprotein, which is endoplasmic reticulum associated and usually retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, was targeted to axons already 4 h post infection. VP7 was furthermore transported in an endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H sensitive form through the secretory pathway. The segregated appearances of NS28 and the endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H sensitive VP7 indicate that VP7 enters a transport compartment separate from NS28. Brefeldin A treatment rapidly disintegrated the Golgi apparatus of the neurons and rapidly blocked axonal transport of Sendai virus glycoproteins, while axonal transport of rotavirus VP7 was not blocked, suggesting that VP7 uses an intracellular pathway in neurons which does not involve the Golgi apparatus.
Vaginal-cervical stimulation (VCS), provided by mating or manual probing, induces many reproductive behavioral and endocrine changes in female rats. These changes include an increase in lordosis duration, heat termination and pseudopregnancy. Electrophysiological and [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose studies collectively show that neurons in the medial preoptic area, ventromedial hypothalamus and midbrain central gray respond to manual VCS. In the present study we immunocytochemically labeled brain sections for Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos, to detect VCS-responsive neurons in hormone-primed animals receiving VCS by mating or manual probing. In Experiment 1, females receiving mounts and intromissions were compared to: 1) vaginally-masked females receiving mounts but no VCS, 2) females exposed to an intact anesthetized male or 3) females not exposed to males or the testing arena. Those animals receiving VCS showed a dramatic increase in the number of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the medial preoptic area, posterodorsal portion of the medial amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, as well as the dorsomedial hypothalamus, ventromedial hypothalamus and midbrain central gray. These effects of VCS were confirmed in Experiment 2 in animals receiving manual vaginal-cervical probing. These findings extend previous electrophysiological and [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose studies by providing evidence that additional brain areas respond to VCS by mating, as well as manual probing.
Reduction in the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) in the parietal and temporal regions has been shown in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The specificity of these findings for this disease state is uncertain. We repeatedly measured rCMRglc with positron emission tomography and [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose in the resting state in a 68 year old man with slowly progressive dementia who, during life, was initially diagnosed as having dementia of the Alzheimer type, then Parkinson disease with dementia, but was found to have only Parkinson's disease at necropsy. Metabolic ratios (rCMRglc/mean grey CMRglc) were significantly (p &lt; 0.05) reduced in parietal and temporal regions, as well as in the prefrontal and premotor areas. This pattern was similar in regional distribution and magnitude of the defect to that seen in patients with probable AD. These results suggest that reductions of glucose metabolism in association neocortex in AD are not specific to the disease process, but may be related to the dementia state.

The case of a 42-year-old Sudanese man is reported who had developed hyperpigmentation of the left face and rapidly progressive right hemiparesis followed by myoclonus at the age of 30. Blue-grey hyperpigmentation was noted in the territory of the left ophthalmic, maxillary and mandibular trigeminal nerve branches, with alopecia of the right face and axilla. CT of the brain revealed left-sided paraventricular calcifications and MRI showed atrophy of the left cerebral hemisphere and mesencephalon, a calcified haemangioma in the left basal ganglia, an old infarct in the right central pons, and cerebellar atrophy. This case resembles Ota's syndrome; however, atypical distribution of the facial nevus, the epidermal location of hyperpigmentation, and the combination of vascular and degenerative cerebral malformations indicate that this is a new hitherto unreported neurocutaneous vascular syndrome.
1. The voltage- and space-clamp errors associated with the use of a somatic electrode to measure current from dendritic synapses are evaluated using both equivalent-cylinder and morphologically realistic models of neuronal dendritic trees. 2. As a first step toward understanding the properties of synaptic current distortion under voltage-clamp conditions, the attenuation of step and sinusoidal voltage changes are evaluated in equivalent cylinder models. Demonstration of the frequency-dependent attenuation of voltage in the cable is then used as a framework for understanding the distortion of synaptic currents generated at sites remote from the somatic recording electrode and measured in the voltage-clamp recording configuration. 3. Increases in specific membrane resistivity (Rm) are shown to reduce steady-state voltage attenuation, while producing only minimal reduction in attenuation of transient voltage changes. Experimental manipulations that increase Rm therefore improve the accuracy of estimates of reversal potential for electrotonically remote synapses, but do not significantly reduce the attenuation of peak current. In addition, increases in Rm have the effect of slowing the kinetics of poorly clamped synaptic currents. 4. The effects of the magnitude of the synaptic conductance and its kinetics on the measured synaptic currents are also examined and discussed. The error in estimating parameters from measured synaptic currents is greatest for synapses with fast kinetics and large conductances. 5. A morphologically realistic model of a CA3 pyramidal neuron is used to demonstrate the generality of the conclusions derived from equivalent cylinder models. The realistic model is also used to fit synaptic currents generated by stimulation of mossy fiber (MF) and commissural/associational (C/A) inputs to CA3 neurons and to estimate the amount of distortion of these measured currents. 6. Anatomic data from the CA3 pyramidal neuron model are used to construct a simplified two-cylinder CA3 model. This model is used to estimate the electrotonic distances of MF synapses (which are located proximal to the soma) and perforant path (PP) synapses (which are located at the distal ends of the apical dendrites) and the distortion of synaptic current parameters measured for these synapses. 7. Results from the equivalent-cylinder models, the morphological CA3 model, and the simplified CA3 model all indicate that the amount of distortion of synaptic currents increases steeply as a function of distance from the soma. MF synapses close to the soma are likely to be subject only to small space-clamp errors, whereas MF synapses farther from the soma are likely to be substantially attenuated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. To examine the way in which information from different visual submodalities is integrated in the inferior temporal (IT) cortex of the monkey, we studied the relationships between the color, shape, and pattern selectivities of individual neurons in IT cortex of two awake macque monkeys. Neurons were recorded while each animal performed a visual fixation task. For each neuron, we analyzed selectivity for the visual submodalities of color, contour shape, and textural pattern using preselected standard sets of visual stimuli, namely colored geometrical shapes with certain patterns. 2. About two thirds (62%) of single neurons whose activities were recorded from the anterior part of IT cortex, which included the ventral bank of the superior temporal sulcus, responded to one or more of the stimuli in the standard sets of stimuli used. An index (stimulus selectivity index) was calculated for each neuron to quantify how well a cell discriminated the preferred stimulus from the least preferred stimulus in each set of stimuli. The stimulus selectivity index, as well as the statistical significance of the variation in the responses to the stimuli within a given set, was used to classify a cell as selective or not selective in a given submodality. Of the neurons whose responses were analyzed quantitatively, 69% were selective for color, 68% were selective for shape, and 82% were selective for pattern. 3. Of the neurons that were tested with respect to the selectivity for color and for shape, 45% were selective both for color and shape, 50% were selective for either color or shape, and only 5% were not selective for color or shape. These frequencies were not significantly different from those predicted from the occurrence of the selective and nonselective neurons in each submodality if the independence of the selectivities for color and shape is assumed. We also found that the color preference of individual neurons does not depend on the shape of the stimulus. These results indicate that there was no overt interaction between the selectivities for color and shape in these IT neurons. 4. Of the neurons that were compared with respect to the selectivity for color and for pattern, 58% were selective both for color and pattern, 38% were selective for either color or pattern, and only 4% were not selective for color or pattern. There was no correlation between the degree of color selectivity and the degree of pattern selectivity of individual neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neurochemical organization of the basal ganglia has been studied extensively with respect to neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, and their receptors. The chemoarchitecture of the striatum has been found particularly striking, because it distinguishes many substances by their relative distributions within the striosome and matrix compartments of the striatum. Very little is yet known about the differential distribution of second messenger systems in the basal ganglia, however, and no information is available about whether the distribution of second messenger systems is related to the prominent neurochemical compartmentalization of the striatum. We have examined the distribution of the phosphoinositide second messenger system in the primate basal ganglia and substantia nigra, as detected with polyclonal antisera against the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R), and monoclonal antisera against phospholipase C beta (PLC beta) and phospholipase C gamma (PLC gamma). In the striatum, immunostaining for each of the three proteins was present predominantly in medium-sized neuronal perikarya and in the neuropil. Circumscribed zones of enhanced IP3R, PLC beta, and PLC gamma immunoreactivity appeared in a background of generally weaker staining, and these zones corresponded to striosomes as identified by calbinidin D28k and substance P immunostaining in adjacent sections. Thus, the richest representation of the phosphoinositide system in the primate striatum appears to be in striosomes. In the substantia nigra pars compacta, neurons and neuropil were immunopositive, but in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and in each segment of the globus pallidus, immunostaining was mainly confined to the neuropil. Perikaryal PCL gamma immunoreactivity in the absence of detectable PLC beta or IP3R immunolabeling was found in the magnocellular neurons embedded in the medullary layer between the putamen and the globus pallidus. These observations demonstrate that the phosphoinositide second messenger system is selectively enhanced in neuronal subsystems of the basal ganglia, including striosomes, and suggest that signaling by phosphoinositide pathways elicits discrete effects on input-output processing by the basal ganglia.
This study analyzes the morphological changes in geniculocortical axons terminating in the primary visual cortex of the cat, during the period in which, in normal development, the terminals in layer IV undergo an eye-specific segregation. Geniculocortical afferent fibers were filled anterogradely by the Phaseolus lectin (PHA-L) injected into the main laminae of the LGN. After standard immunohistochemical procedures, single axons were serially reconstructed in two or three dimensions. Experiments were performed in normal kittens and in kittens in which retinal activity was continuously blocked by repeated intraocular injections of TTX. In normal kittens, arbors were reconstructed at four different ages (19, 23, 30-31, and 39 days postnatally) spanning the period during which the geniculocortical projection segregates into eye-specific columns in layer IV (LeVay et al., 1978). Results reveal that sparse but widely extending branches characteristic of young arbors are eliminated during normal development at the same time as selected portions of the arbor grow considerably in length and complexity. The terminal arborizations also subdivide into distinct patches of terminals, consistent with the segregation of left and right eye afferents. In TTX-treated animals, axonal arbors reconstructed at postnatal days 23, 29, and 39 show a complexity and extent of terminal arborization similar to that of normal animals, though more variable in size and degree of elaboration. No progressive changes are evident with age. Further, the majority of arbors reconstructed from TTX-treated animals lack the patchy organization typical of normal animals.
The presence of dye coupling and electrotonic coupling within the nucleus accumbens was examined using intracellular recording and staining in rat brain slices. In 24% of the cells examined, injection of single accumbens neurons with the dye Lucifer yellow resulted in the complete labeling of more than one cell. To examine whether this coupling is regulated by dopamine (DA), the extent of dye coupling was assessed in the presence of dopaminergic agonists and antagonists. In the core region of the accumbens, D1 receptor stimulation induced a decrease in the incidence of dye coupling; this effect could be blocked by the D1 antagonists SCH 23,390 and SCH 39,166, by the D2 antagonist sulpiride, or by depletion of DA by reserpine and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine coadministration, but not by the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine. In contrast, in the posterior part of the shell region, D2 receptor stimulation increased the incidence of coupling independent of the state of D1 receptor activation. Fast spikelets resembling coupling potentials were found to occur only in neurons that also showed dye coupling, and could be attenuated in core neurons by D1 receptor stimulation. These findings suggest that DA, in addition to its actions on the membrane of single neurons, may also affect neuronal integration on a network level by regulating the transfer of information between adjacent neurons within the nucleus accumbens.
The clonal origin of the stage 43-44 Xenopus retina from cleavage stage precursors was quantitatively assessed with lineage tracing techniques. The retina descends from a specific subset of those blastomeres that form forebrain. The most animal dorsal midline cell (D1.1.1) produced about half of the retina, the three other dorsal ipsilateral blastomeres each produce about an eighth of the retina, and the four contralateral dorsal blastomeres and an ipsilateral ventral-animal cell together produce the remaining eighth of the retina. There was no significant spatial segregation of the clones derived from different progenitors in either the anterior-posterior or dorsal-ventral axes of the retina and no boundaries between clones were observed. Instead, the clones intermixed to form multiple radial subclones that were equivalent to those demonstrated by marking optic vesicle progenitor cells (Holt et al., 1988; Wetts and Fraser, 1988). This mosaic pattern was initiated by the beginning of gastrulation, advanced in the neural plate, and virtually complete in the optic vesicle. At optic vesicle stages cell movement within subclones was restricted, resulting in the formation of lineally related columns of cells in the mature retina. To determine if the blastomere progenitors are determined to produce these retinal lineage patterns, the major retinal progenitor (D1.1.1) was deleted bilaterally. About 60% of the tadpoles developed normal-appearing eyes; of these the retinas in two-thirds were normal in size and the rest were smaller. The blastomeres surrounding the deleted D1.1.1 progenitors changed their contributions to retina in different ways to effect a complete or partial restoration. Ventral blastomeres, which normally contribute mainly to the tail, produced substantial amounts of the retina while dorsal blastomeres, which normally contribute mainly to the head, decreased their contribution to the retina. To determine whether these changes in retinal lineage were due to changes in blastomere position after the surgery, various other blastomeres were deleted prior to lineage mapping. Dorsal-animal blastomeres took over the retinal fate of their dorsal-vegetal neighbors after those neighbors were deleted, but did not change fate after the deletion of their ventral-animal neighbors. This result suggests that dorsal-animal blastomeres change positional values in only one direction (dorsal to vegetal) after neighbor cell deletion, and that retinal fate is dictated by blastomere position. To test this hypothesis directly, different ventral and vegetal blastomeres, which normally do not produce retina, were transplanted to the position of D1.1.1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Due to the small size of most nerve terminals, the ion channels which underlie presynaptic currents are usually inaccessible to investigation by conventional electrophysiological techniques. Here we describe a simple method for obtaining single-channel recordings from synaptic plasma membranes that does not require exposure of the native membranes to exogenous lipids or fusogens. To illustrate the method, we have recorded single-channel activity from rat cerebrocortical synaptosomal membranes. Under conditions designed to isolate calcium-independent currents, we describe three channel types that are most commonly observed.
A hydraulically driven, digitally servo-controlled multi-axes rotary chair is described. This device generates motion profiles with the subjects head in the center of rotation mainly in order to adequately stimulate the semicircular canals which are sensitive sensors for angular accelerations. This newly developed apparatus allows for motion stimuli which are below the vestibular threshold up to accelerations of 12 rad/s2 (688 degrees/s2) and is thus suitable for a variety of experiments in the field of vestibular, oculomotor, and intersensory research in 3-dimensional space.
An important goal in neuroscience is to produce frequency distribution curves or histograms that relate numbers of cells to their sizes. Unfortunately such histograms, which are extremely common, are biased. Some of the reasons are inadequate attention to sampling paradigms, the lack of assurance that the section through the center of the cell is measured, and that large cells will have more profiles than small cells. The first goal of this paper is to illustrate these biases for dorsal root ganglion cells by showing significant statistical differences between histograms prepared the classic way and histograms produced by unbiased methods. The differences are particularly dramatic for plastic embedded material. The second goal of the paper is to describe an unbiased method for obtaining these histograms. The procedure is 2-fold. Cells are chosen in an unbiased way (unbiased in this sense means that every cell has an equal chance of being chosen), and then the largest profile of the cell is measured. We further suggest that these histograms be accompanied by analyses of cell volume, since volumes of cells rather than diameters or areas of cell profiles, will be the future measure of choice when considering the sizes of cells (or any other particles of biologic interest).

Phenytoin is a medication administered for the treatment or prophylaxis of seizures in head-injured patients. When enterally administered, serum phenytoin levels fall dramatically and are often subtherapeutic. The exact cause for this phenomenon has not been determined. The purpose in this case study was to evaluate the effect of two methods of administering phenytoin suspension in head-injured patients receiving concurrent enteral feedings by measuring subsequent serum phenytoin levels. Purposive sampling was used which included two female participants. For participant 1, data revealed dilution of the suspension and irrigation of the tube produced higher phenytoin levels than administering the suspension undiluted. Both serum phenytoin levels were profoundly subtherapeutic in participant 2. Factors such as simultaneous administration of other enteral medications to the second participant might have interfered with phenytoin absorption.
Neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes are medical and nursing challenges. Although neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes are relatively rare in the total cancer population, they may be more commonly seen in the acute neurologic setting. O'Neill et al estimate that 60% of persons with Eaton-Lambert syndrome and 50% of persons with subacute cerebellar degeneration have an underlying cancer. The slow and subtle development of neurologic paraneoplastic disorders underscores the need for careful evaluation of persons with neurologic deficits. Once the diagnosis is made, nursing care must be based on the problems associated with paraneoplastic manifestations of the disease, as well as effects of the cancer and its treatment.
When cells were treated with dbcAMP for 3 days to induce the outgrowth of axonal neurites, the addition of the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid (OA; 5 nM) for the last 24 hr markedly increased neurofilament subunit immunoreactivity including phosphate-dependent NF-H epitopes in axonal neurites, increased axonal neurite caliber by approximately 30%, but did not increase neurite contour length. Ultrastructural analysis demonstrated a &gt; 2-fold increase in neurofilaments and indicated that neurofilaments were phosphorylated to a similar extent in the presence and absence of OA. Vimentin immunoreactivity, which undergoes down-regulation during dbcAMP-mediated differentiation, was not increased by OA. OA did not induce the precocious appearance of delayed phosphate-dependent neurofilament epitopes suggesting that it did not induce the activation of additional neurofilament kinases. NF-H subunits from cytoskeletons of OA-treated cells were less susceptible to degradation by an endogenous calcium-dependent protease, providing a possible mechanism for neurofilament accumulation during OA treatment. By contrast, OA decreased axonal neurite microtubules, and eliminated stabilized (acetylated) axonal microtubules. OA treatment at earlier times prevented and reversed neurite outgrowth. Despite increased deposition of phosphorylated neurofilaments, OA did not hasten the development of colchicine resistance to neurites, suggesting that stabilization of the axonal cytoskeletal lattice requires neurofilament-microtubule interaction.
We investigated the localization of trkB mRNA, which encodes a putative component of high-affinity brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or the neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) receptor, in the postnatal rat brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. At birth, trkB mRNA was strongly expressed in various regions with the thalamus and cerebral cortex showing the strongest expression. As the rat grows, expression generally persisted or declined in most regions with the exception of the hippocampus where trkB mRNA expression increased during postnatal development. In the adult brain, trkB mRNA was detected in the olfactory system, cerebral cortex, hippocampal formation, amygdala, and cerebellar cortex. These findings, together with the developmental profiles of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expressions, suggest that trkB product (gp145trkB) mainly transduces NT-3 signals early in the postnatal period, and BDNF signals later in the period.
Although there appear to be a large number of possible isoforms of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor, the relationship of a particular isoform to a specific behavior or behavioral process has not been identified. In the present study we describe a functional role for a diazepam-insensitive (DI) isoform of the GABAA receptor in the control of a complex discrimination. Pigeons were trained to discriminate the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil (100 micrograms/kg) from vehicle by requiring 30 keypeck responses on one key when flumazenil was given and on a different key when vehicle was given. Only ligands with high affinities for DI sites fully substituted for the discriminative stimulus effects of flumazenil. A significant positive correlation was observed between ligand affinities for DI sites and ED50 values for discriminative stimulus effects. These compounds mimicked the discriminative stimulus effects of flumazenil despite partial agonist, inverse agonist or antagonist actions at other diazepam-sensitive GABAA receptors. A specific role of DI GABAA receptors in the control of this behavior was confirmed further by the inability of either a high-affinity agonist (midazolam) or antagonist (ZK 93,426) at diazepam-sensitive receptors (that possess low affinities for DI sites) to block the discriminative stimulus effects of flumazenil. These findings establish a link between a GABAA receptor isoform and a specific behavior.
Positive allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors, including benzodiazepines and congeners, can be classified into three categories: 1) full allosteric modulators (i.e., triazolam and alprazolam) that act with high potency and efficacy at many GABAA receptors; 2) selective allosteric modulators (i.e., diazepam) that act with high potency and high efficacy at selected GABAA receptors; and 3) partial allosteric modulators (i.e., bretazenil) that act with high potency but low efficacy at many GABAA receptors. Imidazenil, an imidazobenzodiazepine carboxamide, has been characterized as a novel representative of the partial allosteric modulator class. When tested on a broad spectrum (native and recombinant) of GABAA receptors, imidazenil positively modulates the GABA-elicited Cl- currents with a 4- to 5-fold higher potency but an efficacy (30-50%) lower than that of diazepam, and it antagonizes the effects of the latter drug. Imidazenil in vitro (Ki = 5 x 10(-10) M) and in vivo (ID50 = 0.2 mumol/kg i.v.) displaces [3H]flumazenil from its brain binding sites and in vivo it possesses a marked anticonflict profile in the rat Vogel conflict-punishment test and is 10 times more potent than bretazenil and 100 times more potent than diazepam or alprazolam in antagonizing bicuculline- and pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. Unlike diazepam and alprazolam, which induce sedation and ataxia and potentiate the effects of ethanol and thiopental at doses similar to those that produce anticonflict effects and occupy 50% of brain flumazenil binding sites, imidazenil does not produce ataxia or sedation in rats nor does it potentiate the effects of ethanol or thiopental in doses 30- to 50-fold higher than those required for the anticonflict effect and for 100% occupancy of brain flumazenil binding sites. Furthermore, when administered with diazepam, imidazenil blocks in a dose-related fashion the sedative, ataxic effects of this drug and thus acts on these unwanted responses as an antagonist (i.e., like flumazenil). In all tests, imidazenil has the pharmacological profile of a partial allosteric modulator, but is more potent than bretazenil, has a longer biological half-life and, in rodents, is virtually unable to cause sedation, ataxia or to potentiate ethanol toxicity.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is intricately involved in maintaining cocaine self-administration. Cocaine inhibits the firing of most NAc cells due to its ability to prevent the reuptake of dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), both of which predominantly inhibit NAc cell discharge in vivo. The present studies investigated the roles of DA and 5-HT in the effects of iontophoretically applied cocaine. Most NAc cells exhibited negative/positive waveforms (Type I cells). These cells were significantly more sensitive to cocaine than Type II cells (positive/negative waveforms), apparently due to differences in the actions of 5-HT. Whereas DA was equipotent at inhibiting Type I and Type II cells, 5-HT inhibited Type I cells but, primarily excited Type II cells. Thus the ability of cocaine to potentiate the effects of both DA and 5-HT resulted in a pronounced inhibition of Type I cells, whereas the 5-HT-mediated excitation of Type II cells appeared to reduce DA-mediated inhibition. Combined administration of selective DA (GBR 12909) and 5-HT (fluoxetine) uptake inhibitors was required to mimic the effects of cocaine on Type I and Type II NAc cells. Acute depletion of DA (86%) produced by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) significantly reduced the inhibitory effects of cocaine on all NAc cells. Acute depletion of 5-HT (74%) produced by p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) significantly reduced the inhibitory effect of cocaine on Type I cells, but it significantly enhanced the inhibition of Type II cells. Simultaneous reduction of DA and 5-HT levels produced a significantly greater reduction of cocaine-induced inhibition of Type I neurons than did AMPT or PCPA alone. These findings are discussed in relation to proposed roles of DA and 5-HT in cocaine self-administration.
The role of vascular alpha 1B-adrenergic receptors in the regulation of arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) was examined by assessing the effect of i.v. chloroethylclonidine (CEC; irreversible alpha 1B antagonist) in unanesthetized, normotensive Long-Evans rats. MAP, HR and the pressor response to i.v. phenylephrine (PE) were monitored for 24 hr after saline or CEC (15 mg/kg and 25 mg/kg) injection. Neither i.v. saline nor CEC affected MAP or HR throughout the course of the study, yet the PE response was maximally inhibited (&gt; 75% at 15 min) by both doses of CEC. The PE response recovered by 2 hr at the 15-mg/kg dose but remained inhibited up to 4 hr at 25 mg/kg. At 24 hr, all cardiovascular parameters returned to control levels. CEC (100 microM, 30 min) produced irreversible blockade of norepinephrine-induced contractions in rat aortic rings; prazosin (10 nM) and sodium thiosulphate (1 mM, a reagent that inactivates aziridinium ions) reversed CEC's inhibitory effect. Precyclized CEC and its hydrolysis product beta-hydroxyethylclonidine (beta-HEC) poorly antagonized aortic alpha 1B-receptors. Ex vivo analysis of aortic rings from saline and CEC-treated rats showed that PE-induced contractions were shifted to the right and maximally depressed in a dose-dependent manner after 24 hr. These results suggest that 1) CEC produces long lasting blockade of alpha 1B-adrenoceptors in vitro and in vivo via formation of an aziridinium ion intermediate and 2) vascular alpha 1B-adrenoceptors are not coupled to the tonic physiological regulation of MAP in the rat.
The relative role of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the neuroleptic-induced increase of striatal acetylcholine (ACh) release was investigated using brain microdialysis in freely moving rats. Administration of (-)-sulpiride, haloperidol and clozapine, produced a dose-related increase in ACh release in the striatum. Maximal increase by 52, 45 and 73% over basal values was produced by the dose of 20, 0.25 and 10 mg/kg i.p. of (-)-sulpiride, haloperidol and clozapine, respectively. Administration of the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) decreased ACh output by 30%, completely suppressed the stimulant effect of (-)-sulpiride and haloperidol and only modestly reduced that of clozapine. The inhibitory effect of SCH 23390 vs. (-)-sulpiride or haloperidol-induced ACh output was shared by SCH 39166 (1 mg/kg i.p.), another specific D1 receptor antagonist. On the other hand, SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) was ineffective in reducing atropine-induced increase in ACh release. A combined treatment with reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p.) and alpha-methyltyrosine (150 mg/kg i.p.), 6 h beforehand, prevented the enhancement of ACh release induced by both (-)-sulpiride and haloperidol, whereas only reduced that by clozapine. The results indicate that neuroleptics increase striatal ACh release by enhancing endogenous extracellular dopamine acting on D1 receptors, and suggest that these receptors play a major physiological role in controlling ACh release in the striatum.
1. Pressure sensitive (P) neurons of the leech Hirudo medicinalis show both an inhibitory, Cl(-)-dependent response and a depolarizing, cationic response to pipette application of serotonin (5-HT). Serotonergic Retzius (R) neurons in culture reform inhibitory, Cl(-)-dependent synapses with P neurons but fail to elicit the extrasynaptic, depolarizing response to 5-HT. We have examined the localization of the selection of 5-HT responses by testing the sensitivity of P cell growth cones and neurites to 5-HT application. 2. As measured by intracellular recording at the P cell soma, synaptic release of 5-HT from R cell processes activated only the Cl(-)-dependent response in P cell neurites. Focal application of 5-HT from a micropipette depolarized uncontacted P cell growth cones and neurites. In contrast, processes from the same P cells that were contacted by R cells were rarely depolarized by 5-HT application unless the application pipette was moved along the neurites away from the sites of contact. 3. The channels underlying the depolarizing response to 5-HT were identified in patch clamp recordings from P cell growth cones. These cation channels showed rare, brief openings in the absence of 5-HT. Application of 5-HT in the bath (outside the patch pipette) increased channel activity in uncontacted P cell growth cones but not in growth cones of the same P cells contacted by R cells. 4. We conclude that the selection of transmitter responses during synapse formation was localized to discrete sites of contact between the synaptic partners.
Galanin (GAL) is a 29-amino acid peptide widely distributed in the mammalian nervous system. Recently, GAL expression has been shown to increase during periods of neuronal degeneration (e.g., Alzheimer's disease) and neuronal injury. Our laboratory has previously reported that GAL immunoreactivity (GAL-IR) is robustly expressed during a time of CNS plasticity, development. The striking GAL-IR seen during times of CNS morphogenesis and neurogenesis led us to the hypothesis that GAL may play a role in the formation of the nervous system. To further substantiate a developmental role for GAL we have used autoradiography to define the distribution of GAL receptors in the forming mammalian brain. To this end, we have used the Brazilian opossum, Monodelphis domestica, as a developmental model. In this study, we have described the profile of GAL receptors in the developing mammalian brain. [(125)I]GAL binding was detected as early as 1 day of postnatal life in regions of the brain which were still undergoing neurogenesis. High levels of GAL receptor expression were region specific and correlated with our previous results on GAL-IR during development. In addition, a transient binding pattern was seen in the anterior pituitary. In the adult brain, the pattern seen was very similar to that of reports in other species. Due to the observations of the presence of GAL and its receptor during times of active neurogenesis and morphogenesis we believe galanin may play an important role in morphogenesis and early functioning of the mammalian CNS.
The effect of benzodiazepines on the activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors has been shown to be influenced by different alpha subunits and can also be affected by the presence of different gamma subunits. Previous studies have shown that receptors without a gamma subunit or those containing gamma 1 are modulated to a lesser degree by benzodiazepines. Using the Xenopus oocyte expression system to express different subunit combinations, a detailed analysis of the pharmacological modulation of GABAA receptors by various benzodiazepine site ligands has been carried out. We analyzed 14 compounds, varying through full agonist, partial agonist, antagonist, and inverse agonist, with receptors consisting of alpha 2 beta 1, alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2S, and alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 and we demonstrate differences in their extent of potentiation by different benzodiazepine-type ligands. Most compounds showed negligible effects on alpha 2 beta 1 and most agonists, particularly the imidazopyridines zolpidem, alpidem, and AHR14,749, exhibited less potentiation with alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 than with alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2S. The inverse agonists dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate and Ro15-4513 did not act as inverse agonists and produced slight potentiation of alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors. Concentration-response curves were constructed for five selected agonists to evaluate both affinity and efficacy differences between alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2 and alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors. Most compounds showed lower efficacy and up to 10-fold lower affinity with alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1. Zolpidem showed slightly higher affinity but an extremely low efficacy; FG8205 also showed a markedly lower efficacy and was the most selective compound for alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2S versus alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors. CL218,872 showed high efficacy with alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1 and affinity similar to that with alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2 (being the least selective compound), suggesting that some low efficacy partial agonists with gamma 2-containing receptors may be more efficacious with gamma 1-containing receptors. The antagonists Ro15-1788 and CGS8216, although they blocked flunitrazepam potentiation of alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 2, could not block potentiation of alpha 2 beta 1 gamma 1. This study demonstrates that unique pharmacological profiles can be conferred by receptors containing different gamma subunits.
Disorders of nerve and muscle are frequent causes of respiratory insufficiency, but current methods often fail to adequately assess the problem. Phrenic nerve conduction and needle electromyography of the diaphragm are of great assistance in identifying the nature and site of the disorder: the various disturbances of central drive, axonal or demyelinating neuropathies of the phrenic nerves, and certain myopathies. These studies may be performed on adults, children, or infants, and in outpatient, general ward, or critical care settings. It is hoped these techniques will stimulate further developments in the field.
We have determined the chromosomal assignment of 320 brain expressed genes by studying the segregation of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products in human rodent somatic cell hybrids and by genetically mapping polymorphic cDNAs using the CEPH (Centre d'Etude du Polymophisme Humaine) reference pedigrees and database. These mapped genes can function as markers on the physical map of the human genome, as well as serve as candidate disease gene loci. Distribution of these genes to the human chromosomes correlates well with the GC content of the chromosomes. However, the distribution of these genes does not correlate well with the cytogenetic length of each chromosome.
Neuropathology (Np) is a full member of the neurosciences. As a basic neuroscience it is directed to the behaviour of nervous tissues under pathogenic conditions. The theoretical and methodical core of Np concerns the morphological features of pathological disorders and processes of the nervous system. The goal of Np data presentation is an objective description of the structural changes; their time course as processes, and if possible their causal constellations. Complementary to this analytical task is that of reconstructing the pathological process and at a higher level the conception of pathomorphological entities, e.g. as syndromes. Clinical Np is an alliance of Np with neurology, psychiatry and neurosurgery for representing the structural basis of diseases and the role of morphology in diagnosis and clinical management. Prerequisite for the proper functioning of Np is an integration with these other specialist fields. The clinical neuropathologist therefore has to be in certain respects also a neurologist. The same is true of the alliances of Np with other neurosciences, which is already reflected in recent neuropathological methodology. Detailed training programs are necessary for clinical Np, covering all aspects of its medical and social implications. Enough options should be offered for horizontal flexibility of curricula, futherance of secondary special training and support of good unconventional approaches by junior scientists.
Using a consistent, reproducible and reliable cortical focal ischemia in rat (permanent unilateral occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery &amp; the ipsilateral common carotid artery [MCAo + CCAo] with a 1 h temporary occlusion of the contralateral CCA), the levels of four major membrane fatty acids (palmitic, C16:0; stearic, C18:0; Oleic, C18:1 and arachidonic, C20:4) were analyzed at 3, 36 and 72 h, and 2 and 4 wk following ischemia to determine the critical point of irreversibility of the cellular plasma membrane disorganization in primary ischemic (Area 1, parietal cortex) and peri-ischemic (Area 2, tempero-occipital cortex) areas. The cortical focal ischemia resulted in time dependent differential loss in four of these major membrane fatty acids. The quantitative differences among primary and peri-ischemic areas reflected the different degree of ischemic injury inflicted to these regions. Acute treatment with ganglioside GM1 protected the further losses of all of these fatty acids and differentially restored their levels in these various injury sites over periods of time. The changes in levels of these membrane fatty acids indicate that the primary ischemic area suffers an irreversible injury and peri-ischemic area suffers reversible injury. After acute treatment (&lt; 2 h) with ganglioside GM1, a partial recovery was observed in primary ischemic area and complete recovery was observed in peri-ischemic areas. These studies support the hypothesis that, ischemia leads to a irreversible plasma membrane disorganization which underlies the eventual cell death, and protection and restoration of these membrane changes by drugs, such as ganglioside GM1 leads to neuroprotection against ischemic injury.
The [3H]Tyramine (TY) binding site is proposed as a high affinity marker of the membrane carrier for dopamine (DA) in synaptic vesicles from DA-rich brain regions. Under precise assay conditions, there is neither a consistent association of TY with the neuronal, cocaine-sensitive DA transporter, nor with mitochondrial or microsomal targets. TY-labeled sites have a high affinity for selected toxins such as the Parkinsonian agent MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion), or drugs such as diphenylalkylamine Ca(2+)-channel antagonists. The MPP+/TY site interaction, which in the striatum leads to depletion of vesicular DA, occurs in dopaminergic as well as in noradrenergic regions, though with different kinetic profiles. TY-labeled carriers for DA and noradrenaline (NA) in respective vesicles seem to be different entities, which might result in a region-specific rate of toxin sequestration and/or release from heterogeneous vesicles. Whereas MPP+ is a potent competitive-type inhibitor of [3H]TY binding, prenylamine-like Ca(2+)-channel antagonists can compete with TY for the vesicle site, in a tetrabenazine- or reserpine-like manner, and also inhibit TY binding thanks to the extra-channel directed impairment of membrane bioenergetics they are proposed to provoke. This follows from the generally-accepted assumption that similar mechanisms are operational for secretory organelles in adrenals and CNS, and from the marked sensitivity of TY binding to miscellaneous energy-disrupting agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immobilization (IMMO) of conscious rats evokes marked increases in release of norepinephrine (NE) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, consistent with a role of NE in the PVN release of corticotropin-releasing hormone and therefore in pituitary-adrenocortical activation during stress. The present study examined the effects of surgical hemisection of the brainstem between the locus ceruleus and rostral portion of the medulla on release of NE in the PVN of the hypothalamus in vivo in conscious rats, at baseline and during IMMO. Concentrations of NE, the intraneuronal NE metabolite dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), and the dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were measured in microdialysate samples obtained beginning 24 h after implantation of a microdialysis probe in the PVN either ipsilateral or contralateral to the hemisection. On the lesioned side, baseline levels of NE, DHPG, and DOPAC were significantly lower and IMMO-induced increases were smaller than in sham-operated rats. Contralateral to the hemisection, DOPAC levels were significantly reduced. Neither baseline levels nor IMMO-induced increases in plasma corticosterone levels differed between lesioned and sham-operated animals. The present results indicate that: (1) NE release in the PVN at baseline and during IMMO depends mainly on ascending medullary tracts from ipsilateral brainstem A1 and A2 catecholaminergic areas, with small contributions from the locus ceruleus and from contralateral medullary cells, and (2) brainstem hemisection does not influence IMMO-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis as indicated by plasma corticosterone levels in conscious rats.
We analyzed short-term variation of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Information-Memory-Concentration (IMC) Test scores in 39 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), tested four times over 6 weeks. Although analysis of variance had failed to show a significant &quot;learning&quot; effect or other trends, we reexamined the data using repeated measures models, with and without a learning effect. In the model without a learning effect, mean MMSE scores decreased minimally and mean IMC scores decreased by 0.84 points over 6 weeks. In the model that allowed a potential learning effect between the first and second test sessions, scores increased significantly, by 1.12 +/- 0.47 points for the MMSE and 1.04 +/- 0.43 points for the IMC Test. Patients' test scores predicted from the models had less variability than did their raw scores. The short-term practice effect, although small, should be considered in interpreting changes in scores, especially in therapeutic studies in AD.
Eleven patients with relatively selective cerebellar degeneration and 11 normal control subjects underwent a comprehensive neurologic and neuropsychological examination. The neuropsychological tests assessed general intellectual ability, different aspects of memory (effortful, automatic, and implicit memory processes), speed of information processing, and verbal fluency (using both category and letter fluency tasks). The results indicated that cerebellar patients were significantly impaired only on tasks requiring the use of executive functions, such as the initiation/perseveration subtest of the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale or the fluency tests, and on memory measures requiring greater processing effort. They performed normally on automatic and implicit measures of memory. Performance on the effortful memory and executive measures was not associated with neurologic variables or mood state. After controlling for the initiation/perseveration deficit, the effortful memory scores of the cerebellar patients were no longer different from those of controls. The present study suggests that memory in patients with relatively pure cerebellar dysfunction is only partially compromised and that the impairment is secondary to a deficit in executive functions.
Prostaglandins play important and diverse roles in the CNS. The first step in prostaglandin synthesis involves enzymatic oxidation of arachidonic acid, which is catalyzed by prostaglandin H(PGH) synthase, also referred to as cyclooxygenase. We have cloned an inducible form of this enzyme from rat brain that is nearly identical to a murine, mitogen-inducible cyclooxygenase identified from fibroblasts. Our studies indicate that this gene, here termed COX-2, is expressed throughout the forebrain in discrete populations of neurons and is enriched in the cortex and hippocampus. Neuronal expression is rapidly and transiently induced by seizures or NMDA-dependent synaptic activity. No expression is detected in glia or vascular endothelial cells. Basal expression of COX-2 appears to be regulated by natural synaptic activity in the developing and adult brain. Both basal and induced expression of COX-2 are inhibited by glucocorticoids, consistent with COX-2 regulation in peripheral tissues. Our studies indicate that COX-2 expression may be important in regulating prostaglandin signaling in brain. The marked inducibility in neurons by synaptic stimuli suggests a role in activity-dependent plasticity.
We report the characterization of the first successful treatment of neuronal ischemic injury in vivo by cell-permeant Ca2+ chelators. The chelators attenuated glutamate-induced intracellular Ca2+ increases and neurotoxicity in neuronal explant cultures. When infused intravenously in rats, permeant fluorescent BAPTA analogs accumulated in neurons in several brain regions. BAPTA-AM, infused in vivo, reduced Ca(2+)-dependent spike frequency adaptation and post-spike train hyperpolarizations in CA1 neurons taken from treated animals. This effect was reproduced by direct injections of BAPTA into untreated neurons. The effects of three different chelators (BAPTA, 5,5'-difluoro BAPTA, and 4,4'-difluoro BAPTA) on Ca(2+)-dependent membrane excitability varied with their Ca2+ affinity. When the chelators' permeant forms were used to treat rats prior to the induction of focal cortical ischemia, they were highly neuroprotective, as gauged by significant reductions in cortical infarction volumes and neuronal sparing. The chelators' protective effects in vivo also reflected their affinity for Ca2+. This report provides the most direct evidence to date that intracellular Ca2+ excess triggers early neurodegeneration in vivo and contributes a novel therapeutic approach to neuronal ischemia of potential clinical utility.
Clinicopathological features were examined in 65 neonates and 8 stillborn infants with pontosubicular necrosis (PSN) compared to 57 neonates and 19 stillborn infants without PSN. Twelve out of 65 neonates with PSN had congenital heart disease and 3 out of 65 neonates showed persistent fetal circulation. On neuropathological examination, the frequency of neonates with PSN who also showed karyorrhetic/eosinophilic neurons in other regions of the brain stem, basal ganglia and thalamus was higher than in controls. The results of this study suggest that acute ischemia is an important underlying pathogenetic factor and PSN occurs in the prenatal as well as postnatal period.
We examined the ability of intravenous (i.v.) challenge with pentagastrin to induce behavioural and cardiovascular effects consistent with panic attack in conscious rhesus monkeys. For behavioural evaluation, 4 naive male rhesus monkeys familiar with minimal manual restraint necessary for drug administration received a rapid i.v. bolus of pentagastrin (4, 8 or 16 micrograms/kg) or water on four separate occasions according to a randomised cross-over design. Behaviour was rated by a blind observer continuously during, and for the first 5 min immediately following i.v. injections while the monkey sat on the handler's lap, and then for a further 25 min in an individual observation cage. In separate experiments, the ability of pentagastrin to alter cardiovascular parameters which may accompany panic or anxiety (elevated heart rate and blood pressure) was explored. For cardiovascular studies, 8 male or female rhesus monkeys with femoral artery catheters were chair restrained and received a bolus injection of pentagastrin (4, 8 or 16 micrograms/kg) or saline into the saphenous vein at 30 min intervals. Blood pressure and heart rate were monitored continuously using a Statham Gould pressure transducer. Pentagastrin induced no consistent behavioural or cardiovascular changes. Similar pilot studies using CCK4 also failed to reveal such effects. We conclude that CCK-induced panic-like effects may not be demonstrable following challenge with pentagastrin under laboratory conditions in rhesus monkeys.
In readers of English, involved in a rhyme judgement task, mismatch trials are associated with an enhanced N450 component of the Event Related Potentials (ERPs). It has been suggested that N450 is related to orthographic or phonological priming. In this paper ERPs were recorded during a phonological matching task, using pairs of logographically dissimilar Chinese characters. A pair was considered to match if they sounded alike with identical phoneme sequences. The subjects (native Chinese speakers) were instructed to ignore vowel-inflections, which in Chinese have lexical status. Since sublexical assembly of phonology is not used in reading Chinese characters, and the members of each pair were logographically dissimilar, match and mismatch trials did not suffer in the amount of orthographic or sublexical phonological priming. An enhanced negative component (latency near 400 msec), was observed in ERPs elicited by the second character in non-matching pairs. The negativity could be similar to N450. If this were so, then N450 could not be associated with orthographic priming, nor with sublexical phonology, but would probably be associated with postlexical processing. Also, in both readers of Chinese and English, the negativity enhanced in non-match trials is larger over the right side of the scalp, suggesting a similar brain lateralization of the underlying processes.
The role of the human amygdala in cross-modal associations was investigated in two subjects: SM-046, who had bilateral damage circumscribed to the amygdala; and the patient known as Boswell, whose damage in both temporal lobes includes the amygdala and surrounding cortices. Neither subject was impaired on Tactile-Visual or Visual-Tactile cross-modal tasks using the Arc-Circle test, suggesting that the amygdala is not involved in cross-modal associations involving perceptually &quot;equivalent&quot; basic stimulus properties. On the other hand, the results are compatible with the amygdala's involvement in higher-order associations between exteroceptive sensory data and interoceptive data concerned with correlated somatic states.
Cells overexpressing the beta-amyloid precursor protein possessing a mutation found in familial Alzheimer's disease overproduce beta-amyloid peptide (A beta). Because these findings were based on immunological identification, we have chemically characterized the peptides produced. Purified A beta fragments from the conditioned media of these cells were found to have N-terminal sequence consistent with the A beta found in cerebral plaques. Mass spectrometric data demonstrated a series of A beta fragments consistent with those found in Alzheimer's disease (AD); the major species corresponding to A beta(1-40). Significantly, a longer fragment corresponding to A beta(1-42) was found. These findings suggest that this cellular system may be useful for mechanistic studies of A beta generation and possibly for the development of therapeutic agents to treat AD.
In this study we used cerebral ischaemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) as an experimental model to analyse the effects of Bio-normalizer (BN, a naturally fermented health food product) on reactive oxygen species related changes in different brain regions of gerbils. Pre-administration of BN solutions (0.1% and 1%) for 45 days produced a significant reduction in IRI-mediated increase in membrane lipid peroxidation, as shown by the decreased carbon-centred radicals and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in several brain regions including the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus and the striatum. BN however has no effect on the mitochondrial superoxide dismutase activity.
It has been suggested that microglia, a type of glial cells in the central nervous system, play various important roles in normal and pathologic brains. In this article, we discussed the association or roles of microglia in injury and in brain diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, AIDS dementia complex, multiple sclerosis and ischemia. Furthermore, microglia-derived cytotoxic products and other secretory factors were summarized. In addition to the pathological aspects, secretory factors that showed neurotrophic effects were described with special reference to their physiological significance in the neuronal growth, neuronal function and regeneration processes. Accumulated evidence suggests that microglia are associated with not only brain pathology but also normal physiology in the brain.
In this study, we investigated the regional and temporal emergence of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor immunoreactivity in the developing rat brain. In a qualitative immunocytochemical analysis using an antibody against the rat 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor protein, we visualized cells expressing the receptor in the pontine tegmentum, caudate nucleus, basal forebrain, hippocampus and neocortex of developing rats. Three potentially important periods in the developmental regulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors were identified: the time of onset, a period of accelerated expression and hyper-elaboration, and a period of regression. In general, the onset of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor immunoreactivity occurred relatively late in the ontogeny of cells in these regions, in the late prenatal and early postnatal periods. Following the perinatal onset of receptor expression, there was a rapid increase in the number of immunoreactive neurons during the first week after birth. In neocortex, there appeared to be a relative over-expression of the receptor, with an elevated density and hyper-elaboration of immunopositive neurons relative to the adult, reaching a peak at the end of the second week. There was then a gradual decrease in both the density and morphological complexity of cortical 5-hydroxytryptamine2-labelled neurons, until the adult pattern of expression was achieved at about four weeks of age. In all areas studied, cells positive for the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor were first detected within the regions in which they would ultimately reside, and after the known periods of cell proliferation for these regions. These observations would argue against a role for the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor as a transducer of the early developmental influences of serotonin in the central nervous system, but leave open the possibility that the receptor may participate in regulating some aspect of terminal differentiation or late maturation of the neurons on which it is found. The identification of important developmental periods in the ontogeny of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors suggests time-points at which events that disrupt the normal ontogenetic pattern of expression could produce long-lasting effects on central serotonergic neurotransmission.
Entry of Ca2+ through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels is known to be linked to the exocytotic release of transmitter from sympathetic neurons. In this paper we provide evidence that transmitter release can also be stimulated by Ca2+ influx via the Na-Ca exchanger. Furthermore, the release linked to Na-Ca exchange is regulated by cardiac target cells. Cultured sympathetic neurons of the chick embryo incubated in Ca2(+)-Mg(2+)-free Krebs solution for 20 min and then switched to Ca(2+)-containing solution exhibited 15-20-fold increases in [3H]noradrenaline release over the spontaneous release. Electrophysiologic studies showed that neurons were completely depolarized in Ca(2+)-Mg(2+)-free medium. Indo-1 fluorescence revealed a large and sustained increase in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) after addition of Ca2+ to Ca(2+)-Mg(2+)-free medium. The increased [3H]noradrenaline release and [Ca2+]i were dependent on external Na+ and Ca2+, but were not affected by the Ca2+ channel blockers lanthanum, cadmium, verapamil or omega-conotoxin. A conventional depolarizing stimulus (125 mM K+) produced a 13-fold increase in [3H]noradrenaline release over spontaneous release. However, K(+)-induced release and rise in [Ca2+]i declined rapidly and were sensitive to the Ca2+ channel blockers. When sympathetic neurons were co-cultured with embryonic cardiac cells the release induced by change from Ca(2+)-Mg(2+)-free to Ca(2+)-Krebs solution was dramatically reduced. The change from Ca(2+)-Mg(2+)-free to Ca(2+)-Krebs solution was ineffective in evoking [3H]noradrenaline release from sympathetic neurons in situ using perfused hearts of 15-day-old chick embryos.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Calretinin-containing neurons were visualized by immunocytochemistry in the monkey hippocampal formation, subicular complex, and entorhinal cortex. Calretinin-immunoreactivity was present exclusively in non-granule cells of the dentate gyrus and in non-pyramidal cells of Ammon's horn, subiculum and entorhinal cortex. Most frequently, calretinin-positive neurons were found at the hilar border of the dentate granule cell layer and in the stratum radiatum of CA1-3 areas. In the subicular complex, immunoreactive neurons were evenly distributed in all layers, whereas in the entorhinal cortex, they were accumulated in external layers above the lamina dissecans. Distinct bands of calretinin-positive fibers occupied the supragranular zone of the molecular layer in dentate gyrus, the pyramidal cell layer of the CA2 area in Ammon's horn and the upper two layers of presubiculum. The majority of calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were small, bipolar or fusiform neurons with a dendritic tree oriented parallel to the dendrites of principal cells (granule cells in dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons elsewhere). Dendrites were smooth or sparsely spiny, displaying small spines of conventional type. Co-existence studies showed that these neurons were completely devoid of other calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin and calbindin. Electron microscopic analysis revealed somata of immunoreactive neurons which contained a large nucleus and a small cytoplasmic rim, which contained only few organelles. The nucleus displayed deep infoldings and intranuclear rods. Input synapses of immunoreactive neurons were rare both on somata and dendrites and large surface areas were frequently apposed by glial processes. This was very prominent in the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn. Axons of calretinin-positive neurons were thin, arborized in all layers and had small varicosities. Their terminals formed symmetric synaptic contacts mainly with dendrites and less frequently with somata of principal cells. Axon terminals of calretinin-immunoreactive fiber bundles in the supragranular layer, as well as in the pyramidal layer of the CA2 area, formed asymmetric synaptic contacts with dendritic shafts. In addition, they established asymmetric axospinous and axosomatic synaptic contacts with granule cells of the dentate gyrus. In the presubiculum, the calretinin-positive axon bundle included a large number of immunoreactive myelinated axons, as well as axon terminals. The characteristic location and features of synapses suggests that these fibers derive from extra-hippocampal afferents (Nitsch, R. and Leranth C. (1993) Neuroscience 55, 797-812) and not from the calretinin-immunoreactive neurons of the hippocampal formation.
We have used the evoked expression of the immediate early gene-encoded proteins (Krox-24, c-Fos, Fos B, Jun D, Jun B, c-Jun) to monitor visceral processing in both the spinal cord and hindbrain structures of rats undergoing either mechanical colorectal or chemical intraperitoneal stimulation. Experiments were conducted under controlled volatile anaesthesia to suppress affective reactions that visceral stimulations may induce. The results refer to the effects of anaesthesia alone, and of both innocuous and noxious stimulations. Non-nociceptive and nociceptive stimulation but not anaesthesia were effective in evoking c-Fos, c-Jun, Jun B and Krox-24 expressions in the spinal cord. Intraperitoneal injections labelled cells mostly at the thoracolumbar junction levels, while colorectal distension labelled cells mostly at the lumbrosacral junction levels. Labelling was widely distributed throughout the gray matter including superficial layers, deep dorsal horn, lamina X and sacral parasympathetic columns. Krox-24- and, to a lesser degree, c-Jun-labelled cells were quite numerous in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn; Jun B, and especially c-Fos, were very effective in demonstrating inputs to all parts of the spinal cord. Both anaesthesia and noxious visceral stimulation were effective in evoking c-Fos, Krox-24 and Jun B expressions in discrete hindbrain subregions. The structures which are primarily labelled under anaesthesia are the rostral ventrolateral medulla, the external medial and lateral nuclei of the parabrachial area, the medial and dorsal subnuclei of the nucleus of the solitary tract, the area postrema, the central gray including pars alpha and nucleus O, the nucleus beta of the inferior olive, the locus coeruleus, and the inferior colliculi and adjacent parts of central gray. The structures which are primarily labelled following noxious visceral stimulation are the caudal intermediate reticular nucleus as part of the caudalmost ventrolateral medulla and the superior lateral nucleus of the rostrolateral parabrachial area. Labelling in the caudal intermediate reticular nucleus was maximal for colorectal distension. Labelling in the superior lateral nucleus was specific to peritoneal inflammation. The Edinger-Westphal nucleus is a structure in which noxious-evoked labelling was superposed onto the anaesthesia-evoked labelling. Nociception-evoked overexpression in this nucleus was maximal for intraperitoneal inflammation. The present work demonstrates that the central effects induced by either anaesthesia or visceroception including pain can be effectively monitored through the induction of an array of immediate early genes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Clonal malignant pituitary growth hormone 3 cells were used for the analysis of the influence of hydrocortisone and dexamethasone on voltage-gated calcium currents and hormone secretion. The whole-cell patch-clamp technique was used. The presence of low-threshold inactivating and high-threshold persisting components in the total calcium current was shown; they could be separated at less negative holding potential level. Some increase in current densities of both components was observed as early as 30 min after treatment with 10(-6) mol/l glucocorticoids. The increase was maximal for both types of currents after 2 h of incubation; however, the high-threshold component was affected much more strongly (current density increased by more than four-fold) than the low-threshold one (current density increased by about a three-fold). Potentiation of currents was blocked by actinomycine D (10(-4) M), suggesting that protein synthesis was required. A substantial increase in growth hormone secretion (measured by radioimmunoassay method) was observed in the same cells after 2 h of incubation with hydrocortisone, while the secretion of prolactin remained even slightly depressed.
Melanin-concentrating hormone and associated peptides represent a novel peptide neuronal system that may be involved in the control of water homeostasis in mammals. We have examined the effect of 24 h dehydration or salt-loading over a period of six days, on melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA levels in rat brains by using complementary methods of Northern blotting and in situ hybridization histochemistry. In response to one to six day salt-loading regimen, hypothalamic melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA content in male or female rats decreased by two to three-fold. Levels of melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA in the hypothalamus were also dramatically decreased following dehydration in female rats whereas contrasting responses were noted in male rats. In addition, no significant variation in the low levels of melanin-concentrating hormone gene transcripts in medulla pons and cortex was found after osmotic stimulus. In agreement with Northern blot data, in situ hybridization studies revealed that the majority of the melanin-concentrating hormone-expressing neurons in the anterior part of the lateral hypothalamus of dehydrated or salt-loaded rats expressed lower amounts of melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNAs than those found in control rats. Interestingly, less variation was found in the posterior part of the lateral hypothalamus. Furthermore few clusters of cells, located in zona incerta and near the internal capsula and fornix, increased their contents in melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA in salt-loaded but not in dehydrated rats suggesting that melanin-concentrating hormone gene expression may be regulated differently by various osmotic stimuli. Finally, diurnal variations in melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA contents were observed in normal and dehydrated rats with highest levels around 22.00 h and lowest levels during daylight hours. However, the up-regulation of melanin-concentrating hormone gene activity at night was found lower in dehydrated rats than in control animals suggesting that osmotic stress may interfere with the generation of the diurnal pattern of melanin-concentrating hormone messenger RNA expression. Altogether, our results indicate that osmotic stimulations lead to a selective and conspicuous inhibition of melanin-concentrating hormone gene activity in the whole hypothalamus of rat. We suggest that the melanin-concentrating hormone neuronal system plays an important role in integration processes relative to nocturnal regulation of water homeostasis and drinking behavior.
Procedures were developed to permit the measurement of corticotropin-releasing factor in perfusate collected from microdialysis probes implanted in various brain areas of anesthetized and awake rats. Initially in vitro experiments were carried out to optimize the recovery of corticotropin-releasing factor and the radioimmunoassay conditions. Addition of a specific antiserum against corticotropin-releasing factor to the perfusion medium (artificial cerebrospinal fluid) increased the relative in vitro recovery over a range of different flow rates (1-10 microliters/min) using commercially available microdialysis probes with a membrane cutoff of 20,000 mol. wt. This procedure increased recovery from 3% to 6% at flow rate of 2.5 microliters/min, and from 4% to 8% at a flow rate of 5 microliters/min. In vivo experiments were performed with a flow rate of 3.3 microliters/min and 50-microliters fractions were used for radioimmunoassay. In each experiment, the standard curve of the radioimmunoassay was constructed from aliquots of the same medium used to perfuse the probe. Basal levels of corticotropin-releasing factor in dialysate collected from the mediobasal hypothalamus of anesthetized rats were estimated to be 0.75 +/- 0.07 fmol/50 microliters. Raising the concentration of potassium (60 mM) in the perfusate increased corticotropin-releasing factor levels to 2.04 +/- 0.37 fmol/50 microliters. Hypertonic stress induced by intraperitoneal injection of 1.5M NaCl (20 ml/kg) elevated the levels to 1.32 +/- 0.07 fmol/50 microliters. A marked increase of corticotropin-releasing factor levels was also produced by a 10-min pulse of the potassium-channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (10 mM) included in the perfusate. A second stimulation pulse with 4-aminopyridine, administered 2 h after the first pulse again increased the levels, with a mean ratio between the first and second pulse of 0.97. Corticotropin-releasing factor efflux produced by the second stimulation pulse was completely inhibited by perfusion with calcium-free medium containing calcium-chelating agent ethyleneglycol tetraacetic acid (10 mM). In separate experiments, microdialysis probes were implanted in several brain areas of anesthetized rats. Basal and potassium-evoked levels of corticotropin-releasing factor were measured in dialysate collected from the amygdala (1.20 +/- 0.22 and 2.05 +/- 0.48 fmol/50 microliters, respectively) and frontal cortex (0.51 +/- 0.10 and 1.64 +/- 0.15 fmol/50 microliters, respectively). Corticotropin-releasing factor levels in the dorsal part of the third ventricle and in the striatum were below the detection limits. In awake rats, corticotropin-releasing factor levels in the mediobasal hypothalamus were 0.98 +/- 0.03 fmol/50 microliters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Simultaneous intracellular electrical recordings were made from pairs of neurons separated circumferentially by 100-200 microns of the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum in vitro. The recording electrodes were filled with the dye neurobiotin which was injected into impaled nerve cells, and later revealed histochemically. Intracellular current pulses were used to evoke action potentials via the recording electrode in one type of myenteric neuron, in most cases an AH neuron, while a second electrode was used to record from a simultaneously impaled S neuron or AH neuron. AH neurons are thought to be primary sensory neurons, whereas S neurons are interneurons and motor neurons. Ninety pairs of neurons were adequately tested for interaction. From these, 17 S neurons and three AH neurons that responded to AH neuron stimulation were detected. In each case, the response was a slow depolarization that was seen only in response to a train of stimuli at 10 Hz. The slow depolarizations were enhanced by passing depolarizing current and diminished by hyperpolarization. Responses were also diminished by lowering external Ca.2+ and elevating Mg2+. In all cases in which intracellular recording indicated communication between neurons, morphological evidence of connection was seen. In no case was there communication without connection, but in four instances, morphological connections appeared to exist, although no physiological evidence of communication was obtained.
Monoamine oxidase, monoamine oxidase-A, and monoamine oxidase-B activities were compared in free moving, rapid eye movement sleep-deprived, recovered, and control rat brains. The activities were estimated in the whole brain, cerebrum, cerebellum, whole brainstem, medulla, pons, and midbrain. The flowerpot method was used for continuing deprivation for one, two, or four days. Monoamine oxidase activity decreased significantly in the cerebrum and the cerebellum of the sleep-deprived rats, whereas monoamine oxidase-A and monoamine oxidase-B were differentially affected. Medullary MAO-A was the first to be affected, showing an increase after just one day of rapid eye movement sleep deprivation, while longer deprivation decreased its activity. The activity of monoamine oxidase-B was not significantly affected in any brain areas of the deprived rats until after two days of rapid eye movement sleep deprivation. All the altered enzyme activities returned to control levels after recovery. Control experiments suggest that the decrease was primarily caused by the rapid eye movement sleep deprivation and was not due to nonspecific effects. These findings are consistent with past studies and may help to explain earlier observations. The results support the involvement of aminergic mechanisms in rapid eye movement sleep. The plausible reasons for the changes in the activities of monoamine oxidases, after rapid eye movement sleep deprivation, are discussed.
The amphibian Xenopus laevis is able to adapt to a dark background by releasing melanophore-stimulating hormone from the pars intermedia of the pituitary gland. The inhibition of melanophore-stimulating hormone release is accomplished by neuropeptide Y-containing axons innervating the pars intermedia. To determine the production site of neuropeptide Y involved in this inhibitory control, the distribution of neuropeptide Y in the brain has been investigated by immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. Immunoreactive cell bodies were visualized in, among others, the ventromedial and posterior thalamic nuclei, and the suprachiasmatic and ventral infundibular hypothalamic nuclei. A positive hybridization signal with a Xenopus-specific probe for preproneuropeptide Y-RNA was found in the diencephalic ventromedial thalamic nucleus and in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. With both immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization, suprachiasmatic neurons appeared to be stained only in animals adapted to a white background; animals adapted to a black background showed no staining. Quantitative image analysis revealed that this effect of background adaptation is specific for suprachiasmatic neurons because no effect could be demonstrated of the background light condition on the ventral infundibular nucleus (immunocytochemistry) or the ventromedial thalamic nucleus (in situ hybridization). These results indicate that neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus enable the adaptation of X. laevis to a white background, by producing and releasing neuropeptide Y that inhibits the release of melanophore-stimulating hormone from the melanotrope cells in the pars intermedia of the pituitary gland.
A quantitative light- and electron-microscopic study has been made of the retinae of rats which were exposed to different lighting conditions for between one and 15 weeks in young adulthood, having been reared in identical conditions during development. The width of the inner and outer segments of the photoreceptors and the width of the outer plexiform layer varied inversely with the light intensity under diurnal lighting conditions of 10 h light/14 h dark. Linear regression analysis showed that the widths were inversely related to the fourth root of the light intensity as measured in lux. Both central and peripheral areas of retina showed a similar change. No change was seen in the widths of the inner plexiform layer, or of the inner and outer nuclear cell layers. Nor was there a difference in the packing density or size of the nuclei in the nuclear cell layers. The number of ribbon synapses in the outer plexiform layer also varied inversely with the intensity of diurnal light. Linear regression analysis showed that the number of synapses was inversely correlated with the fourth root of the light intensity and was positively correlated with the width of the outer plexiform layer. The number of ribbon synapses was increased by up to two and a half times in constant darkness compared to diurnal light of 35 lux. The increase was present but not maximal after one week of exposure. The length of synaptic ribbons was unchanged. The nerve terminals forming such synapses were increased in size but not in number. After one week, there was little or no additional change in the retinal widths and number of synaptic ribbons with time. However, there was a progressive increase with time in nerve terminal size (two-fold in area) in constant darkness. There was some evidence of a slight decrease in nerve terminal number and increase in size of retinal nuclei with age. It is concluded that the adult retina responds to a different lighting environment by a relatively rapid change in the size of photoreceptor segments, by a progressive and large change in number of ribbon synapses and by a slower progressive and large change in the size of photoreceptor nerve terminals. The response is quantitatively determined by the strength of the stimulus but not in a linear fashion. These results are compared with the effects of environmental stimulation of other areas of the nervous system.
We examined the effects of black widow spider toxin and anti-phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate antibody on the changes in excitatory postsynaptic currents and spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents accompanying long-term potentiation using whole-cell recording from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons of rodents. In the presence of black widow spider toxin, tetanic stimulation of input fibers produced a short-lived potentiation followed by a gradual decline of the excitatory postsynaptic current amplitude. With an anti-phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate antibody containing pipette, tetanus elicited only decremental potentiation of excitatory postsynaptic currents with a reduced frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents, suggesting inhibition of retrograde reinforcement from the antibody-injected neuron. With both black widow spider toxin and anti-phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate antibody, neurons showed a rapid depression of excitatory postsynaptic currents after tetanus. The results indicate that time-dependent interactions between presynaptic terminals and the postsynaptic spikes take place during long-term potentiation.
Compounds possessing neurotrophic properties may represent a possible treatment for neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. SR 57746A, 1-[2-(naphth-2-yl)ethyl]-4-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1,2,5,6- tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride, is a new compound with neurotrophic activity in a number of in vitro preparations. The neurotrophic effects of this compound have been evaluated in vivo using four distinct rat models of neurodegeneration: transient global ischaemia produced by a four-vessel occlusion; septohippocampal lesion produced by injection of vincristine sulphate into the medial septum; sciatic nerve crushing; and acrylamide-induced peripheral neuropathy. Rats were administered vehicle or 2.5-10 mg/kg p.o. SR 57746A, after initiation of the degenerative process, then once daily for 10 days in the first two models, 16 days in the third and 26 days in the fourth model. Median scores for ischaemia-induced neuronal damage were reduced by 30-40% by SR 57746A treatment in hippocampal CA1, CA2, and CA3 regions, and in the dorsal striatum. Twelve days after intraseptal vincristine administration, there was a marked loss of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons, as indicated by reduced choline acetyltransferase activity in both the septum and hippocampus. SR 57746A dose-dependently reversed this reduction in both areas. These results were confirmed by histoenzymological evaluation of hippocampal acetylcholinesterase content. SR 57746A also reversed the loss of hippocampal choline acetyltransferase induced by intraseptal vincristine in marmosets. Behavioral deficits in these models (exploratory behaviour in the former and short-term social memory in the latter) were also significantly reduced by SR 57746A treatment. In the sciatic crush model, sensorimotor function improved more rapidly in rats treated with 10 mg/kg SR 57746A. In this same model, SR 57746A (10 mg/kg/day) also significantly increased the length of regenerated nerve eight days after the crush, as measured using the pinch test. Finally, SR 57746A retarded the onset, reduced the amplitude and accelerated the recovery of acrylamide-induced peripheral neuropathy. Thus, SR 57746A possesses notable neurotrophic activity in a variety of neurodegenerative models in vivo, suggesting that the compound may possess therapeutic potential for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
The programmed cell death (apoptosis) of a proportion of the neurons which form plays a critical role in the development of the nervous system and ensures that the correct number of mature neurons are ultimately present. We show that the prior exposure of neuronal cells to an elevated temperature sufficient to induce the heat-shock response partially protects the cells from apoptotic cell death following subsequent transfer to serum-free medium. The degree of protection observed in experiments using different heat-shock or recovery times correlates with the extent of heat-shock protein synthesis. Similarly activation of heat-shock protein synthesis by inducers other than elevated temperature also results in protection from apoptosis. The mechanism by which the heat-shock proteins may protect neuronal cells from apoptosis is discussed.
Molecular cloning of mammalian potassium channels has revealed an extensively heterogeneous superfamily of potassium channels derived from four basic subfamilies, Shaker, Shaw, Shal and Shab, each with multiple members. The families were first identified in Drosophila, in which subfamily heterogeneity is derived by alternative splicing, while in mammals mainly distinct genes give rise to channel subtypes. Further diversity of mammalian potassium channels is demonstrated by the identification of some which do not belong to any of the four main subfamilies. Although potassium channels are differentiated into fast-inactivating and delayed rectifier types, differential functions of the many mammalian potassium channels are unclear. Moreover, potassium channels function as homotetramers, though in principle heterotetramers might have a physiological role as is the case with heteromers of neurotransmitter receptor subunits. Insight into differential functions of potassium channels may be provided by their regional and subcellular localizations. In the rat brain in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry have revealed distinct regional localizations for various subfamilies. In one instance a particular subfamily predominated in cell bodies and another in axons. We demonstrated dramatically different localizations for two members of the Shab subfamily, circumvallate papilla delayed rectifier K+ channel (CDRK) and delayed rectifier potassium channel 1 (DRK1), which in major portions of their sequences display more than 90% amino acid identity. In a number of brain regions they occur in distinct neuronal cell types or subcellular compartments, with CDRK predominantly localized diffusely over soma and in fibers and DRK1 most evident in soma and dendritic process.
There are several subtypes of dopamine receptors in the central nervous system which mediate the actions of dopamine in producing its diverse motor and behavioral effects. In this study we determined whether an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide directed to the mRNA encoding one of the subtypes of the dopamine receptor can inhibit a specific dopamine-mediated behavior. Accordingly, the effects of a phosphorothioate-modified antisense oligodeoxynucleotide targeted toward the D2 dopamine receptor mRNA (D2 antisense) was studied in mice with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the corpus striatum. Rotational behavior in response to different agents, and the levels of D2 and D1 dopamine receptors and D2 and D1 dopamine receptor mRNAs in corpus striatum were then measured. In control mice, lesioning resulted in a contralateral rotational behavior in response to the D1 dopamine receptor agonist SKF 38393, the D2 dopamine agonist quinpirole, and the muscarinic cholinergic agonist oxotremorine. Lesioning also caused an increase in D2 dopamine receptor mRNA levels in the dorsolateral striatum. Intraventricular injections of the D2 antisense inhibited rotational behavior induced by quinpirole but not that induced by SKF 38393 or that induced by oxotremorine. Repeated administration of the D2 antisense significantly reduced the levels of the D2 dopamine receptor and D2 dopamine receptor mRNA in the dorsolateral but not the dorsomedial striatum. Similar treatment failed to significantly alter the levels of the D1 dopamine receptor or D1 receptor mRNA in dorsolateral or dorsomedial striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The kynurenine pathway metabolites quinolinic acid and kynurenic acid have been hypothetically linked to the occurrence of seizure phenomena. The present immunohistochemical study reports the activation of astrocytes containing three enzymes responsible for the metabolism of quinolinic acid and kynurenic acid in a rat model of chronic epilepsy. Rats received 90 min of patterned electrical stimulation through a bipolar electrode stereotaxically positioned in one hippocampus. This treatment induces non-convulsive limbic status epilepticus that leads to chronic, spontaneous, recurrent seizures. One month after the status epilepticus, the rats showed neuronal loss and gliosis in the piriform cortex, thalamus, and hippocampus, particularly on the side contralateral to the stimulation. Astrocytes containing the kynurenic acid biosynthetic enzyme (kynurenine aminotransferase) and the enzymes for the biosynthesis and degradation of quinolinic acid (3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase and quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase, respectively) became highly hypertrophied in brain areas where neurodegeneration occurred. Detailed qualitative and quantitative analyses were performed in the hippocampus. In CA1 and CA3 regions, the immunostained surface area of reactive astrocytes increased up to five-fold as compared to controls. Enlarged cells containing the three enzymes were mainly observed in the stratum radiatum, whereas the stratum pyramidale, in which neuronal somata degenerated, showed relatively fewer reactive glial cells. Hypertrophied kynurenine aminotransferase- and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid oxygenase-immunoreactive cells were comparable in their morphology and distribution pattern. In contrast, reactive quinolinic acid phosphoribosyl transferase-positive glial cells displayed diversified sizes and shapes. Some very large quinolinic acid phosphoribosyl transferase-immunoreactive cells were noticed in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In the hippocampus, the number of immunoreactive glial cells increased in parallel to the hypertrophic responses. In addition, pronounced increases in immunoreactivities, associated with hypertrophied astrocytes, occurred around lesioned sites in the thalamus and piriform cortex. These findings indicate that kynurenine metabolites derived from glial cells may play a role in chronic epileptogenesis.
Kindling is an animal model for epilepsy in which repeated application of an electrical stimulus to brain pathways results in an epileptic focus. The animal holds a permanent state of hyperexcitability to the stimulus for the rest of its life. Understanding the cellular and molecular processes underlying hyperexcitability could provide insight into epileptogenesis. Furthermore, it could elucidate cellular and molecular bases of synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system. In the present study the long-term effect of a kindled focus in the amygdala on the gamma-isoform of protein kinase C and the muscarinic cholinergic receptor as cellular messengers was evaluated in the cerebral cortex of rats. Following an average of 10 bilaterally generalized seizures kindling stimulation was terminated and rats were left undisturbed for approximately three months. Brains were processed by immunocytochemistry using monoclonal antibodies against protein kinase C-gamma and muscarinic cholinergic receptor protein. Digital image analysis of sections through the entire forebrain revealed an increase in optical density of both protein kinase C-gamma and the muscarinic cholinergic receptor in the piriform and entorhinal cortex of the hemisphere contralateral to the stimulation site in kindled rats. However, on the ipsilateral side no change was observed in comparison with electrode implanted nonkindled control rats. The observed increase in expression of muscarinic cholinergic receptor protein and a component of the phosphoinositide second messenger system (protein kinase C-gamma) located in specific areas of the cerebral cortex in kindled rats could serve as a basis for the permanent state of hyperexcitability in these rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The response areas (frequency by intensity) of single neurons in primary auditory cortex of anesthetized cats were studied before and after temporary threshold shifts in cochlear sensitivity induced by an intense pure tone. Cochlear temporary threshold shift was monitored through the threshold of the gross auditory nerve compound action potential and in most cases involved a notch-like loss centered at the characteristic frequency of the unit under study. Only two neurons showed changes in response area that mirrored the changes at the auditory periphery. Most neurons (14) showed more complex changes involving both expansion and contraction of response areas. Expansion of response areas was indicated by lower thresholds at some frequencies and by the emergence of sensitivity to previously ineffective frequencies. A change was classified as contraction when the response area after the intense-tone exposure was smaller than would be expected by applying the profile of the temporary threshold shift to the initial response area. Contraction of both upper (high intensity) and lower boundaries of response areas was found; in the most extreme cases, neurons were totally unresponsive after the intense-tone exposure. The complexity of effects of temporary threshold shifts on the response areas of cortical neurons is likely to be related to mechanisms that normally determine the frequency response limits of these neurons. The response areas of cortical neurons are more complex than those of auditory nerve fibers, and are thought to reflect the integration of excitatory and inhibitory inputs. The variety of effects observed in this study are consistent with the excitatory and inhibitory components of the response area of a given neuron being differentially affected by the temporary threshold shift.
The effects of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway on striatal opioid peptides and receptors were determined at different time-intervals, from three days up to 24 weeks, post-lesion. Mu, delta and kappa opioid binding site densities in the ipsilateral caudate-putamen were decreased by 25-50% in rats which exhibited a greater than 90% loss of dopamine uptake sites. Differentiation of radioligand binding to kappa1 and kappa2 subtypes demonstrated a selective loss of kappa2 sites post-lesion. The onset of significant 6-hydroxydopamine lesion-induced changes in striatal opioid binding sites was delayed with respect to the loss of dopamine uptake sites. Furthermore, maximal loss of dopamine uptake sites was apparent within seven days post-lesion, but not until two to four weeks for mu, delta and kappa sites. In animals which exhibited an incomplete loss of dopamine uptake sites (less than 80%) there was no significant change in opioid binding site density. Striatal proenkephalin and prodynorphin messenger RNA levels were increased and decreased, respectively, after complete 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Modulation of peptide messenger RNA levels was apparent within seven days and was maintained up to 24 weeks post-lesion. In contrast, proenkephalin and prodynorphin messenger RNA levels were unchanged in animals which exhibited an incomplete loss of striatal dopamine uptake sites. Taken together, these observations suggest that the majority of mu, delta and kappa2 opioid binding sites are localized on non-dopaminergic elements in the caudate-putamen, but that substantia nigra innervation plays a role in the control of striatal opioid receptor expression. The 6-hydroxydopamine lesion-induced decreases in striatal opioid binding site density may, in part, be a function of agonist-induced receptor downregulation. Alternatively, both opioid receptor and peptide expression in the caudate-putamen may be directly, but independently, regulated by ventral mesencephalic neurons.
Results of synchronous morpho-electrophysiological experiments conducted on living bush-like receptors of the urinary bladder of a frog (Rana temporaria) and results of their ultrastructural and cytochemical studies are presented in this article. It is demonstrated that these endings are mechanical receptors reacting to tactile stimuli. Rapidly and slowly adapting units are registered. The slowly adapting receptors prevail (94%). Morpho-topographic peculiarities of the rapidly and slowly adapting forms are recorded at the light (optic) level. Different variants of sediment deposits at Ranvier nodes of the myelinated afferent fibers are demonstrated by means of a ferri-ferricyanide technique. In this connection a hypothesis is discussed concerning the existence in bush-like receptors of several generators of impulses converging on to a solitary fiber. The ultrastructure of receptor terminals is demonstrated. Their connection with tissue elements of the organ wall is realized with the help of collagen fibrils braiding the terminals with a dense irregular net. No connections are discovered between terminals and cells with the help of desmosomes. It is supposed that this very interrelation of the receptor terminals with the surrounding tissues ensures a predominance of the slowly adapting forms among them.
Little is known about the developmental profile of nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the developing human brain, despite the potential importance of such information in understanding the pathogenesis of neurological abnormalities or increased risk for the sudden infant death syndrome in offspring exposed to nicotine in utero. In this study, we determined the distribution of [3H]nicotine binding in the developing human brainstem by quantitative tissue autoradiography. In midgestational fetuses, [3H]nicotine binding sites were heavily concentrated in tegmental nuclei related to cardiopulmonary integration, arousal, attention, rapid eye movement sleep, and somatic motor control. Over the last half of gestation, [3H]nicotine binding decreased 60-70% in the tegmental nuclei, with a significant difference in binding between midgestation and early infancy. In contrast, there was essentially no change in [3H]nicotine binding in the major cerebellar-relay nuclei (principal inferior olive and griseum pontis) between the same time-points. Tritium quenching by increasing lipid (myelin) content in tissue sections did not account for the decreases in [3H]nicotine binding in tegmental nuclei. Based upon the high levels of [3H]nicotine binding at midgestation, combined with experimental data demonstrating trophic properties for acetylcholine, we postulate that nAChRs a role in the development of the brainstem tegmentum during this period, and that once this role is fulfilled, nicotinic cholinergic binding decreases and remains low thereafter. Alternatively, nicotinic cholinergic receptors may be critical for other developmentally related functions and/or neurotransmission in the brainstem tegmentum at midgestation. The high levels of [3H]nicotine binding in the brainstem tegmentum at midgestation and its rapidly changing profile over late gestation further suggest that mid-to-late gestation is a developmental period during which this region is likely to be most vulnerable to the harmful effects of nicotine in maternal cigarette smoke. The baseline information provided in this study is potentially relevant towards understanding attention deficits and risk for the sudden infant death syndrome in offspring exposed to cigarette smoke in utero.
In urethane-anesthetized rats, single neuronal activity was recorded in or around the central gray of the caudal mesencephalon to rostral pons with multibarrel microelectrodes for ionophoretic application of acetylcholine, noradrenaline and serotonin. Neurons were classified by spike shape into broad-spike and brief-spike neurons. In the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, locus coeruleus or dorsal raphe, broad-spike neurons, marked by Pontamine Sky Blue and discriminated in sections processed for histochemistry of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase or Nissl staining, were presumed to be cholinergic, noradrenergic or serotonergic, respectively. The majority of these neurons were inhibited through autoreceptors, except some laterodorsal tegmental neurons which might not be furnished by autoreceptors. Noradrenaline and serotonin inhibited more than two-thirds of the laterodorsal tegmental neurons tested, while a few neurons were excited by noradrenaline. Though effects of noradrenaline on dorsal raphe neurons and those of serotonin on locus coeruleus neurons were not clear in many neurons tested, neurons affected in these examinations (30%) were all inhibited clearly and no excitatory effect was observed. Acetylcholine exerted inhibition on about one-half of dorsal raphe neurons, while effects of acetylcholine on locus coeruleus neurons were the only case in the present study in which excitation was the major effect, though more than a half of locus coeruleus neurons were not sensitive to this drug. Thus, in this study some new data on the pharmacological properties of the cholinergic laterodorsal tegmental neurons were obtained. In addition, mutual interactions between brainstem cholinergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic neurons were assayed by comparing the pharmacological properties of these neurons tested with a uniform procedure. The interactions between these diffuse projection neurons may be involved in neural mechanisms controlling vigilance, wakefulness and/or sleep.
Parvalbumin is a calcium-binding protein which is thought to play a role in neuronal excitability. In the cerebral cortex parvalbumin is largely found in two subsets of GABAergic neurons, the chandelier and basket cells. A distinguishing characteristic of the chandelier cell is that the terminal portions of its axon form short vertical strings of boutons resembling candlesticks, which embrace the initial segment of pyramidal cell axon. In the present study, the terminals of chandelier cells in the human temporal cortex were immunostained with an antibody against parvalbumin. These terminals were found more abundantly in layers II and VI, less frequently in layers III and V, were hardly identified in layer IV, and absent in layer I. The relationship of parvalbumin-immunoreactive terminals and axon initial segments was further evidenced by re-sectioning identified rows of boutons into semithin sections. Electron microscopy of both temporal cortex and the somatosensory region of a biopsy sample revealed that these parvalbumin-positive boutons indeed form symmetric synaptic contacts on the axon initial segments of pyramidal cells. As part of an enquiry into the possibility that these specialized interneurons may be involved in degenerative neurological diseases, the temporal lobes from seven patients with Alzheimer's disease were immunostained for parvalbumin. As in the control brains, the specific terminal portions of chandelier cells were recognized and identified in the temporal cortex by parvalbumin-immunocytochemistry. No major difference from normal brains was found, excepting for a lower density of candlesticks (30-35%) in layer II-III. Since we showed in a previous study [Ferrer et al. (1991) J. neurol. Sci. 106, 135-141] that the number of parvalbumin-immunoreactive somata in the same Alzheimer's disease cases was not decreased, the observed reduction of terminals in layer II suggest that only the terminals of chandelier cells, but not the parent neurons, are decreased in Alzheimer's disease.
Glibenclamide, one of the most potent antidiabetic sulfonylureas, inhibits the activity of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in the pancreas as well as in the brain through its binding to specific receptors. Quantitative autoradiography was used to localize such receptors in the brain of rat, mouse, guinea-pig and marmoset, using [3H]glibenclamide as radioligand. In all four species, specific glibenclamide binding sites were found to be heterogeneously distributed. The highest densities were in the cerebral cortex, the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex, the thalamus and the caudate-putamen. The globus pallidus and the substantia nigra were highly labelled in rat and mouse but poorly labelled in guinea-pig and marmoset. The distribution of glibenclamide binding sites in the hippocampus was different between the rodents and marmoset; in rodents, most binding sites were distributed in the fascia dentata and the CA3-CA4 fields of Ammon's horn, contrasting with a very homogeneous distribution in all subfields of the marmoset hippocampus. In conclusion, we demonstrate that primate brain contains specific binding sites for [3H]glibenclamide with a distribution not exactly similar to that in rodent brain.
The histaminergic projection from the hypothalamus to the superior colliculus was examined immunohistochemically in the cat brain using an antibody to histamine. The source of histaminergic fibers in the brain is a group of neurons in the posterior hypothalamus, located primarily in ventrolateral and periventricular regions and collectively referred to as the tuberomammillary nucleus. All laminae of the superior colliculus--including the superficial, intermediate, and deep layers, as well as the central gray--were blanketed with histamine-immunoreactive axonal fibers. Overall, labeling in the superior colliculus was moderately dense compared to other locations in the cat brain, with some variation in fiber density. Individual labeled fibers resembled histaminergic fibers described previously in the brain. Labeled axonal fibers showed infrequent branching and were beaded with numerous en passant varicosities that were typically 1 micron or smaller, but as large as 2.5 micron in diameter. Varicosity size differed significantly at different depths in the colliculus. The histaminergic projection appears to be separate from a previously reported, apparently non-histaminergic projection from neurons in the dorsal hypothalamic area to discrete regions of intermediate and deep colliculus. These results indicate that the histaminergic projection from the tuberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus projects extensively throughout the superior colliculus. Histamine, which is believed to act as a neuromodulator in the brain, is in a position to influence sensory and motor-related processes in every layer of the cat superior colliculus.
The time-course effects of one month of estrogen upon calcitonin gene-related peptide - and methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactivity in the periventricular preoptic nucleus and medial preoptic nucleus were semi-quantitatively investigated with a computer-based image analysis system. Female Wistar rats were ovariectomized and implanted subcutaneously with a 10-mm-long silastic capsule containing estradiol-17 beta, or with a blank capsule, as a control. Estradiol-17 beta-treated rats were killed at days 1, 4, 7, 10, 14 and 28 after the implantation of estradiol-17 beta. To investigate the details of changes in calcitonin gene-related peptide- and methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers in the periventricular preoptic nucleus and medial preoptic nucleus, a grid, made up of 8 x 16 squares (one square corresponding to 50 x 50 microns in the true section), was set on the wall of the third ventricle, and immunoreactivity within each square was measured with an image analyser. In the control rats, calcitonin gene-related peptide- and methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers were distributed in the periventricular preoptic nucleus and medial preoptic nucleus. In the estradiol-17 beta-treated rats, calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibers increased prominently at day 1, day 7 and day 10 in the periventricular preoptic nucleus, whereas methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers increased at day 1, day 14 and day 28 in the periventricular preoptic nucleus and medial preoptic nucleus. These findings suggest that the mechanism underlying the increases in these calcitonin gene-related peptide- and methionine-enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers after estrogen treatment might be different.
This study provides significant new evidence substantiating a role of the postganglionic sympathetic neuron in plasma extravasation in the knee-joint of the rat. Increased plasma extravasation produced by the potent inflammatory mediator bradykinin was mimicked by 6-hydroxydopamine, a selective stimulator of sympathetic fibers. Various treatments (chemical sympathectomy, co-perfusion with the local anesthetic lidocaine, or co-perfusion with depolarizing concentrations of potassium) similarly modulated plasma extravasation induced by both bradykinin and 6-hydroxydopamine, but not that produced by platelet activating factor. We also showed that bradykinin is able to release norepinephrine in the knee-joint, indicating action on the sympathetic postganglionic neuron. In summary, these experiments provide substantial additional evidence supporting a significant contribution of the sympathetic post-ganglionic neuron terminal to inflammatory plasma extravasation.
After axotomy in the peripheral nervous system, most axons regrow and re-establish contact with their targets. Depending on the type of lesion, a varying number of nerve fibers fail to regenerate and terminate far from the target, forming a neuroma. Sensory axons trapped in a neuroma show abnormal sensitivity to various stimuli, and often fire spontaneously. In this study we have examined the distribution and axonal relations of macrophages in rat sciatic neuromas three days to one year after cutting and ligating the nerve. ED1-immunoreactive macrophages migrated into the neuroma in large numbers within the two first weeks after the injury. Most cells were at that time located 0.5-1 mm proximal to the ligature. From three weeks on, a majority of the ED1-immunoreactive cells contained numerous large vacuoles filled with myelin fragments. At sites of focal demyelination, macrophages often had direct contact with axonal membranes. At later survival stages (three months to one year) ED1-immunoreactive cells were seen not only in the area just proximal to the ligature, but also several millimeters proximal to this. Macrophages persisted in considerable numbers in the neuroma for at least one year. These data suggest that neuroma macrophages may participate in the genesis of electrophysiological abnormalities thought to underly chronic pain after neuroma formation, possibly by creating demyelinated axonal regions susceptible to external stimuli from e.g. neighboring nerve fibers, by releasing substances which influence regeneration and remodelling of axonal growth cones, or by direct actions on the denuded axonal membranes.
The distribution and origin of neurotensin-like immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra pars reticulata of the rat have been analysed using immunohistochemistry combined with different drug treatments and lesioning techniques. In normal rats, a distinct but weakly fluorescent network of neurotensin-immunoreactive fibers was found in the central part of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. When the animals were treated with reserpine, which suppresses dopamine transmission, a similar pattern of immunoreactivity was found, though the intensity of staining was slightly enhanced. However, when rats were treated with methamphetamine, a potent dopamine releaser, the intensity of immunoreactivity was dramatically increased. In particular, densely packed neurotensin-immunoreactive fibers were found at the dorsal border and at the ventral periphery of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. This pattern of immunoreactivity was found to be similar to that displayed by dynorphin. In the nucleus caudatus, several neurotensin-immunoreactive cell bodies were seen after reserpine treatment. Morphologically similar perikarya were observed in methamphetamine-treated rats, but they were less numerous, whereas no cell bodies were detectable in untreated animals. When a unilateral mechanical transection or an ibotenic acid injection was performed in the striatum, the patterns of neurotensin as well as dynorphin and substance P immunoreactivities in the substantia nigra pars reticulata were strongly affected. Both types of lesion caused a marked, parallel depletion of all three immunoreactive substances on the side ipsilateral to the lesion, where a restricted area was virtually devoid of immunoreactive elements. Thus the present study provides evidence for the existence of a unilateral neurotensin striatonigral pathway, terminating in the pars reticulata. The origin of the neurotensin fibers in the pars compacta has not been established but does not appear to be the caudate nucleus. These results together with evidence from the literature suggest that methamphetamine induced a massive release of dopamine from nigral dendrites acting on presynaptic D1 dopamine receptors located on neurotensinergic terminals leading to a marked increase in neurotensin-like immunoreactivity in the pars reticulata.
The behavioural, biochemical and morphological effects of a chronic administration of low doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) were studied in the common marmoset. Monkeys received the toxin (1 mg/kg i.p.) twice a week for four months. Group A monkeys were studied one week after the last injection of MPTP; group B monkeys were studied eight months after the last toxic injection. The monkey behaviour was observed throughout the experiment; the biochemical and morphological correlates were studied post mortem in the neostriatum and in the substantia nigra, respectively. Data collected from MPTP-treated marmosets were compared to those obtained from sham-injected control monkeys. The results can be summarized as follows. (1) In all MPTP-treated marmosets a progressive Parkinsonism occurred. In group B monkeys, a gradual behavioural recovery was observed after MPTP was discontinued. (2) Biochemical analysis of group A marmosets showed a depletion of dopamine, of 3,4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and of homovanillic acid, and no variations in dopamine turnover in the neostriatum of MPTP-treated marmosets. In group B, biochemical analysis showed no differences between controls and MPTP-treated animals. (3) Morphological analysis showed that the density of midbrain dopaminergic neurons located in the substantia nigra was unchanged in group A monkeys, but was reduced by 6.8% in MPTP-treated monkeys of group B. The measurement of cross-sectional area showed that midbrain dopaminergic neurons were swollen in MPTP-treated monkeys of group A, with a 11.0% increase of cell size as compared to controls. In group A the nuclei were also swollen, being 304.8% larger in MPTP-treated monkeys, with a nucleus-to-cytoplasm ratio of 65.9% (as compared to 34.0% of controls). In group B monkeys cell size was increased by 18.4% in MPTP-treated marmosets, but the nuclei were of comparable size. The present data show that a chronic administration of low doses of MPTP brings about biochemical and morphological abnormalities. The first occur acutely in terminals and are reverted early after discontinuance of exposure to the toxin; the latter occur in dopaminergic perikarya, last longer than biochemical abnormalities and, at variance with them, increase in severity after MPTP is discontinued. Morphological abnormalities include early events, such as a transient swelling of nuclei or a long-lasting swelling of neurons, and late events, such as a decrease in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive perikarya.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Previous studies from this laboratory indicate that type-1 astroglia in primary culture are pharmacologically heterogeneous. Two competing hypotheses were proposed to explain the development of glial heterogeneity. First, that the heterogeneity may reflect stable subclasses of astroglia that express a set of receptor-signalling systems. Second, that astroglia can undergo qualitative changes in their expression of receptor-signalling systems with time in vitro. To distinguish between these two hypotheses, experiments were designed to examine neuroligand-evoked calcium responses within clones of type-1 astroglia. If stable and distinct subsets of astroglia were present, a clone derived from a single cell would exhibit uniform responses to a given set of neuroligands. Alternatively, if the pharmacological properties of astroglia underwent qualitative changes, astroglial clones should contain pharmacologically distinct cells. A video-based imaging system and the Ca2+ indicator dye Fura-2 were used to monitor receptor-mediated increases in Cai2+ upon receptor activation. Interestingly, only a fraction of the cells within a given clone responded to carbachol or histamine with an increase in Cai2+, whereas treatment with a P2Y purinergic receptor agonist generally increased Cai2+ in 100% of the cells within the clone. To examine the stability of the receptor signalling over time, individual astroglia within a number of clones were tested on different days for their ability to respond to neuroligands. The results of these experiments indicated that individual astroglial cells tended to lose their responsiveness to certain ligands such as carbachol and histamine as they developed responsiveness to others such as norepinephrine. Our data indicate that during development neurotransmitter receptors on astroglial cells are regulated by both internal and external mechanisms. Glial proliferation produces a variety of pharmacologically distinct astroglial cells. Exposure to neurotransmitters can qualitatively turn off some, but not all, astroglial receptor systems.
The passive and active membrane properties of substantia nigra neurons were recorded in vitro at various locations throughout its anterior-posterior extent and their responses to extracellular electrical stimulation within the pars reticulata were analysed. One class of nigral pars compacta cell showed the well-established electrophysiological characteristics of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, i.e. spontaneous discharge in a very rhythmic, pacemaker fashion without bursting activity and with broad action potentials. However, these neurons could be subdivided further according to differences in electrophysiological properties which correlated with their position within the substantia nigra. Thus, neurons recorded from the anterior part of the substantia nigra, at the level of the mammilary bodies displayed a significantly higher firing rate and shorter action potential than those located in posterior slices at the level of the accessory optic tract. The location of the cell was also a critical factor in its response to stimulation of the pars reticulata: in anterior slices only 45.5% of the cells responded with inhibitory postsynaptic potentials to stimulation, while in posterior slices inhibitory postsynaptic potentials occurred in 85.7% of the neurons (n = 44). In addition, anteriorly located neurons were more sensitive to direct electrical stimulation than posteriorly located cells and they also exhibited excitatory postsynaptic potentials (33%) on pars reticulata stimulation. However, the actual properties of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were essentially the same in these neurons irrespective of whether they were located either in the anterior or posterior part of the nigra: reversal potentials of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were found at two distinct potentials indicating involvement of both GABAA and GABAB receptors. This deduction is also supported by additional pharmacological findings: application of the GABAA antagonist, bicuculline methiodide and/or GABAB antagonist, 2-hydroxysaclofen blocked both the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and the cessation of spontaneous firing activity of the cells to stimulation of the pars reticulata. The other type of pars compacta neuron recorded discharges phasically and was located exclusively in the anterior pole of the substantia nigra. These cells showed a wide range of spontaneous firing activity, a non-rhythmic, irregular pattern of firing, a shorter action potential width and the presence of a low-threshold calcium conductance. These &quot;phasic&quot; neurons also differed greatly from other compacta neurons in their response to pars reticulata stimulation: spontaneous activity of these cells was not inhibited nor did they show inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Instead, the majority was preferentially activated by direct stimulation of the dendrites, although excitatory postsynaptic potentials could also be evoked.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Transforming growth factor alpha messenger RNA and protein levels are highest in the striatum, the target area of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra, suggesting a role as a target-derived neurotrophic factor for these cells. To test this hypothesis, we characterized the actions of transforming growth factor alpha on fetal rat dopaminergic neurons in culture. Transforming growth factor alpha promoted dopamine uptake in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Administration of transforming growth factor alpha at the time of plating for 2 h produced a significant increase in dopamine uptake after five days of growth in vitro. As cultures aged they became less responsive to transforming growth factor alpha, such that longer times of exposure were required to elicit a similar, but weaker, response. Dopaminergic cell survival was selectively promoted by transforming growth factor alpha, since there was an increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunostained cells without a parallel increase in the total number of neuron-specific enolase-immunopositive cells. Neurite length, branch number and soma area of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive cells also were enhanced by transforming growth factor alpha treatment. Increases in each of the dopaminergic parameters due to transforming growth factor alpha were accompanied by a rise in glial cell number, making it possible that these effects were mediated by this cell population. The neurotrophin antagonist, K252b, failed to inhibit the transforming growth factor alpha-induced increase in dopamine uptake, indicating that transforming growth factor alpha's effects were not mediated by neurotrophin mechanisms. The actions of transforming growth factor alpha on the differentiation of dopaminergic neurons only partially overlapped with those of epidermal growth factor. Thus, while transforming growth factor alpha and epidermal growth factor are believed to share the same receptor they differentially affect dopaminergic cell development in vitro. These results indicate that transforming growth factor alpha is a trophic factor for mesencephalic cells in culture and suggests that transforming growth factor alpha plays a physiological role in the development of these cells in vivo.
The effects of NG-nitro-L-arginine on L-glutamate-induced neurotoxicity have been evaluated on primary cultures of neonatal rat cortical neurons. Treatment of cultures with increasing concentrations of L-glutamate during 5 min produced a delayed neuronal death, as measured by lactate dehydrogenase release in the medium 24 h later. Maximal toxicity was obtained with 500 microM of L-glutamate. Substantial nitric oxide synthase activity was detected in these cortical cultures. Nitric oxide synthase activity and cellular L-glutamate-induced cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate accumulation were totally inhibited by 100 microM NG-nitro-L-arginine. Addition of NG-nitro-L-arginine (100 microM) to the medium either 5 min prior to and during L-glutamate exposure (500 microM, 5 min) or for 24 h after L-glutamate exposure decreased the amino acid-induced neurotoxicity by 23% (not significant) and 43%, respectively. When added 5 min before L-glutamate and just after L-glutamate removal and kept in contact with neurons for the following 24 h, NG-nitro-L-arginine (100 microM) antagonized by 74% the L-glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. This effect was not reversed by a co-application of L-arginine (1 mM). The neuroprotective effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine was concentration-dependent, a half-maximal inhibition of L-glutamate-induced neurotoxicity being observed with the addition (before and after L-glutamate) of 4 microM of the drug. These results suggest that the neuroprotective effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine previously observed in vivo is exerted at the neuronal level.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, quinolinic acid, into the rat striatum in vivo results in the degeneration of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons, as determined seven days later using the marker enzymes, choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase, respectively. Such damage was dose-dependently prevented by CGP 37849 or MK-801 (competitive and uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, respectively) administered systemically or intrastriatally at the same time as quinolinic acid. The neuroprotective activity of CGP 37849 was associated with the D-enantiomer, CGP 40116 (ED50 7.5 mg/kg i.p.), which was approximately 1.5-fold and 3.5-fold more potent than the related compounds, D-CPPene and CGS 19755, respectively. CGP 37849 was a weaker neuroprotectant than MK-801 (ED50 0.8 mg/kg i.p) when administered systemically, but was dramatically more potent following coinjection with quinolinic acid (ED50's 0.2 and 117 nmol, respectively). When injected intrastriatally 0.5-2 h post-quinolinic acid, CGP 37849 was protective over the entire period studied, whereas MK-801 was less effective at all post-quinolinic acid injection times. The finding that CGP 37849 is neuroprotective when administered intrastriatally 1-2 h post-quinolinic acid supports the hypothesis that a period exists following excitotoxic insult in which neurons are not committed to die, and can be rescued by blockade of ongoing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. Competition studies indicated that, when coinjected with 100-400 nmol quinolinic acid into the striatum, CGP 37849 exhibited kinetics predicted of a competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (declining neuroprotective potency with increasing doses of agonist), whereas MK-801 displayed a complex picture, with weak protective activity at low doses of quinolinic acid. Following systemic administration, neither antagonist was markedly affected by the dose of excitotoxin. When given i.p. at up to 6 h post-quinolinic acid, CGP 37849 and MK-801 showed essentially identical profiles of post-insult protection; degeneration of cholinergic neurons was reduced significantly throughout the entire post-insult period, whereas GABAergic neurons were protected only when drugs were administered 2 h or earlier post-quinolinic acid. The data indicate that competitive and uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists are effective neuroprotectants in vivo, and that parameters such as drug lipophilicity or mechanism of action at the receptor do not impinge upon their properties as systemically active cerebroprotectants.
[3H]Glycine is actively taken up into bovine isolated adrenal medulla chromaffin cells with the subsequent catecholamine release. [3H]Glycine uptake has two interaction sites based on relative Km measurements. These sites are inherently distinct since the effects of strychnine and temperature on glycine binding are significantly different. The high affinity site (Km = 6 x 10(-7) M) is strychnine-sensitive and its activity is unaltered at 4 degrees C. These results point to a receptor-like function. The low-affinity site (Km = 1.4 x 10(-3) is strychnine-insensitive and is significantly inhibited (75%) by low temperature (4 degrees C), by low Na+ concentration and 50% by ouabain (10(-4) M). Compounds structurally similar to glycine and known to antagonize its uptake to neuronal cells, such as beta-alanine, N-methyl-d,l-alanine and sarcosine, also inhibit the low affinity site which indicate a glycine uptake function for this site. The relative activity of the uptake inhibitors indicate that in the adrenal chromaffin cell, glycine uptake is carried out by a System A amino acid transporter mechanism. GABA does not affect glycine binding or uptake in the chromaffin cells, suggesting that these two inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitters act via different mechanisms in the adrenal medulla. The results for glycine activity in adrenal medulla chromaffin cells are remarkably similar to those seen in CNS neuronal cells, and thus support the use of chromaffin cells as a model system for studying the mechanism of action of glycine in the central nervous system.
An ultrastructural study is made of the synaptic contacts occurring between structures labelled anterogradely and retrogradely in the superficial dorsal horn following injections of cholera toxin subunit B or horseradish peroxidase in the dorsal reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata of the rat. Both tracers revealed labelled axonal boutons in lamina I with round synaptic vesicles and a few large granular vesicles making asymmetrical synaptic contacts upon labelled somata and dendrites. After injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin in the dorsal reticular nucleus, labelled boutons identical to those revealed by the two other tracers were presynaptic to unlabelled somata and dendrites. In addition, dorsoreticular neurons were labelled retrogradely following injections of cholera toxin subunit B into the superficial dorsal horn of the cervical enlargement. These observations show the occurrence of a reciprocal connection between dorsal reticular and lamina I neurons. Considering the putative excitatory nature of the axodendritic contacts in lamina I, a positive feedback circuit is suggested, whereby the nociceptive signals transmitted to the dorsal medullary reticular formation by marginal neurons are intensified.
The origin of both direct and indirect enkephalinergic innervation potentially able to influence neurons of the rat arcuate nucleus has been investigated by combining enkephalin immunocytochemistry and retrograde axonal transport of a wheatgerm agglutinin-Apo horseradish peroxidase-gold complex. Twenty four hours after tissue injections of small volumes (20 nl) of the tracer into the arcuate nucleus, rats were treated with colchicine and killed. In order to localize the enkephalinergic cells which directly innervate the arcuate nucleus, Vibratome sections were first silver-stained for detection of the wheatgerm agglutinin-Apohorseradish peroxidase-gold complex and then processed for enkephalin immunohistochemistry. To study the indirect enkephalinergic input to the arcuate nucleus, an electron microscope detection of immunoreactive synapses was carried out in areas rich in retrogradely labeled perikarya. Perikarya both immunoreactive and retrogradely labeled were observed ipsilaterally to the injection site in telencephalic structures such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic and adjacent periventricular areas. Hypothalamic ipsilateral doubly labeled cells were localized principally in the dorsomedial nucleus and rostral arcuate nucleus. The major direct inputs arising from brainstem structures concerns the dorsal and ventral parabrachial nuclei. Moreover, at the ultrastructural level, numerous enkephalinergic terminals were demonstrated to synapse with retrogradely labeled perikarya and dendrites localized in the medial preoptic area, the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and the parabrachial nuclei providing evidence for an important enkephalinergic input on neurons projecting to the arcuate nucleus. Taken together, our light and electron microscope studies strongly suggest that the arcuate nucleus is the target of an enkephalinergic control originating from several regions and acting either directly or indirectly on neurons projecting to the arcuate nucleus.
We have shown previously that stimulation of the cat cervical sympathetic trunk for 2 h at 40 Hz depletes the large dense-cored vesicle store in synaptic boutons of the superior cervical ganglion and that post-depletion recovery of the store takes several days. In the present study, we examine the properties of the depletion and recovery mechanisms. Invaginations of the plasmalemma suggestive of the exocytosis of dense cores were seen frequently in boutons from stimulated ganglia. The depletion process is calcium dependent: in ganglia perfused with calcium-free Krebs solution no depletion was produced by 40 Hz preganglionic stimulation. The depletion process is rapid: during continuous stimulation of the cervical sympathetic trunk with 40 Hz, depletion observed by the end of 2 h was similar to depletion by the end of the initial 5 min of stimulation. The depletion process is frequently dependent: when the cervical sympathetic trunk was stimulated with a constant number of stimuli, no depletion occurred at the frequency of 2 or 10 Hz, while the frequencies of 20 and 40 Hz produced depletion, which was greater at 40 Hz. Recovery of the large dense-cored vesicle store during the initial 24 h after 10 min of 40 Hz stimulation was faster, and of approximately the same magnitude, than during the succeeding five days. Recovery of the store after stimulus-evoked depletion was prevented by application of colchicine to the cervical sympathetic trunk, which suggests dependence of recovery on fast axonal transport. Large dense-cored vesicles accumulated in the colchicine-treated segment of cervical sympathetic trunk axons. In conclusion, these observations suggest that the stimulus-evoked depletion of large dense-cored vesicle stores in synaptic boutons of the cat superior cervical ganglion is the result of calcium-dependent exocytosis of the large dense-cored vesicle core and that the post-stimulus recovery is critically dependent on microtubule-mediated axonal transport.
We have studied changes in neuropeptide expression in four different models of nerve injury in adult rats. The models involved the cutaneous sural and saphenous nerves, and were associated with different degrees of regrowth and peripheral target reinnervation. These were: simple crush of the nerve, complete cut and self-anastomosis; cut and ligation, and cut and anastomosis of the nerve to an isolated stump of peripheral nerve. Thus, in the first two models a partial or complete reinnervation of peripheral targets was possible, while in the third and fourth it was not. The last model allowed regenerating fibres to come into contact with Schwann cells in the distal stump. We measured substance P-like immunoreactivity in the manipulated nerves (by radioimmunoassay) and the number of manipulated afferents expressing the peptide in dorsal root ganglion cells (by combined immunohistochemistry and retrograde labelling), at time points up to 12 weeks after the nerve manipulations. The retrograde labelling also allowed estimates of cell death. Two weeks after the nerve injuries, when no cell death had occurred, the nerves subjected to a cut lesion (last three models) all showed very low levels of substance P-like immunoreactivity, both in the amounts in peripheral nerve, and in the number of manipulated cell staining positively (P &lt; 0.01). In contrast, the crush model showed no significant change in substance P levels in the nerve (P &gt; 0.05), but a significant increase in the number of immunopositive cells (P &lt; 0.01). Twelve weeks after the nerve manipulations, a variable degree of cell death was seen. Only 9% of afferents in the crush model were lost (P &gt; 0.05 compared with normal) but a 39 and 45% loss was seen in tie and resuture models, respectively, (P &lt; 0.05) for both, compared with normal), and a 63% loss in the stump model (P &lt; 0.01 compared to normal, and P &lt; 0.05 compared to tie and resuture models). An analysis of cell size distributions indicated that cell death affected both large and small cells. At 12 weeks, the levels of substance P in the first two models (associated with peripheral reinnervation) had returned towards, but did not reach, normal (P &lt; 0.01), whilst the stump model showed no significant recovery and the tie model was intermediate. Proportionately more manipulated cells were found to express substance P immunoreactivity in the stump model than expected after allowing for cell death.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of capsaicin cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) were measured in individual dorsal root ganglion neurons of the rat in culture. Capsaicin produced a rapid concentration-dependent (EC50 value of 72 nM) increase in [Ca2+]i which was entirely dependent on Ca2+ entry. Exposure of the neurons to a high concentration of capsaicin resulted in desensitization, but only in the presence of external Ca2+. Raising [Ca2+]i with a depolarizing concentration of potassium or the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin did not reduce the response to a subsequent application of capsaicin. Capsaicin did not induce desensitization in Ca(2+)-free medium even if [Ca2+]i was simultaneously raised with a combination of ionomycin plus carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl-hydrazone. Okadaic acid, a known inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, caused a transient dose-dependent (EC50 value, 100nM) rise in [Ca2+]i, but had no effect on either the responsiveness to capsaicin or capsaicin induced desensitization. The capsaicin antagonist capsazepine blocked the increase in [Ca2+]i evoked by capsaicin and prevented desensitization. These results suggest that desensitization requires the presence of extracellular Ca2+, cannot be mimicked by raising the concentration of [Ca2+]i and may involve Ca2+ entry through activated capsaicin-operated ion channels.
The rostral ventral medulla has been shown to consist of three distinct subregions: the midline or raph region, the lateral paragigantocellular-gigantocellular region and the rostro-ventrolateral reticular nucleus. All three regions have been shown to contribute to central vaso-regulation and to project towards sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the thoracic spinal cord. Therefore it is of particular interest to describe the interconnections between the three regions and to see if local afferents reach cells which have been implicated in the regulation of descending inputs. Following injections of the anterograde tract tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus or the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus, labelled axons were traced into the medullary raph nuclei and the contralateral rostral ventrolateral medulla. Efferents originating from both regions innervated the raph pallidus, raph obscurus and raph magnus. However the distribution of terminals originating from the two regions was different in the contralateral ventrolateral medulla oblongata. The data indicate that the connection between the ipsi- and contralateral equivalents of both the lateral paragigantocellular-gigantocellular region and the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus are stronger than the cross-connection between the ipsi- and contralateral parts of the two different regions. In the second part of the study, the existence of direct projections from the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus and the lateral paragigantocellular-gigantocellular region onto serotonin-immunogold-labelled cells of the ventromedial medulla were investigated. The correlated light and electron microscopic analysis revealed direct synaptic contacts between axons originating from both the lateral paragigantocellular-gigantocellular region and the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus, and serotonin-immunoreactive cells of the raph obscurus and raph pallidus. The results of the present light microscopic tract-tracing study revealed a different pattern of the intramedullary projection of the lateral paragigantocellular-gigantocellular region and the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus. These data are in support of the proposed parcellation of the two cytoarchitectonically different areas of the rostral ventrolateral medulla into two functionally distinct subdivisions. Furthermore, the direct anatomical connection revealed in the present study between cells of the rostral ventrolateral and ventromedial medulla oblongata indicates the possibility that vasoregulatory effects of some cells of the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata might be executed via direct projections onto serotonin-immunoreactive cells of the medullary raph nuclei.
Our light and electron microscopic studies (Seress L., Nitsch R. and Leranth C. (1993) Neuroscience 55, 775-796.) indicated that in the hippocampus of the African Green monkey, calretinin is exclusively present in non-pyramidal cells. Calretinin-positive axons formed a prominent band at the border of the dentate molecular and granule cell layers and in the pyramidal layer of CA2, and established asymmetric synapses with different postsynaptic targets. The goal of this study is to determine the cells of origin of this presumably extrinsic innervation, and subsequently, the characterization of their neurochemical features. We were able to demonstrate that calretinin-immunoreactive axon terminals in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and in the pyramidal layer of CA2 disappear 10 days after fimbria-fornix transection. Retrograde tracing revealed their cells of origin to be in the supramammillary nucleus. Co-localization studies employing the cryostat consecutive, semithin section technique provided evidence that these large projecting neurons contained both calretinin and substance-P but lack GABA as an inhibitory transmitter. In contrast, co-localization studies revealed that almost all of the intrinsic calretinin-positive neurons in different areas of the primate hippocampus contained GAD or GABA. These results suggest that there are two separate calretinin-containing systems in the primate hippocampus, i.e. an intrinsic inhibitory and an extrinsic excitatory one, the latter deriving from the supramammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus.
The topography of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase/horseradish peroxidase-labeled mossy fiber terminals of lower thoracic-upper lumbar (T12-L3) spinal projections to the cerebellar anterior lobe was quantitatively analysed in adult rats. Computer-based image analysis mapped the orthogonal (parallel to the surface) distribution of labeled terminals in two-dimensional reconstructions of the unfoled anterior lobe cortex. The radial (perpendicular to the surface) distribution of terminals within the granule cell layer was mapped by computing whether the terminals were in either the outer- or inner-halves of this layer. The number of labeled terminals in each lobule was calculated. In the anterior lobe, lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinocerebellar projections terminate primarily in lobules II (mean 27.14%), III (mean 38.68%), and IV (mean 19.31%). Different-sized bilateral injections restricted to L1 were used to study the organization of intrasegmental spinocerebellar projections. Small injections into L1 labeled a limited number of terminals which were located either in clusters or were spatially isolated. Intermediate-sized intrasegmental injections resulted in additional clusters of labeled terminals. Many of the terminal clusters were spatially related and formed larger irregularly shaped patches. Large intrasegmental injections labeled terminal clusters and patches that were discontinuous but aligned parallel to the longitudinal (transverse) axis of lobules II-IV. Injections including segments rostral and caudal to L1 were used to study the topography of intersegmental lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinocerebellar projections. Multisegmental injections increased the number of labeled terminal clusters and patches which obscured the pattern of segmental input, but there was still a transversely oriented pattern of termination. Distinct transversely aligned terminal free areas remained apparent. Lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinocerebellar projections terminated in both the outer- and inner-halves of the granule cell layer, but overall were more numerous in the outer-half of this layer. In serially spaced sagittal sections, however, the majority of terminals alternated between the outer- and inner-halves of the granule cell layer. Outer- and inner-terminals were not spatially segregated in their orthogonal distribution. These results indicate lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinocerebellar projections have a complex three-dimensional topography in the anterior lobe. These findings are discussed in relation to previous findings for a sagittally oriented topography for lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinocerebellar projections and in the context of how cerebellar somatosensory afferent input may be organized.
The effects of substance P and the selective neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist (+/-)-CP-96,345 have been compared on in vitro spinal cord preparations from the rat and the gerbil. Substance P produced a concentration-dependent depolarization of motoneurons recorded from ventral roots of both species. The EC50 values (microM mean +/- S.E.M.) obtained in rat (0.95 + 1.0/-0.49) and gerbil (0.47 + 0.26/-0.17) preparations were comparable. The mean maximal depolarization (mV mean +/- S.E.M.) evoked in rat (2.07 + 0.26/-0.25) was approximately two-fold greater than that evoked in gerbil (1.21 + 0.15/-0.14) preparations. In the rat substance P had a biphasic effect (depression followed by potentiation) on the short latency probably monosynaptic reflex evoked by electrical stimulation of a dorsal root. In gerbil preparations substance P produced only potentiation of the monosynaptic reflex. The EC50 values (microM) mean +/- S.E.M.) for this potentiating action in rat (0.97 + 0.75/-0.43) and gerbil (0.46 + 3.6/-0.4) preparations were similar. This potentiation demonstrates a positive modulation of an endogenous excitatory probably glutamatergic transmission by substance P in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. The depressant phase observed in rat preparations may be related to the relative immaturity of myelination in rat ventral root fibres compared to the gerbil. The selective neurokinin-1 antagonist (+/-)-CP-96,345 was one hundred-fold less potent as an antagonist of substance P-induced depolarizations in the rat (pA2 4.69 +/- 0.18, n = 7) than in the gerbil (pA2 6.79 +/- 0.16, n = 5) spinal cord. This finding suggests that (+/-)-CP-96,345 may not act solely at the neurokinin-1 recognition site. In conclusion this study demonstrates that substance P modulates the monosynaptic reflex in the spinal cord presumably via activation of neurokinin-1 receptors.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences were synthesized with nuclear DNA (nucDNA) sequence-tagged site (STS) primers by mismatch priming in three independent studies of the human nuclear genome. Mismatch primer binding sites on the mtDNA were identified with from 6- to 10-bp identity at the 3' ends of the primers. In two of three cases, single-stranded mtDNA copies were gel-isolated with intended nucDNA PCR products. During routine screening of the STSs, the radiolabeled gel-isolated products hybridized to polymorphic mtDNA restriction fragments. Intense signals after overnight exposure of radiolabeled PCR probes on Southern blots suggest contaminating mtDNA PCR products. The theoretical annealing temperatures of the mismatches were well below the annealing temperatures of the PCR primers, demonstrating annealing reactions driven by the molar surplus of the primers, that is, mass action. The probability that two primers (either one of a pair or both), designed to amplify nucDNA, will bind to and amplify mtDNA may be as high as 1 in 64, assuming that an identical match with only the 3' hexanucleotide is sufficient for amplification. To circumvent this problem we have developed OLIGFIND, a program that has identified the 104 of 4096 possible hexamers that are not present in human mtDNA. Our results suggest that time could be saved by designing STS primers with one of these 104 hexamers at the 3' end. OLIGFIND can also evaluate primer 3' ends for potential PCR products from mtDNA.
In two experiments, we examined the hypothesis that repeatedly adapting and readapting to two mutually conflicting sensory environments fosters the development of a separate adaptation to each situation (dual adaptation) as well as an increased ability to adapt to a novel displacement (adaptive generalization). In the preliminary study, subjects alternated between adapting their visuomotor coordination to 30-diopter prismatic displacement and readapting to normal vision. Dual adaptation was observed by the end of 10 alternation cycles. However, an unconfounded test of adaptive generalization was prevented by an unexpected prism-adaptive shift in preexposure baselines for the dual-adapted subjects. In the primary experiment, the subjects adapted and readapted to opposite 15-diopter displacements for a total of 12 cycles. Both dual adaptation and adaptive generalization to a 30-diopter displacement were obtained. These findings may be understood in terms of serial reversal learning and &quot;learning to learn.&quot;
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 9-amino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroacridine (THA; Tacrine) on muscarinic-receptor-linked second-messenger systems in rat brain and to determine the selectivity and mechanisms of these effects. Both competitive and noncompetitive antagonism was revealed in saturation radioligand binding studies performed in cortical and striatal tissue, depending on THA concentration. Micromolar THA concentrations blocked muscarinic-receptor-mediated inhibition of cAMP formation and stimulation of phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis with poor selectivity between the two responses. While both responses were blocked in the same concentration range (4-60 mumol/l), non-competitive antagonism of PI hydrolysis occurred at THA concentrations greater than 10 mumol/l while competitive antagonism was displayed for the cAMP response at concentrations of THA up to 40 mumol/l. THA was equally effective at inhibiting PI hydrolysis stimulated by histamine, phenylephrine or oxotremorine-M, when these agonists were employed in concentrations equal to their EC50s for the response. THA did not antagonize PI hydrolysis mediated by the quisqualate receptor at any agonist concentration used. Furthermore, THA blocked carbachol- but not morphine-induced inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation in the striatum.
Adult, male, Sprague-Dawley rats were given either predictable or unpredictable footshocks coupled with predictable or unpredictable warning stimuli in a factorially designed experiment. The effect of footshocks on different parameters of motility was studied immediately, 1 h and 24 h later. Footshock-induced stress caused increases in the motility of rats, and this increase persisted for 24 h. Of the parameters studied, distance travelled and time spent in ambulatory behavior were significantly affected, but there was no difference between the predictably and unpredictably shocked animals in the pattern or time course of stress-induced locomotion changes. The defecation scores recorded in footshocked rats were lower than in controls in both the predictably and unpredictably shocked groups, but there was no difference between the predictably and unpredictably shocked groups. Lack of differences in motility and defecation between the two groups limits the usefulness of these parameters in behavioral experiments based on predictability of noxious stimuli.
The proenkephalin gene is a well-studied model of transcription factor-target gene interaction in the nervous system and has been proposed as a regulatory target of the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos. This regulatory mechanism has been proposed, in part, because the cAMP response element 2 (CRE-2) site, the key DNA regulatory element within the proenkephalin second-messenger-inducible enhancer, avidly binds AP-1 proteins, including Fos, in vitro. However, we observe a dissociation in the time course of activation of c-fos and proenkephalin mRNA in rat striatum after administration of the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol. This result prompted us to investigate the composition of protein complexes in striatal nuclear extracts that bind to the CRE-2 site. Even though our striatal nuclear extracts had substantial basal and haloperidol-inducible AP-1-binding activities that contained Fos, we could not detect Fos in complexes bound to the CRE-2 element. Instead, as determined by antibody supershift analysis, we detect CRE-binding protein (CREB)-like proteins binding to CRE-2 in both basal and haloperidol-stimulated conditions. Finally, we show that haloperidol induces CREB protein phosphorylation in striatum.


Circular dichroism was used to study the folding of alpha alpha-tropomyosin and AcTM43, a 43-residue peptide designed to serve as a model for the N-terminal domain of tropomyosin. The sequence of the peptide is AcMDAIKKKMQMLKLDVENLLDRLEQLEADLKALEDRYKQLEGGC. The peptide appeared to form a coiled coil at low temperatures (&lt; 25 degrees C) in buffers with physiological ionic strength and pH. The folding and unfolding of the peptide, however, were noncooperative. When CD spectra were examined as a function of temperature, the apparent degree of folding differed when the ellipticity was followed at 222, 208, and 280 nm. Deconvolution of the spectra suggested that at least three component curves contributed to the CD in the far UV. One component curve was similar to the CD spectrum of the coiled-coil alpha-helix of native alpha alpha-tropomyosin. The second curve resembled the spectrum of single-stranded short alpha-helical segments found in globular proteins. The third was similar to that of polypeptides in the random coil conformation. These results suggested that as the peptide folded, the alpha-helical content increased before most of the coiled coil was formed. When the CD spectrum of striated muscle alpha alpha-tropomyosin was examined as a function of temperature, the unfolding was also not totally cooperative. As the temperature was raised from 0 to 25 degrees C, there was a decrease in the coiled coil and an increase in the conventional alpha-helix type spectrum without formation of random coil. The major transition, occurring at 40 degrees C, was a cooperative transition characterized by the loss of all of the remaining coiled coil and a concomitant increase in random coil.



The effects of hyperdynamic therapy with colloidal volume expansion and pharmacological augmentation of cardiac function with dobutamine on local cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the size of ischemic injury were investigated in rats subjected to 6 h of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. At 45 min after MCA occlusion, each rat was randomly assigned to one of the following treatment groups: (1) control; (2) hetastarch infusion (HES); and (3) hetastarch plus dobutamine (12 micrograms/kg/min) infusion (HES/DOB). In both the HES and HES/DOB groups, cardiac output and local CBF in ischemic brain markedly increased after treatment and infarction volumes were significantly reduced as compared to the control group. There were, however, no significant differences between both groups apart from a dobutamine-induced tachycardia. Colloidal volume expansion augmented cardiac output, increased CBF in ischemic brain, and substantially modified the extent of ischemic injury. However, the addition of dobutamine did not bring about adjunctive beneficial effects of cardiac performance, CBF, or the degree of ischemic brain damage in the rat focal ischemic model.
The percentages of females at critical steps in the academic career ladder were examined for one specific field, neuroscience. There was a slight attrition among females completing the Ph.D. However, the major drop-off occurred when qualified post-doctorates did not apply for faculty positions. Remedial actions should focus on not only the graduate school environment but also on the more critical postdoctoral experience.
Recent reports have indicated that weak activity in a test input, negatively correlated (out-of-phase) with tetanization of a separate, converging input, produces an NMDA-independent, associative long-term depression (LTD) of the test input synapses, in hippocampal field CA1 (Stanton and Sejnowski, 1989; Stanton et al., 1991). Associative LTD has also been observed in the dentate gyrus, in vivo, but only following &quot;priming&quot; of the test path with 5 Hz stimulation prior to associative conditioning (Christie and Abraham, 1992b). We have used these stimulus protocols, in vitro, in order to compare the induction of non-associative and associative LTD in field CA1 of the adult rat hippocampus. Stimulation in normal solution evoked a small non-associative LTD, but no associative LTD. Addition of picrotoxin to the medium facilitated the induction of NMDA-dependent non-associative LTD, but not associative LTD. Previously potentiated pathways were not different from naive pathways in expression of LTD of either kind. Finally, 'priming' stimulation (5 Hz) of the test pathway produced a weak, selective enhancement of associative LTD that was, however, not significantly greater than non-associative LTD. These results indicate that, for our experimental conditions, negatively correlated co-activity during afferent tetanization does not induce a substantial associative LTD in area CA1.
We studied the in vitro neurite outgrowth activity of fibronectin, laminin, heparan sulfate proteoglycan, type I collagen, type IV collagen, and type VIII collagen in cholinergic neuronal cell lines and primary cultured neurons. All these substances had high neurite promoting activity on primary cultured neurons from embryonic mouse brain. However, collagens had no such an effect on primary cultured neurons from postnatal brain. When neuronal cell lines were used, collagens and other extracellular matrix substances were equally and highly effective on cells originated from embryonic brain, but collagens were less effective on cells from postnatal brain. These findings suggest that postnatal neurons lose the neuritic responsiveness to collagens earlier than that of other ECM.

Advancements in the management of urologic complications such as the neurogenic bladder have been essential to improving the quality of life and longevity of patients with spinal cord injury. These advances are discussed in greater detail in the subsequent articles in this issue. Despite the many improvements that have been made in post-trauma care, spinal cord injury remains a devastating lesion of the nervous system. Current therapies have not proved to be particularly effective in preventing or reversing damage to the spinal cord. Still, every effort should be made to preserve remaining function and to prevent complications. The care of these patients has been significantly improved with the development of specialized multidisciplinary centers. The emphasis in current treatment focuses on rehabilitation and adaptation to the disability and on prevention of secondary disabilities. Research in basic and clinical neuroscience will result in better, more useful care and treatment for those with spinal cord injury. However, even then, a neurorehabilitation team will be essential to care for these patients. Continuing efforts must be made to ensure that people with spinal cord injury lead full and productive lives.
The present study evaluates the time course and spatial extent of changes in GFAP mRNA expression following the induction of spreading depression. Spreading depression was elicited by applying filterpaper pledgets soaked in KCl (3 M) to exposed parietal cortex for ten minutes. Animals were killed 1.5, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, 96 and 192 h post-KCl application, and the forebrains were prepared for quantitative in situ hybridization. The KCl treatment led to a many-fold increase in GFAP mRNA content in the ipsilateral hippocampus and neocortex and, to a lesser extent, in the contralateral hippocampus, but did not affect GFAP mRNA levels in the contralateral cortex or in the thalamus. The time course of increased expression of GFAP mRNA in the hippocampus differed markedly from that of the cortex. In the hippocampus, GFAP mRNA levels rose rapidly to a maximum at 24 h post-exposure, then fell rapidly. In the cortex, levels rose more slowly and did not reach a maximum until 4 days post-exposure. Analysis of GFAP mRNA levels by dot blot hybridization using samples from a separate set of animals killed at one and 4 days following the KCl exposure confirmed both the upregulation in GFAP mRNA levels and the regional time course differences. Intraperitoneal injection of MK-801, a non-competitive NMDA antagonist which prevents spreading depression, blocked the upregulation of GFAP mRNA in both the hippocampus and the cortex, as demonstrated by both in situ and dot blot hybridization. The results suggest that the physiological changes accompanying spreading depression have a powerful influence on glial cell gene expression.
The expression of the gene for nerve growth factor (NGF) was examined in the central nervous system of adult and fetal monkeys. In adults, the highest level of NGF mRNA was found in the hippocampus and relatively high levels were observed in the cerebral cortices and thalamus. NGF mRNA was also detected in the cerebellum and the caudate nucleus. In the spinal cord, there was no evidence of the mRNA. The levels of NGF mRNA were closely correlated with those of NGF. At embryonic day 140 (E140), levels of NGF mRNA in the visual cortex and cerebellum were three times higher than those at the adult stage. Our previous study on the ontogeny of NGF (Hayashi, M. et al., Neuroscience, 36 (1990) 683-689) showed that the level of NGF in the visual cortex at E140 is the same as that at adult stage. Thus, at the fetal stage, NGF may be actively transported from the cerebral cortex to other regions of the brain, such as the basal forebrain area. By contrast, the levels of NGF and NGF mRNA in the cerebellum were almost the same at the adult and fetal stages, suggesting that NGF, which is synthesized in the cerebellum, may be taken up locally by cerebellar cells.
Sucrose gradient analysis of chick acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha 7 subunits expressed in oocytes indicates that they form pharmacologically active homomers of the same size as native alpha 7 AChRs, a size compatible with a complex of five alpha 7 subunits. By immunoisolating the [35S]methionine-labeled alpha 7 subunits we also demonstrate that they do not appear to assemble with endogenous Xenopus AChR subunits. Pharmacological characterization of detergent-solubilized brain alpha 7 AChRs and alpha 7 homomers reveals that they have similar but nonidentical properties. The pharmacological difference is most accentuated for cytisine (approximately 50-fold). Thus, at least in E18 chicken brain, most or all of the native alpha 7 AChRs do not appear to be homomeric.
About one quarter of Alzheimer's disease patients have been found to have concomitant subcortical and neocortical Lewy bodies (LBs). We compared the aberrant neuronal sprouting and the extent of neuritic and synaptic damage in these Lewy body variants of Alzheimer's disease (LBV), with the same pathologic alterations in Alzheimer's disease without LBs (AD). More of the thioflavine-S-positive senile plaques of the LBVs contained growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43), a marker of neuritic growth and sprouting. Compared to AD, the LBVs had 39% more GAP-43-positive plaques in the frontal cortex, and 53% more in the hippocampus. These neuritic alterations were accompanied by an accumulation of amyloid precursor protein and phosphorylated neurofilaments. Synapse loss was the same in LBV and AD. These results suggest more extensive aberrant neuronal sprouting in LBV than in AD.
Ischemic-hypoxic neuro-excitation and toxicity have been attributed to a rapid release of glutamate and formation of nitric oxide. We have now demonstrated that sympatho-excitatory response (1.2-fold increase in sympathetic nerve activity) induced by intratracheal administration of 100% N2 for 20 s in anesthetized rats and membrane inward currents (0.4-0.5 nA) induced by cyanide (300 microM) and hypoxia (saturated with 75% N2) of these neurons recorded in slices of rat rostral ventrolateral medulla were neither reduced by blocking glutamate receptors with kynurenate, synaptic transmission with tetrodotoxin nor by inhibiting nitric oxide synthase with N-nitro-L-arginine, indicating that glutamate, synaptic inputs, and nitric oxide are not involved in rapid responses of reticulospinal vasomotor neurons to hypoxia.
The pharmacological sensitivities of the low threshold (LT) and high threshold (HT) calcium currents were studied using single electrode voltage clamp techniques in melanotrophs of the intact rat intermediate pituitary. The T-type LT current was selectively abolished by 200 microM nickel whereas the HT current was preferentially abolished by 25 microM cadmium. The HT current consisted of both sustained and inactivating components. The sustained portion of the HT current was increased by BAY K-8644 indicating the presence of an L-type current. The inactivating component of the HT current was not affected by omega-conotoxin, which blocks the N-type calcium current in many other cell types, but was rapidly and reversibly reduced by funnel-web toxin, a blocker of the P-type calcium channel. These data suggest the presence of a P-type channel in a neuroendocrine cell.




Vasopressin is a peptide hormone synthesized by neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, which project axon terminals to the neurohypophysis. Consistent with its antidiuretic properties, vasopressin release rises as a function of plasma osmolality, a response that results from accelerated action potential discharge. Previous studies have shown that increases in fluid osmolality depolarize supraoptic neurons in the absence of synaptic transmission, suggesting that these cells behave as intrinsic osmoreceptors. The mechanism by which changes in osmolality are transduced into an electrical signal is unknown, however. Here we report that changes in cell volume accompany physiological variations in fluid osmolality and that these modulate the activity of mechanosensitive cation channels in a way that is consistent with the macroscopic regulation of membrane voltage and action potential discharge. These findings define a function for stretch-inactivated channels in mammalian central neurons.
A set of 42 photographs of real-world scenes were filtered by convolution with a Laphacian-of-Gaussian kernel. The linear density of zero-crossings along notional lines in the filtered images was measured as a function of the orientation of those lines. The zero-crossing density was found to be greatest along near-vertical lines and least along horizontal lines. The peaks in this function were much broader than the troughs, and there was weak evidence of a small decline in density along lines at and very close to vertical. Psychophysical measurements of the apparent length of a line as a function of its orientation (by the current author and others) show very similar variation, subject to an overall scaling factor. This close correspondence is taken as strong evidence for some sort of environmental determination of the orientation dependence of human length judgements.
The role of dopamine in the control of hippocampal acetylcholine release was evaluated by using in vivo microdialysis. The effects of the two psychostimulants, cocaine and d-amphetamine, were studied on acetylcholine release in the hippocampus and compared to effects observed in the caudate nucleus. Administration of cocaine (10 and 20 mg/kg i.p.) increased acetylcholine release by 130 and 190% in the hippocampus, whereas in the caudate nucleus the enhancement was 51 and 80% over basal values, respectively. After the injection of d-amphetamine (1 and 2 mg/kg i.p.) the enhancement of acetylcholine release was 110 and 210% in the hippocampus whereas it was 35 and 54%, respectively, in the caudate nucleus. As observed in the caudate nucleus, pretreatment with the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, antagonized the cocaine- and amphetamine-induced increase in hippocampal acetylcholine release. These results show that cocaine and d-amphetamine, by increasing dopaminergic transmission, enhance the extracellular concentrations of acetylcholine in both brain areas. The relative enhancement in the hippocampus was far greater than that in the caudate nucleus, suggesting that dopaminergic control of cholinergic function differs in these two brain areas. The results also suggest that endogenous dopamine, by facilitating the release of acetylcholine in the hippocampus, may participate in the regulation of hippocampal cognitive processes.
We investigated the involvement of peripheral and central serotonin (5-HT)3 receptors in cisplatin- and 5-HT3 receptor agonist-induced emesis in ferrets. Cisplatin (10 mg/kg i.v.)-induced emesis was inhibited by intravenous YM060 (0.003-0.1 microgram/kg). A highly selective and potent 5-HT3 receptor agonist, m-chlorophenylbiguanide (1-10 mg/kg i.p.), dose dependently elicited emesis an effect which was inhibited by YM060 (0.003-0.3 microgram/kg i.v.). Vagotomy markedly reduced this emesis, and the combination of abdominal vagotomy and greater splanchnicectomy abolished emesis. Lesion of greater splanchnic nerves alone did not markedly inhibit emesis. Intracerebroventricularly (4th ventricle) administered YM060 inhibited cisplatin- and m-chlorophenylbiguanide-induced emesis only at higher doses (0.01-0.1 and 0.01-0.03 microgram, respectively). Intracerebroventricularly (4th ventricle) administered m-chlorophenylbiguanide (30-100 micrograms) produced only a weak retching response. These results indicate that stimulation of abdominal vagal afferent nerves via peripheral 5-HT3 receptors is important for triggering cisplatin- and m-chlorophenylbiguanide-induced emesis in ferrets.
The pharmacology of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels involved in the release of endogenous neurotransmitter amino acids was measured from small tissue slices of rat hippocampal CA1 region. Application of 50 mM KCl induced large increases in Ca(2+)-dependent overflow of endogenous glutamate, aspartate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Pretreatment of tissues with the funnel-web spider toxin omega-Aga-IVA (200 nM) reduced KCl-induced overflow of all three amino acids. Pretreatment with the cone snail toxin omega-CgTx-GVIA (2 microM) caused similar but smaller reductions in amino acid overflow (aspartate overflow was not reduced significantly). These results indicate that P-type Ca2+ channels, and to a lesser extent, N-type Ca2+ channels, are involved in the release of transmitter amino acids under these conditions.
Ligand binding studies have demonstrated that bivalent cations can alter interactions between purinergic agonists and adenosine receptors in brain membranes. In the present study, we have investigated whether a similar interaction can be demonstrated in terms of a functional response to adenosine, which is the inhibition of synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus mediated via presynaptic A1 receptors. Our data suggest that alterations in cation concentrations do not significantly affect the sensitivity of these adenosine receptors, as long as changes are made in such a way as to leave presynaptic Ca2+ entry unaffected. The experimental results do not support the conclusion that there is a specific effect of either Ca2+ or Mg2+ on adenosine receptor sensitivity, such as has been described for agonist interactions with adenosine A1 receptors. We conclude that the effects of bivalent cations observed in ligand binding studies probably reflect an effect at an intracellular site, either on the receptor itself, or perhaps on associated GTP binding proteins.
This study provides evidence of catecholaminergic neurons in the cranial division of the parasympathetic nervous system. Presumptive catecholaminergic preganglionic neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMX) were revealed by a clearcut depletion of intracellular catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme immunoreactivity induced by unilateral cervical vagotomy and identified on tissues immunocytochemically processed for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine beta-hydroxylase (D beta H) or phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT). This experimental design was essential because of the recent failure in two species to reproduce data previously obtained in double-label (combined immunocytochemical-retrograde transport) studies. Vagotomy data confirmed three spatially-segregated populations of catecholaminergic visceromotor neurons in the DMX. These cell bodies were morphologically identical to preganglionic neurons observed on alternate tissues stained for Nissl substance or immunostained for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the enzyme biosynthesizing acetylcholine. Neurons in the central and medial DMX demonstrated fall-off of TH-like immunoreactivity (LI) ipsilateral to the vagotomy at levels caudal to the obex. This cell group is assumed to be predominantly dopaminergic since relatively few neurons at this level of the DMX expressed D beta H-LI and none were immunostained for PNMT. A second population of immunoreactive neurons, concentrated in the rostral-lateral region of the DMX, was depleted of D beta H-LI on the ipsilateral side but did not express PNMT. These visceromotor neurons may, therefore, biosynthesize noradrenaline and belong to the rostral pole of the A2 area. A third population of presumptive adrenergic vagal dorsomotor neurons in the rostral-medial DMX was depleted of TH-, D beta H- and PNMT-LI at levels of the ipsilateral nucleus anterior to obex. Patterns of depletion of cytoplasmic enzyme-immunoreaction product were identical in all cases irrespective of the site of the transection or the postoperative survival period. Quantitative analysis demonstrated statistically significant loss of immunolabeled neurons in rostral and caudal subgroups of the DMX on the side ipsilateral to the vagotomy. It is concluded that catecholaminergic processes in the vagus nerve, as previously identified by the aldehyde-induced histofluorescence method, may partly arise from the lower brainstem.
The migration of facial motoneurons is affected by the reeler gene, and the facial nucleus of the reeler mutant is cytoarchitecturally abnormal. The present study was undertaken to compare the musculotopic organization of the reeler facial nucleus with that of the normal mouse by the retrograde horseradish peroxidase method. In the normal mouse, motoneurons supplying the nasolabial muscle were located in the lateral and dorsolateral subnuclei, those supplying the posterior auricular muscle in the ventromedial and dorsomedial subnuclei, those supplying the mentalis/platysma muscle in the ventral intermediate subnucleus of the facial nucleus, and those supplying the posterior belly of the digastric muscle in the accessory facial nucleus. This musculotopic representation on the main facial nucleus and accessory facial nucleus also appears in the reeler mouse. The musculotopic representation of the facial nucleus of the reeler mouse is thus identical to that of the normal mouse in spite of the former's cytoarchitectonic abnormalities.
We report characteristics of a monoclonal antibody (MAb) produced by immunizing mice against rat embryo hippocampus, and its cellular distribution in the brains of adult and embryonic rats. This antibody, designated as MAb 4A4, brightly stained granular and pyramidal neurons of the adult rat hippocampus, as well as some cortical neurons. Also, MAb 4A4 labeled granular and Purkinje cells of the cerebellum with less intensity. While glial cells were labeled relatively faintly. At embryonic day 18 in the rat, most brain neurons, primitive neuroepithelium, connective tissues and glia were labeled with this antibody, indicating that the expression of 4A4 antigen is regulated developmentally. The 4A4 antigen appeared to be localized to the nucleus of cells except in choroid plexus in which the focal membrane staining was observed. The nuclear localization of 4A4 antigen was further confirmed by the staining of cultured cell lines with MAb 4A4. Western blot analysis demonstrated a single band of the 4A4 antigen from cultured cells, with an apparent molecular weight of 220 kDa. Both the molecular weight and the distribution of the 4A4 antigen in the embryonic and adult rat brain and cultured cells suggest that this antigen is a novel nonhistone nuclear type, which is preferentially expressed in neurons of the rodent brains and is under developmental regulation.
We isolated and characterized a cDNA clone, encoding the prohormone of the sodium-influx-stimulating (SIS) peptide of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The prohormone is cleaved to generate a signal peptide of 23 amino acids and a SIS peptide of 77 amino acids. The SIS peptide as encoded by the cDNA represents a novel and complex neuropeptide, which controls the activity of sodium pumps in the integument, pericardium, ureter and nephridial gland. In situ hybridization showed that the SIS-peptide gene is expressed by the neuroendocrine, so-called Yellow Cells of the central nervous system.
When brain proteins separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and transferred to nitrocellulose are probe with 125I-labeled laminin, a single broad band of approximately 120 kDa binds laminin specifically. We show here by two-dimensional electrophoresis and protein microsequencing that this band consists of two distinct laminin-binding proteins. One of these is the amyloid precursor protein. The other, laminin-binding protein (LBP) 120, is closely related to the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein, dystroglycan (156 kDa); 5 peptides from purified bovine brain LBP120, ranging in size from 7 to 19 residues, are up to 100% identical to the predicted amino acid sequence of muscle dystroglycan (ibraghimov-Beskrovanaya, O., Ervasti, J. M., Leveille, C. J., Slaughter, C. A., Sernett, S. W., and Campbell, K. P. (1992) Nature 355, 696-702). These protein microsequence data support the data of Ibraghimov-Beskrovnaya et al., which suggest that the dystroglycan precursor is processed into 120/156- and 43-kDa proteins. Moreover, the data suggest a revision in the position of the proposed cleavage site of the precursor. The glycosylation and extracellular localization of LBP120/dystroglycan are consistent with it being a cell surface laminin receptor. LBP120/dystroglycan, either as a native protein, or following SDS-PAGE and transfer to nitrocellulose, binds with high affinity (Kd = 90 nM) to a proteolytic fragment of laminin (E3) containing the major heparin binding domain. This binding is Ca(2+)-dependent and inhibited by low concentrations of heparin. Thus, LBP120/dystroglycan is a major non-integrin laminin receptor whose high affinity interaction with laminin may reflect a structural role in brain and muscle.
The mushroom bodies in the protocerebrum are believed to be the structures of the insect brain most closely associated with higher-order sensory integration and learning. Drosophila melanogaster mutants with olfactory learning deficits have anatomically abnormal mushroom bodies or altered patterns of gene expression in mushroom body neurons. In addition, anatomical reorganization of the mushroom bodies occurs in adult flies, and possibly in adult honeybees; disturbance of electrical activity in this region disrupts memory formation in honeybees. Little is known, however, about the relationship of naturally occurring anatomical changes in the mushroom bodies to naturally occurring behavioural plasticity. We now report that age-based division of labour in adult worker honeybees (Apis mellifera) is associated with substantial changes in certain brain regions, notably the mushroom bodies. Moreover, these striking changes in brain structure are dependent, not on the age of the bee, but on its foraging experience, thus demonstrating a robust anatomical plasticity associated with complex behaviour in an adult insect.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor NR1 gene encodes RNA that is alternatively spliced to generate at least seven variants. The variants arise from splicing in or out of three exons; one encodes a 21-amino acid insert in the N-terminal domain, and two encode adjacent sequences of 37 and 38 amino acids in the C-terminal domain. Splicing out of the second C-terminal exon deletes a stop codon and results in an additional open reading frame encoding an unrelated sequence of 22 amino acids before arriving at a second stop codon. We denote the NR1 variants by the presence or absence of the three alternatively spliced exons (from 5' to 3'); thus, NR1(111) has all three exons, NR1(000) has none, and NR1(100) has only the N-terminal exon. We report here electrophysiological characterization of six splice variants of the NR1 receptor expressed in Xenopus oocytes. NR1 receptors that lacked the N-terminal exon (NR1(000), NR1(010), and NR1(011)) exhibited a relatively high affinity for NMDA (EC50 approximately 13 microM) and marked potentiation by spermine. In contrast, those receptor variants with the N-terminal insert (NR1(100), NR1(101), and NR1(111)) showed a lower agonist affinity and little or no spermine potentiation at saturating glycine. All six variants showed spermine potentiation at low glycine and inhibition by spermine at more negative potentials. Variants differing only in the C-terminal domain differed little in agonist affinity and spermine potentiation. These findings indicate that the N-terminal insert either participates in agonist and polyamine binding domains or indirectly modifies their conformations. The splice variants differed in the extent to which they could be potentiated by activators of protein kinase C (PKC) from 3- to 20-fold. Presence of the N-terminal insert and absence of the C-terminal sequences increased potentiation by PKC. These findings identify the contributions of the separate polypeptide domains to modulation by polyamines and PKC and provide further support for the concept that subunit composition determines functional properties of NMDA receptors.
The alterations in Alzheimer's disease (AD) of two binding sites in the striatum suggested to have a presynaptic localisation have been investigated by quantitative ligand binding autoradiography. Adenosine A1 binding sites labelled with [3H]cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) and kappa 1 opioid binding sites labelled with [3H]U-69593 were studied in adjacent sections of the striatum obtained postmortem from 10 patients with AD and 9 matched controls. In AD, there was a significant reduction of [3H]CHA binding sites in the caudate nucleus (control = 88 +/- 4; AD = 56 +/- 6 pmol/g tissue; mean +/- S.E.M.) and putamen (control = 83 +/- 4; AD = 58 +/- 7 pmol/g). In control subjects, highest levels of [3H]U-69593 binding were localised to patches within the caudate nucleus (9.66 +/- 0.58 pmol/g) with lower levels in the matrix (5.54 +/- 0.48 pmol/g). There was no alteration in [3H]U-69593 binding sites in either the caudate nucleus (patches and matrix) or putamen of AD patients. The activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), determined in the same tissue samples used for autoradiographic analysis, was significantly reduced in AD (control = 124 +/- 11; AD = 64 +/- 14 nmol/h/mg protein). There was a positive correlation between ChAT activity and [3H]CHA binding (r = 0.769), but not [3H]U-69593 binding (r = 0.197). The results indicate that a marked loss of adenosine A1 receptors occurs in the striatum of AD with no loss of kappa 1 opioid receptors, and that the loss of A1 receptors parallels the loss of choline acetyltransferase activity.
Alterations in density of some serotonin receptor sites (5-HT1A receptors, 5-HT2 receptors and 5-HT uptake sites) have been reported in postmortem studies of brain obtained from subjects with schizophrenia, suggesting a disturbance in serotonergic transmission in schizophrenia. The purpose of the present study is to investigate [3H]-LY278584 binding to serotonin 5-HT3 receptors in postmortem samples of amygdala from schizophrenic and matched control subjects. As all of the schizophrenic patients but none of the controls had been treated with neuroleptics, we first investigated in rodents the effects of short-term and long-term haloperidol administration on limbic 5-HT3 receptors, and we found no effects. No differences in the maximum number of 5-HT3 binding sites (Bmax) or equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) between schizophrenics and controls were found in amygdala. This study does not support the presence of an alteration of 5-HT3 receptors in amygdala in schizophrenic patients.
Cell death or apoptosis is regarded as an important feature of mammalian neural development, but the evidence for this generalization depends on the assumption that cell death can be clearly recognized. The usual profile of a dying neuron is a deeply stained pyknotic homogeneous sphere. In this paper we present evidence that such profiles in embryonic rat T6 and L4 dorsal root ganglia are not dying neurons but rather nuclei of immature red blood cells. This observation, combined with recent work showing that the methods previously used for counting normal or dying neurons are biased, indicates that the classic work establishing the importance of apoptosis needs to be repeated.
This study reports on the visualization of G(o) protein in the medulla oblongata and pons of Sprague-Dawley rats, using a commercially available selective polyclonal antiserum against a 39-kDa protein corresponding to the alpha subunit of G(o). Specific immunofluorescent-staining was widely distributed in neuropils and neuronal cell bodies but displayed regional heterogeneity. The immunoreactive product exhibited a punctate appearance and was most pronounced in the cell membrane and cytoplasm of the perikarya and proximal dendrites whereas the nucleus remained unstained. Positive immunoreactivity of G(o)alpha was present in nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, nucleus reticularis paramedialis, nucleus tractus solitarii, nucleus nervi hypoglossi, nucleus raph pallidus, locus coeruleus, nucleus tractus mesencephali nervi trigemini and nucleus cuneatus. These results provided anatomic evidence to support the participation of G(o) protein in both sensory and motor functions that originate from the medulla oblongata and pons of the rat.
We investigated the ultrastructural localization, afferent sources, and arterial pressure effects of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in the nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis (RVL), a region of the ventrolateral medulla containing C1 adrenergic neurons and sympatho-excitatory reticulospinal afferents to sympathetic preganglionic neurons. A polyclonal antibody to CRF was localized in acrolein-fixed sections through the rat RVL by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) method. Light microscopy showed that 1-7 perikarya/30 micron section and numerous varicose processes contained CRF-like immunoreactivity (CRF-LI). By electron microscopy, CRF-LI was most intensely localized to large (80-100 nm) dense-core vesicles within numerous terminals and a few perikarya and large dendrites. Approximately half of the terminals containing CRF-LI were in direct contact with unlabeled perikarya or dendrites; the remainder were in apposition to either unlabeled terminals or astrocytes. Most synaptic specializations were asymmetric synapses on small, unlabeled dendrites. To examine potential extrinsic sources of CRF-containing terminals in the C1 area of the RVL, PAP immunocytochemical localization of CRF was combined with retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). In all cases examined, a number of dually labeled neurons were found in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and a few dually labeled neurons were observed in the nuclei of the solitary tract; these labeled neurons were ipsilateral to the unilateral injection of WGA-HRP into the C1 area. Fewer dually labeled perikarya were detected in the lateral hypothalamic area and the lateral parabrachial nuclei, ipsilateral to the WGA-HRP injection. Additional physiological studies showed that bilateral microinjections of CRF into the C1 area of the RVL of urethane-anesthetized rats elicited a dose-related increase in arterial pressure. The results suggest that within the C1 area of the RVL, CRF released from terminals, arising predominantly from the PVN of the hypothalamus and probably from local neurons as well, may excite sympathoexcitatory reticulospinal neurons.

Diazepam (2.5-10 mg/kg i.p.) and midazolam (2.5-10 mg/kg i.p.) decreased acetylcholine release in the hippocampus of freely moving rats. This effect was antagonized by pretreatment with flumazenil (1 mg/kg i.p.). These results show that activation of benzodiazepine receptors reduces the in vivo release of acetylcholine in the hippocampus, suggesting that the septo-hippocampal cholinergic system, which has a major role in the regulation of cognitive functions, is under inhibitory control exerted by gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) neurons.
Significant post-mortem changes in peptide concentration occur within the previously unstudied timeframe, i.e. within 1 h, for the proenkephalin A, proopiomelanoccortin, and tachykinin neuropeptidergic systems in the pituitary. These data differ from data obtained in other studies that concluded that peptides are stable for up to 72 h post-mortem. The post-mortem stability of the three neuropeptides, methionine enkephalin, substance P, and beta-endorphin, was studied in the rat pituitary to test the hypothesis that significant post-mortem concentration changes of those three neuropeptides occur in the immediate post-mortem time period.





Histamine is a neuromodulator in the brain, and the hippocampus is one of the regions of the brain that is innervated by histaminergic neurons. When applied to cultured hippocampal neurons, histamine selectively increased by up to tenfold the amplitude of the component of synaptic transmission that was mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Spontaneous miniature synaptic currents and the current elicited by applied NMDA also were enhanced, indicating that the histamine effect was expressed primarily postsynaptically. These results suggest that histamine may modulate processes involving NMDA receptors, such as the induction of long-term potentiation.
When do single cells in the early zebrafish embryo become irreversibly committed to a specific fate? Work with lineage tracing and fate mapping has shown that the marginal cells of the blastoderm give rise to hypoblast-derived fates (mesoderm and endoderm). However, experiments described here show that these marginal blastoderm cells remain pluripotent and uncommitted throughout the late blastula and early gastrula stages. Embryonic cells become committed to a hypoblast-derived fate at mid-gastrulation. Time-lapse photographic analysis reveals that committed cells, when transplanted heterotopically and heterochronically, can migrate along atypical pathways to reposition themselves within a more correct environment.
We examined the differences in lactotrope number and function between pituitary cultures from neonatal (10-day-old) and adult male rats. Basal hormone release was measured with the reverse hemolytic plaque assay. Whole cell Ba2+ currents through Ca2+ channels were recorded from identified prolactin (PRL) secretors with the patch-clamp technique. Lactotropes were classified in two groups according to the relative amount of PRL released: small-plaque (SP) secretors accounted for 6% of all cells in both neonatal and adult pituitary cultures, whereas large-plaque (LP) secretors comprised 13% of the adult pituitary cells but were scarce in cultures from neonates. Simultaneous plaque assays for PRL and growth hormone (GH) showed that in adults as well as in neonates the number of SP and LP secretors was similar to the number of lactosomatotropes (PRL cells that also release GH) and classical lactotropes (PRL-only cells), respectively. Ba2+ current density at positive membrane potentials was markedly higher in adult LP secretors than in neonatal or adult SP lactotropes. We conclude that the appearance of LP secretors constitutes a major postnatal change within the rat lactotrope population. These cells present a large activity of high-threshold Ca2+ channels in the plasma membrane, release PRL at high basal rates, and may correspond to classical lactotropes. The results further suggest that neonatal lactotrope-like cells persist during development and give place to adult SP secretors.

For patients with PTSD, the effective initiation of additional therapeutic modalities to ongoing individual psychotherapy is challenging. When pharmacologic agents are added, the therapist must carefully consider and monitor the impact of medications on PTSD core symptoms and on adjunctive symptoms such as depression. Further considerations include issues of countertransference, the possible symbolic meaning of medications for both the patient and the therapist, and the appropriate staging of medications. When nonphysician treaters work together with a medical back-up, both parties should frequently communicate with one another in order to avoid unnecessary treatment distortions and disruptions.
Prosaposin contains separate domains in tandem for four saposins, A, B, C, and D. These mature saposins are produced by limited proteolysis of prosaposin. They are involved in lysosomal hydrolysis of GM1 ganglioside, gluco- and galactocerebrosides, sulfatides, and sphingomyelin and other sphingolipids. Prosaposin also exists as a secretory protein in body fluids. In this investigation prosaposin was expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda cells (Sf9) by infection with baculovirus containing a full length cDNA coding for human prosaposin. Prosaposin was isolated and purified from spent culture medium of the recombinant Sf9 cell cultures as well as from human seminal plasma and milk. From sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the molecular weight of both native human prosaposins is estimated to be 66 kDa and that of recombinant prosaposin as 58 kDa. Deglycosylation of native and recombinant prosaposins yielded a protein with a molecular weight of 54 kDa and isoelectric point of 5.4. The N-terminal sequence of both native and recombinant prosaposins was identical (G-P-V-L-L-G-L-K). Like mature saposins, all prosaposins possessed stimulative activity for cerebroside beta-glucosidase (saposins A and C activity), GM1 ganglioside beta-galactosidase (saposin B activity), and sphingomyelinase (saposin D activity) but not sulfatide sulfatase (saposin B activity). Partially proteolyzed products derived from prosaposins were isolated and identified. From seminal plasma, two proteins of 48 and 29 kDa and from Sf9 culture media, two proteins of 39 and 26 kDa were characterized. N-terminal amino acid sequencing and Western blot analysis of each protein indicated that the 39-and 48-kDa proteins are cleavage products containing domains for saposins B, C, and D (trisaposins), and the 26- and 29-kDa proteins are cleavage products containing domains for saposins C and D (disaposin). These observations suggest that proteolysis of prosaposin in these tissues occurs sequentially from the N-terminal region. Proteins involved in the initial proteolysis of prosaposin were partially characterized in human testis.
The communication development in 11 children with Angelman's syndrome is described. The clinical observation that these children appear to have a greater ability with receptive rather than expressive language is investigated and these skills assessed using published communication schedules. In addition the understanding and the use of nonverbal communication such as natural gesture was studied. The data collected highlight the fact that these children have developed very few words and have difficulty in using gestural or sign systems. This has implications for speech and language therapists and the children's remedial programmes. Possible future longitudinal studies are suggested.
We evaluated the anti-hypoxic and anti-ischemic actions of indeloxazine hydrochloride ((+/-)-2-[(inden-7-yloxy)methyl]morpholine hydrochloride, YM-08054) in comparison with its optical isomers and several selective monoamine uptake inhibitors in mice. The effects of indeloxazine on both cerebral energy metabolism in normal mice and local cerebral glucose utilization in normal rats were also studied. Indeloxazine and its (-)-isomer, with both serotonin and norepinephrine uptake inhibitory actions, and its (+)-isomer, with a serotonin uptake inhibitory action, prolonged the survival time of mice subjected to nitrogen gas and the gasping duration in decapitated mice. Indeloxazine and its (+)-isomer were approximately 3-10 times more potent than the (-)-isomer with regard to their anti-hypoxic and anti-ischemic activities. Selective norepinephrine uptake inhibitors such as maprotiline and viloxazine, and selective serotonin uptake inhibitors such as citalopram, alaproclate and zimeldine, did not show anti-hypoxic properties. On the other hand, amantadine, a selective dopamine uptake inhibitor, and amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant with anticholinergic properties, significantly shortened the survival time in hypoxic mice. In biochemical studies, increases in brain ATP and glucose levels without affecting lactate level in mice and an elevation in local cerebral glucose utilization in 10 brain regions involving the frontal cortex in rats were observed after administration of indeloxazine. These results suggest that indeloxazine and its optical isomers possess anti-hypoxic and anti-ischemic actions distinct from those of typical monoamine uptake inhibitors, and that these effects of indeloxazine may be due, at least in part, to a facilitation of cerebral energy metabolism.
The relationship between the dark focus of accommodation and simulator sickness, a form of motion sickness, was examined in three experiments. In Experiment 1, dark focus was measured in 18 college students in a laboratory setting before and after they viewed a projected motion scene depicting low altitude helicopter flight. In Experiments 2 and 3, dark focus was measured in pilots (N = 16 and 23, respectively) before and after they &quot;flew&quot; in moving-base helicopter flight simulators with optical infinity CRT visual systems. The results showed that individuals who experienced simulator sickness had either an inward (myopic) change in dark focus (Experiments 1 and 3) or attenuated outward shifts in dark focus (Experiment 2) relative to participants who did not get sick. These results are consonant with the hypothesis that parasympathetic activity, which may be associated with simulator sickness, should result in changes in dark focus that are in a myopic direction. Night vision goggles, virtual environments, extended periods in microgravity, and heads-up displays all produce related visual symptomatology. Changes in dark focus may occur in these conditions, as well, and should be measured.
Electroencephalograms (EEGs) of children from the general population, assessed by Rutter's questionnaires as having deviant behavior, were quantitatively evaluated in Japan (n = 27), China (n = 39), and Korea (n = 87). Compared with age-matched normal behavior children in Japan (n = 30), China (n = 27), and Korea (n = 26), there were no differences either in the EEG frequency pattern or other EEG variables. The EEGs of age-matched children diagnosed with attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity in psychiatric clinics in Japan (n = 21), China (n = 41), and Korea (n = 29), were significantly different from those of normal and deviant behavior groups. There were more delta and fast theta waves and fewer alpha waves in all three countries, and hypothetical EEG maturation was retarded in Japan and China. These results suggest that the deviant behavior of children in the general population had no biological background, but presumably stemmed from psychosocial disadvantages. In contrast, the symptoms of hyperactive children seemed to be related to a biological dysfunction such as brain immaturity.
This is a study of the effects of the endogenous opioid peptides, enkephalins, on learned helplessness, an experimental model of depression in rats. For this purpose, the responses induced by RB 38A, a mixed inhibitor of enkephalin catabolism, and RB 38B, a selective inhibitor of neutral endopeptidase EC 3.4.24.11, were compared with the antidepressive effect induced by imipramine. RB 38A and RB 38B induced an imipramine-like effect in reducing helpless behavior, as illustrated by the decrease in the number of escape failures. According to the different pharmacological potential of both inhibitors to reduce enkephalin metabolism, complete inhibition of enkephalins (RB 38A) produced a higher response than that obtained with a partial inhibitor (RB 38B). On the other hand, naloxone (NLX) was found to facilitate the induction of learned helplessness, and to antagonize the effect of both enkephalin-degrading enzyme inhibitors. These results suggest that modifications in the activity of the endogenous opioid system could take place in this model of depression. The antidepressant-like effects induced by RB 38B, and especially by RB 38A, in the learned helplessness paradigm suggest that new mixed enkephalinase inhibitors, able to cross the blood-brain barrier, could provide a new strategy in the treatment of affective disorders.
This paper describes the use of the non-peptidal N-(2-adamantyloxycarbonyl)-alpha-methyl tryptophan phenylethylamide template of the &quot;peptoid&quot; CCK B antagonist compounds 1 as a basis to probe the functional group requirements of the CCK B receptor in order to produce an agonist response. Comparison of the peptoid template with inter-group distances in a fully extended conformation of the endogenous CCK-B agonist CCK 30-33 led to the design of a series of compounds 2 containing additional Ph, COOH and CONH2, functions at distances from the Trp indole ring that are able to mimic those in the natural ligand. The effect of these modifications was then assessed by measurement of CCK B binding affinities and potential agonist efficacy was investigated by comparison with contraction of guinea-pig isolated stomach corpus muscle strip stimulated by the CCK-B agonist pentagastrin. All compounds showed sub-micromolar binding affinities with each series displaying discernible dependence on intermediate chain length. All compounds (except 2f) were shown to be good CCK B antagonists; no compounds showed significant agonist activity up to a concentration of 1 microM.
1. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effects of several alpha-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists on cerebral cortical overflow of endogenous noradrenaline (NA) in freely moving rats. One or two days after the implantation of transcerebral dialysis tubes in the frontoparietal cortex, extracellular NA levels were monitored on-line with high performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection. The drugs were applied locally via the dialysis membrane, and effects on NA overflow were determined in cumulative concentration-response curves. 2. The average basal cortical NA overflow of all experiments was 0.25 pg min-1. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists caused a concentration-dependent decrease in NA levels. UK-14,304 was the most potent and B-HT 933 the least potent agonist. The maximal decrease in NA overflow was to 10-15% of control levels after UK-14,304 or moxonidine, to 30% after clonidine and to 50% after B-HT 933 administration. Continuous activation of the presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptor with 10(-6) M UK-14,304 caused a decrease in NA levels to 40-50% of basal levels. This decrease was reached within 1 h and remained stable for the entire 3 h measurement period. The alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonists, phenylephrine and methoxamine, induced an increase in NA levels to 225% and 300%, respectively, at a concentration of 10(-3) M. 3. Local application of alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists caused an increase in NA levels, with idazoxan being more potent than piperoxan. Yohimbine did not cause any significant change. 4. All drugs used in these in vivo experiments had in vitro recoveries across the dialysis membrane between 10 and 20%. 5. We conclude that microdialysis with local drug application is suitable for the comparison of the pharmacological effects of drugs with affinity for alpha-adrenoceptors on cortical NA overflow in vivo,provided that the passage across the membrane is equal for the different drugs.

This study was set up to test the reliability of the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) when information was obtained from different sources. Eighty assessments were carried out on a group of 58 patients at three different time intervals up to 24 months post-injury. Each assessment consisted of three independently obtained GOS scores for each patient; (i) a score by a research psychologist after interview and neuropsychological testing of the patient; (ii) a score, obtained by post, by the patient's general practitioner (GP), and (iii) a score made by a research worker based on questionnaire information obtained from relatives by post. The agreement between the psychologist's score and that based on the relatives' information was high (r = 0.79 p = 0.001) whereas the correlation between the psychologist's score and that of the GP was low (r = 0.49 p = 0.001). The GPs tended to make overoptimistic assessments and this was most notable at 6 months post-injury when only 50% of the GPs' assessments agreed with those of the psychologist. We have shown that reliability of the GOS varies with the method of obtaining data. Ideally patients should be interviewed and tested by staff who have not been involved in the acute care of the patient. Failing this, information should be obtained from relatives of the patient and used by staff, trained in the use of the GOS, to assign a GOS score.
PEP-19 is a 61 amino acid polypeptide that is localized to neurons. PEP-19 is translated from a 0.6 kb poly(A)+ RNA; however, the gene from which it is transcribed spans more than 30 kbp and comprises three exons and two large introns. Exon 1 contains the 5'-untranslated region of PEP-19 and the first three amino acids of the coding sequence; exon 2 codes for the next 17 amino acids while the majority of the PEP-19 mRNA, comprising the remaining 42 amino acids and the 3'-untranslated region, is in exon 3. Gel retardation analysis identifies a region of DNA in the putative promoter of PEP-19 that binds preferentially to nuclear extracts from cerebellum. However, constructs containing 1.35 kbp of 5'-upstream genomic DNA of PEP-19 fused to lacZ do not express in transgenic mice, suggesting that intragenic DNA may be essential for the regulation of PEP-19.
Developmental and regional expression of prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase (PES) transcript was examined in the rat brain and in primary mixed cultures of neurons and glial cells from neonatal brain. Although the PES mRNA level in the brain was much lower than that in peripheral rat tissues such as lung, liver, spleen and kidney, a significant 3.0 kb band was detected in brain samples by Northern blot analysis. During development, PES mRNA was first detectable at postnatal day 7, and increased thereafter toward adulthood. The highest level of 3.0 kb PES mRNA was observed in the olfactory bulb, midbrain, and hypothalamus; and the lowest level in the hippocampus. In primary cultures of neonatal brain cells, the level of 3:0 kb transcript of PES transiently and dramatically increased about 30-fold on the third day after plating. Simultaneously, two cross-hybridizing signals were detected at 4.0 and 7.0 kb. This increase in PES mRNAs was completely inhibited by addition of cytosine-1-beta-D-arabinofuranoside. The induction of PES mRNA was in parallel with the increase in PES protein, as assessed by Western blot analysis. Immunostaining of cultured cells with anti-PES monoclonal antibody revealed that PES protein was induced mainly in neurons but not in glial cells. These results suggest that PES is expressed in the central nervous system at a low concentration under normal conditions, and that the neuronal cells possess an ability to express high levels of PES mRNA and protein.
Two categories of models are available for the functional imaging of scalp recorded electric brain activity: single-time-point and spatio-temporal. Instantaneous models require strict assumptions that do not conform with the underlying physiology, because they rely on the few voltage differences measured at only one sampling point. Spatio-temporal models create a spatial image of discrete multiple sources and a temporal image of source current wave forms which reflect the time course of the local activity in circumscribed brain areas at a macroscopic level. The spatial image may be limited in accuracy because it depends both on model and data, but it can be validated by scanning the brain with regional dipole sources. In many cases of temporal lobe epilepsy, for example, interictal spikes can be described adequately by as few as two equivalent dipoles, which image the vertical source current arising from the medio-basal aspect of the temporal lobe and the horizontal source current from its lateral surface.
A GTPase-deficient mutant of the alpha-subunit of Gs, the guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein that stimulates adenylate cyclase, substituting valine for glycine 49 (G49V) was transiently expressed in COS7 cells. The basal level of cAMP as well as an agonist-dependent accumulation of cAMP was two-fold higher in transfectants of Gs alpha (G49V) than in those of the normal counterpart. A stable transformant of PC12 cells expressing Gs alpha (G49V) under the control of a metallothionein promoter was then established. Two independent clones showed neurite outgrowth when the mutated Gs alpha was expressed by adding Cd2+ to culture medium. However, the level of basal cAMP of the transformant of PC12 cells with Gs alpha (G49V) was lower than that of the parental cells. The response to an agonist of the adenosine A2-receptor was suppressed in transformants. Although a cAMP-responsive element (CRE) was slightly activated by transfection and transient expression of Gs alpha in PC12 cells, no activation but a suppression of CRE was observed with PC12 cells transiently expressing Gs alpha (G49V). These results suggest that the mutant Gs alpha (G49V) couples adenylate cyclase in a different way in PC12 cells and may transduce differentiation signals through a cAMP-independent pathway.




The recent observations of overall symmetry of the caudal infrasylvian region by Steinmetz et al. (1990) and Witelson and Kigar (1991, 1992) diverge from earlier findings of leftward asymmetry in this region (Geschwind and Levitsky, 1968; Galaburda et al., 1987; Larsen et al., 1989). To address this inconsistency, we measured the entire infrasylvian surface posterior to Heschl's gyrus from coronal magnetic resonance images of 10 young, normal, right-handed subjects. Computer models were constructed by tracing contours of this region and then interpolating a 3D triangle mesh between each pair of adjacent contours. Measurements of these models showed no significant directional asymmetry. The same contour set was used to obtain measurements with a conventional algorithm that does not interpolate a surface between contours. The results obtained with the second method showed significant leftward asymmetry. These results suggest that in some cases, unbalanced distortions due to folding differences of the hemispheres are sufficient to obtain spurious findings of left-right asymmetry. This supports the claim of Steinmetz and Witelson that leftward asymmetry is restricted to the temporal bank of the caudal infrasylvian surface, and is balanced by rightward asymmetry of the parietal bank.
We report a 53-year-old female autopsy case of multiple sclerosis with bilateral continuous cystic lesions along the lateral ventricles and caudate-callosal angles (Wetterwinkel). The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying these peculiar huge cystic lesions can be explained by the appearance of necrotic tissue during the recurrent relapsing stages of the disease, and then, by the absorption and scavenging of activated microglias. Poor astrocytic gliosis, which might be an effect of frequent use of corticosteroids during the clinical course makes the cavities bigger.

Neurophysiological investigations in non-human primates and neuropsychological studies in patients with lesions indicate that the inferotemporal cortex is critically involved in visual object recognition. We have recorded event-related potentials from 31 electrodes in a group of healthy normal individuals performing a modified delayed matching to sample task. We have identified a visual memory potential (VMP) which indexes visual short-term memory in humans. This component of the event-related brain potential occurs as early as 170 msec, is maximal at 240 msec, and is generally located in the temporal region. Both the temporal and spatial characteristics of the VMP in humans are in keeping with single cell studies in monkeys.
The ACTH response to many stimuli depends on the secretion of norepinephrine, which activates neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Studies with adrenergic antagonists and inhibitors of catecholamine synthesis indicate that norepinephrine is a mediator of nicotine-induced ACTH secretion. To directly assess the effect of nicotine on PVN norepinephrine secretion, in vivo microdialysis was performed. Nicotine (0.5 mg/kg BW, ip) induced peak norepinephrine levels within 20 min (approximately 2 x basal). The central nicotinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine, abolished this response, whereas hexamethonium, a peripheral antagonist, was ineffective. The norepinephrine response was dose dependent (ED50, approximately 0.25 mg/kg), and nicotine (0.5 mg/kg BW) induced maximal secretion. Rapid desensitization occurred, as evidenced by a significant reduction (approximately 50%) in the response to a second injection of nicotine (0.5 mg/kg BW). Animals also received four injections of nicotine to determine whether repetitive dosing leads to progressive reduction of the norepinephrine response. The responses to the third and fourth nicotine injections were similar. Thus, desensitization occurred after a single exposure to nicotine and was not progressive. In contrast, nicotine pretreatment did not affect the release of norepinephrine due to yohimbine. These results indicate that basal and nicotine-stimulated levels of norepinephrine can be detected in microdialysates from the PVN; rapid desensitization of the norepinephrine response to nicotine and inhibition by mecamylamine, but not hexamethonium, parallel the findings previously reported for ACTH.
To understand how environmental factors contribute to fertility or infertility in humans, it is first necessary to define environment. A view that will guide this review is that environment represents the &quot;external milieu,&quot; analogous to the well-defined concept of &quot;internal milieu&quot; first introduced by Claude Bernard. Within this context, the environment provides both positive and adverse influences on reproductive health and development. Environmental factors can then be classified into categories such as physical, chemical, biological, behavioral, and socioeconomic. In many circumstances, multiple environmental factors may contribute to adversely modify human health. It has been suspected and in some cases demonstrated that stress can adversely affect reproductive function. Both animal and human data support this contention; however, the human data are clear in extreme situations (e.g., inmates of concentration camps) but less so under less drastic conditions. In recent years many advances have been made concerning the neurochemical mechanisms that mediate the effects of stress on reproductive functions and on the identification of &quot;stress hormones&quot; that may not only be involved in the stress response but also serve as biochemical markers to identify and correlate stress with different fertility parameters. Nutrition also plays an important role in infertility, and undernutrition or nutrition disorders are associated with stress in infertility. Environmental factors are often invoked as contributing to many cases of unexplained infertility. However, the direct causal relationship between those factors and the ensuing infertility of the couple are seldom well established and remain largely anecdotal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The neuroprotective efficacy of the kappa-opioid agonist enadoline (CI-977) was examined in two acute rat models of focal cerebral ischaemia [non-recovery (4 h) and recovery (24 h)]. In the non-recovery model, Sprague-Dawley rats were anaesthetized throughout the study period. Focal ischaemia was produced by the permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA). The amount of early ischaemic damage was assessed in coronal sections at nine pre-determined stereotaxic planes. Enadoline at doses of 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg (n = 8), administered s.c. 30 min prior to ischaemia, produced dose-dependent amelioration of cortical damage. Importantly, enadoline had no significant effect on any of the physiological parameters monitored (blood pressure, blood gases, glucose, pH). In the recovery model the left MCA was permanently occluded under isoflurane anaesthesia. Animals were allowed to recover and were killed 24 h later. The amount of ischaemic brain damage and swelling was assessed histologically. In this model pretreatment with enadoline at either 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0 mg/kg s.c. was followed by continuous s.c. infusion at 0.017, 0.05 or 0.17 mg/kg/h respectively (n = 8-17). Enadoline produced dose-dependent reductions in the volumes of infarction and brain swelling; the greatest reductions were seen at 1.0 mg/kg plus 0.17 mg/kg/h in both infarction (reduced by 37.4% from controls) and swelling (reduced by 47.8%). Therefore the kappa-opioid agonist enadoline affords dose-dependent neuroprotection in both the non-recovery and recovery models of focal cerebral ischaemia in the rat.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In this study we describe visually triggered gamma oscillations in the optic tectum of awake pigeons. This study was motivated by the potential relevance of synchronous oscillatory responses in perceptual binding in a laminated structure other than the mammalian neocortex. Tectal responses were recorded as local field potential and multiunit activity by differential filtering. The local field potential was analysed by computing its autocorrelation function and spectral power with a moving window applied to single response sweeps. The temporal structure of the spike trains was evaluated by computing averaged autocorrelograms. A damped sine wave function was fitted to the autocorrelograms in order to quantify the degree of oscillation of both signals. Epochs of significant oscillatory activity were observed in the local field potential in 60% of the trials (n = 39). In all trials, significant oscillations occupied approximately 10% of the time the stimulus was present. The oscillatory events in both the local field potential and the multiunit activity had frequencies in the range of 20-50 Hz. It is important to emphasize the great variability in the frequency and in the probability of occurrence of the oscillatory responses from trial to trial, which makes the oscillatory behaviour of the tectal activity highly non-stationary. The oscillatory activity we describe in the avian tectum has characteristics similar to those reported in the mammalian neocortex. These findings from a fully awake animal strengthen the universality of oscillations as a possible carrier for synchronization of activity in the constitution of neuronal assemblies.
To investigate the factors related to allogenic brain graft rejection, rat cortex from either LEW-RT1l or BN-RT1n rats was transplanted into brains of several isogenic and allogenic inbred strains: F344-RT1l, LEW-RT1l, BN-RT1n, AO-RT1u, PVG-RT1c, PVG-RT1u, and PVG-RT1l. Each donor and host combination was subsequently subdivided into two subgroups. One group was systematically sensitized twice with donor skin tissue and another group served as a sham-sensitization control. Four weeks after the second sensitization, host brains were examined histologically, and the percentage volume of each graft that showed increased cellularity was estimated. Expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and T cell antigens was also studied immunocytochemically. Almost all grafts in sham-sensitized animals from all groups were accepted with minimal or no reaction. However, two strains (AO-RT1u and F344-RT1l) showed considerable cell infiltration and expression of MHC antigens even without sensitization. After sensitization, almost all allogenic strain combinations showed greater signs of rejection-related responses. The severity of the tissue reaction, however, varied considerably between groups. All grafts from BN-RT1n donors were rejected severely in all host strains. For LEW-RT1l donors, grafts survived well in some host strains (BN-RT1n, AO-RT1u, PVG-RT1c, and PVG-RT1u), even with MHC + non-MHC disparity. Curiously, F344-RT1l hosts rejected LEW-RT1l grafts even though the two strains have the same MHC loci, but different minor histocompatibility (mH) loci. For both donor strains, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis-susceptible hosts tended to show more vigorous rejection responses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mesencephalic tissue containing newly generated dopamine neurons was collected from brains of embryonic African green monkeys at 44 and 49 days of gestation and stereotaxically implanted into multiple sites in the caudate nucleus of adult monkeys previously treated with the dopamine protoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrathydropyridine. Ultrasonography was utilized to assess the developmental stage prior to hysterotomy. Brains were removed for combined histochemical and biochemical analyses at 3 1/2 months after grafting to determine the extent of graft survival and growth. The dopamine content of the target nucleus was assessed from microdissected &quot;punches&quot; placed in proximity to grafts identified in unfixed brain slices prior to fixation. Tissue dopamine levels adjacent to the grafts were elevated markedly, reaching 25-50% of control levels at some sites in the caudate nucleus. Morphometric analysis of graft size and dopamine cell numbers was performed with computer-enhanced, video-based imaging. Exceptionally large grafts that far exceeded their initial size at the time of implantation were seen at each placement site. The dopamine cell count was as high as 3500 in a single graft from E44 tissue, but only as high as 550 from the E49 donor. Up to 15,000 tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons were stained in the host monkey that received E44 tissue; only 1/10 as many were seen in each of the recipients of E49 day samples. The earlier donor grafts occupied as much as 15% of the caudate nucleus as seen in a single coronal section; summation of all sections that contained grafts at each placement from the E44 donor revealed average areas occupied by the grafts ranging from 3 to 8% of the caudate nucleus. In comparison, grafts produced from an E49 donor averaged between 2.4 and 5.4% of the area of the target. Qualitatively, grafts from each gestational stage showed well-developed dopamine neurons with morphological characteristics equivalent to those of all three ventral mesencephalic dopamine cell groups. The attainment of large, well-differentiated grafts with thousands of dopaminergic neurons from early gestation tissue suggests that optimal cell survival in primates is dependent on the degree of postgerminal development of the dopamine neuron. Neurite extension may be critical in this regard as well as other, at present, undefined factors. Maximal graft development and cell survival may be a critical element in the ability of neural grafts to reverse a neurological disability and to maintain improvement in the event of continued degeneration of host dopamine neurons.

Chemical sensitivity of the cat visual cortex neurons was studied in conditions of rewarded and unrewarded instrumental behaviour. A connexion was found between the processes of provision and estimation and the neurochemical mechanisms of the central neurons. The unit spike activity was found to depend on the protein synthesis in the neurons.
1. This article reviews the formation, metabolism and pharmacological actions of the hepoxilins. These are biologically active hydroxy epoxide derivatives of arachidonic acid formed through the 12-lipoxygenase pathway. 2. This review summarizes literature data available at the time of writing of this article.
A continuous linkage map consisting of 22 short tandem repeat polymorphisms has been constructed for human chromosome 12 using 23 non-CEPH pedigrees. The markers were distributed at an average distance of 9.35 cM (3.1-33.9 cM). Eighteen of the markers could be positioned uniquely with a likelihood of &gt; 1000:1. The physical locations of some of the markers suggest that the map covers 85-95% of the chromosome. This framework map of 18 markers has a female length of 213 cM and a male length of 131 cM. Female recombination frequencies were greater than male recombination frequencies except in the distal portion of the short arm. The map provides confirmatory evidence for orders established previously on CEPH pedigrees and uniquely positions 4 additional markers (CD4, ATPSB, D12S56, PLA2).
The adult songbird forebrain undergoes neuronal production throughout adulthood, with the production of new neurons in discrete regions of the neostriatal ventricular zone. Upon mitogenesis, these new neurons migrate into the subjacent brain parenchyma along radially directed guide fibers. In long-term ventricular zone explant cultures, derived from the higher vocal center of the adult canary, newly migratory neurons were found to associate preferentially with a characteristic substrate cell type. These small, parvonuclear substrate cells formed tightly packed epithelioid sheets, in which ciliated ependymal cells were common, as recognized by both live observation and electron microscopy. A subpopulation of these cells was immunostained by monoclonal antibody 3A7, which preferentially stains the guide fiber network of the adult avian brain. These 3A7+ cells included ependymal cells and bipolar radial cells, as well as morphologically defined astrocytes. As they matured in vitro, the 3A7+ bipolar radial cells extended long, unbranching fibers, which ultimately traversed the culture substrate. Like ependymal cells, they supported neuronal migration. These cells were likely homologous to radial guide cells in vivo. Thus, neuronal migration in adult avian forebrain culture occurred upon guide cells of ependymal derivation.
The suggestion that schizophrenia may involve a neurodegenerative process has emanated from the highly replicated finding of ventricular enlargement in brain images of patients with this disorder. These investigations have provided a direct impetus for recent histopathologic studies seeking evidence of a neurodegenerative process in the brains of subjects with schizophrenia. Whereas most postmortem studies have reported the presence of atrophy and/or neuronal loss in several corticolimbic regions of subjects with schizophrenia, no quantitative study, to date, has detected an increase in the number of glial cells. For this reason the changes observed in postmortem schizophrenic brain are not consistent with a typical adult pattern of neuronal degeneration, such as that seen in Huntington's disease. Because several studies have reported various changes in layer II of the anterior cingulate, prefrontal, and entorhinal cortices, the histopathologic findings described are compatible with the idea that schizophrenia involves a disturbance of the &quot;inside-out&quot; migration or differentiation of cortical neurons that normally occurs during ontogenesis. A neurodevelopmental perturbation early in life could result in discrete alterations of corticolimbic circuitry that eventually contribute to the appearance of schizophrenic symptoms during adolescence and adulthood.
Multiple 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors have been identified in humans. A subgroup of these receptors (designated 5-HT1 receptors) have been hypothesized to be involved in the mechanism of action of acute anti-migraine drugs. At present, this hypothesis cannot be tested directly in human tissues due to technical limitations. However, recent molecular biological advances have allowed for the development of assays employing cloned human 5-HT1 receptors expressed in cells by DNA transfection. This study analyzed the ability of ergotamine, dihydroergotamine, and 5-HT and sumatriptan to interact with the four known human 5-HT1 receptor subtypes. The four acute anti-migraine agents interacted with all 4 human 5-HT1 receptor subtypes with less than 1 microM affinity. However, drug affinities for the human 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors correlate most closely with the rank order of clinical dosages used to treat a migraine attack. Therefore, these data indicate that human 5-HT1B and/or 5-HT1D receptors are likely to mediate the therapeutic efficacy of acute anti-migraine drugs.

The seizure EEG records of 25 depressives receiving ECT were 'blindly' rated by two trained raters using a uniform definition of seizure endpoint. The EEG seizure duration estimates were validated against five expected relationships. EEG seizure duration correlated with and was more than motor seizure duration, reduced over the course of ECTs, was consistent within subjects, and negatively varied with age. Within clinical constraints, the method of seizure duration estimation by the last spike is valid.



The proteins which compose the complex of dystrophin and its associated proteins were analyzed by two-dimensional PAGE, i.e., electrofocusing in the presence of 8 M urea followed by SDS PAGE. Silver-staining of the gel showed many more spots than were expected from the results of one-dimensional SDS PAGE. By examination of their reactivity with specific antibodies, various lectins and 3-(trifluoromethyl)-3-(m-[125I]iodophenyl)-diazirine, most of these spots were identified as dystrophin and its associated proteins described previously. Several as yet unidentified minor proteins were also detected. Dystrophin-associated protein A1 was separated into two groups, alpha-A1 and beta-A1, both composed of numerous spots. These groups differed from each other in isoelectric point, molecular mass, and reactivity with antibodies. The beta-A1 group (64 kDa) was more basic than the alpha-A1 group (60 kDa). Beta-A1 but not alpha-A1 reacted with several lectins, indicating that beta-A1 is a glycoprotein. This is incompatible with the report that 59DAG, which corresponds to A1 (alpha-A1 + beta-A1), is not a glycoprotein [Ervasti et al. (1991) Cell 66, 1121-1131]. The charge heterogeneity observed in alpha-A1 and beta-A1 may be partially due to differential phosphorylation. The charge heterogeneity of A2 and A3a may, at least to some extent, be due to differential sialilation of their carbohydrates.
A thermal measurement system to monitor cerebral blood flow (CBF) continuously from the cortical surface is evaluated in vivo. It has a temperature resolution of better than 0.001 degrees C (1 m degrees C) and can compensate for baseline temperature fluctuations in the brain tissue. A new approach has been developed to test the capability of monitoring dynamic CBF response. Transient CBF changes associated with changes in mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) caused by repeated bolus norepinephrine injections are used to examine the response of the measurement system in both the heated mode, sensitive to flow, and the unheated mode, sensitive only to temperature. Experiments on 13 rats demonstrate that changes in the MABP are closely correlated with those of temperature difference in the heated mode. Regression analysis shows a mean slope of 0.9 m degrees C/mm Hg in the heated mode, which is significantly different from zero (p &lt; 0.002) and from the mean slope in the unheated mode (p &lt; 0.002). This indicates that flow signal in the system output can be distinguished from the baseline thermal fluctuations. Thus, the system can be used to detect and study dynamic perfusion changes from the brain surface with minimal tissue damage. Furthermore, analysis of the data shows that the transient flow signal before autoregulation is linearly correlated with changes in MABP.
The question of whether activated microglial cells are potentially harmful or beneficial to injured central nervous system neurons is being addressed by examining in vivo and in vitro findings. While observations made in vivo suggest that microglial activation is triggered by injured neurons and may aid in regeneration, in vitro data show production of neurotoxic agents by cultured microglia. An effort is made to find a common denominator in these apparently conflicting findings by discussing microglial activation during motor neuron regeneration and during delayed neuronal death occurring as a consequence of global forebrain ischemia.
After ligation of the bilateral common carotid arteries with exposure to hypoxia in young rabbits, cerebral blood oxyhemoglobin, deoxyhemoglobin, and total hemoglobin were measured by near-infrared spectroscopy. Ligation of common carotid arteries decreased oxyhemoglobin, increased deoxyhemoglobin, and slightly decreased total hemoglobin. Exposure to hypoxia with bilateral carotid ligation more remarkably decreased oxyhemoglobin and increased deoxyhemoglobin than that without carotid ligation. However, the total cerebral blood volume did not change very much. This marked reduction in the cerebral oxygenation may cause brain damage and may be an important monitoring marker for the prevention of hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.
The National Institute of Mental Health recently formed a committee of experts which published a proposal for a lengthy neuropsychological test battery judged most apt to detect diffuse brain damage while covering a wide range of cognitive abilities. The purposes of the present study were (1) to assemble empirical evidence of the existence of statistically significantly sensitive screening tests across an equivalently wide range of functional domains, and (2) to present this evidence systematically, in such a manner as to help clinicians select subsets of screening tests manifesting greatest sensitivity to diffuse brain damage. It was found that in certain functional domains (speed of processing, problem solving, executive functions), marked differences in sensitivity occurred. Brief tests just as sensitive as time-consuming tests were also identified. The reader is cautioned about possible extraneous sources of the differences obtained (test and group selection bias, test reliability, test difficulty, procedural effects, Type I error). Nevertheless, it was concluded that a brief highly sensitive and functionally wide-ranging neuropsychological test battery for screening cases of putative diffuse brain dysfunction can be assembled.
To determine if an abnormality exists in the sympathetic nervous system of patients with accelerated hypertension, we recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the tibial nerve by microneurography in eight benign essential hypertensives and seven accelerated essential hypertensives. Basal MSNA, plasma renin activity, and plasma angiotensin II levels were significantly higher in accelerated hypertensives than in benign hypertensives (P &lt; 0.05). To clarify the relationship between the renin-angiotensin axis and sympathetic nervous system in the accelerated hypertensives, we measured the MSNA after 7 d of oral administration of captopril (75 mg/d) for antihypertensive treatment in the benign hypertensives and accelerated hypertensives. After administering captopril, the arterial pressure decreased significantly in the benign hypertensives and accelerated hypertensives with decreases in plasma angiotensin II levels, and the decreases in arterial pressure were greater in the accelerated hypertensive than in the benign hypertensives. After captopril administration, the MSNA decreased significantly in the accelerated hypertensives but did not change in the benign hypertensives. Thus, in accelerated hypertensives, sympathetic tone is elevated, and the elevated sympathetic tone is closely related to the activated renin-angiotensin axis tone.


The number of responses rats made in a &quot;run&quot; of consecutive left-lever presses, prior to a trial-ending right-lever press, was differentiated using a targeted percentile procedure. Under the nondifferential baseline, reinforcement was provided with a probability of .33 at the end of a trial, irrespective of the run on that trial. Most of the 30 subjects made short runs under these conditions, with the mean for the group around three. A targeted percentile schedule was next used to differentiate run length around the target value of 12. The current run was reinforced if it was nearer the target than 67% of those runs in the last 24 trials that were on the same side of the target as the current run. Programming reinforcement in this way held overall reinforcement probability per trial constant at .33 while providing reinforcement differentially with respect to runs more closely approximating the target of 12. The mean run for the group under this procedure increased to approximately 10. Runs approaching the target length were acquired even though differentiated responding produced the same probability of reinforcement per trial, decreased the probability of reinforcement per response, did not increase overall reinforcement rate, and generally substantially reduced it (i.e., in only a few instances did response rate increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in the number of responses per trial). Models of behavior predicated solely on molar reinforcement contingencies all predict that runs should remain short throughout this experiment, because such runs promote both the most frequent reinforcement and the greatest reinforcement per press. To the contrary, 29 of 30 subjects emitted runs in the vicinity of the target, driving down reinforcement rate while greatly increasing the number of presses per pellet. These results illustrate the powerful effects of local reinforcement contingencies in changing behavior, and in doing so underscore a need for more dynamic quantitative formulations of operant behavior to supplement or supplant the currently prevalent static ones.
We describe a principle of reinforcement that draws upon experimental analyses of both behavior and the neurosciences. Some of the implications of this principle for the interpretation of behavior are explored using computer simulations of adaptive neural networks. The simulations indicate that a single reinforcement principle, implemented in a biologically plausible neural network, is competent to produce as its cumulative product networks that can mediate a substantial number of the phenomena generated by respondent and operant contingencies. These include acquisition, extinction, reacquisition, conditioned reinforcement, and stimulus-control phenomena such as blocking and stimulus discrimination. The characteristics of the environment-behavior relations selected by the action of reinforcement on the connectivity of the network are consistent with behavior-analytic formulations: Operants are not elicited but, instead, the network permits them to be guided by the environment. Moreover, the guidance of behavior is context dependent, with the pathways activated by a stimulus determined in part by what other stimuli are acting on the network at that moment. In keeping with a selectionist approach to complexity, the cumulative effects of relatively simple reinforcement processes give promise of simulating the complex behavior of living organisms when acting upon adaptive neural networks.
Four verbal implicit memory tests, word identification, word stem completion, word fragment completion, and anagram solution, were directly compared in one experiment and were contrasted with free recall. On all implicit tests, priming was greatest from prior visual presentation of words, less (but significant) from auditory presentation, and least from pictorial presentations. Typefont did not affect priming. In free recall, pictures were recalled better than words. The four implicit tests all largely index perceptual (lexical) operations in recognizing words, or visual word form representations.
The cleavage products of the spike (S) protein, the S1 and S2 subunits, of the highly neurovirulent murine coronavirus (MHV) JHMV c1-2 variant were identified by immunoprecipitation of virus-infected cell lysates after treatment with urea and 2-mercaptoethanol. By this method 14 monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) raised against the S protein of the c1-2 variant were revealed to react with the S1 subunit and one with the S2 subunit. These 14 MAbs were classified into the following three groups: (A) MAbs reactive to almost all MHV strains examined, (B) MAbs specific for the JHMV strain and (C) MAbs specific for a large S protein of the JHMV strain. All five MAbs classified in group B showed neutralization activity and four of them also showed fusion inhibition activity. Four of six MAbs in group C showed neutralizing activity to the c1-2 variant but not to the sp-4 variant, and most of them had no fusion inhibition activity. Western blot analyses showed that all of the MAbs, except for no. 2 in group A, failed to react with the denatured S and S1 proteins. All MAbs in groups A and C, with the exception of no. 19 in group A, reacted with the mildly denatured S proteins, whereas none of the MAbs in group B did. These results suggest that MAbs in group B recognized highly conformational epitopes which may be involved in the binding of virions to cellular receptors and the fusion activity of the virus.
We previously found follistatin (FS) mRNA in gonadotropes [predominantly in cells with luteinizing hormone (LH) antigens] and folliculostellate cells (with S100 antigens) in diestrus rats pituitaries. However, earlier in the cycle, when percentages of gonadotropes are lowest, percentages of cells expressing FS are 1.5-2-fold higher than in diestrus. This study was designed to detect FS mRNA and other pituitary antigens to identify the additional cells with dual in situ hybridization and immunolabeling protocols. The mRNA was detected with biotinylated complementary oligonucleotide probes and avidin-biotin-peroxidase complexes. Significant labeling for FS mRNA was found in cells with the following antigens: growth hormone (GH) (7% of pituitary cells); prolactin (PRL) (5%); S100 protein (5%); follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH beta) (4%); LH beta (3%); and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH beta) (3%). Optimal conditions for detection included: overnight plating of &gt; 50,000 cells/well (24-well tray) in media containing 10% fetal bovine serum; hybridization at 37 degrees C; and fixation in 2% glutaraldehyde. Whereas FS is expressed predominantly by LH gonadotropes at midcycle, FS mRNA can be expressed by all types of antigen-bearing cells earlier in the cycle. Its function in the pituitary may relate to its role in binding activin, which would result in inhibition of FSH release. However, since activin inhibits secretion of GH, PRL, and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), FS may also control activin's effects on these cells. The FS-expressing cells may therefore be paracrine or autocrine regulators.
This study describes a cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein that displays a distinct cellular and regional distribution in rat brain. The protein is found only in neostriatal regions, where it is enriched in nerve cells and not in afferent or efferent axons or in glial cells. On subcellular fractionation, it appears tightly associated with particulate components, possibly the synaptic plasma membrane fraction. The protein may therefore be specifically enriched in dendrites and/or somata of neostriatal neurons. Following phosphorylation in vitro with [gamma-32P]ATP and cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, the protein contains phosphoseryl residues on multiple thermolytic peptides. The specific cellular and subcellular localization we have observed suggests that this protein, termed ARPP-39 (cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, M(r) = 39,000) may be important in receptor-regulated, cyclic AMP-mediated functions in distinct neostriatal neurons.
Verbal memory and performance on a number of tests known to be sensitive to lesions that disrupt frontal lobe functioning were studied in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective illness. Both patient groups were severely and equally impaired on verbal and design fluency and on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, measures that are sensitive to dysfunction of frontal-striatal circuitry. Both patient groups exhibited impaired recall but nearly normal recognition memory, a pattern that is typically observed in frontal and subcortical diseases. Accelerated forgetting was evident on delayed recall tests; the magnitude of this impairment was greater for schizophrenic than for schizoaffective patients. These results suggest that frontal and/or subcortical dysfunction is common to schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder. A subgroup including the majority of schizophrenic patients, however, exhibit a mild amnesia-like disorder which may result from pathological changes in the structure and function of the temporal lobes or the medial diencephalon.
The relative contributions of Ca2+ influx and intracellular Ca2+ mobilization were examined for angiotensin II-stimulated [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding, which reflects the level of activated protein kinase C in bovine chromaffin cells. Angiotensin II receptors activate phospholipase C in chromaffin cells, leading to a short-lived mobilization of intracellular Ca2+. Angiotensin II-stimulated [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding was largely blocked in Ca(2+)-free buffer and by pretreatment with the Ca(2+)-channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA. The [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding response to [Sar1]angiotensin II also appeared to be voltage sensitive, as no additivity was observed with the response to the depolarizing agent 4-aminopyridine (3 mM). Threshold sensitivities of the extra- and intracellular Ca(2+)-mobilizing pathways to angiotensin II were similar, and all examined effects of angiotensin II in these cells were apparently mediated by losartan-sensitive (AT1-like) receptors. The dependence of angiotensin II-stimulated [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding on extracellular Ca2+ entry, in contrast to stimulation by other phospholipase C-linked receptor agonists (bradykinin and methacholine), suggests that angiotensin II preferentially stimulates protein kinase C translocation to the plasma membrane, rather than to internal membranes, in bovine adrenal medullary cells.
As has been indicated in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the application of synthetic peptides for the selection of T cell lines may provide new insights into the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). We report here on T cell lines/clones generated from peripheral blood of MS patients against an immunodominant myelin basic protein (MBP) peptide 82-102. This study demonstrates that the selection of T cell lines against the MBP peptide is much more efficient than against whole MBP in generating a large panel of T cell lines/clones, and therefore provides a powerful strategy for studying autoimmune T cell repertoire in individual subjects. The peptide-selected lines and clones recognized MBP 82-102, shorter peptides MBP 89-101, 89-100 and guinea pig whole MBP mainly in the context of HLA-DR, but did not cross-recognize virus-derived peptides homologous to MBP 82-102. Seven out of ten clones were found to recognize MBP 82-102 in the absence of autologous antigen presenting cells (APC), and in three of the seven clones, specificity for MBP 82-102 could be demonstrated only in the absence of APC because of their strong reactivity against autologous APC. Two-color flow cytometry revealed that the clones were heterogeneous with regard to expression of CD4 and CD8 molecules. Overall, the clones selected by the peptide were rather heterogeneous in phenotype and function compared with those selected by whole MBP.
The prognosis of individual patients with transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) is extremely variable; some patients are at high risk and others at low risk of a serious vascular event. Prediction equations of outcome were developed, based on eight clinical prognostic factors, from a cohort of 469 hospital-referred TIA patients (&quot;training&quot; data set), that enable high (and low) risk patients to be identified and for whom costly and risky treatments may (or may not) be targeted. The study aimed to determine whether these equations are externally valid and can predict outcome, with reliability and discrimination, in two independent cohorts of TIA patients (&quot;test&quot; data sets): 1653 TIA patients in the UK-TIA aspirin trial and 107 TIA patients in the Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project. Predicted outcomes agreed closely with the observed outcomes in the &quot;test&quot; data sets (reliability) for all outcome events at low five year risk (&lt; 30%) but the estimates of risk were less precise in groups predicted to have a high five year risk (&gt; 40%). The prediction equations were fairly accurate in discriminating between patients who subsequently suffered the outcome event of interest and those who survived free of the event at five years after the TIA, particularly at lower cut-off levels distinguishing high and low risk (for example, &lt; 30% vs &gt; 30% at five years). It is very difficult to achieve perfect discrimination because there is no single important prognostic factor for TIA patients that indicates whether a patient is going to suffer an event or not. These equations can be used to provide a reliable estimate of the absolute five year risk of a serious vascular event in hospital-referred TIA patients but they cannot, as yet, be used with confidence to distinguish patients at high risk from patients at low risk.
Multiple sclerosis, a demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system occurs in genetically susceptible individuals through a presumably autoimmune mechanism directed against the myelin sheath. The influence of the major histocompatibility locus on T cell recognition of myelin basic protein (MBP), a suspected target autoantigen, was investigated by analyzing MBP-specific T cell clones generated from the peripheral blood of healthy individuals. Inhibition studies using monoclonal antibodies demonstrated that MBP recognition was restricted by HLA-DR antigens. MBP recognition of the majority of T cell clones from each individual was restricted predominantly by one of the DR alleles. Thus, there appears to be a bias in the use of allelic DR restricting elements for MBP responses.
1. The underlying ionic mechanisms of the postspike depolarizing afterpotential (DAP) in hippocampal dentate granule (DG) neurons of immature rats (postnatal 7- to 17-day-old) were examined using whole cell patch recordings in brain slices. 2. In current-clamp mode, the DAP followed each single action potential. Graded DAP-like responses were also evoked by depolarizing current pulses when the action potential was blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX), demonstrating that the TTX-sensitive Na+ conductance is not necessary for DAP generation. The membrane resistance near the DAP peak was lower than at rest, suggesting activation of inward currents rather than blockade of outward currents during the DAP. The DAP peak amplitude showed a strong dependence on voltage, increasing with membrane hyperpolarization and decreasing with depolarization in the range of -90 to -50 mV. Repetitive stimulation at 1-2 Hz did not change the amplitude or decay of the DAP or DAP-like response. 3. Bath application of 2 mM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and 5 mM tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA) prolonged the action potential and enhanced the DAP, suggesting that the DAP waveform is determined by the interaction of voltage-activated outward K+ currents and inward currents. 4. Bath application of 2 mM Co2+ depressed the DAP and the DAP-like potential. Replacement of extracellular Ca2+ with Ba2+ potentiated the DAP. Intracellular Ca2+ chelation with the fast chelator, bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA), only slightly enhanced the DAP, suggesting that the DAP is not generated by inward currents activated secondary to Ca2+ influx.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. This study investigates the relation between the peripheral innervation of low-threshold cutaneous afferents and the postsynaptic potentials elicited by electrical stimulation of those afferents. 2. In cats deeply anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium, cord dorsum potentials (CDPs) and postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) in spinal motoneurons were elicited by stimulation of the caudal cutaneous sural nerve (CCS), the lateral cutaneous sural nerve (LCS), and the medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle nerve. We tested 1) unoperated cats, and cats in which CCS has been 2) chronically axotomized and ligated, 3) cut and self-reunited, 4) cut and cross-united with LCS, or 5) cut and cross-united with the MG. Terminal experiments were performed 3-36 mo after initial surgery. 3. In cats in which the CCS had been self-reunited or cross-united distally with LCS, tactile stimulation of the hairy skin normally innervated by the distal nerve activated afferents in the CCS central to the coaptation, indicating that former CCS afferents had regenerated into native or foreign skin, respectively. 4. In cats in which the CCS had been cross-united distally with the MG, both stretch and contraction of the MG muscle activated the former CCS afferents. 5. In unoperated cats, CDPs elicited by stimulation of CCS and of LCS exhibited a low-threshold N1 wave and a higher-threshold N2 wave. These waves were greatly delayed and appeared to merge after chronic axotomy of CCS. Regeneration of CCS into itself, into LCS, or into MG restored the normal latencies and configurations of these potentials. 6. In unoperated cats, stimulation of CCS, of LCS, and of MG each produced PSPs of characteristic configurations in the various subpopulations of motoneurons of the triceps surae. CDPs and PSPs elicited by the CCS cross-regenerated into LCS or MG were typical of those generated by the normal CCS, i.e., there was no evidence of respecification of central synaptic connections to bring accord between center and periphery after cross-regeneration. 7. Chronic axotomy of CCS increased the latencies of PSPs from CCS; regeneration of CCS into the CCS, LCS, or MG restored normal latencies. 8. In summary, CDPs and PSPs in motoneurons from the cutaneous sensory nerve CCS are altered by chronic axotomy of CCS, thus indicating their target dependency. These alterations are restored by regeneration of CCS into not only a native or foreign cutaneous target, but also into skeletal muscle. We conclude that muscle as well as skin is capable of providing trophic support for cutaneous afferents.
1. The effects of selective attention were studied in SI and SII cortex of a rhesus monkey trained to perform two tasks, a tactile discrimination task and a visual detection task. In the tactile task, a letter was displayed on a video screen in front of the monkey and the animal was rewarded for responding when the raised letter (6.0 mm letter height) scanning across its finger (15 mm/s) matched the letter on the screen. In the visual task, three illuminated squares were displayed on the screen, and the animal was rewarded for detecting when one of the squares dimmed. The neural responses evoked by the raised letters were recorded continuously while the animal's focus of attention was switched back and forth between the two tasks. 2. Significant differences between the discharge rates evoked by raised letters in the two tasks were observed in approximately 50% of neurons in SI cortex and 80% of neurons in SII cortex. The effects in SII cortex were divided between increased (58%) and decreased (22%) rates. In SI cortex only increased rates were observed. 3. The attentional effects were expressed not only as changes in overall neuronal activity but also as modifications of the form of the responses evoked by the letters. 4. Whether attentional effects were observed depended upon the behavioral relevance of individual letters. During brief periods in the tactile task when a behavioral response could not yield a reward (time-out and reward periods) the neuronal responses were not significantly different from the responses evoked by the same letters during the visual task.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Pharmacological and physiological methods were used to examine the role of acetylcholine (ACh) in modulation of the Lymnaea feeding central pattern generator (CPG) by the slow oscillator (SO) interneuron. 2. Extracts of dissected SO cell bodies inhibited spontaneous ventricular contractions of the clam Mya arenaria, indicating the presence of ACh. These effects were blocked by the specific antagonist benzoquinonium chloride (10(-7) M). 3. Isolated SO cells grown in culture synthesized ACh from tritiated choline. 4. High [K+] saline induced release of synthesized ACh from cultured SO cells into the medium. 5. The specific ACh antagonist phenyltrimethylammonium (10(-4) M) blocked both excitatory, biphasic (inhibitory-excitatory) and inhibitory monosynaptic connections from the SO to feeding CPG interneurons and motor neurons. Less specific cholinergic antagonists blocked either excitatory (hexamethonium, 10(-4) M) or both excitatory and inhibitory connections (d-tubo-curarine, 10(-4) M). 6. The synaptic responses of the SO could be mimicked by brief (20 ms) pressure-pulsed application of ACh onto the cell bodies of the postsynaptic cells in high-Mg2+ saline. In normal saline, ACh elicited bursts of spikes in the N1 cells, indicating that a fictive feeding pattern had been induced in the CPG. This mimics the main mechanism by which the SO activates the CPG, which is by exciting the N1s. 7. The frequency of SO-induced fictive feeding rhythm was reduced by bath application of hexamethonium chloride to the buccal ganglia. This reduced the amplitude of the SO--&gt;N1 excitatory synaptic response (30% of controls) and is probably the main mechanism for the reduction in the frequency of the rhythm. 8. The evidence suggests that ACh is the main neurochemical involved in allowing the SO to initiate and control the frequency of the Lymnaea feeding CPG.
Recent data from studies of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in humans and laboratory animals are reviewed with particular reference to the anatomical substrates of prefrontal neuropsychological function in health and disease. The PFC has been shown to have a unique pattern of supramodal connectivity with intracortical and subcortical circuits that place the PFC in an anatomical position to subserve &quot;executive&quot; cognitive functions and modulate limbic information to relate to basal ganglia circuits in a highly specific manner and to uniquely control the neurochemical elements of attention and reward. PFC connectivity is also consistent with current hypotheses about prefrontal neuropsychology, which emphasize conscious, goal-directed behavior guided by past experience. PFC connectivity explains the frequency with which prefrontal dysfunction is seen in disease states, which, on the basis of neuroimaging and neuropathology data, can be categorized as either intrinsic or dysconnection disorders.
Ca2+ release from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-sensitive and ryanodine-sensitive intracellular Ca2+ stores is mediated by distinct proteins identified as IP3 receptors (IP3R) and ryanodine receptors (RyR), respectively. We have compared the immunohistochemical localizations of IP3R and RyR in the brain at the light and electron microscopic levels and have also evaluated the distribution of the major brain intracellular Ca(2+)-pumping ATPase. IP3R and RyR occur in overlapping populations of neurons in widespread areas of the brain, but labeling is distinct in a number of areas. For example, IP3R is enriched in cerebellar Purkinje cells and hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, while RyR is present at relatively low levels in these cells. RyR is most enriched in the dentate gyrus and CA3/4 areas of the hippocampus, where IP3R levels are low. In the cortex, IP3R is found in pyramidal cell bodies and proximal dendrites, whereas RyR is located predominantly in long, thin apical dendrites of pyramidal cells. In deep cerebellar nuclei, RyR is located in cell bodies that appear devoid of IP3R, whereas IP3R is enriched in terminals surrounding cell bodies. Electron microscopy in the hippocampus reveals RyR in axons, dendritic spines, and dendritic shafts near dendritic spines while IP3R is primarily identified in dendritic shafts and cell bodies. These results suggest that the IP3- and ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ pools have largely distinct roles in controlling intracellular Ca2+ levels, though in some sites they may interact to varying degrees.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that the primary olfactory projection in rainbow trout is organized nontopographically; the pattern of termination of olfactory axons in the olfactory bulb is unrelated to the distribution of their cell bodies in the olfactory mucosa. In the present research we have further characterized the organization of this projection by examining the lectin-binding properties of olfactory receptor neurons. The results indicate that in trout, as in mammals, populations of olfactory receptor neurons differ significantly from one another in their carbohydrate &quot;signatures.&quot; We have identified subsets of olfactory receptor neurons, specified by unique lectin-binding properties, that are widely distributed and intermingled with the other receptor neurons in the olfactory mucosa and nerve, but that segregate as they enter the olfactory bulb and project to restricted regions of the glomerular layer. This pattern of terminations is bilaterally symmetrical, is remarkably consistent across individuals, and reappears when the primary olfactory projection is reconstituted following transection of the olfactory nerve. As revealed by the carbohydrates on subpopulations of receptor neurons, there is substantial order in the nontopographic projection of olfactory receptor neurons to the olfactory bulb. The functional significance of this organization and the means by which it develops and is maintained remain under investigation.
Previously we showed that delivering 900 pulses to the Schaffer collateral-CA1 pathway at 1-3 Hz causes a lasting depression of synaptic effectiveness that is input specific and dependent on NMDA receptor activation (Dudek and Bear, 1992a). Here we describe experiments aimed at further characterizing this homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) and comparing it with long-term potentiation (LTP). To address the question of whether depressed synapses can still be potentiated and vice versa, LTP was saturated with repeated high-frequency tetani, and then LTD was induced with low-frequency stimulation (LFS). A second strong tetanus then restored the potentiation, indicating that the same synapses whose transmission had been depressed by LFS were capable of subsequently supporting potentiation. In a complementary experiment, LTD was induced first and then a strong high-frequency tetanus was delivered. We found that the resulting LTP achieved the same absolute magnitude as that observed in control slices that had received the high-frequency stimulation alone. Next, the postnatal development of LTD was investigated in slices prepared from rats at 6-35 d of age. The consequences of LFS were far more pronounced in slices from young rats. LTD following 900 pulses at 1 Hz measured -45 +/- 4% in CA1 of rats less than 2 weeks old as compared with -20 +/- 4 in animals at 5 weeks postnatal. It was also found that LTD precedes the developmental onset of LTP in CA1. Finally, we addressed the question of whether LTD could be saturated by repeated episodes of LFS in slices prepared from 3-week-old rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We previously reported that trophic factors and neurotransmitters in concert regulate survival of cultured cerebellar Purkinje cells. In particular, excitatory amino acid (EAA) transmitters and NGF increased survival, whereas neither alone was effective. In the present studies, we sought to identify molecular mechanisms through which EAAs participate in the survival-promoting interaction. Initially, we characterized the potential role of ionotropic EAA receptors by exposing cultures to the antagonists MK-801, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, and 6,7-dinitroquinoxalinedione. Each increased cell number, suggesting that endogenous ionotropic activity decreased survival. To determine whether metabotropic EAA receptor stimulation modulates survival, the metabotropic agonist ACPD ([1S,3R]-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid; 1 microM) was tested. ACPD alone had no effect on survival. However, simultaneous exposure to ACPD and NGF significantly increased Purkinje number. Moreover, this increase in survival was blocked by L-AP3 [L(+)-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid; 1 microM], a putative antagonist of certain metabotropic responses. L-AP3 also reduced cell number in the absence of exogenous EAA. Thus, endogenous metabotropic stimulation is normally necessary for survival. In sum, these studies reveal a novel mechanism whereby an excitatory neurotransmitter shapes neural development by simultaneous trophic and regressive actions that are, respectively, mediated by metabotropic and ionotropic EAA receptors.
Reduction or elimination of nitric oxide (NO) production in cortical neurons by NO synthase (NOS) inhibitors during glutamate toxicity in vitro or during focal cerebral ischemia in vivo can prevent neuronal cell death. In contrast, growth factors can prevent neuronal degeneration induced by treatment with glutamate or potassium cyanide. We have determined whether NO mediates hippocampal cell death during anoxia in vitro and whether the peptide growth factors basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) can prevent hippocampal neuronal death during anoxia or NO exposure. Both bFGF and EGF increased hippocampal neuronal survival from about 35% in anoxic cultures to about 65% in treated cultures during an 8 hr period of anoxia. Inhibition of NOS by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, a competitive inhibitor of NOS, rescued 65-70% of the neurons that would normally die during an 8 hr anoxic incubation, and this effect was reversed by L-arginine, a precursor for NO. Thus, hippocampal neuronal death following anoxia is, at least in part, mediated by NO. NO, generated by either nitroprusside or 3-morpholino-sydnonimine, was toxic to hippocampal neurons. Pretreatment of cultures with either bFGF (10 ng/ml) or EGF (10 ng/ml) prior to NO exposure increased survival from approximately 40% in untreated cultures to 80% in treated cultures, yet the effect of combining bFGF and EGF was not greater than treatment with either of the growth factors alone. Knowledge that the growth factors bFGF and EGF are neuroprotective against NO toxicity provides insights into the mechanisms of ischemic neuronal death that may direct future therapeutic modalities for cerebrovascular disease and neurodegenerative disorders.
Although many of the ideas for sampling the chemical microenvironment of the brain were present, at least in nascent form, three decades ago or more, the last 10 years have witnessed a particularly spectacular surge of development, refinement, and use. We are now able to measure virtually any endogenous brain chemical in vivo at commendable levels of sensitivity, selectivity, and speed. The long-dreamt-of goal of being able to correlate neurochemical events with ongoing behavior and/or presentation of salient environmental cues and stimuli has already been largely achieved. Further refinements of existing techniques may well lead to levels of analysis inconceivable even a few years ago. The implications for theory-building and hypothesis-testing are enormous, particularly within such essentially virgin domains as behavioral neuroscience and biological psychiatry. These are truly exciting times.
We designed a prospective study to compare the validity of airway pressure (AWP) monitoring with that of end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) monitoring for early detection of air embolism. Subjects included 76 patients of both sexes who underwent neurosurgery in the sitting position. Anesthesia was maintained with O2, N2O, narcotics, pancuronium, and intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV). Continuous monitoring was done of HR, ECG, intraarterial pressure, AWP, and ETCO2. A sudden and sustained decrease in ETCO2 during anesthesia in a hemodynamically stable patient was considered as a sign of air embolism. Concomitant changes in AWP and cardiovascular parameters were also recorded simultaneously. Onset time, stage of surgery, and duration of disturbances were recorded. At the same time, the chest was auscultated for any murmur. Aspiration of air through the CVP catheter was attempted for diagnosis and management of air embolism. ETCO2 monitoring detected 24 episodes (31.5%) of air embolism in 16 patients. We observed 10 episodes (13.1%) of tachycardia in nine patients and nine episodes (11.8%) of hypotension in eight of the 16 patients. Murmur was noted in four patients and air aspiration in six patients. Only six patients of the 16 had an increase in AWP along with the decrease in ETCO2. We conclude that AWP monitoring is neither a sensitive nor reliable indicator of air embolism.
Normetanephrine (NMN) and metanephrine (MN) are produced by the actions of catechol-O-methyltransferase on norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E). Because catechol-O-methyltransferase is not present appreciably in neurons, plasma concentrations of NMN and MN provide a marker of extraneuronal catecholamine metabolism. In the present study, plasma NMN and MN were examined in rats before and during immobilization stress or i.v. infusion of NE and E to compare the extraneuronal metabolism of circulating and neuronally released catecholamines. At rest, plasma concentrations of NMN (0.44 +/- 0.03 pmol/ml) were 34% those of NE (1.40 +/- 0.11 pmol/ml) and MN concentrations (0.15 +/- 0.02 pmol/ml) were 33% those of E (0.48 +/- 0.11 pmol/ml). Immobilization and catecholamine infusion both increased plasma NMN and MN in parallel with increases in the precursor amines. Relative to increases in precursor amines, the MN response to infusion of catecholamines was 50% greater than the NMN response. Increases in plasma MN, relative to those in E, were similar during infusion of catecholamines and immobilization stress. In contrast, the NMN response to immobilization, relative to the NE response, was 3-fold larger than the NMN response to catecholamine infusion. Larger MN responses than NMN responses to infusion of catecholamines may reflect preferential extraneuronal uptake or O-methylation of E over NE or more efficient metabolism of NMN than MN. The larger NMN response to release of endogenous stores than to infusion of exogenous amine indicated that 30% of NMN is derived from circulating NE and 70% from NE in transit from sites of release to the circulation.
Chinese hamster ovary cell lines which stably express individual subtypes of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (m1-m5) were used to assess the potential selectivity of known muscarinic agonists in effecting coupling of different receptor subtypes to signal transduction mechanisms. Phosphoinositide hydrolysis was measured in m1-, m3- and m5-Chinese hamster ovary cells, whereas inhibition of forskolin-mediated cyclic AMP formation was measured upon the activation of m2 and m4 muscarinic receptors. The two muscarinic agonists pilocarpine and McN-A-343 were notably subtype selective on a functional basis. Pilocarpine was more efficacious in stimulating Phosphoinositide hydrolysis linked to m1 as compared to either m3 or m5 muscarinic receptors. On the other hand, McN-A-343 produced marked inhibition of cyclic AMP formation in m4-Chinese hamster ovary cells but only a small response at m2 receptors. The subtype selectivity of pilocarpine and McN-A-343 in these cases was not due to differences in the level of expression of muscarinic receptors in the various cell lines. In contrast, equalizing receptor number in pairs of cell lines masked apparent selectivities in other cases. Our data highlight the functional discrimination of pilocarpine and McN-A-343 among muscarinic receptor subtypes and emphasize the importance of using cell lines which express an equal number of receptors in the process of searching for subtype selective agonists.
1. Three to eight micromolar external Mg2+ produces discrete block of the unitary inward currents through the L-type Ca2+ channel carried by 300 mM external Li+. Like the Ca2+ block, increasing Li+ concentration decreases the Mg2+ on-rate and increases the Mg2+ off-rate. 2. These kinetic changes are saturating and the apparent dissociation constant (Kd) for the on-rates in 75 mM Li+ (in activity), the same as that in the case of Ca2+ block. This suggests that Mg2+ and Ca2+ produce the discrete block at the same site. The apparent Kd for the off-rates is 300 mM, much smaller than that in the case of Ca2+ block. This indicates that Mg2+ exerts much less repulsion on the Li+ ion in the neighbouring (enhancement) site than Ca2+, although Mg2+ and Ca2+ both have two charges. The theoretical fits to the off-rates also suggest that Mg2+ can exit the blocking sites at a rate of several hundred per second in the absence of any enhancement effect. 3. Seventeen to forty-eight micromolar internal Mg2+ produces discrete block of the outward unitary currents carried by 300 mM internal Li+. The off-rates are in general approximately 20 times faster as compared to the Mg2+ off-rates in the inward currents. This finding suggests that Mg2+ in the high-affinity sites can much more easily exit to the outside than to the inside, implying significantly higher energy barriers on the inner side of the high-affinity sites for Mg2+. 4. At least 5-10 mM internal Mg2+ is needed to produce discrete block of the inward unitary currents carried by 215 mM external Na+. The off-rates in such experiments are generally the same as those in the case of external Mg2+ block of inward currents. This suggests that internal and external Mg2+ both reach the same site, namely the high-affinity Ca2+ binding sites in the pore, to produce the discrete block. 5. Other than discrete block, 5-10 mM internal Mg2+ also decreases the size of the inward unitary current. This is most probably due to a fast block at the more internally located low-affinity sites in the pore. The fractional decrease of the currents is voltage dependent and can be fitted by a rectangular hyperbola to calculate the apparent Kd, which increases e-fold per 45 mV hyperpolarization, indicating an electrical distance of 0.3 between the low-affinity sites and the internal pore mouth.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
