The location of methionine enkephalin neurons in the medulla oblongata that project to the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum was investigated using anterograde and retrograde tract tracing combined with immunocytochemical neurotransmitter identification. The results of these experiments demonstrate that enkephalinergic neurons from areas known to modulate nociception project to the region of the A7 catecholamine cell group in the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum. The medullary nuclei that contain these enkephalinergic neurons include the nucleus raphe magnus and the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars alpha in the ventromedial medulla. While some of these enkephalinergic axons appose the somata and dendrites of A7 neurons, the majority of these axons appear to contact non-catecholamine neurons in the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum. Unidentified neurons located in the nucleus raphe magnus, the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars alpha, and the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis also project to the A7 area. Many of the neurons in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars alpha appear to contact both noradrenergic A7 neurons and non-catecholamine neurons in the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum, whereas most of those in the nucleus raphe magnus appear to contact non-catecholamine neurons. The anatomical findings described in this report and the results of preliminary behavioral studies provide evidence to support a model in which activation of the enkephalin-containing neurons in the ventromedial medulla facilitates nociception, while the non-enkephalin neurons mediate part of the antinociception produced by stimulating sites in the ventromedial medulla.
We tested the hypothesis that the regional, cellular, and synaptic localizations of the glutamate receptor 1 (GluR 1) subunit of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor are regulated developmentally in rat brain. By immunoblotting, GluR1 was first detected in whole brain at embryonic day E15.5, and levels increased progressively during late embryonic (E20) and early postnatal (P2-P11) days. Regionally, GluR1 increased in cerebral cortex but decreased in striatum with postnatal maturation. These changes occurred in the presence of increased presynaptic maturation, as determined by synaptophysin detection. By immunocytochemistry, distinct cellular populations showed different temporal profiles of GluR1 expression during postnatal maturation. The neocortex and hippocampus showed a progressive maturation-related enrichment of GluR1, whereas the striatum showed a gradual reduction in GluR1 during maturation. In cerebellum, GluR1 protein was expressed transiently at restricted times postnatally by granule cells (P0-P11) and Purkinje cells (P13-P19), but by P21 and thereafter these neurons had sparse GluR1 immunoreactivity. By immunoelectron microscopy. GluR1 was found in neurites, specifically in both dendritic and axon terminal components of developing synapses. GluR1 was clustered at the plasma membrane of apparent growth cone appositions, neuronal cell bodies, and dendrites of developing neurons. The presence of GluR1 at presynaptic sites dissipated with synaptic maturation, as GluR1 became confined to the somatodendritic compartment as maturation progressed. We conclude that the regional expression as well as the cellular and synaptic localizations of the GluR1 are developmentally regulated and are different in immature and mature brain. Differences in glutamate receptor expression and synaptic localization in immature and mature brain may be relevant to the phenomenon that the perinatal and adult brain differ in their regional vulnerability to hypoxia-ischemia and excitotoxicity.
The median preoptic nucleus is recognized as an important forebrain site involved in hydromineral and cardiovascular homeostasis. In the present study, whole cell patch-clamp recordings in parasagittal slices of adult rat brain were used to obtain information on the properties of median preoptic neurons. Lucifer Yellow-labelled cells demonstrated small ovoid somata with two to three aspiny main dendrites and axons that branched sparingly. Median preoptic neurons displayed varying degrees of hyperpolarization-activated time-dependent and/or time-independent inward rectification, and 86% of cells demonstrated low threshold spikes. Median preoptic nucleus is known to receive a prominent noradrenergic innervation from the medulla, and 59% of 156 tested neurons were found to respond to bath applied noradrenaline (1-100 microM). In the majority (n = 62) of cells, the response was an alpha 2 adrenoreceptor-mediated, tetrodotoxin-resistant, membrane hyperpolarization that was associated with a 43 +/- 6% increase in membrane conductance. The net noradrenaline-induced current (5-45 pA) was inwardly rectifying, cesium-resistant but barium sensitive. Current reversal at -102 +/- 4 mV in 3.1 mM [K]o and -62 +/- 3 mV in 10 mM [K]o implied opening of potassium channels. By contrast, a minority (n = 27) of cells responded to noradrenaline with an alpha 1-mediated, tetrodotoxin-resistant membrane depolarization. These observations imply a functional diversity among median preoptic neurons, and the prevalence of hyperpolarizing alpha 2 and, to a lesser extent, depolarizing alpha 1 adrenoreceptors on median preoptic neurons suggests that noradrenergic inputs can exert a prominent influence on their cellular excitability.
In trigeminal neurons, the spike rate, modulated by input parameters, may serve as a code for sensory information. We investigated intrinsic response properties that affect rate coding in neurons of nucleus principalis trigemini (young gerbils). Using the whole-cell recording technique and neurobiotin staining in slices, we found bursting behaviour in approximately 50% of the neurons. These neurons fired spike bursts, spontaneously, as well as at the onset of depolarizing, and offset of hyperpolarizing, current pulses. The spike rate within an initial burst was independent of stimulus strength, in contrast to single spike firing that occurred later in the response to current pulse injection. The spikes within a burst were superimposed on slow depolarizing humps. Under favourable conditions, these led to &quot;plateau potentials&quot;, that lasted for hundreds of milliseconds at membrane potentials near approximately -20 mV. Occasionally, plateau potentials were spontaneous or evoked under control conditions: usually, they were evoked by current pulse injection during blockade of Ca2+ influx with Co2+ or Cd2+ in Ca(2+)-free extracellular media, or during blockade of K+ currents with tetraethylammonium. The plateau potentials recorded during internal Cs+ (132.5 mM) substitution of K+ had more positive amplitudes (near +20 mV). Despite relatively stable depolarization levels, the plateau potentials decreased in duration and decayed in amplitude during application of tetrodotoxin (0.6-1.8 nM). Higher tetrodotoxin concentrations (5-60 nM) eliminated the plateau potentials despite well-maintained, fast action potentials. A reduction of external [Na+] reduced the amplitudes of the spikes and plateau potentials. A hyperpolarization of long duration (&gt; 3 s) followed a plateau potential, or a depolarizing response that was subthreshold for plateau generation. Tetrodotoxin application blocked this after-effect. We suggest that a persistent Na+ influx is a major contributor to the bursts and plateau potentials and that it mediates the hyperpolarization. Depending on Ca2+ influx, K+ conductances may regulate the amplitudes of these long-lasting depolarizations. A Ca2+ conductance, blockable by Ni2+, may support burst initiation in these neurons. In very young animals (P2-P9), we found only non-bursting neurons. Both bursting and non-bursting neurons with elongated dendritic fields showed inward rectification on hyperpolarization. The bursts in nucleus principalis trigemini neurons emphasize the onsets of stimulus transients, at the expense of using firing rate as a sensory code. Our studies describe neurons with a surprising ability to distort sensory signals, transforming depolarizing inputs into bursts of spikes by virtue of a Na(+)-conductance activation. The principal trigeminal nucleus also contains neurons with tonic firing ability, compatible with simple rate coding.
Previous work in our laboratory has revealed that the excitability of lateral amygdaloid projection neurons is tightly regulated by GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and intrinsic conductances that can be activated by synaptic inputs. Here, we studied the synaptic responsiveness of lateral amygdaloid interneurons recorded intracellularly in vivo, in the cat, to investigate their role in regulating the activity of projection cells. Interneurons were identified morphologically by their aspiny dendritic trees and physiologically by their ability to generate high frequency, non-adapting spike trains in response to depolarizing current pulses. Cortical shocks of increasing intensity generated opposite response profiles in interneurons and projection cells, with interneurons becoming progressively more excited and projection cells more inhibited. These cortically-evoked response profiles paralleled the activity of interneurons and projection cells in relation to spontaneous electroencephalographic events of differing amplitudes. Only at the lowest intensities were predominantly excitatory responses elicited in both cell types. As a result, only a narrow range of low stimulus intensities could trigger spikes in projection cells. In both cell types, the initial cortically-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential was followed by a hyperpolarization, which was of markedly lower amplitude and duration in interneurons. In interneurons, the hyperpolarization reversed at approximately -72 mV with potassium acetate pipettes and approximately -55 mV with potassium chloride pipettes, suggesting that this inhibitory postsynaptic potential is primarily mediated by a chloride conductance. In light of previous findings indicating that inhibition in the lateral amygdaloid nucleus arises mostly from local inhibitory neurons, these results suggest that interneurons are synaptically coupled via GABAA receptors. Moreover, the opposite response profiles of interneurons and projection cells to cortical shocks indicate that interneurons play a critical role in regulating the activity of projection cells. The cellular interactions evidenced in the present study suggest that the lateral amygdaloid nucleus is endowed with an inhibitory gating mechanism that regulates information flow through the amygdala.
The neuroanatomical distribution of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons was investigated in post mortem hypothalami of 10 patients suffering from schizophrenia, eight patients with depression and 13 matched control cases. Neuronal nitric oxide synthase containing nerve cells were detected in several hypothalamic nuclei including the medial preoptic region, the ventromedial, infundibular and suprachiasmatic nuclei and the lateral hypothalamus. The vast majority of hypothalamic nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons was found to be located in the paraventricular nucleus. Both magno and parvocellular paraventricular neurons contained the enzyme. A small subset of immunoreactive parvocellular paraventricular neurons co-expresses corticotropin-releasing hormone. The supraoptic nucleus did not contain nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons. Cell counts of paraventricular nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons in controls, schizophrenics and depressed patients revealed a statistically significant reduction of cell density in the right paraventricular nucleus of depressed patients and schizophrenics as compared to controls. The total amount of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive paraventricular neurons was smaller in depressive and schizophrenic patients than in normal cases. The putative pathophysiologic significance of the reduced expression of paraventricular nitric oxide synthase in depressive patients might be related to the supposed regulatory function of nitric oxide in the release of corticotropin-releasing hormone and arginine-vasopressin and/or oxytocin, which have been reported to be over-expressed in the so-called endogenous psychoses, especially in depression.
The adenomatous polyposis coli gene is mutated in familial adenomatous polyposis and in sporadic colorectal tumours. The adenomatous polyposis coli gene product is a 300,000 mol. wt cytoplasmic protein that binds to at least three other proteins; beta-catenin, a cytoplasmic E-cadherin-associated protein; hDLG, a human homologue of the Drosophila discs large tumour suppressor protein and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta, a mammalian homologue of the Drosophila ZESTE WHITE 3 protein. The adenomatous polyposis coli gene is highly expressed in the brain, suggesting that it may be involved in nerve function. Here we show that adenomatous polyposis coli is localized in the pericapillary astrocytic endfeet throughout the mouse central nervous system. Adenomatous polyposis coli is also localized in the astrocytic processes in the cerebellar granular layer, and displays concentrated expression in the terminal plexuses of the basket cell fibres around Purkinje cells. Adenomatous polyposis coli is further expressed in neuronal cell bodies and/or nerve fibres in the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, brain stem, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. Adenomatous polyposis coli is demonstrated to be co-localized with beta-catenin and/or hDLG in neurons and nerve fibres, but not in astrocytes. From these results, adenomatous polyposis coli is suggested to participate in a signal transduction pathway in astrocytes which is independent of beta-catenin and hDLG, and also in regulation of neuronal functions in association with beta-catenin and hDLG.
Hamster fungiform papilla taste buds persist in an atrophic form following sensory denervation. While atrophic and innervated taste buds are morphologically similar, it is not known whether their gemmal cells have similar molecular characteristics. Three neurochemicals, neural cell adhesion molecule, neuron-specific enolase, and calcitonin gene-related peptide have been implicated in trophic phenomena, synaptogenesis and cell recognition in neurons and sensory neuroepithelia. The present study uses immunocytochemical localization of these molecular markers to characterize normal and denervated fungiform taste buds following unilateral chorda tympani/lingual nerve denervation in hamsters. In normal taste buds, immunoreactivity to neural cell adhesion molecule, neuron-specific enolase, and calcitonin gene-related peptide was present in a group of cells located centrally in the bud as well as in fungiform nerve fibres and endings. After denervation, gemmal cell immunoreactivity to all three markers was reduced and often confined to a single or a few bud cell(s). Also, fibre staining was absent except for sparse calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibres associated with blood vessels and within the fungiform papillae. These remaining fibres may be autonomic or somatomotor in origin. These results indicate that sensory denervation of hamster taste buds reduces, but does not wholly eliminate the immunoreactivity of surviving gemmal cells to neural cell adhesion molecule, neuron-specific enolase, and calcitonin gene-related peptide. While the number of taste bud cells expressing the markers appears to be nerve-dependent, immunoreactivity in sensory-denervated bud cells of hamster may reflect the influence of local tissue factors.
An investigation was made of the effects of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on the acquisition and retention of two operantly conditioned discrimination tasks. Twenty Long-Evans rats were conditioned to approach one of two spatial locations that was either held constant across trials (spatial task) or was associated with a visual cue (illuminated lamp) that was randomly assigned to one of the locations on each trial (cued task). Rats were assigned to one of two treatment groups in which they received intraperitoneal injections of either NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester or saline approximately 2 h before sessions on each day of training. Analysis was made of the trial-by-trial performance in order to identify the characteristics of learning under each condition. Assessment of learning acquisition was based on the number of trials required to reach a criterion of 80% correct responses, whereas retention was assessed by the number of trials to criterion on each day after the criterion was initially reached. Analysis indicated that treatment groups did not differ significantly on acquisition or retention of either the spatial or cued task. These results indicate that inhibition of nitric oxide synthase does not interfere with the learning or retention of basic operant tasks that involve simple spatial or visual analysis. Whereas results from biochemical and physiological investigations have suggested an impact of nitric oxide synthase on behavioural function, behavioural investigations indicate a limited impact of nitric oxide synthase inhibition on learning and memory. Although these results do not discount the role of nitric oxide synthase in a hippocampal mechanism, they illustrate that behavioural analysis should be made in the context of multiple interacting neural systems. Viewed with previous behavioural research on the effects of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, these results indicate that nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in impairment of certain forms of learning whereas other forms are preserved.
The effect of short-term (Sprague-Dawley rats, two weeks) and long-term ovariectomy (Sprague-Dawley and Fischer rats, three months) on serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors in different regions of the brain and its possible correction with an 17 beta-estradiol treatment (10 micrograms, b.i.d., two weeks) were studied in comparison to intact rats. Saturation binding assays were performed using [3H]ketanserin to estimate 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor density and affinity in tissue homogenates of frontal cortex of Fischer rats and quantitative autoradiography was performed to evaluate receptor specific binding in frontoparietal cortex, nucleus accumbens, striatum and dorsal raphe nucleus of Fischer rats, and in frontal cortex of the two strains of rats. Messenger RNA levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors were measured by in situ hybridization in frontal cortex of the two strains of rats. An overall decrease of 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor densities was found in all the brain regions of ovariectomized Fischer rats assayed, and this could be restored towards control levels by estradiol treatment. No change in the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor affinity was measured in the frontal cortex. A similar pattern of changes was observed for the messenger RNA levels encoding the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors and receptor density, suggesting the implication of a genomic mechanism. Experiments in Sprague-Dawley rats confirmed and extended the results obtained with Fischer rats. By analogy, in humans, this 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor modulation may underlie the mood and movement disorders associated with menopause.
GABA plasma membrane transporters mediate GABA uptake into presynaptic terminals and surrounding glial processes and thus play a key role in shaping the time course and spatial extent of GABA's action. In the present study we have investigated the cellular and subcellular localization of two GABA transporters (1 and 3) in the rat thalamus using affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies. GABA transporter-1 and -3 immunoreactivity, detected with immunoperoxidase and immunofluorescence methods, is present throughout the thalamus in small punctate structures scattered in the neuropil among unlabelled neuronal perikarya. Labelling for GABA transporter-3 is always more intense than that for GABA transporter-1. Astrocytic processes, identified by their immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, express both GABA transporters. Ultrastructural investigations confirm that GABA transporter-1 and -3 labelling is restricted to astrocytes. Labelled astrocytes are adjacent to terminals making either symmetric or asymmetric synaptic contacts, and are close to neuronal profiles that do not form synaptic contacts in the plane of the section. In double-labelled thin sections some GABA transporter-1- or -3-positive astrocytic processes, detected with immunoperoxidase labelling, surround GABA-positive terminals, detected with antibodies to GABA and immunogold labelling. These findings demonstrate that in rat thalamus the GABA uptake system mediated by GABA transporter-1 and -3 is localized exclusively to astrocytes near the synapses and in the neuropil, and absent from GABAergic terminals. Astrocytes play therefore an important role in mediating GABA transmission in the thalamus, compared to cortical regions.
We used in vivo microdialysis coupled with polygraphic recording to monitor 5-hydroxytryptamine levels in the dorsal raphe nucleus and frontal cortex across waking, slow-wave sleep and rapid eye-movement sleep. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were prepared with electroencephalogram and electromyogram electrodes. Microdialysis probes were placed in dorsal raphe nucleus and/or frontal cortex. Dialysate samples were manually collected during polygraphically-defined behavioural states and the level of serotonin was assayed by means of microbore high-performance liquid chromatography separation and electrochemical detection. Samples from microdialysis probes histologically localized to the dorsal raphe nucleus and frontal cortex showed different levels of extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in waking, slow-wave sleep and rapid eye-movement sleep. In dorsal raphe nucleus the extracellular level of serotonin was highest in waking, decreased in slow-wave sleep to 69% and in rapid eye-movement sleep to 39% of waking mean level (waking 3.2 +/- 0.9; slow-wave sleep 2.2 +/- 0.8; rapid eye-movement sleep 1.3 +/- 0.4 fmol/sample). Mean extracellular levels of serotonin in frontal cortex displayed a similar pattern (waking 1.7 +/- 0.4; slow-wave sleep 1.0 +/- 0.3; rapid eye-movement 0.5 +/- 0.05 fmol/sample). In frontal cortex, rapid eye-movement sleep samples were only obtained in three animals. Our findings are consistent with previous results in cats, and suggest that in rats also, extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine levels in dorsal raphe nucleus and frontal cortex across the sleep/wake cycle might reflect serotonergic neuronal activity. The findings stress the importance of controlling for behavioural state when investigating neurochemical correlates of serotonergic function.
The binding sites of girisopam, a homophthalazine (2,3-benzodiazepine)-derivate have a specific distribution pattern restricted to the striato-pallido-nigral system of the rat brain. Following kainic acid lesions in the caudate-putamen or the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle), as well as after surgical transection of the striatonigral pathway, [3H]girisopam binding sites were reduced or completely eliminated from the substantia nigra and the entopeduncular nucleus. Kainic acid lesions of the globus pallidus failed to act on girisopam binding sites in the substantia nigra. Surgical transections or 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the striatonigral pathway, as well as intranigral kainic acid injections did not influence binding sites in the striatum or the pallidum. These findings indicate that girisopam in the striatum to be postsynaptic on striatonigral projecting neurons. Girisopam in the striatum seems is present in striatonigral projecting neurons. The binding sites are transported from the striatum (mainly from the caudate-putamen, partly from the ventral striatum) to the substantia nigra and the entopeduncular nucleus. The exact identity of these striatonigral fibres bearing homopthalazines is uncertain.
To determine whether increased oxidative stress in substantia nigra of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease might be related to decreased ability of nigral cells to detoxify oxidized membrane phospholipids, we compared levels of the major phospholipid metabolizing enzymes in autopsied substantia nigra with those in non-nigral (n = 11) brain areas of the normal human brain. Whereas most enzymes possessed a relatively homogeneous distribution, the activity of the major phospholipid catabolizing enzyme phospholipase A2, assayed in the presence of calcium ions, varied amongst different regions, with substantia nigra possessing the lowest activity. Similarly, calcium-independent phospholipase A2 activity, although possessing a relatively homogeneous regional distribution, was also low in the substantia nigra. This, coupled with low activity of phosphoethanolamine- and phosphocholine-cytidylyltransferases, major regulatory enzymes of phospholipid synthesis, in this brain region, suggest that the rate of phospholipid turnover is low in the substantia nigra. Low activity of key phospholipid catabolic and anabolic enzymes in human substantia nigra might result in reduced ability to repair oxidative membrane damage, as may occur in Parkinson's disease.
The present study examined post mortem changes in central dopaminergic terminal regions following acute or chronic treatment regimens with the dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist quinpirole, a psychomotor stimulant which induces pronounced behavioural sensitization when given chronically. Drug-induced changes in nucleus accumbens, striatum and amygdala were bilateral in nature, while in prefrontal cortex (medial prefrontal and anterior cingulate combined), left and right brain regions responded differentially to quinpirole. Acute drug treatment increased dopamine tissue levels in nucleus accumbens and right prefrontal cortex, while the dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, was decreased in amygdala. In contrast, sensitization to quinpirole was associated with decreased dopamine levels in left prefrontal cortex, and increases in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in subcortical structures, particularly striatum and amygdala. Additionally, the increase in striatal 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in chronic quinpirole animals was independent of drug treatment on the final day of injections. In summary, quinpirole induces a variety of simultaneous, regional changes in dopaminergic function, with the sensitized condition being primarily associated with an up-regulation of subcortical dopamine activity. While the nucleus accumbens and striatum play a well known role in motor activation and sensitized behaviour, it is concluded that the amygdala and prefrontal cortex have significant modulatory influences on these processes, with the role of the prefrontal cortex being asymmetrical in nature. Given the suggested relevance of behavioural sensitization to psychopathological states in humans, parallels are drawn between the present data and clinical findings, particularly in relation to obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Although immunohistochemical studies have typically found the perikarya of striatal projection neurons to be devoid of immunohistochemical labelling for the GluR1 AMPA type glutamate receptor subunit, the striatal neuropil is rich in GluR1 immunolabelling and in situ hybridization histochemistry has indicated the presence of GluR1 message in many striatal neurons. To explore the possibility that GluR1 subunits may be synthesized by many striatal projection neurons, but selectively localized to their dendrites, we have used light-microscopic and electron-microscopic immunohistochemistry in combination with single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Light-microscopic immunohistochemical studies confirmed the presence of abundant GluR1 immunoreactivity in the striatal neuropil in rats. Perikaryal labelling was restricted to neurons previously identified as parvalbuminergic neurons. Single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for individual striatal neurons in rats confirmed that most striatal projection neurons (i.e. containing either or both substance P message or enkephalin message) make GluR1 message. For example, 94% of enkephalin-containing neurons, 75% of substance P-containing neurons, and 87% of enkephalin and substance P co-containing neurons expressed GluR1 messenger RNA. Electron-microscopic immunohistochemistry revealed that GluR1 immunolabelling was prominent in 61% of dendritic spines and 53% of dendritic shafts. While prominent perikaryal GluR1 immunolabelling was observed only in a small population of interneurons, sparse perikaryal GluR1 immunolabelling was found associated with the rough endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, the outer membranes of the mitochondria, and the outer envelope of the nucleus of about 30% of striatal projection neurons (identified by their non-indented nuclei). These results indicate that striatal projection neurons selectively target GluR1 subunits to their spines and dendritic shafts. Our finding has implications for the functioning of striatal projection neurons and for the general issue of whether neurons can control the subcellular localization of glutamate receptors.
GABAergic neurons in the rat substantia nigra die after inhibitory inputs to the nigra have been killed, and glutamatergic inputs disinhibited, by striatal-pallidal injections of ibotenic acid. This delayed transneuronal injury model imitates the neuron loss observed in Huntington's disease, and may also imitate neuron loss distant from the primary injury in stroke and Parkinson's disease. Because the neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 can prevent excitotoxic killing of cultured GABA neurons, we tested whether either factor could protect nigral neurons from transneuronal degeneration. A continuous, three week supranigral infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor completely prevented the loss of nigral neurons caused by the ibotenic acid-induced destruction of the caudate-putamen and globus pallidus, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor increased nigral neuron size by 25%. These effects were specific to the TrkB tyrosine kinase receptor that mediates brain-derived neurotrophic factor actions, since supranigral infusions of saline or the TrkC preferring neurotrophin-3, did not prevent nigral neuron loss or induce a hypertrophic response. Neither trophic factor influenced the ibotenic acid destruction of striatal or pallidal neurons. These results demonstrate that exogenously supplied brain-derived neurotrophic factor can prevent delayed, transneuronal loss, and implicate decreased excitatory amino acid transmission or diminished nigral neuron susceptibility to glutamate inputs in the protective effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor.
Several findings show a neuroprotective effect of nicotine treatment in different experimental models, and a negative correlation has been observed between cigarette smoking and the incidence of Parkinson's disease. It seems possible that nicotine may in part exert its neuroprotective actions by favouring the synthesis of neurotrophic factors. The aim of this study was to determine whether the nicotine treatment could be associated with the induction of a neurotrophic factor in brain regions with nicotinic receptors. Thus, we analysed by in situ hybridization and RNAse protection assay the effects of (-)nicotine on basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA and by immunocytochemistry fibroblast growth factor-2 protein in the tel- and diencephalon of rats following single or acute intermittent (-)nicotine treatment. The present results showed that acute intermittent (-)nicotine treatment (four i.p. injections at intervals of 30 min), but not single injections, lead to a substantial and dose-related (0.1-2 mg/kg) up-regulation of fibroblast growth factor-2 messenger RNA levels in the cerebral cortex, in the hippocampus, in the striatum and ventral midbrain. This induction of fibroblast growth factor-2 expression peaked 4 h after the first injection and returned to normal levels within 24 h. The change of fibroblast growth factor-2 messenger RNA levels was associated with increased fibroblast growth factor-2 immunoreactivity mainly localized to nerve cells. The treatment was effective also when repeated in the same animals three or five days after the first injection. The pre-treatment with the non-competitive (-)nicotine receptor antagonist mecamylamine blocked the (-)nicotine effects on fibroblast growth factor-2 messenger RNA levels. In the above areas, no changes were observed in the fibroblast growth factor-1, 2 and 3 receptor messenger RNA levels nor in brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels. The present data indicate an ability of intermittent (-)nicotine to increase fibroblast growth factor-2 in many tel- and diencephalic areas. In view of the trophic function of fibroblast growth factor-2, the previously observed neuroprotective effects of (-)nicotine may at least in part involve an activation of the neuronal fibroblast growth factor-2 signalling, and open up new avenues for treatment of Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease based on the existence of nicotinic receptor subtypes enhancing fibroblast growth factor-2 signalling in many regions of the tel- and diencephalon.
A 10 min exposure of rat hippocampal slices to hypoxic/hypoglycemic medium decreased tissue adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) levels. Hypoxia/hypoglycemia also caused an anoxic depolarization and essentially no recovery of the synaptically evoked population spike from CA1 region recorded 30 min after re-introduction of normoxic/normoglycemic medium. Removal of Ca2+ or the addition of either the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine maleate, the inorganic Ca2+ channel antagonist Co2+; or the Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin to hypoxic/hypoglycemic medium improved recovery of the evoked population spike upon re-oxygenation. Dizocilpine maleate, Co2+, and tetrodotoxin spared ATP during exposure to hypoxia/hypoglycemia. In contrast, Ca(2+)-free medium facilitated recovery of the population spike but did not preserve ATP during hypoxia/hypoglycemia. Dizocilpine maleate, Co2+ or dantrolene, when added to Ca(2+)-free medium, did not preserve ATP. Tetrodotoxin, when added to Ca(2+)-free medium, was effective in sparing ATP in hypoxic/hypoglycemic medium. To determine the effect of anoxic depolarization on ATP levels, hippocampal slices were collected just before and after the depolarization. There appeared to be an abrupt drop in ATP associated with the anoxic depolarization. We conclude that Na+ influx plays a relatively larger role in ATP consumption during hypoxia/hypoglycemia than Ca2+ influx. In addition, the anoxic depolarization imposes a large and rapid drop in ATP levels.
Long-term depression, depotentiation and long-term potentiation of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the CA1 field of the hippocampus were studied in slices from two-, 12-, 24- and 36-week-old rats. Long-term potentiation was induced by stimulating afferent fibres for 1 s at 100 Hz. Long-term depression was induced either by stimulating the afferent pathways twice for 15 min at 1 Hz (protocol 1), giving in total 1800 pulses, or by stimulating the fibres at 5 min intervals twice at 1 Hz for 5 min followed by 5 min stimulation at 5 Hz (protocol 2), giving in total 2100 pulses. We found significant long-term depression in slices of all groups stimulated with protocol 1; however, the magnitude of long-term depression in slices from 24- and 36-week-old rats was significantly lower than that in slices from two- and 12-week old rats, although there was no such difference in the magnitude of long-term potentiation between slices. Stimulation protocol 2 induced long-term depression only in slices from two- and 12-week-old rats. Comparison of the dynamic range of transmission plasticity in slices from two- and 36-week-old rats, calculated as the difference between the nearly saturated long-term potentiation and nearly saturated depotentiation, revealed a significantly smaller dynamic range in slices from 36-week-old rats in comparison with slices from two-week-old animals. The decrease in the dynamic range in slices from 36-week-old rats was due to a diminished capacity to depotentiate the nearly saturated long-term potentiation and not due to a decreased long-term potentiation expression in these slices. In contrast to long-term depression, in which the slope of the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials consistently and significantly decreased below the baseline level, the nearly saturated depotentiation did not decrease below the original, pre-long potentiation baseline level. The results demonstrate that increasing age reduces expression of long-term depression and the dynamic range of transmission plasticity.
Memory deficits frequently occur after taking benzodiazepines and ethanol. We studied in vivo hippocampal presynaptic glutamate transmission in conjunction with memory deficits induced by benzodiazepines and ethanol in rats as an animal model of amnesia. These drugs potently impaired spatial memory formation as evaluated by the Morris water maze task, the rank order among tested treatments being the combination of triazolam (20 micrograms/kg) with ethanol (2 g/kg) &gt; or = triazolam (100 micrograms/kg) &gt; ethanol (2 g/kg) &gt; or = triazolam (20 micrograms/kg) &gt; rilmazafone (20 micrograms/kg). On the other hand, these drug treatments also reduced glutamate release in the dorsal hippocampus but not in the cerebellum measured by microdialysis: the combined administration of triazolam with ethanol potently inhibited glutamate release to 60% of basal output in the dorsal hippocampus. These decreases in hippocampal glutamate transmission closely correlated with the extent of impairment of spatial memory performance (r = 0.990). Thus, the present results strongly indicated that presynaptic dysfunction in dorsal hippocampal glutamatergic neurons would be critical for spatial memory deficits induced by benzodiazepines and ethanol.
The human immunodeficiency virus type-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120 is shed from the virus and from infected cells and thus can diffuse and interact with a variety of central nervous system cells. Transgenic mice constitutively expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein-driven gp120 from brain astrocytes display neuronal and glial changes resembling abnormalities in human immunodeficiency virus type-1-infected human brains. To assess the neurophysiology of these transgenic mice and determine whether gp120 expression impairs synaptic plasticity, we examined CA1 population excitatory postsynaptic potentials in hippocampal slices from transgenic mice and from non-transgenic controls, using a double-blind protocol. Compared with slices from non-transgenic littermate controls, slices from gp120 transgenic mice showed four significant alterations: (i) increased mean slopes of normalized population excitatory postsynaptic potentials; (ii) larger paired-pulse facilitation after induction of long-term potentiation at 50 ms interpulse intervals; (iii) markedly elevated short-term potentiation after 10 and 20 shocks at 100 Hz; and (iv) a significant reduction in the magnitude of CA1 long-term potentiation. In slices from transgenic mice expressing Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase from the same promoter, paired-pulse facilitation and long-term potentiation were normal. These results indicate that brain slice preparations from gp120 transgenic mice can be used to assess pathophysiological effects of gp120 on neuronal networks. Because short-term potentiation involves presynaptic mechanisms, our results suggest that gp120 expression in these mice enhances either presynaptic glutamate release or postsynaptic glutamate receptor function, or both. These changes could lead to increased Ca2+ influx, thereby contributing to neuronal dysfunction and injury. As long-term potentiation is a cellular model of learning and memory, our results may be relevant to memory (cognitive) impairments seen in patients with AIDS.
Adult-typical behavioural responses to environmental challenges as well as the stressor responsiveness of several neural systems emerge over adolescent development. The present study was undertaken to determine whether stressors might activate different neural populations in adult vs juvenile male rats. Fos-immunoreactivity was determined in various forebrain nuclei following 15 min or 2 h of restraint in 28- and 60-day-old male rats (representing late juvenile and young adult ages, respectively) and compared to non-restrained control animals at each age. Few Fos-positive cells were identified in unrestrained controls at either age. Restraint, however, induced the production of Fos in several areas. Fos immunoreactivity was marked in parvocellular regions of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus following both restraint periods and at both ages, an observation consistent with previous observations that restraint increases plasma corticosterone at both ages. And at both ages, Fos immunoreactivity was evident in magnocellular regions of the hypothalamus only following the longer restraint period. Fos immunoreactivity, however, clearly varied as a function of adolescent age in several regions. Moderate to intense Fos immunoreactivity was observed in adults in all divisions of the anterior olfactory nucleus, cortical and medial amygdaloid nuclei, pyriform cortex and tenia tecta. In contrast to the adult, only a few Fos positive cells were observed in any of these regions in juveniles. Exposure to the same stressor induced Fos in a broader spectrum of neurons in young adult than in juvenile male rats. The lack of Fos-positive cells in specific areas of juveniles may relate to maturation in specific amygdaloid nuclei, which project to many of the other regions that showed age-related differences in Fos production. The emergence over adolescence of Fos-positive cells in specific areas in response to stressors may underlie the emergence of adult-typical behavioural and neural stressor-responsiveness.
Two distinct populations of aged, Long-Evans rats can be identified on the basis of performance in the Morris water maze task. Aged (24 month) unimpaired rats perform similarly to young (six month) animals. Aged, impaired rats display latencies to find the submerged platform greater than two standard deviations from the mean of the young animals. A hallmark of efficient cognitive processing is the ability to cope with environmental change. Consequently, the present studies were conducted to assess if aged, impaired animals display differential reactivity to repeated exposure to novel stimuli. Reactivity was assessed by examining the degree of (i) consumption of a novel gustatory/olfactory stimulus (sweetened milk), (ii) pain inhibition induced by exposure to a novel hot-plate (48.5 degrees C) apparatus and (iii) exploratory behaviour in an elevated plus maze and a novel open field. Aged, impaired rats exhibited lower milk consumption on day one and protracted reactivity (lower consumption over days two to eight) in comparison to aged, unimpaired and young animals. Aged, impaired rats were more reactive to novelty on the hot plate test (as indicated by longer paw lick latencies); this novelty-induced pain inhibition did not habituate in aged, impaired rats following repeated plate exposures. The degree of exploratory behaviour in both the plus maze and the open field was reduced in aged, impaired rats. This effect was not entirely a consequence of deficient affective mechanisms, as measures of anxiety (e.g., time in open arms, time in inner squares) were not different among aged impaired, aged unimpaired and young animals. These results are the first to demonstrate that behavioural deficits observed in aged, impaired animals extend beyond the impairments observed in the water maze. This behavioural profile is attributed, in part, to heightened anxiety. In addition, the impairments observed in aged, impaired animals may also reflect a reduced sensitivity to the positive incentive properties of novel stimuli.
Deafferentation of the adult rat dentate gyrus induces reactive axonal growth by surviving afferent systems. In middle aged and aged rats, axonal sprouting is delayed and reduced relative to young adults. The cause for this age-related decline is not known, but it may reflect a decrement in trophic signals which initiate sprouting. Insulin-like growth factor-1 may play a role in sprouting because it (i) promotes axonal growth, (ii) is expressed at elevated levels by microglia just prior to sprouting onset, and (iii) is expressed with better spatiotemporal correspondence to hippocampal sprouting than other trophic factors examined. The present study used in situ hybridization to evaluate the influence of age on deafferentation-induced insulin-like growth factor-1 messenger RNA expression in the dentate gyrus. Messenger RNA levels were markedly elevated 4 days after an entorhinal cortex lesion at 3 months of age. Comparable lesions at 12 months did not significantly increase labeling whereas lesions at 18-26 months caused only a modest increase at 8 days postlesion. These data demonstrate that deafferentation induces more modest and delayed increases in insulin-like growth factor-1 expression in middle aged and aged rats than in young adults. The loss of reactive insulin-like growth factor-1 expression at ages exhibiting an attenuated sprouting response supports (i) an association between insulin-like growth factor-1 and sprouting and (ii) the possibility that impairments in the expression of this factor contributes to reduced axonal plasticity with age.
A circadian clock responsive to light is located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus. In rodents, light induces the expression of the transcription factor Fos in cells of the suprachiasmatic nucleus and this effect is associated with light-induced resetting of the circadian clock. Until recently, it was thought that the induction of Fos in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was mediated by a mechanism uniquely sensitive to photic cues. We have shown, however, using Pavlovian conditioning procedures, that a nonphotic stimulus that has been repeatedly paired with light can, in the absence of light, induce Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In the present study we asked whether, as a result of conditioning, the ability of light alone to induce Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus might be altered. We suspected that once the mechanism mediating Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus had become tuned to receiving light signaled by a conditioned stimulus, the response to presentation of light alone would be diminished. To study this possibility we investigated whether induction of Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus by unsignaled light would be altered as a result of previous experience with signaled light. Consistent with our hypothesis, we found that a series of conditioning trials not only confers upon a nonphotic stimulus the ability to activate the mechanism mediating Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, but also reduces the efficacy of light itself to activate this mechanism.
Movement disorders are categorized as hypokinetic (Parkinson's disease) or hyperkinetic (Huntington's disease, hemiballism, or dystonia). Neuroscience research over the last several years, using data obtained in animal models for these disorders and data from patients undergoing stereotactic surgery, has greatly advanced the knowledge of the pathophysiologic basis of these diseases. This article offers a summary and critique of current models of the pathophysiology underlying hypokinetic and hyperkinetic diseases and a discussion of the implications of these models for neurosurgical procedures as treatment for these disorders.

Paclitaxel (Taxol), a chemotherapeutic agent used to treat breast and ovarian tumors, has been reported to induce a predominantly sensory neuropathy. Co-treatment with neurotrophic factors and paclitaxel has been proposed for preventing or reversing paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy. Prosaposin, the precursor of saposins A, B, C and D was recently identified as a neurotrophic factor and was reported to facilitate nerve regeneration in vivo. Peptides (prosaptides) encompassing the neurotrophic sequence located in the saposin C domain, have neurotrophic activity similar to the holoprotein (O'Brien et al. 1995). In the present study, we investigated the effect of a 14-mer prosaptide, TX14(A), or a 22-mer prosaptide, 769P, on paclitaxel-induced neutrotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. Paclitaxel treatment (1 microM) decreased cell viability of both PC12 and Schwann cells. TX14(A) (10 nM) prevented paclitaxel-induced loss of cell viability in PC12 cells but not in Schwann cells. Systemic injections (i.p.) of paclitaxel (1.2 mg/kg/day) given five times per week for three weeks (cumulative dose 18 mg/kg) or given every third day (25, 12.5 and 12.5 mg/kg) for 10 ten days (cumulative dose 50 mg/kg) in adult rats induced thermal hypoalgesia that was not accompanied by morphological changes in the sciatic nerve or changes of nerve conduction velocity. Co-administration of paclitaxel with prosaptides (cumulative dose 3 or 10 mg/kg) prevented paclitaxel-induced thermal hypoalgesia. In the short-term high dose study, paclitaxel treated rats lost 10% of their body weight, had reduced erythrocyte counts, hematocrit and hemoglobin concentrations which were not prevented by treatment with prosaptide. TX14(A) did not diminish paclitaxel cytotoxicity of breast cancer cells in vitro. These findings suggest that prosaptide prevents the neurotoxic effects of paclitaxel while not interfering with its anti-tumor activity.
A new ligand for the M1 muscarinic receptor subtype, E-(R,R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl alpha-hydroxy-alpha-(1-iodo-1-propen-3-yl)-alpha-phenylacetate (E-IQNP), was labelled with 125I and 123I for autoradiographic studies on human whole-brain cryosections and SPET studies, respectively, in Cynomolgus monkey. Autoradiography demonstrated E-[125I]IQNP binding in M1 receptor-rich regions such as the neocortex and the striatum. The binding was displaceable by the selective M1 antagonist biperiden. In vivo single photon emission tomography (SPET) studies with E-[123I]IQNP demonstrated a high accumulation of radioactivity in the monkey neocortex. Rapid hydrolysis of the quinuclidinyl ester to the free acid was found to be a major biotransformation route for E-[123I]IQNP. The free acid of E-[123I]IQNP does not pass the blood-brain barrier, but the plasma concentration was high as compared to the total radioactivity in brain. It is thus necessary to correct for the high concentration of radioactive metabolites in parenchymal blood (CBV) to obtain accurate values for E-[123I]IQNP binding in brain.
Although in most of the cases the placebo response appears to be unpredictable, several factors have been considered in order to explain the placebo analgesic effect. For example, it is widely recognized, albeit with little empirical evidence, that placebo analgesia is more likely to occur after a successful analgesic therapy. On the basis of this assumption, we tested the placebo response in a population of patients who were treated with buprenorphine the day before for relieving postoperative pain. However, due to the high variability of opioid responsiveness, buprenorphine was effective in some patients and poorly effective in some others. Similarly, buprenorphine produced respiratory depression with a large variability, ranging from mild depression to no effect. We found that the placebo analgesic response depended on the buprenorphine analgesic effectiveness of the previous day. Analogously, we found that a placebo respiratory depressant response was more pronounced in those patients with a respiratory depressant response to buprenorphine on the day before, irrespective of the analgesic effectiveness. These specific effects suggest that (1) the placebo effect is experience-dependent; (2) the mechanisms underlying placebo analgesia and placebo respiratory depression are independent from each other and, by considering the role of endogenous opioids in placebo analgesia, might involve different subpopulations of opioid receptors.
Glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity plays an important role in the degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), although the role of the N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtype in this process is still uncertain. We studied glutamate receptor subtype agonist-induced ionic currents in acutely dissociated DAergic neurons from the rat substantia nigra zona compacta (SNc) using the nystatin-perforated patch-clamp whole-cell recording technique. The results fall into four main categories. First, single neurons, freshly isolated from SNc, exhibited a large soma and multipolar morphology, responded to DA, and stained positively for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Second, rapid application of L-glutamate (&gt; 10(-5) M) induced an inward current with minimal desensitization at a clamp voltage of -60 mV. Third, kainic acid (KA) or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole (AMPA) induced an inward current that was similar to the glutamate-induced current while, in the same neuron, NMDA (10(-4) M) failed to induce any current response in Mg2+-free solution that contained 10(-5) M glycine at a clamp voltage of -60 mV. Under the same experimental conditions, NMDA induced a clear current response in isolated substantia nigra reticulata (SNr) neurons. Fourth, the specific NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV, 10(-4) M) failed to block 10(-4) M glutamate-induced inward current, while the specific KA/AMPA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroguinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX, 10(-5) M) completely blocked the glutamate-induced current. These results indicate that in single SNc DAergic neurons of 2-week-old rats, L-glutamate-induced inward current is mediated by non-NMDA receptors rather than by NMDA receptors.
Conservative substitutions of the conserved cysteine 393 (Cys393) in S6 of the voltage-gated K+ channel Kv2.1 predictably alter the stability of the open state and the conductances for K+ and Rb+. The polarity of the side chain at position 393 determines the stability of the open state, probably by interaction of S6 with the narrow part of the ion-conduction pathway; however, the substitutions at position 393 have no effect on the stability of the closed state. An increase in side-chain volume leads to greater K+ conductance; in contrast, gradual decreases in side-chain volume lead to progressively smaller K+ conductances concomitantly with larger Rb+ conductances. Although the substitutions for Cys393 alter open-state stability and ion permeation, they have no effect on block by external or internal tetraethylammonium (TEA). Our data indicate that molecular determinants that are involved in conformational transitions between the open state and the brief closed state (i.e., voltage-independent gating) and ion selectivity are located within the sphere of influence of the conserved Cys393 in S6. This region is physically separated from the voltage-controlled activation gate located on the intracellular side of the K+ channel.
This article reviews the evidence that pretreatment with nicotine causes a regionally selective sensitization of its stimulatory effects on a pathway, the mesoaccumbens dopamine (DA) system, which has been implicated in the locomotor stimulant response to nicotine and its ability to reinforce self-administration. The sensitization evoked by daily injections of nicotine is associated with a regionally selective downregulation of the control of mesoaccumbens DA neurons by inhibitory autoreceptors and depends upon co-stimulation of NMDA glutamatergic receptors. It is suggested that the sensitization is related to enhanced burst firing of mesoaccumbens neurons, which results in an enhancement of DA release into the extracellular space between the cells where it acts upon putative extrasynaptic dopamine receptors. The studies with NMDA receptor antagonists revealed a dissociation between the expression of sensitized mesoaccumbens DA and locomotor responses to nicotine. It is proposed, therefore, that the sensitized mesoaccumbens DA responses to nicotine may be implicated in psychopharmacological responses to drug concerned more closely with nicotine dependence.
We report here that the M1, M3 and M5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes that have been shown to couple to phosphoinositide hydrolysis also activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Pharmacological characterization as well as mechanistic details of the activation pathway are presented. Carbachol-induced MAPK activation was time- and concentration-dependent at all subtypes. Pharmacological characterization of the MAPK response revealed that McN-A-343 was a partial agonist at the M1 and M3 subtypes, and that pilocarpine was a partial agonist at the M3 and M5 receptors. Carbachol-mediated MAPK activation at these receptor subtypes was pertussis toxin and wortmannin insensitive. By contrast, both agents significantly inhibited carbachol-induced MAPK activation by the M2 muscarinic receptor subtype. Furthermore, two independent single point mutations in the M1 receptor attenuated carbachol-induced activation of MAPK. Activation of MAPK at the M1, M3 and M5 muscarinic receptor subtypes was not dependent on intracellular or extracellular Ca2+, but was partially dependent upon protein kinase C. These data suggest that activation of MAPK by M1, M3 and M5 muscarinic receptors involves protein kinase C-dependent and independent pathways.
The present study investigated how variations in the period of delay between training and testing in the Morris water maze task affect the use of spatial memory in adult rats that were prenatally exposed to ethanol. Previous results utilizing the Morris water maze task have shown that prenatal, or early postnatal, exposure to ethanol produces deficits in the use of spatial memory, a type of memory that is dependent on an intact hippocampus. However, in these prior studies the delay period between the training of animals and the testing of spatial memory is typically fixed at only 1 day. In the current study, which utilized a revised training procedure within the Morris water maze task, the period of delay between training and testing was altered such that it was either 1 day or 3 days. Following the 3-day delay, different levels of prenatal exposure to ethanol impaired the use of spatial memory. In contrast, following the 1-day delay, prenatal exposure to ethanol failed to impair the use of spatial memory. The present study thus shows that prenatal exposure to ethanol differentially affects spatial memory in the Morris water maze task depending on the period of delay between training and testing.
Behavioral sensitization refers to the progressive augmentation of behavioral responses to psychomotor stimulants that develops during their repeated administration and persists even after long periods of withdrawal. It provides an animal model for the intensification of drug craving believed to underlie addiction in humans. Mechanistic similarities between sensitization and other forms of neuronal plasticity were first suggested on the basis of the ability of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists to prevent the development of sensitization [Karler, R., Calder, L. D., Chaudhry, I. A. and Turkanis, S. A. (1989) Blockade of &quot;reverse tolerance&quot; to cocaine and amphetamine by MK-801. Life Sci., 45, 599-606]. This article will review the large number of subsequent studies addressing: (1) the roles of NMDA, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and metabotropic glutamate receptors in the development and expression of behavioral sensitization, (2) excitatory amino acids (EAAs) and the role of conditioning in sensitization, (3) controversies regarding EAA involvement in behavioral sensitization based on studies with MK-801, (4) the effects of acute and repeated stimulant administration on EAA neurochemistry and EAA receptor expression, and (5) the neuroanatomy of EAA involvement in sensitization. To summarize, NMDA, AMPA metabotropic glutamate receptors all participate in the development of sensitization, while maintenance of the sensitized state involves alterations in neurochemical measures of EAA transmission as well as in the expression and sensitivity of AMPA and NMDA receptors. While behavioral sensitization likely involves complex neuronal circuits, with EAAs participating at several points within this circuitry, EAA projections originating in prefrontal cortex may play a particularly important role in the development of sensitization, perhaps via their regulatory effects on midbrain dopamine neurons. The review concludes by critically evaluating various hypotheses to account for EAA involvement in the development of behavioral sensitization, and considering the question of whether EAA receptors are involved in mediating the rewarding effects of psychomotor stimulants and sensitization of such rewarding effects.
1. Concentrations of neuropeptide Y (NPY)-, neurokinin A (NKA)- and neurotensin (NT)-like immunoreactivity (-LI) were measured in brain tissues of Fawn Hooded (FH) (a model of depression), Wistar (W) (control for depression) and Sprague Dawley (SD) rats (control for strain) with the aim to explore possible associations between neuropeptides and models of depression. 2. In addition, peptides were determined after six electroconvulsive stimuli (ECS) or six sham ECS (&quot;baseline&quot;) in order to investigate ECS mechanisms of action. 3. Baseline NPY-LI concentrations were markedly lower in the hippocampus of the &quot;depressed&quot; FH compared to the W and SD animals. 4. Baseline NKA-LI concentrations were higher in the occipital cortex and NT-LI concentrations in the occipital cortex, frontal cortex, and hypothalamus of the FH and W compared to the SD rats. 5. ECS increased NPY-LI in the hippocampus, frontal cortex and occipital cortex of all three strains. In the hippocampus, the increase was significantly larger in the FH compared to the W and SD rats. ECS also increased NKA-LI in the hippocampus. 6. In contrast, ECS decreased NT-LI in the occipital cortex of the FH and W animals. 7. The results indicate that NPY may play a role in depression and that changes in NPY and NKA probably constitute one of the mechanisms of ECT action. More speculatively, NT may also be involved in depression.
Debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase (CYP2D6) is a cytochrome P450 enzyme involved in the metabolism of most neuroleptics, which are the drugs of choice for the treatment of psychotic symptoms. CYP2D6 in the brain was suggested to be functionally similar to the dopamine transporter, thus possibly influencing a neurotransmitter system involved in schizophrenia. Swedish schizophrenic patients (n = 124) and control individuals (n = 85) were investigated for two CYP2D6 polymorphisms, responsible for approximately 90% of mutations leading to poor debrisoquine metabolism. No significant CYP2D6 allele or genotype difference was found between schizophrenic patients and control individuals. Taken together with previous results, no major effect appears to be caused by the CYP2D6 gene on schizophrenia.
Public-Academic Liaison research centers (PALs) have traditionally provided benefits to both state mental health authorities (SMHAs) and academic institutions. The advent of managed care, austere state fiscal budgets, and a restructured national research development capacity suggests the need for new administrative approaches to PAL research efforts to maintain these benefits in this era of rapidly changing health care. This brief report outlines one such approach by the Massachusetts SMHA in its efforts to establish two PAL research centers: one for clinical neuroscience, and one for behavioral and forensic science. Preliminary two-year outcomes are presented, and the implications of the model are discussed.
The suppressive effect of hydrocortisone and dexamethasone on salivary cortisol was investigated in a 2-year study of pituitary-adrenal function in a variety of child psychiatric patients and healthy controls. Symptomatology was assessed using the Child Behavioral Checklist (CBCL). Cortisol day profiles were assessed at 2-h intervals from 0800 to 2000 h on three occasions. Dexamethasone and hydrocortisone were administered orally twice at 2000 h, the doses being adjusted for bodyweight according to the standard dexamethasone suppression test. Fifty-one patients, including patients with dysthymia, oppositional defiant disorder, pervasive developmental disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and ten age and sex matched controls participated. Basal cortisol levels in patients were generally lower than in controls. Both dexamethasone and hydrocortisone were effective in suppressing salivary cortisol, although dexamethasone was somewhat more potent and its effect lasted longer. Hyporesponsiveness to hydrocortisone, but not to dexamethasone, distinguished patients with dysthymia and oppositional defiant disorder from controls. Responsiveness to hydrocortisone was correlated with the symptom clusters social problems and anxious/depressed. The data support the idea that there exist syndrome aspecific disturbances in feedback activity beyond the level of the pituitary, i.e. at the hypothalamic level, at an early age. From this perspective, hydrocortisone suppression is a useful tool for studying pituitary-adrenal function in children. Behavioral correlates of these disturbances of pituitary-adrenal function should be determined.
Evidence from studies with phenylisopropylamine hallucinogens indicates that the 5HT2A receptor is the likely target for the initiation of events leading to hallucinogenic activity associated with LSD and related drugs. Recently, lisuride (a purported non-hallucinogenic congener of LSD) was reported to be a potent antagonist at the 5HT2C receptor and an agonist at the 5HT2A receptor. LSD exhibited agonist activity at both receptors. These data were interpreted as indicating that the 5HT2C receptor might be the initiating site of action for hallucinogens. To test this hypothesis, recombinant cells expressing 5HT2A and 5HT2C receptors were used to determine the actions of LSD and lisuride. LSD and lisuride were potent partial agonists at 5HT2A receptors with EC50 values of 7.2 nM and 17 nM, respectively. Also, LSD and lisuride were partial agonists at 5HT2C receptors with EC50 values of 27 nM and 94 nM, respectively. We conclude that lisuride and LSD have similar actions at 5HT2A and 5HT2C receptors in recombinant cells. As agonist activity at brain 5HT2A receptors has been associated with hallucinogenic activity, these results indicate that lisuride may possess hallucinogenic activity, although the psychopharmacological effects of lisuride appear to be different from the hallucinogenic effects of LSD.



Twins have a high frequency of adverse perinatal events and have been reported to have an increased risk of seizures. Contrary to popular belief, a recent study reported that twins do not have an increased risk of seizures. We studied the relationship of twinning and epilepsy in India. The frequency of twinning in families of probands with epilepsy was compared with the frequency of twinning among hospital births in the same region of India. We also compared consecutively ascertained probands with epilepsy for their twin status and the occurrence of epilepsies in their twin and non-twin relatives. The frequency of twin births in families of 524 probands with epilepsy was comparable to the twin births among consecutive deliveries over a 3-year period in another government hospital in the same catchment area (1:99 vs. 1:75). Every 1 in 58 of probands with epilepsy was a twin while a twin was born in these families every 1 in 71 live births. The frequency of epilepsy in non-proband twin relatives was 1.5% compared with 2% among non-proband, non-twin relatives. This data suggests that twin birth is not a major risk factor for seizures even in families of Indian probands with epilepsy. Family data such as ours can be used to study the contribution by genetic factors in the pathogenesis of complex genetic diseases such as human epilepsies.

Depression is frequently underdiagnosed and inadequately treated in individuals with cancer. A number of factors render cancer patients more vulnerable to depression. These include variables such as metabolic and endocrine alteration, chemotherapeutic and immune modifiers used to treat the cancer, steroids, and uncontrolled pain. Surprisingly, few controlled studies have examined the efficacy of antidepressant medications in depressed cancer patients. This report summarizes the available antidepressant medication treatment trials, the results of which suggest that antidepressant therapy can alleviate depression and improve quality of life in depressed individuals with cancer. Theoretical as well as practical issues guiding current research and pharmacotherapeutic treatment decisions are also discussed.
We used the method of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to observe the effects of long-term administration of peptide delta opioid receptor agonist DPDPE and non-peptide delta agonist BW373U86 on the mRNA expression of delta receptor and the possible difference between the two agonists. The results showed: (1) the level of delta receptor mRNA decreased significantly 24-48 h after administration of DPDPE; the effect of BW373U86 lasted only 24 h; and (2) DPDPE produced a significant decrease of delta-receptor mRNA at 10(-6) mol/L, whereas BW373U86 was effective only at 10(-5) mol/L. These results suggest that long-term administration of both peptide delta opioid receptor agonist (24, 48 h) and non-peptide delta opioid agonist (24 h) significantly decreased mRNA expression of delta opioid receptor and the effect of peptide agonist DPDPE seems to be stronger and last longer than that of non-peptide agonist BW373U86.
We investigated whether the two output pathways of the striatum are differently affected by the novel atypical drug risperidone and the conventional typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol. To this end, changes in mRNA levels of preproenkephalin-A, preproenkephalin-B, and preprotachykinin were determined in the rat striatum following chronic drug treatment for 14 days, using quantitative in situ hybridization. Furthermore, we studied the contribution of the dopamine D2 and serotonin 5-HT2A antagonist components of risperidone in establishing its effects on neuropeptide mRNA levels in the striatum. The results showed that both risperidone and haloperidol had major effects on the preproenkephalin-A mRNA and thus on the indirect striatal output route, whereas they had minor effects on preproenkephalin-B and preprotachykinin mRNA, contained by the direct output route. When both drugs were administered in the same dose, preproenkephalin-A mRNA was much more elevated by haloperidol than by risperidone. However, when doses of risperidone and haloperidol were modified to attain comparable dopamine D2 receptor occupancy, the drugs had comparable effects on preproenkephalin-A mRNA levels. It was further found that 5-HT2A/C receptor blockade with ritanserin had only modest effects on preproenkephalin-B and preprotachykinin mRNA levels and did not affect preproenkephalin-A mRNA levels. We conclude that risperidone and haloperidol, administered in the same dose, differently affect the striatal output routes. Furthermore, the results suggest that the effects of risperidone on neuropeptide mRNA levels are fully accounted for by its D2 antagonism and that no indication exists for a role of 5-HT2A receptor blockade in this action.
Sodium valproate enteric-coated tablets were used in this double-blind, randomized, cross-over study of 16 patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy comparing 1000 mg and 2000 mg VPA daily in b.i.d. administration with 6 months of observation on each dose. Myoclonic, absence, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures were registered separately. Subjective side-effects were monitored, and a computerized neuropsychologic test battery was performed on each dose. There was no significant difference in seizure frequency between the two doses. Only 25% of the patients were seizure free throughout the study despite concentrations well within the normally proposed therapeutic range for VPA. During the higher dose, 37.5% of the patients had an improved seizure control, but 25% of the patients had an increase in seizure frequency compared to the lower dose. However, there was no correlation between VPA concentrations and subjective side-effects or neuropsychologic test results. Our observations point out the possibility that the common strategy of increasing plasma levels in difficult-to-treat patients until side effects occur should perhaps be reconsidered, but this suggestion needs further confirmation.
I argue that the phylogenetic and neurobiological bases for cerebral asymmetry in humans are likely to be found in motor systems rather than in perceptual systems. Current genetic models of human laterality suggest that a `dextral' allele might be responsible for right-handedness and left-cerebral dominance for speech in the majority of humans. The linking of handedness with language lateralization might reflect the early evolution of language as predominantly a system of manual gestures, perhaps switching to a mainly vocal system only with the emergence of Homo sapiens. So-called `mirror neurons' in the prefrontal cortex of the monkey, which fire both when the animal makes a grasping response and when it sees the same response performed by others, might be part of a circuit that is the precursor to language circuits in the brain. This circuit appears to be bilateral in monkeys, but left-hemispheric in humans.


Repetitive sensory input, stroboscopic lights or repeated sounds can induce epileptic seizures in susceptible individuals. In order to understand the process we have to consider multiple factors. The output of a set of neurones is determined by the amount of excitatory synaptic input, the degree of positive feedback and their inherent electrical excitability, which can be modified by synaptic inhibition. Recent research has shown that it is possible to separate these phenomena, and that they do not always behave in unison.
Exposure to restraint and brief intermittent tailshocks facilitates associative learning of the classical conditioned eyeblink response in male rats. Based on evidence of sex differences in learning and responses to stressful events, we investigated sexually dimorphic effects of a stressor of restraint and intermittent tailshock on classical eyeblink conditioning 24 h after stressor cessation. Our results indicate that exposure to the acute stressor had diametrically opposed effects on the rate of acquisition of the conditioned response in male vs. female rats. Exposure to the stressor facilitated acquisition of the conditioned response in males, whereas exposure to the same stressful event dramatically impaired acquisition in females. We further demonstrate that the stress-induced impairment in female conditioning is dependent on the presence of ovarian hormones. Conditioning of stressed sham-ovariectomized females was significantly impaired relative to the unstressed controls, whereas conditioning in stressed ovariectomized females was not impaired. We present additional evidence that estrogen mediates the stress-induced impairment in female acquisition. Females administered sesame oil vehicle and then stressed were significantly impaired relative to their unstressed controls, whereas females administered the estrogen antagonist tamoxifen prior to stress were not impaired. In summary, these results indicate that exposure to the same aversive event can induce opposite behavioral responses in males vs. females. These effects underscore sex differences in associative learning and emotional responding, and implicate estrogen in the underlying neuronal mechanism.
In this study, we demonstrate that: (i) injection of an adenovirus (Ad) vector containing the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene (Ad.BDNF) into the vitreous chamber of adult rats results in selective transgene expression by Mller cells; (ii) in vitro, Mller cells infected with Ad.BDNF secrete BDNF that enhances neuronal survival; (iii) in vivo, Ad-mediated expression of functional BDNF by Mller cells, temporarily extends the survival of axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs); 16 days after axotomy, injured retinas treated with Ad.BDNF showed a 4.5-fold increase in surviving RGCs compared with control retinas; (iv) the transient expression of the BDNF transgene, which lasted approximately 10 days, can be prolonged with immunosuppression for at least 30 days, and such Ad-mediated BDNF remains biologically active, (v) persistent expression of BDNF by infected Mller cells does not further enhance the survival of injured RGCs, indicating that the effect of this neurotrophin on RGC survival is limited by changes induced by the lesion within 10-16 days after optic nerve transection rather than the availability of BDNF. Thus, Ad-transduced Mller cells are a novel pathway for sustained delivery of BDNF to acutely-injured RGCs. Because these cells span the entire thickness of the retina, Ad-mediated gene delivery to Mller cells may also be useful to influence photoreceptors and other retinal neurons.
To further understand the molecular mechanism of glucocorticoid action on gene expression, DNA-binding activities of the cis-acting transcription factors activator protein 1 (AP1), AP2, Egr1 (zif268), NF-kappaB, the signal transducers and activators of transcription proteins gamma interferon activation site (GAS), Sis-inducible element, and the TATA binding protein transcription factor II D (TFIID) were examined in human epidermal keratinocytes. The cytokine interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) and platelet-activating factor (PAF), both potent mediators of inflammation, were used as triggers for gene expression. Budesonide epimer R (BUDeR) and dexamethasone (DEX) were studied as potential antagonists. BUDeR or DEX before IL-1beta- or PAF-mediated gene induction elicited strong inhibition of AP1-, GAS-, and in particular NF-kappaB-DNA binding (P &lt; 0.001, ANOVA). Only small effects were noted on AP2, Egr1 (zif268), and Sis-inducible element-DNA binding (P &gt; 0.05). No significant effect was noted on the basal transcription factor TFIID recognition of TATA-containing core promoter sequences (P &gt; 0.68). To test the hypothesis that changing cis-acting transcription factor binding activity may be involved in inflammatory-response related gene transcription, RNA message abundance for human cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and -2 (E.C.1.14.99.1) was assessed in parallel by using reverse transcription-PCR. Although the COX-1 gene was found to be expressed at constitutively low levels, the TATA-containing COX-2 gene, which contains AP1-like, GAS, and NF-kappaB DNA-binding sites in its immediate promoter, was found to be strongly induced by IL-1beta or PAF (P &lt; 0.001). BUDeR and DEX both suppressed COX-2 RNA message generation; however, no correlation was associated with TFIID-DNA binding. These results suggest that on stimulation by mediators of inflammation, although the basal transcription machinery remains intact, modulation of cis-activating transcription factor AP1, GAS, and NF-kappaB-DNA binding by the glucocorticoids BUDeR and DEX play important regulatory roles in the extent of specific promoter activation and hence the expression of key genes involved in the inflammatory response.
Sphingomyelin is an abundant constituent of the plasma membranes of mammalian cells. Ceramide, its primary catabolic intermediate, is released by either acid sphingomyelinase or neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase) and has emerged as a potential lipid signaling molecule. nSMase is regarded as a key enzyme in the regulated activation of the &quot;sphingomyelin cycle&quot; and cell signaling. We report here the cloning, identification, and functional characterization of murine and human nSMase, a ubiquitously expressed integral membrane protein, which displays all established properties of the Mg2+-dependent nSMase of the plasma membrane. Stably nSMase-overexpressing U937 and human embryonic kidney cell lines have been generated for the study of the role of nSMase in signal transduction pathways. Their stimulation by tumor necrosis factor alpha leads only to a moderately elevated ceramide concentration. Activation of Jun kinase and NFkappaB and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage are identical in mock- and nSMase-transfected cells. Tumor necrosis factor alpha triggers the ERK1 pathway in none of the cell lines. The cloned nSMase will facilitate further controlled experiments aiming at the definition of a possible role of ceramide as signal transduction molecule.
The C57 BL/6J dy2J/dy2J dystrophic mouse expresses an abnormal truncated form of the alpha2 subunit of the protein laminin-2 (or merosin), which is unable to form a stable link between the extracellular matrix and the dystrophin-associated proteins, resulting in muscular dystrophy. Morphological abnormalities of the peripheral nervous system and neuromuscular junction have also been reported. The electrophysiological properties of the neuromuscular junctions of diaphragm, extensor digitorum longus (EDL), and soleus from C57 BL/6J dy2J/dy2J mice and controls are described. No evidence for the presence of denervated fibres were found. Mean MEPP amplitudes were significantly increased in EDL and soleus but reduced in the diaphragm from affected mice. Mean MEPP frequencies were raised in all the dy2J/dy2J muscles studied. dy2J/dy2J muscles were paralysed by low concentrations of mu-conotoxin suggesting that embryonic (tetrodotoxin and mu-conotoxin resistant) sodium channels are not widespread on dy2J/dy2J muscle as has previously been reported. EPP latencies were significantly prolonged in the diaphragm and EDL but not soleus from dy2J/dy2J mice. Quantal contents were higher in all dy2J/dy2J muscles. In the dy2J/dy2J diaphragm failures in neurotransmission occurred and a faster rate of rundown of EPPs were apparent. Some changes appear from a direct effect of dystrophy, whilst increased MEPP frequency and quantal content, and failures in neurotransmission indicate neuronal abnormalities.
In vitro studies have not consistently demonstrated naloxone-precipitated opiate-withdrawal hyperactivity of locus coeruleus neurons. The reason for this inconsistency may be because partial or complete withdrawal occurred during preparation of the locus coeruleus slice. The aim of the present study was to assay opiate withdrawal-related hyperactivity in neurons recorded from locus coeruleus slices while ensuring the maintenance of dependence until naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. Extracellular recordings were obtained from individual locus coeruleus neurons in slices from morphine-treated and drug-naive rats. Morphine 1 microM was present in all solutions during preparation and recording in slices from morphine-treated rats. The average firing rate of the drug-naive controls was 0.93 Hz (+/-0.04 Hz). Bath application of morphine (1 microM) almost completely suppressed firing in drug-naive controls (0.058 Hz, +/-0.04 Hz, n=12), whereas in solutions containing 1 microM morphine, the firing rate of cells from morphine-treated rats averaged 0.71 Hz (+/-0.05 Hz), indicating considerable, but incomplete tolerance. In the same slices, naloxone increased the average spontaneous firing of locus coeruleus cells to 0.96 Hz (+/-0. 04 Hz). Thus, naloxone did not produce withdrawal hyperactivity, but returned the cells from morphine-treated rats to control rates. We conclude that locus coeruleus cells in locus coeruleus slice preparations from morphine-treated rats did not demonstrate withdrawal-related hyperactivity even when dependence was maintained until naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. Thus, our results do not support a role for adaptations intrinsic to locus coeruleus neurons in withdrawal hyperexcitability, but instead imply the necessity of functional afferent activity.
Astrocytes provide a vital protective function in the brain. These cells are also vulnerable to oxidative stress, thus their loss of function could contribute to neurodegeneration. The goal of this study is to develop a cell culture model to study oxidative stress in astrocytes. Enriched astrocytic cultures were generated from neonatal mice. tertiary-butyl hydroperoxide (t-bOOH) was used as an exogenous peroxide and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release as a measure of loss of viability. Exposure to t-bOOH resulted in a linear increase in astrocytic death reaching 91.2% after 4 h exposure. That cell death was due to oxidative injury, was shown by the ability of the antioxidant N,N'-diphenyl-1,4-phenylenediamine (DPPD) to protect the t-bOOH treated cells. The involvement of iron in cell toxicity was demonstrated by the ability of the iron specific chelator desferal (DF) to completely prevent t-bOOH induced LDH release. Cells treated with a lipid soluble iron compound 3,5, 5-trimethyl (hexanoyl) ferrocene (TMH-Ferrocene), were more vulnerable to t-bOOH whereas neither ferrous ammonium sulfate (FAS) nor ferric ammonium citrate (FAC) had an effect. The increased sensitivity of the cells exposed to TMHF was reversible with the iron chelator desferal. Addition of recombinant human heavy chain ferritin or human apo-transferrin (Tf) did not alter LDH release. Electron microscopic analysis indicated astrocytes exposed to t-bOOH exhibited mitochondrial swelling prior to cell death (lactate dehydrogenase release). Additional increases in mitochondrial swelling were seen when the astrocytes were exposed to the lipophilic iron compound TMH-ferrocene and t-bOOH. These studies show that astrocytes are exquisitely sensitive to oxidative stress and that their vulnerability is related to and enhanced by iron. Decreased mitochondrial function in response to oxidative stress may precede cell death.
Although morphological characteristics of mammalian olfactory bulb (OB) are well documented in rodents (rat, mice), only one study has been performed in rabbit, which is also commonly used in olfactory research. The study carried out by Allison and Warwick in 1949 led to surprising results still quoted in recent literature. The present study re-examined this question in young rabbit OB, while it was also conducted with rat as control. In five animals of each species, areas and coordinates of glomeruli and mitral profiles were measured in 10 coronal sections uniformly distributed along the rostrocaudal axis of the OB, and a distribution-free stereological method was used to compute values along this axis. For glomeruli, the estimated number was 4200 in rat and 6300 in rabbit. While this estimation matched with those found in literature in rat, it strikingly differed from the Allison and Warwick's value of 1900 only. For mitral cell number, we found 59,600 while the preceding study found 45,000 only. In contrast to the number of glomeruli, the mitral cell number in rat and rabbit were very close. Indeed, results showed 56, 200 in rat. The results suggest that the numbers of olfactory glomeruli and mitral cells has been previously underestimated in rabbit, and that the number of glomeruli changes as a function of species. In addition, both the results of the present study and reports in the literature suggest the number of mitral cells to be rather similar in mouse, rat and rabbit. As a consequence, the glomerular/mitral cell ratio is likely to varied in a wide range across species.
Rats received bilateral quisqualic acid lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Three weeks after lesioning, osmotic minipumps were implanted that released recombinant human nerve growth factor or cytochrome c at a dosage of 5.0 microg rat-1 day-1 through intracerebroventricular cannulas for 7 weeks. One quarter of the rats were sacrificed at the end of the treatment, while the rest of the animals were sacrificed 2, 8, and 12 weeks after termination of NGF/cc treatment. ICV administration of nerve growth factor (NGF) transiently reduced weight gain. NGF maximally increased choline acetyltransferase activity in all cortical regions, the olfactory bulb and the hippocampus between 20% and 56% at the end of the treatment. This increase linearly declined and completely regressed during the 12-week withdrawal period both in regions affected and unaffected by the lesion. Administration of NGF induced a short-lasting hypertrophy of low affinity NGF receptor immunoreactive neurons within the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM), the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca, and the medial septum. In contrast, QUIS-induced NBM lesions permanently reduced ChAT activity most pronounced in the frontal and parietal cortex up to 45%. Furthermore, QUIS induced a permanent loss of p75NGFr-immunoreactive neurons within the NBM and the DB without affecting the MS. These findings suggest that degenerating cholinergic neurons of the NBM and HDB do not spontaneously recover after lesioning and may require continuous neurotrophic support by NGF to ameliorate cholinergic hypofunctioning.
In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to investigate acute estrogen effects on serotonin 5HT1A receptor mRNA levels in limbic-related brain areas in the female ovariectomized rat. Acute administration of 17 beta-estradiol (10 micrograms) decreased 5HT1A receptor mRNA expression levels within the medial amygdala (after 2 and 24 h), piriform cortex (after 2 and 24 h), and perirhinal cortex (after 24 h). No changes in 5HT1A mRNA levels were observed in hippocampus or retrosplenial cortex. The findings suggest specific regional effects of estrogen on 5HT functions mediated through regulation of the 5HT1A gene.
The neuroprotective potential of the nerve growth factor (NGF) against permanent ischemic brain damage has been investigated in vivo using NGF-transgenic (tg) mice. The expression of the transgene is driven by part of the promoter of the proto-oncogene c-fos, which belongs to the first set of genes activated after brain ischemic insult. Wild-type (wt) mice and tg mice were subjected to permanent focal ischemia induced by electrocoagulation of the middle cerebral artery. Twenty four hours (h) after the ischemic shock, when compared to wt, tg mice displayed a 40% reduction of the infarcted area, which lasted up to 1 week. However, infarcted brain areas were similar in wt and tg mice within the first hours post-occlusion, indicating that NGF acted to block the progression of neuronal damage. Kinetics of NGF synthesis assessed by ELISA was in good agreement with the observed neuroprotective effect, since NGF content peaked 6 h post-ischemia. This was further correlated with the time-course of c-Fos immunoreactivity, detectable only from 6 h post-ischemia. The neuroprotective effect of NGF involved the impairment of apoptotic cell death, as evidenced by a marked decrease of the number of apoptotic profiles inside the ischemic zone in tg mice. These results underline the potential of c-fos-NGF-tg mice to study in vivo the molecular and cellular mechanisms of the NGF-induced neuroprotective effect against ischemic damage.
We investigated a potential role for the soluble interleukin-6 receptor (sIL-6R) in modulating interleukin-6 (IL-6) function in the central nervous system by assessing IL-6 and sIL-6R effects on beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) transcription and expression in cells of human neuronal origin. Cells transfected with a luciferase reporter plasmid containing a 3.8 kb DNA fragment of the beta-APP promoter were shown to have inducible promoter activity when treated with phorbol ester or basic fibroblast growth factor, but not when treated with lipopolysaccharide or Il-6. PCR amplification analysis revealed the presence of mRNA encoding the signaling subunit of the Il-6 receptor complex, the gp130 subunit, at levels approximating that found in human cortical tissue. The mRNA encoding the IL-6 receptor, however, was poorly expressed and was detectable only at high amplification cycles. When purified sIL-6R protein was added together with IL-6, there was a rapid induction of promoter activity within 2 h of stimulation followed by elevations in protein levels of both cell-associated and secreted beta-APP. Analysis of mRNA transcripts from human cortical brain tissue and cell cultures derived from fetal human brain demonstrated the presence of an alternatively spliced secreted form of the IL-6 receptor mRNA, suggesting that cells of the central nervous system may themselves be a source of sIL-6R protein. The capacity for sIL-6R to enhance IL-6 function and broaden the IL-6 target cell population in the brain has implications for the regulation of beta-APP expression in disease states such as Alzheimer's disease where elevations in brain IL-6 levels have been reported.
While neurotrophins are critical for neuronal survival and differentiation, recent work suggests that they acutely regulate synaptic transmission as well. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) enhances excitatory postsynaptic currents in cultured dissociated hippocampal neurons within 2-3 min through postsynaptic, phosphorylation-dependent mechanisms. Moreover, BDNF modulates hippocampal long-term potentiation, in which postsynaptic NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors (NRs) play a key role. We now report that BDNF acutely increases tyrosine phosphorylation of the specific NMDA receptor subunit NR2B, which has recently been shown to play a role in long-term potentiation. Incubation of BDNF with cortical or hippocampal postsynaptic densities for 5 min increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the NR2B subunits in a dose-dependent manner. A maximal increase to 165% of control phosphorylation occurred at a BDNF concentration of 2 ng/ml. The BDNF action appeared to be specific, since nerve growth factor, another member of the neurotrophin gene family, had no effect on NR2B phosphorylation. Further, BDNF action was selective, since it did not alter tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2A subunits. Our results suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor may contribute to neurotrophin modulation of postsynaptic responsiveness and long-term potentiation.
The receptor-mediated axonal transport of [125I]-labeled neurotrophins by afferent and efferent neurons of the vagus nerve was determined to predict the responsiveness of these neurons to neurotrophins in vivo. [125I]-labeled neurotrophins were administered to the proximal stump of the transected cervical vagus nerve of adult rats. Vagal afferent neurons retrogradely transported [125I]neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), [125I]nerve growth factor (NGF), and [125I]neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) to perikarya in the ipsilateral nodose ganglion, and transganglionically transported [125I]NT-3, [125I]NGF, and [125I]NT-4 to the central terminal field, the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Vagal afferent neurons showed minimal accumulation of [125I]brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In contrast, efferent (parasympathetic and motor) neurons located in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and nucleus ambiguus retrogradely transported [125I]BDNF, [125I]NT-3, and [125I]NT-4, but not [125I]NGF. The receptor specificity of neurotrophin transport was examined by applying [125I]-labeled neurotrophins with an excess of unlabeled neurotrophins. The retrograde transport of [125I]NT-3 to the nodose ganglion was reduced by NT-3 and by NGF, and the transport of [125I]NGF was reduced only by NGF, whereas the transport of [125I]NT-4 was significantly reduced by each of the neurotrophins. The competition profiles for the transport of NT-3 and NGF are consistent with the presence of TrkA and TrkC and the absence of TrkB in the nodose ganglion, whereas the profile for NT-4 suggests a p75 receptor-mediated transport mechanism. The transport profiles of neurotrophins by efferent vagal neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and nucleus ambiguus are consistent with the presence of TrkB and TrkC, but not TrkA, in these nuclei. These observations describe the unique receptor-mediated axonal transport of neurotrophins in adult vagal afferent and efferent neurons and thus serve as a template to discern the role of specific neurotrophins in the functions of these visceral sensory and motor neurons in vivo.
The olfactory system provides a useful in vivo model for studying neuronal apoptosis. The synaptic target deafferentation (olfactory bulb ablation) of the sensory epithelium induces a massive and synchronous wave of retrograde apoptosis in the large population of olfactory sensory neurons. The proto-oncogene bcl-2 is involved in the regulation of cell death and is able to block apoptosis in motoneurones. We demonstrate here that olfactory neurons over-expressing the human Bcl-2 protein in transgenic mice are long-term protected from apoptotic death following ipsilateral olfactory bulbectomy. We kinetically assessed neuronal death 32 h, 50 h and 5 days following unilateral olfactory bulbectomy, in adult C57BL6 (wild-type) and transgenic mice with olfactory neurons over-expressing the Human bcl-2 gene. Using the TUNEL method and morphometric analysis of olfactory epithelium, we confirmed the occurrence of a wave of neuronal death in wild-type mice but failed to detect a significant rate of neuronal apoptosis in the olfactory epithelium of transgenic animals. Apoptotic death of olfactory neurons probably shares common pathways with apoptotic processes occuring in other neuronal types, including motoneurons.
The cleavage process of sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) shares several characteristics with that of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP). We studied the secretion of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) from mutant M19 Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells that are defective in the site 2 cleavage of SREBPs. The levels as well as the C-terminal properties of Abeta secreted from M19 cells were similar to those from wild-type CHO cells, demonstrating that gamma-cleavage of betaAPP occurs normally in M19 cells. The present data indicated that gamma-secretase of betaAPP and SREBP site 2 protease are distinct enzymes.
Previous research has implicated the striatum in implicit sequence learning. However, imaging findings have been inconsistent with regard to activity within the thalamus during performance of such tasks. Contemporary models of cortico-striato-thalamic circuitry suggest opposing influences on thalamic activity; suppression of thalamic activity is mediated by the indirect pathway and enhancement is mediated by the direct pathway. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we studied activity within human thalamus during early and late phases of an implicit sequence learning task known to reliably recruit the striatum. Significant deactivation (decreased signal relative to a baseline condition) was observed within the thalamus during early implicit learning. This finding is consistent with models of cortico-striato-thalamic function and specifically supports a profile of early 'thalamic gating' via the indirect pathway.
We investigated whether electrical stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) can protect pyramidal neurons of the CA1 zone of dorsal hippocampus from delayed neuronal death caused by global ischemia. Stimulation of the FN for 1 h prior to transient 4-vessel occlusion in anesthetized rats salvaged 57% (p &lt; 0.01) of pyramidal neurons from degeneration. This effect could be preconditioned. Sham simulation of FN or stimulation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) were without effect (p &gt; 0.5). Excitation of intrinsic neuronal pathways represented in FN can protect central neurons from global as well as focal ischemic degeneration. The brain contains systems designed to protect it from ischemia by mechanisms of central neurogenic neuroprotection acting independently of actions on cerebral blood flow.
To evaluate the influence of cell type and cationic liposomal formulation on gene transfection efficiency three liposomes (lipofectin, lipofectamine and DOTAP) were used to transfect the human (A172 and MOG-G-CCM) and rodent (C6 and A15A5) glioma cell lines with the Lac Z gene. Parallel studies evaluated in vitro cytotoxicity and the neuropathological changes following intracerebral injection. The transfection efficiency and cytotoxicity of the liposomes varied both quantitatively and qualitatively between the cell lines. There were no behavioural disturbances following intrastriatal or hippocampal injection and the neuropathological changes at the injection sites were focal and similar for all liposomes. The influence of glial cell lineage on both liposomal transfection facility and cytotoxicity may have important implications for in vivo gene transfection in the central nervous system.
The spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are clinically and genetically a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders. To date, eight different loci causing SCA have been identified: SCA1, SCA2, Machado-Joseph disease (MJD)/SCA3, SCA4, SCA5, SCA6, SCA7, and dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). Expansion of a CAG repeat in the disease genes has been found in five of these disorders. To estimate the relative frequencies of the SCA1, DRPLA, MJD, SCA2, and SCA6 mutations among Portuguese ataxia patients, we collected DNA samples from 48 ataxia families and performed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the CAG repeat mutations on chromosomes 6p, 12p, 14q, 12q, and 19p, respectively. Fifty-five individuals belonging to 34 dominant families (74%) had an expanded CAG repeat at the MJD gene. In five individuals from two kindreds with a dominant pattern of inheritance (4%), an expanded CAG repeat at the SCA2 gene was found. In MJD patients, the normal allele size ranged from 13 to 41, whereas the mutant alleles contained 65 to 80 repeats. For the SCA2 patients, normal alleles had 22 or 23, while expanded alleles had between 36 and 47 CAG units. We did not find the SCA1, DRPLA, or SCA6 mutations in our group of families. The MJD mutation remains the most common cause of SCA in Portugal, while a small number of cases are caused by mutations at the SCA2 gene, and 22% are due to still unidentified genes.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of dopamine and norepinephrine. It may be involved in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders and positive associations have been reported for TH gene markers in mood disorders. While most replications failed to confirm the initial findings, other papers suggested a potential role of this gene in the etiology of mood disorders. Among the many different reasons for a lack of consistent replications, a critical role is played by the &quot;correct&quot; phenotype identification. Actually, up to now the only classification criteria has been the psychiatric diagnosis, but within the same psychiatric diagnoses the symptomatologic presentation may vary dramatically depending upon severity, presence of psychotic features or other psychopathologic traits. Thus, the aim of our study is to evaluate a possible association for TH gene with symptomatology in a sample of subjects affected by mood disorders. We have developed a phenotype definition based on the observed symptomatology divided into the four factors &quot;Excitement,&quot; &quot;Depression,&quot; &quot;Delusion,&quot; and &quot;Disorganization.&quot; Our sample includes 46 mood disorder subjects, investigated by the OPCRIT (operational criteria checklist for psychotic illness) checklist for their symptomatological pattern and typed for TH variants by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Depressive factor was associated with TH variants (F = 4.79, df = 4, 87, P = 0.006), with TH*2 subjects presenting lower depressive scores. Subjects with genotype TH*2/2 were the only ones in the sample to report mild depressive episodes. TH variants may be related with depressive symptomatology in subjects affected by mood disorders.

Mutations in presenilin 1 (PS1) gene are the major cause of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. The biological functions of PS1 remain elusive, although accumulating evidence suggests that PS1 may play an important role in development and differentiation. To learn about the significance of PS1 in the differentiation of neuronal cells, we established NTera 2 (NT2) cell lines stably expressing wild-type (wt) or M146V mutant human PS1, and compared the differentiation of both types of cell lines into postmitotic neurons upon retinoic acid (RA) treatment. After 25 days of RA treatment, a significant proportion of cells differentiated into neurons in NT2 cells expressing wt PS1 (27.7% of total cells), which was comparable to that in untransfected cells, whereas very few cells differentiated into neurons in NT2 cells expressing M146V mutant PS1 (2.6% of total cells). These results suggest that mutant PS1 attenuates the potentials of NT2 cells to differentiate into neurons.
A series of truncated dystrophin cDNAs (3.1-4.2 kbp) containing only three, three, two or one rod repeats with hinge 1 and 4 (named deltaDysAX2, AX11, AH3, M3, respectively) or no rod repeat retaining either hinge 1 or 4 (named deltaDysH1, H4, respectively) were constructed. These cDNAs were introduced into skeletal muscle of adult mdx mice using the adenovirus vector with a strong CAG promoter. deltaDysAX2, AX11, AH3 and deltaDysM3 expressed themselves successfully and recovered dystrophin-associated proteins effectively. Especially 3.7 kbp cDNA for deltaDysM3 offers the possibility of an approach utilizing newly developed virus vectors, such as an adeno-associated virus vector, toward gene therapy of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Intercellular communication via gap junction membrane channels cannot occur until two apposing hemichannels (connexons) meet and dock to form a sealed cell-cell conduit. In particular, an important question is how does the structure at the extracellular surface influence the molecular recognition of the two connexons. In this study, cryoelectron microscopy and computer modeling provide evidence that the formation of the gap junction intercellular channel requires a 30 degree rotation between hemichannels for proper docking. With this amount of rotation, the peaks (protrusions) on one connexon fit into the valleys of the apposed connexon in the 3-D model, which would make for an ionically tight interface necessary for a functional cell-cell channel. Docking appears to be governed by a &quot;lock and key&quot; mechanism via a simple interdigitation of the six protrusions from each connexon. This interdigitation increases significantly the contact surface area and potential number of hydrogen bonds or hydrophobic interactions and/or other attractive interactions. Having a larger surface area than if the surfaces were flat would explain the biochemical requirements for conditions characterized previously for splitting of channels into hemichannels. The docked connexons were computationally fitted into two gap junction structures, which further confirmed the interdigitated manner of docking.
We have studied the distribution of cyclin dependent kinase-5 (cdk-5) within spinal cord in sporadic and two superoxide dismutase type 1 (SOD1) familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Although most neurofilament accumulations in ALS motor neurones did not appear to contain high levels of cdk-5, intense cdk-5 immunoreactivity was observed in perikarya of degenerating neurones in many ALS cases. Here, cdk-5 co-localised with lipofuscin. Co-localisation of cdk-5 with lipofuscin was also observed in some aged non-affected controls although this labelling was less intense than the ALS cases. The biogenesis of lipofuscin is believed to be linked to oxidative stress and oxidative stress and free radical damage have been suggested to be part of the pathogenic process of ALS, possibly involving apoptotic mechanisms. cdk-5 has recently been associated with apoptosis. These observations suggest a role for cdk-5 in the pathogenesis of ALS.
Incomplete peripheral nerve injury often leads to neuropathic pains, some of which are relieved by sympathectomy, and results in sympathetic postganglionic nerve fiber sprouting in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). This study was performed to see whether the sprouting in the DRG plays a key role in the sympathetic dependence of neuropathic pain. To this aim, we compared two groups of rats, both of which were subjected to unilateral transection of the inferior and superior caudal trunks at the levels between the S1 and S2, S2 and S3, and S3 and S4 spinal nerves, with respect to sympathetic fiber sprouting; one group showed neuropathic pain behaviours (i.e. mechanical and cold allodynia signs) which were very sensitive to phentolamine, alpha adrenergic blocker, and the other group exhibited no sensitivity. Immuno-histochemical staining with tyrosine hydroxylase antibody of the S1-S3 DRGs was not correlated with the sensitivity to phentolamine. These results suggest that the degree of sympathetic dependence of neuropathic pain is not a function of the extent of the sympathetic postganglionic nerve fiber sprouting in the DRG.
Studies using recombinant systems indicate that 'diazepam-insensitive' GABA(A) receptors in the central nervous system contain alpha4 and alpha6 subunits while 'diazepam-sensitive' GABA(A) receptors contain alpha1, alpha2, alpha3 and alpha5 subunits. Both native and recombinant diazepam-sensitive GABA(A) receptors typically exhibit large, outwardly rectifying currents. For example, in patch clamp studies, Human Embryonic Kidney (HEK) 293 cells transfected with cDNAs encoding alpha1beta2gamma2 subunits exhibit a rectification ratio (I +60 mV/I -60 mV) of 1.95 +/- 0.21. However, anomalous rectification was observed in recombinant diazepam-insensitive GABA(A) receptors composed of either alpha4beta2gamma2 (rectification ratio, 0.74 +/- 0.09) or alpha6beta2gamma2 (rectification ratio, 0.67 +/- 0.11) subunits. Based on sequence differences between diazepam-sensitive and -insensitive GABA(A) receptor alpha subunits in the vicinity of the putative channel lining, a point mutation was introduced at His273 on the alpha4 subunit. The rectification ratio in cells expressing a mutated alpha4(Asn273)beta2gamma2 receptor increased to 1.92 +/- 0.17. Moreover, mutation of the homologous residue in the alpha1 subunit to histidine reduced the rectification ratio of alpha1(His274)beta2gamma2 to 1.02 +/- 0.12. The affinities of benzodiazepine site ligands at diazepam-sensitive and -insensitive GABA(A) receptors were unaffected by these mutations. Thus, the electrophysiological properties of diazepam-sensitive and -insensitive GABA(A) receptors may be as divergent as their pharmacological characteristics.
In molecular neurobiology, perhaps no molecule has been as thoroughly examined as Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP). In the ten years since the cDNA encoding betaAPP was cloned, the protein has been the subject of unparalleled scrutiny on all levels. From molecular genetics and cellular biology to neuroanatomy and epidemiology, no scientific discipline has been left unexplored - and with good reason. beta-amyloid (Abeta) is the main constituent of the amyloidogenic plaques which are a primary pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, and betaAPP is the protein from which Abeta is cleaved and released. Unraveling the molecular events underlying Abeta generation has been, and remains, of paramount importance to scientists in our field. In this review we will trace the progress that has been made in understanding the molecular and cellular basis of betaAPP trafficking and processing, or alternatively stated, the molecular basis for Abeta generation. Imperative to a complete understanding of Abeta generation is the delineation of its subcellular localization and the identification of proteins which play either direct or accessory roles in Abeta generation. We will focus on the regulation of betaAPP cleavage through diverse signal transduction mechanisms and discuss possible points of therapeutic intercession in what has been postulated to be a seminal molecular step in the cascade of events terminating in the onset of dementia, a loss of neurons, and tragically, eventual death from Alzheimer's disease.
The excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate coexists with the peptide known as substance P in primary afferents that respond to painful stimulation. Because blockers of glutamate receptors reliably reduce pain behaviour, it is assumed that 'pain' messages are mediated by glutamate action on dorsal horn neurons. The contribution of substance P, however, is still unclear. We have now disrupted the mouse preprotachykinin A gene (PPT-A), which encodes substance P and a related tachykinin, neurokinin A. We find that although the behavioural response to mildly painful stimuli is intact in these mice, the response to moderate to intense pain is significantly reduced. Neurogenic inflammation, which results from peripheral release of substance P and neurokinin A, is almost absent in the mutant mice. We conclude that the release of tachykinins from primary afferent pain-sensing receptors (nociceptors) is required to produce moderate to intense pain.
The control of cell cycle progression is orchestrated by an extraordinary diverse and dynamic in function group of proteins. Critical in the progression are the actions of the E2F family of transcription factors which regulate the expression of genes necessary for the G1/S transition and the WAF/CIP/KIP family of cdk inhibitors which can inhibit cell cycle progression. In this report, we have identified E2F binding sites in both the human and mouse p21 promoters that bind E2F protein complexes from nuclear extracts in a cell cycle-dependent manner. In ectopic expression experiments we determined that E2F1, but not E2F4, can strongly transactivate the human p21 gene through these E2F binding sites which are located in the -215/+1 region of the p21 gene. The transactivation of the p21 gene through regulatory elements within the -215/+1 region of the promoter was correlated with increased levels of endogenous E2F1 and p21 proteins at the G1/S boundary. The significance of transactivation of the p21 gene by E2F is that p21 function is important in cell cycle progression as well as for cell cycle arrest. Indeed, E2F-induced levels of p21 protein during the G1/ S transition is consistent with the recent findings demonstrating that p21 acts as an assembly factor for kinase active cyclin/cdk/p21 complexes.
In anesthetized squirrel monkeys single cell recordings were performed using tungsten microelectrodes. The responses of 29 viscerosomatoceptive and somatoceptive VPL neurons to noxious distension of the urinary bladder, the lower esophagus and the distal colon and to innocuous and noxious somatic stimuli were assessed when these stimuli were presented separately or together. Neuronal responses were defined as additive or interactive depending on the relative changes in responses to individual somatic or visceral stimuli, and on their responses during conditioning (somatic and visceral stimuli applied concurrently). In 13 neurons interactions between the somatosensory and visceral inputs could be demonstrated. The dominant interactive effect was inhibition, although facilitatory effects were seen as well (2 of 13). The magnitude or direction of the interactions seemed independent of the location of the somatic and visceral receptive fields. The mean population response of the neurons showing interactions was 4.66 spikes/s to somatic stimulation, and 0.07 spikes/s to visceral stimulation. During conditioning the mean interactive effect was -62% of the calculated additive effect. This implies that overall the somatic responses are halved during a coincident visceral stimulus. In a subgroup of the VPL neurons, which were classified as pure somatic responsive (n=14) due to their unresponsiveness during visceral stimulation alone, a third (n=5) still exhibited visceral convergence during conditioning. The latter neurons, therefore, receive visceral inputs, which function in a purely interactive (modulatory) manner. It is concluded that part of the described effects is due to competition (cross modality suppression) between the visceral and somatic inputs. We further conclude that the suppression of somatic information by noxious visceral stimuli may contribute to a more effective processing of the discriminatory aspects of nociceptive visceral information previously demonstrated in VPL.
Subanesthetic doses of ketamine have been shown to exacerbate symptoms in schizophrenia and to induce positive, negative, and cognitive schizophrenic-like symptoms in normal subjects. The present investigation sought to define brain regions affected by subanesthetic doses of ketamine, using high resolution autoradiographic analysis of 14C-2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) uptake and immunocytochemical staining for Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI). Both functional mapping approaches were used because distinct and complementary information is often obtained with these two mapping methods. Ketamine, at a subanesthetic dose of 35 mg/kg, substantially increased 2-DG uptake in certain limbic cortical regions, including medial prefrontal, ventrolateral orbital, cingulate, and retrosplenial cortices. In the hippocampal formation, the subanesthetic dose of ketamine induced prominent increases in 2-DG uptake in the dentate gyrus, CA-3 stratum radiatum, stratum lacunosum moleculare, and presubiculum. Increased 2-DG uptake in response to 35 mg/kg ketamine was also observed in select thalamic nuclei and basolateral amygdala. Ketamine induced Fos-LI in the same limbic cortical regions that exhibited increased 2-DG uptake in response to the subanesthetic dose of the drug. However, no Fos was induced in some brain regions that showed increased 2-DG uptake, such as the hippocampal formation, anterioventral thalamic nucleus, and basolateral amygdala. Conversely, ketamine induced Fos in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and central amygdala, although no effect of the drug on 2-DG uptake was apparent in these regions. In contrast to the increase in 2-DG uptake observed in select brain regions after the subanesthetic dose, an anesthetic dose of ketamine (100 mg/kg) produced a global suppression of 2-DG uptake. By contrast, a robust induction of Fos-LI was observed after the anesthetic dose of ketamine that was neuroanatomically identical to that produced by the subanesthetic dose. Results of the present investigation show that anesthetic and subanesthetic doses of ketamine have pronounced effects on regional brain 2-DG uptake and induction of Fos-LI. The alterations in regional brain metabolism induced by the subanesthetic dose may be relevant to effects of ketamine to induce schizophrenic-like symptoms.


The KCl-evoked exocytotic release of glutamate from rat cerebrocortical synaptosomes is inhibited by a presynaptic adenosine A1 receptor decreasing voltage-activated Ca2+ entry. This inhibition was transiently suppressed by (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopenthyl-1,3-dicarboxylate (ACPD) but was restored within 1 min in the continued presence of the metabotropic agonist. In the presence of 2 microM arachidonic acid ACPD initiated a prolonged suppression of the adenosine-mediated inhibition persisting for at least 10 min. Arachidonic acid (20-40 pmol) was bound per mg synaptosomal protein. Prolonged ACPD-mediated phosphorylation of the protein kinase C (PKC) substrate myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) was detected in the presence but not the absence of arachidonic acid, but arachidonic acid added 2 min after ACPD was ineffective. It is concluded that arachidonic acid synergistically prolongs the metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated activation of presynaptic PKC, suppressing inhibitory receptor pathways.
The sensation and perception of smell (olfaction) are largely dependent on sniffing, which is an active stage of stimulus transport and therefore an integral component of mammalian olfaction. Electrophysiological data obtained from study of the hedgehog, rat, rabbit, dog and monkey indicate that sniffing (whether or not an odorant is present) induces an oscillation of activity in the olfactory bulb, driving the piriform cortex in the temporal lobe, in other words, the piriform is driven by the olfactory bulb at the frequency of sniffing. Here we use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) that is dependent on the level of oxygen in the blood to determine whether sniffing can induce activation in the piriform of humans, and whether this activation can be differentiated from activation induced by an odorant. We find that sniffing, whether odorant is present or absent, induces activation primarily in the piriform cortex of the temporal lobe and in the medial and posterior orbito-frontal gyri of the frontal lobe. The source of the sniff-induced activation is the somatosensory stimulation that is induced by air flow through the nostrils. In contrast, a smell, regardless of sniffing, induces activation mainly in the lateral and anterior orbito-frontal gyri of the frontal lobe. The dissociation between regions activated by olfactory exploration (sniffing) and regions activated by olfactory content (smell) shows a distinction in brain organization in terms of human olfaction.

The effect of glucocorticoid(GC) on peak cytosolic free calcium net increment (delta[Ca2+]i) induced by high-K+ was detected with MiraCal Image System. The main results were as follows: (1) Corticosterone(B) could inhibit delta[Ca2+]i in a time-dependent and concentration-dependent manner. (2) The inhibitory effect of B could be mimicked by bovine-serum albumin conjugated corticosterone (B-BSA) also in a dose-dependent manner. (3) G-protein inhibitor, either PTX or GDP beta S significantly reduced the inhibitory effect of B and B-BSA on delta[Ca2+]i (4) PMA, a stimulator for protein kinase C(PKC), could inhibit delta[Ca2+]i. (5) Although the inhibitors of PKC, chelerythrine chloride and bisindolylamide I per se had no influence on delta[Ca2+]i, but they significantly antagonized the inhibitory effect of B and B-BSA on delta[Ca2+]i. It is postulated that GC inhibit delta[Ca2+]i induced by high-K+ through a membrane mechanism and by a pathway involving G-protein and PKC.
Phosphorylation of the head domains of intermediate filament proteins by second messenger-dependent kinases is important in regulating filament assembly. In the case of neurofilaments, head domain phosphorylation is known to be important in assembly, but few sites have been identified. Using matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization (MALDI) and nano-electrospray mass spectrometry, we report the identification of several novel in vitro cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) phosphorylation sites in the low (NF-L) and middle (NF-M) molecular mass neurofilament subunits. Neurofilament polypeptides were purified from adult rat brain, and fractions containing a mixture of NF-L and NF-M were nonradioisotopically phosphorylated with PKA prior to proteolytic digestion of the polypeptides in situ in polyacrylamide excised from SDS gels. Sites of phosphorylation were determined by mass spectrometric analysis of mixtures enriched in tryptic phosphopeptides. In NF-L, four novel sites were identified: serines 12, 41, and 49 in the head domain and serine 435 in the carboxyl-terminal tail domain, and data consistent with phosphorylation of serine 2 were obtained. Recombinant rat NF-L protein was also phosphorylated with PKA, and the same serines were identified as phosphorylation sites, with two additional sites, serine 43 and probable phosphorylation of serine 55. In NF-M, one novel site, serine 1 in the amino-terminal head domain, was found to be phosphorylated, and serine 46, also in the amino-terminal head domain, was confirmed as a PKA phosphorylation site.
Somatosensory stimuli are known to activate the postcentral gyrus, and neurons there fire when the skin is in contact with objects. Also neurons in the lateral fissure, the parietal operculum, fire when rough surfaces are felt. However the localization of somatosensory association areas in humans is largely unknown and differences in functional contributions between somatosensory association areas has not been previously demonstrated. For these reasons the regional cerebral blood flow was measured with 15O-butanol and positron-emission tomography in two groups of young volunteers discriminating the lengths, shapes, and roughness of objects with their right hand. Roughness discrimination activated the lateral parietal opercular cortex significantly more than did length or shape discrimination. A Boolean intersection of the cluster images showing the statistical significant increases of length and shape discrimination demonstrated that shape and length discrimination activated the same cortical field lining the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus (IPA). Shape and length discrimination activated IPA significantly more than did roughness discriminaton. These findings demonstrate a separation in functional contributions of lateral parietal opercular cortex and IPA. The results indicate different cortical processing streams for the somatosensory submodalities microgeometry and macrogeometry.
By means of their small receptive fields (RFs), neurons in primary visual cortex perform highly localized analyses of the visual scene, far removed from our normal unified experience of vision. Local image elements coded by the RF are put into more global context, however, by means of modulation of the responses of the V1 neurons. Contextual modulation has been shown to follow closely the perceptual interpretation of the scene as a whole. This would suggest that some aspects of contextual modulation can be recorded only in awake and perceiving animals. In this study, multi-unit activity was recorded with implanted electrodes from primary visual cortex of awake, fixating monkeys viewing textured displays in which figure and ground regions were segregated by differences in either orientation or motion. Contextual modulation was isolated from local RF processing, by keeping RF stimulation identical across trials while sampling responses for various positions of the RF relative to figure and ground. Contextual modulation was observed to unfold spatially and temporally in a way that closely resembles the figure-ground percept. When recording was repeated, but with the animals anesthetized, the figure-ground related modulatory activity was selectively suppressed. RF tuning properties, however, remained unaffected. The results show that the modulatory activity is functionally distinct from the RF properties. V1 thus hosts distinct regimes of activity that are mediated by separate mechanisms and that depend differentially on the animal being awake or anesthetized.
In binocular rivalry, a subject views two incongruent stimuli through each eye but consciously perceives only one stimulus at a time, with a switch in perceptual dominance every few seconds. To investigate the neural correlates of perceptual dominance in humans, seven subjects were recorded with a 148-channel magnetoencephalography array while experiencing binocular rivalry. A red vertical grating flickering at one frequency was presented to one eye through a red filter and a blue horizontal grating flickering at a different frequency was presented to the other eye through a blue filter. Steady-state neuromagnetic responses at the two frequencies were used as tags for the two stimuli and analyzed with high-resolution power spectra. It was found that a large number of channels showed peaks at both frequencies, arranged in a horseshoe pattern from posterior to anterior regions, whether or not the subject was consciously perceiving the corresponding stimulus. However, the amount of power at the stimulus frequency was modulated in relation to perceptual dominance, being lower in many channels by 50-85% when the subject was not conscious of that stimulus. Such modulation by perceptual dominance, although not global, was distributed to a large subset of regions showing stimulus-related responses, including regions outside visual cortex. The results demonstrate a correlation between the conscious perception of a visual stimulus and the synchronous activity of large populations of neurons as reflected by steady-state neuromagnetic responses.
Activated monocytes release a number of substances, including inflammatory cytokines and eicosanoids, that are highly toxic to cells of the central nervous system. Because monocytic infiltration of the central nervous system closely correlates with HIV-1-associated dementia, it has been suggested that monocyte-derived toxins mediate nervous system damage. In the present study, we show that the HIV-1 transactivator protein Tat significantly increases astrocytic expression and release of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1). Astrocytic release of beta-chemokines, which are relatively less selective for monocytes, including RANTES, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, and macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta, was not observed. We also show that MCP-1 is expressed in the brains of patients with HIV-1-associated dementia and that, of the beta-chemokines tested, only MCP-1 could be detected in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with this condition. Together, these data provide a potential link between the presence of HIV-1 in the brain and the monocytic infiltration that may substantially contribute to dementia.

The distribution of agmatine (decarboxylated arginine) was mapped in the central nervous system (CNS) in the rat. Agmatine-like immunoreactivity was identified by light microscopy, exclusively in the cytoplasm of neuronal perikarya. Immunoreactive neurons were present in the cerebral cortex, predominantly within laminae VI and V and, to a lesser extent, III and mainly in retrosplenial, cingulate, primary somatosensory and auditory cortices, and the subiculum. In the lower brainstem, immunoreactivity was selectively localized to visceral relay nuclei: the nucleus tractus solitarii and pontine parabrachial complex, and periventricular areas including the laterodorsal nucleus, locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe. In the midbrain, immunolabeled cells were concentrated in the ventral tegmental area and periaqueductal gray. In the forebrain, subcortical neurons were labeled predominantly in the preoptic area, amygdala, septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, midline thalamus, and the hypothalamus. Ultrastructural analysis of layer V of the somatosensory cortex demonstrated agmatine-immunoreactivity in neurons, primarily in large dense-core vesicles located in the cytoplasm. Agmatine immunoreactivity was also affiliated with endoplasmic reticulum and the plasmalemma. Cortical neurons and the subiculum were labeled in animals not administered the axonal transport inhibitor, colchicine; thus, may normally contain higher concentrations of the amine than other brain regions. The central distribution of agmatine is consistent with the hypothesis that the amine may be a novel neurotransmitter of neurons involved in behavioral and visceral control.
The immune system is a highly regulated, complex and integrated system which has evolved to provide the organism with substantial defenses against pathogenic organisms. Over the last several decades there has been an explosion of experimental data in this area, and new techniques in molecular and cellular biology have been crucial in deepening our understanding of immune processes. Most of these new techniques have allowed the isolation of the process or cell under study so that the results can be readily interpretable. At the present time, however, there is an emerging need to understand the system as it functions as a whole and the language of mathematics is the one best suited for this purpose. This review, written from the perspective of an experimental immunologist, describes some of the recent advances in the development of mathematical models of the immune system. Particular emphasis is placed on the rapidly growing field of modeling in HIV infection and T cell activation. Immunology as a whole will benefit from the introduction of the language of mathematics in much the same way as neuroscience has done in the last decade.
The habenular complex is involved in several estrogen-dependent reproductive behaviors in female rats, namely, sexual behavior, maternal behavior, and postpartum sexual behavior. Although it is known that estrogen acts in other brain regions to mediate these behaviors, it is not known whether estrogen may also act directly on the habenular complex. To address this possibility, we examined this region for the presence of estrogen receptor (ER). This analysis was carried out in separate experiments by using in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry at the light and electron microscopic levels, and steroid autoradiography. Neurons within the lateral habenula (LHb), but not the medial habenula, express ER mRNA, contain ER immunoreactivity (ER-ir) in their nuclei, and concentrate radiolabelled estradiol, providing strong evidence for the presence of functional ER in the lateral habenula. There were also ER-ir containing punctate fibers within the LHb, which, at the electron microscopic level, in part, proved to be axons and presynaptic axonal terminals. Both the level of ER-ir in cell nuclei and the density of ER-ir fibers within the LHb were regulated during the course of pregnancy and the postpartum period, suggesting that the sensitivity of the LHb to estrogen may be altered during this time. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the LHb is likely a more estrogen-sensitive region than was previously considered, and they suggest alternative mechanisms of action for ER. ER within the LHb may play a critical role in the involvement of the LHb in estrogen-dependent female reproductive behaviors.
Several protein components that are involved in the molecular regulation of transmitter release have been identified in neuronal, neuroendocrine and endocrine tissues. The expression of VAMP-2 (vesicle-associated membrane protein), munc-18 (mammalian homologue of unc-18) and SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa) mRNA was studied in the rat anterior and intermediate pituitary gland of adult (2 months) and old (24 months) rats using in situ hybridization. In the pituitary anterior lobe of aged rats, there was a significant decrease in VAMP-2 (33%), munc-18 (17%) and SNAP-25 (20%) mRNA as compared to adult rats. In the intermediate lobe, there was a significant decrease in VAMP-2 (48%) and SNAP-25 (32%) mRNA of aged rats, whereas munc-18 mRNA levels were not significantly changed. Pituitaries from aged rats showed an increase in size which was paralleled by a significant decrease in the number of cells per unit area in the intermediate lobe, whereas the number was unaltered in the anterior lobe. The results suggest a genuine decrease in mRNA for exocytotic protein mRNA in the anterior pituitary, but that part of the decrease in the expression of VAMP-2 and SNAP-25 mRNA in the intermediate lobe can be explained by a decreased number of cells per unit area. The decline in anterior pituitary hormone secretion reported in aged rats appears to be parallelled by a down-regulation in mRNA levels for several proteins involved in the molecular regulation of exocytosis.
Agmatine is an amine derived from the decarboxylation of arginine by arginine decarboxylase (ADC) and metabolized to putrescine by agmatinase. While prevalent in bacteria and plants, agmatine and its metabolic enzymes have been recently identified in mammalian tissues. In the present study we sought to determine: (a) whether macrophages (cell line RAW 264.7) express ADC and agmatinase, and (b) if the enzymes are regulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and/or by the inhibitory cytokines transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), interleukin-10 (IL-10) and interleukin-4 (IL-4). LPS induced a dose-dependent stimulation of agmatinase, while it decreased ADC, the effect in both cases being maximum at 20 h. As expected, LPS dose-dependently stimulated the inducible nitric oxide synthase activity (iNOS). A strong correlation was observed between the effects of LPS on the agmatine-related enzymes and iNOS. By contrast, exposure to IL-10 and TGF-beta caused a reduction in ADC and agmatinase, whereas IL-4 was ineffective on ADC, but reverted the LPS-induced increase of agmatinase. We conclude that the agmatine pathway may be an alternative metabolic route for arginine in macrophages, suggesting a regulatory role of agmatine during inflammation.

In a screen designed to identify genes expressed preferentially in retina, we identified a cDNA encoding the human ortholog of rat STXBP1 (n-Sec1, Munc-18-1, rbSec1), a protein implicated in vesicle trafficking and neurotransmitter release. This protein also has similarity to Drosophila Rop (65% aa identity) and Caenorhabditis elegans UNC-18 (58% aa identity). The major human cDNA encodes a protein of 594 amino acids which has 100 % amino acid identity with its rat and murine counterparts. Additionally, there is an alternative splice form in humans, arising from the inclusion of an additional exon, which encodes a protein of 603 amino acids and is also 100% identical to the corresponding rat isoform. We found expression of the shorter cDNA in all tissues and cell lines we examined with highest levels in retina and cerebellum. By RT-PCR analysis, we found expression of the longer cDNA in neural tissues only. We mapped the structural gene to 9q34.1, a region without obvious candidate phenotypes. However, due to its evolutionary conservation and abundant expression in retina and brain, STXBP1 should be considered a candidate gene for retinal and/or neural disorders mapping to 9q34.1.
Monoclonal antibodies were generated to vesicular membranes of clathrin coated vesicles enriched for acetylcholinesterase (AChE). One of these, C172, recognizes vesicles which accumulate in muscle cells around nuclei associated with acetylcholine receptor AChR clusters. Immunoblots of muscle extracts and brain purified clathrin coated vesicles show that C172 recognizes a 100 kd band in muscle, but a 180 kd band in brain. Western blots of purified AP180 protein stained with the two antibodies AP180.1 and C172 displayed the same staining pattern. Tryptic digests probed with peptide antibodies (PS26 and PS27) generated to known sequences of AP180 were used to map the epitope for C172 within the brain AP180 sequence. On immunoblots of digested AP180, all AP180 antibodies and C172 recognized a 100 kd tryptic fragment, however only C172 recognized a smaller 60 kd. Our results suggest that the C172 epitope is located within amino acids 305-598 of the AP180 sequence. Confocal fluorescence microscopy of myoblasts and myotubes stained with the C172 antibody gives a punctate immunofluorescence pattern. Myoblasts stained with C172 revealed a polarized distribution of vesicles distinct from that observed when cells are stained with gamma adaptin antibody which is known to localize to trans Golgi network. Myotubes stained with C172 antibody reveal a linear array of vesicular staining. Quantitative analysis of C172 reactive vesicles revealed a significant increase in number of vesicles present around the nuclei associated with the acetylcholine receptor clusters. These vesicles did not colocalize with the Golgi cisternae. These results indicate that a protein with homology to the neuron-specific coated vesicle protein AP180, is present in muscle cells associated with vesicles showing significant concentration around postsynaptic nuclei present in close proximity to AChR clusters.
The hypothesis concerning morphine as an endogenous signal molecule has been strengthened with the recent discovery of a new opiate receptor subtype, designated mu3. This opiate receptor is opiate alkaloid sensitive and opioid peptide insensitive, including peptides previously shown to have affinities for mu opiate receptors. This receptor is coupled to nitric oxide release in human endothelial cells, granulocytes and monocytes and in invertebrate immunocytes and microglia. In relation to the endothelium, it has also been coupled to vasodilation via nitric oxide. Given the known influence of nitric oxide in downregulating cell adhesion, the role of this compound has now been investigated in also diminishing endothelial-immunocyte interaction. Morphine, via nitric oxide, has the potential to diminish adhesion molecule expression and in so doing calm an inflammatory process between immunocytes and the endothelial surface. In this regard, the potential for abuse is also present.
Although the role of opiates and opioids in the physiological and pathological function of the immune system is only beginning to be unraveled, converging lines of evidence indicate that the opioid receptors expressed by immune cells are often the same or similar to the neuronal subtypes, particularly delta and kappa. Recent studies also point to the existence of novel opioid receptors and/or binding sites on immune cells that are selective for morphine. Opioids and their receptors, particularly those with high affinity for delta agonists, appear to function in an autocrine/paracrine manner. Thus, opioid peptides generated from immune-derived proenkephalin A act as cytokines, capable of regulating myriad functions of both granulocytes and mononuclear cells. Further identification and characterization of receptors and signal transduction pathways that account for some of the unique properties of opiate binding and immunomodulation (e.g., dose-dependent effects of morphine that occur at exceptionally low concentrations relative to the Kd's of the neuronal mu receptor or the morphine binding site reported on activated human T-cells) represents one of the major research challenges ahead. Elucidating mechanisms, such as these, may provide unique therapeutic opportunities through the application of opioid immunopharmacology to disorders involving immune responses in peripheral organs and the central nervous system.
Dopamine (DA) autoreceptors expressed along the somatodendritic extent of midbrain DA neurons modulate impulse activity, whereas those expressed at DA nerve terminals regulate both DA synthesis and release. Considerable evidence has indicated that these DA autoreceptors are of the D2 subtype of DA receptors. However, many pharmacological studies have suggested an autoreceptor role for the DA D3 receptor. This possibility was tested with mice lacking the D3 receptor as a result of gene targeting. The basal firing rates of DA neurons within both the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area were not different in D3 receptor mutant and wild-type mice. The putative D3 receptor-selective agonist R(+)-trans-3,4,4a, 10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-(1)benzopyrano(4,3-b)-1,4-oxazin+ ++-9-ol (PD 128907) was equipotent at inhibiting the activity of both populations of midbrain DA neurons in the two groups of mice. In the gamma-butyrolactone (GBL) model of DA autoreceptor function, mutant and wild-type mice were identical with respect to striatal DA synthesis and its suppression by PD 128907. In vivo microdialysis studies of DA release in ventral striatum revealed higher basal levels of extracellular DA in mutant mice but similar inhibitory effects of PD 128907 in mutant and wild-type mice. These results suggest that the effects of PD 128907 on dopamine cell function reflect stimulation of D2 as opposed to D3 receptors. Although D3 receptors do not seem to be significantly involved in DA autoreceptor function, they may participate in postsynaptically activated short-loop feedback modulation of DA release.
Using the magnetic search coil technique to measure eye and ear movements, we trained cats by operant conditioning to look in the direction of light and sound sources with their heads fixed. Cats were able to localize noise bursts, single clicks, or click trains presented from sources located on the horizontal and vertical meridians within their oculomotor range. Saccades to auditory targets were less accurate and more variable than saccades to visual targets at the same spatial positions. Localization accuracy of single clicks was diminished compared with the long-duration stimuli presented from the same sources. Control experiments with novel auditory targets, never associated with visual targets, demonstrated that the cats localized the sound sources using acoustic cues and not from memory. The role of spectral features imposed by the pinna for vertical sound localization was shown by the breakdown in localization of narrow-band (one-sixth of an octave) noise bursts presented from sources along the midsagittal plane. In addition, we show that cats experience summing localization, an illusion associated with the precedence effect. Pairs of clicks presented from speakers at (+/-18 degrees,0 degrees ) with interclick delays of +/-300 microsec were perceived by the cat as originating from phantom sources extending from the midline to approximately +/-10 degrees.
Developing sensory systems are sculpted by an activity-dependent strengthening and weakening of connections. Long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) in vitro have been proposed to model this experience-dependent circuit refinement. We directly compared LTP and LTD induction in vitro with plasticity in vivo in the developing visual cortex of a mouse mutant of protein kinase A (PKA), a key enzyme implicated in the plasticity of a diverse array of systems. In mice lacking the RIbeta regulatory subunit of PKA, we observed three abnormalities of synaptic plasticity in layer II/III of visual cortex in vitro. These included an absence of (1) extracellularly recorded LTP, (2) depotentiation or LTD, and (3) paired-pulse facilitation. Potentiation was induced, however, by pairing low-frequency stimulation with direct depolarization of individual mutant pyramidal cells. Together these findings suggest that the LTP defect in slices lacking PKA RIbeta lies in the transmission of sufficient net excitation through the cortical circuit. Nonetheless, functional development and plasticity of visual cortical responses in vivo after monocular deprivation did not differ from normal. Moreover, the loss of all responsiveness to stimulation of the originally deprived eye in most cortical cells could be restored by reverse suture of eyelids during the critical period in both wild-type and mutant mice. Such an activity-dependent increase in response would seem to require a mechanism like potentiation in vivo. Thus, the RIbeta isoform of PKA is not essential for ocular dominance plasticity, which can proceed despite defects in several common in vitro models of neural plasticity.
The myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) is a member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily and is thought to play a critical role in the interaction of myelinating glial cells with the axon. Myelin from mutant mice incapable of expressing MAG displays various subtle abnormalities in the CNS and degenerates with age in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Two distinct isoforms, large MAG (L-MAG) and small MAG (S-MAG), are produced through the alternative splicing of the primary MAG transcript. The cytoplasmic domain of L-MAG contains a unique phosphorylation site and has been shown to associate with the fyn tyrosine kinase. Moreover, L-MAG is expressed abundantly early in the myelination process, possibly indicating an important role in the initial stages of myelination. We have adapted the gene-targeting approach in embryonic stem cells to generate mutant mice that express a truncated form of the L-MAG isoform, eliminating the unique portion of its cytoplasmic domain, but that continue to express S-MAG. Similar to the total MAG knockouts, these animals do not express an overt clinical phenotype. CNS myelin of the L-MAG mutant mice displays most of the pathological abnormalities reported for the total MAG knockouts. In contrast to the null MAG mutants, however, PNS axons and myelin of older L-MAG mutant animals do not degenerate, indicating that S-MAG is sufficient to maintain PNS integrity. These observations demonstrate a differential role of the L-MAG isoform in CNS and PNS myelin.
Myelination increases neuronal conduction velocity through its insulating properties and an unidentified extrinsic effect that increases axonal caliber. Although it is well established that demyelination can cause axonal atrophy, the myelin molecule that regulates axonal caliber is not known. Loss of the structural proteins of compact peripheral nervous system (PNS) myelin, P0 protein, and myelin basic protein does not lead to axonal atrophy. This study demonstrates that mice with a null mutation of the myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) gene have a chronic atrophy of myelinated PNS axons that results in paranodal myelin tomaculi and axonal degeneration. Absence of MAG was correlated with reduced axonal calibers, decreased neurofilament spacing, and reduced neurofilament phosphorylation. Because axonal atrophy and degeneration in MAG-deficient mice occur in the absence of inflammation, hypomyelination, significant demyelination-remyelination, or gain of function mutations, these data support a functional role for MAG in modulating the maturation and viability of myelinated axons.
Reactive gliosis, which occurs in response to any damage or disturbance to the central nervous system, has been recognized for many years, but is still not completely understood. The hallmark is the increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), yet studies in GFAP knockout mice suggest that GFAP may not be required for an astrocyte to become hypertrophic. In this review, we describe a series of tissue culture models that have been established in order to address: 1) the biochemical phenotype of reactive astrocytes; 2) the factor and/or cell responsible for induction of gliosis; 3) the mechanisms by which one might block the induction. These models range from cultures of astrocytes, both neonatal and adult, to co-cultures of astrocytes with either neurons or microglia, to organ cultures. None is ideal: each addresses a different set of questions, but taken together, they are beginning to provide useful information which should allow a better understanding of the plasticity response of astrocytes to brain injury.
1. Stepping responses were studied in infants between the ages of 10 days and 10 months while they were supported to step on a slowly moving treadmill belt. Surface electromyography (EMG) from muscles in the lower limb, force exerted by the feet on the treadmill belt, and the motion of the lower limbs were recorded. 2. Two groups of infants were studied, those who had a small amount of daily practice in stepping and those who did not. Practice resulted in a dramatic increase in the incidence of stepping recorded in the laboratory, particularly for the periods between 1 and 6 months of age. 3. The majority of infants showed clear alternation between the flexor and extensor muscles during walking, regardless of age. Co-contraction between flexors and extensors, estimated by the overlap in area between rectified and smoothed EMG from a muscle pair, was greater for some muscle groups in the infant compared with the adult. 4. Practice resulted in a significantly lower co-contraction index for the tibialis anterior- quadriceps muscle pair. Practice did not affect the mean step cycle duration. 5. Infants of all ages could step at a range of treadmill speeds by adjusting their step cycle duration. The relationship between the treadmill speed and cycle duration was well fitted by a power function, similar to those reported for intact cats and adult humans. The change in step cycle duration resulted almost entirely from a change in the extensor burst duration, whereas the flexor burst duration remained constant. 6. Airstepping could be elicited in some infants. The cycle durations for airstepping were close to the shortest cycles recorded on the treadmill. 7. In conclusion, the system for generating rhythmic, alternating activity of the lower limbs for stepping is clearly developed by birth. The stepping is sustained and regular, particularly if stepping practice is incorporated briefly each day. The infant population provides a good subject pool for studying the afferent control of walking in the human, before cerebral influences are fully developed. The characteristics and maturity of the system remain to be determined.
1. A human recombinant homo-oligomeric 5-HT3 receptor (h5-HT3A) expressed in a human embryonic kidney cell line (HEK 293) was characterized using the whole-cell recording configuration of the patch clamp technique. 2. 5-HT evoked transient inward currents (EC50 = 3.4 microM; Hill coefficient = 1.8) that were blocked by the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ondansetron (IC50 = 103 pM) and by the non-selective agents metoclopramide (IC50 = 69 nM), cocaine (IC50 = 459 nM) and (+)-tubocurarine (IC50 = 2.8 microM). 3. 5-HT-induced currents rectified inwardly and reversed in sign (E5-HT) at a potential of -2.2 mV. N-Methyl-D-glucamine was finitely permeant. Permeability ratios PNa/PCs and PNMDG/PCs were 0.90 and 0.083, respectively. 4. Permeability towards divalent cations was assessed from measurements of E5-HT in media where Ca2+ and Mg2+ replaced Na+. PCa/PCs and PMg/PCs were calculated to be 1.00 and 0.61, respectively. 5. Single channel chord conductance (gamma) estimated from fluctuation analysis of macroscopic currents increased with membrane hyperpolarization from 243 fS at -40 mV to 742 fS at -100 mV. 6. Reducing [Ca2+]o from 2 to 0.1 mM caused an increase in the whole-cell current evoked by 5-HT. A concomitant reduction in [Mg2+]o produced further potentiation. Fluctuation analysis indicates that a voltage-independent augmentation of gamma contributes to this phenomenon. 7. The data indicate that homo-oligomeric receptors composed of h5-HT3A subunits form inwardly rectifying cation-selective ion channels of low conductance that are permeable to Ca2+ and Mg2+.
We report here the cDNA sequence of rat homologue of presenilin-2 (PS-2). The rat PS-2 cDNA encoded 448 amino acids, and the deduced amino acid sequence was highly homologous to those of the human (94.9%), mouse (96.4%) and Xenopus (70.8%). A minor splicing variant lacking a single glutamate was detected, while the product corresponding to the exon 9 deleted splicing variant observed in human was not detected.
A novel member of the neurotrophin family, zebrafish neurotrophin-7 (zNT-7), was isolated from the zebrafish Danio rerio. The amino acid sequence of zNT-7 is more closely related to that of fish nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-6 (NT-6) than to that of any other neurotrophin. zNT-7 is, however, equally related to fish NGF and NT-6 (65% and 63% amino acid sequence identity, respectively) indicating that it represents a distinct neurotrophin sequence. zNT-7 contains a 15 amino acid residue insertion in a beta-turn region in the middle of the mature protein. Recombinant zNT-7 was able to bind to the human p75 neurotrophin receptor and to induce tyrosine phosphorylation of the rat TrkA receptor tyrosine kinase, albeit less efficiently than rat NGF. zNT-7 did not interact with rat TrkB or TrkC, indicating a similar receptor specificity as NGF. We propose that a diversification of the NGF subfamily in the neurotrophin evolutionary tree occurred during the evolution of teleost fishes which resulted in the appearance of several additional members, such as zNT-7 and NT-6, structurally and functionally related to NGF.
The heavy metal lead (Pb) markedly augments the lethality of endotoxin in laboratory animals. Much of the tissue injury produced by endotoxin is thought to be mediated by cytokines. Thus, the effects of Pb on the regulation of interleukin-6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine that shows high correlation with symptoms of endotoxic shock, and the levels of corticosterone, a hormone produced to prepare the body to cope with stress, upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS; endotoxin) administration were investigated. After intravenous administration of LPS, the kinetics of IL-6 gene expression by Northern blot analysis revealed a rapid increase of IL-6 mRNA, which peaked by 2 h in the spleens and 3 h in the brains of B6C3F1 female mice, with or without Pb exposure. Peak production of IL-6 protein after LPS challenge was observed at 2 h in the spleens and 3 h in the sera regardless of Pb-treatment. However, Pb-exposed mice showed an altered kinetic profile of IL-6 appearance in the brain, in that the levels of IL-6 in the brains peaked at 4 h rather than 3 h, the peak for the control mice. Moreover, at two time points, the amounts of IL-6 were found to be higher in the brains of Pb-treated mice. Increases in IL-6 were detected in multiple areas of the brain, but Pb did not significantly enhance this level in any area. The observation of both IL-6 transcripts and protein in the brains of mice upon peripheral LPS administration is indicative of local de novo synthesis of IL-6 in the brain. IL-6 production in the brain may contribute to the centrally mediated effects of IL-6, since IL-6 in the brain is known to activate the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Upon LPS challenge, corticosterone levels peaked at the 2-h time point and stayed elevated for 6 h regardless of Pb exposure. The increases in brain IL-6 and its extended expression by Pb do not appear to have significantly altered the HPA axis on the basis of the corticosterone level, but brain IL-6 is known to affect multiple brain functions such as long-term potentiation.
In order to characterize cell death mechanisms involved in Alzheimer disease (AD), we quantitated the expression of ced-3 and ced-9 homologs in AD frontal cortex. Positive (ICE, ICErel-II, ICErel-III, Ich-1L, CPP32, mch2, mch3, bcl-xS, bax and bak) and negative (bcl-2, bcl-xL, MCL1 and Ich-1S) regulators of apoptosis were successively examined using a semi-quantitative technique of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Total RNA was extracted from postmortem frontal cortex of AD patients (n = 7) and controls (n = 7) matched for age and autolysis time. Baseline levels of message were detected for 3 ced-3 (CPP32, Ich-1 and ICE) and 4 ced-9 homologs (bcl-x, MCL1, bcl-2 and bax) in the frontal cortex. There was an overexpression of the ICEalpha cDNA in AD patients as compared with age-matched controls (P = 0.03). Our results indicate that several ced-3 and ced-9 homologs are expressed in the adult human brain, and suggest that neuronal cell death in AD might involve an aberrant expression of ICEalpha.
The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are widely distributed in the brain and play important roles in synaptic plasticity. Here it is shown that some types of mGluRs are activated not only by glutamate but also by extracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+o). A single amino acid residue was found to determine the sensitivity of mGluRs to Ca2+o. One of the receptors, mGluR1alpha, but not its point mutant with reduced sensitivity to Ca2+o, caused morphological changes when transfected into mammalian cells. Thus, the sensing of Ca2+o by mGluRs may be important in cells under physiological condition.
Little is known about the mechanisms that allow the cortex to selectively improve the neural representations of behaviorally important stimuli while ignoring irrelevant stimuli. Diffuse neuromodulatory systems may facilitate cortical plasticity by acting as teachers to mark important stimuli. This study demonstrates that episodic electrical stimulation of the nucleus basalis, paired with an auditory stimulus, results in a massive progressive reorganization of the primary auditory cortex in the adult rat. Receptive field sizes can be narrowed, broadened, or left unaltered depending on specific parameters of the acoustic stimulus paired with nucleus basalis activation. This differential plasticity parallels the receptive field remodeling that results from different types of behavioral training. This result suggests that input characteristics may be able to drive appropriate alterations of receptive fields independently of explicit knowledge of the task. These findings also suggest that the basal forebrain plays an active instructional role in representational plasticity.
The ability of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69593 to attenuate the sensitization and cross-sensitization which develops to the conditioned rewarding effects of morphine and cocaine was examined using an unbiased place-preference conditioning procedure. The influence of U69593 treatment upon sensitization and cross-sensitization to cocaine was also assessed. Doses of morphine (1.0-5.0 mg kg(-1)) which failed to produce a conditioned response in drug-naive rats produced marked preferences for the drug-paired place in animals which had previously received once daily injections of morphine (5.0 mg kg(-1); s.c.) or cocaine (10.0 mg kg(-1); i.p.) for 5 days. Morphine-induced place preferences also occurred in animals which had received morphine in combination with U69593 (0.04-0.32 mg kg(-1); s.c.) on either days 3-5 or 1-5 of the morphine treatment regimen. In contrast, morphine failed to produce significant conditioning in animals which had received U69593 with cocaine for 5 days. Doses of cocaine (1.0-5.0 mg kg(-1)) which did not produce a conditioned response in naive rats produced preferences for the drug-paired place in animals which had received once daily injections of cocaine (10.0 mg kg(-1) day(-1) x 5 days; i.p.) or morphine (5.0 mg kg(-1) day(-1) x 5 days; s.c.). No enhancement of cocaine-induced conditioning occurred in animals which had received U69593 on days 3-5 or on days 1-5 of the five-day cocaine treatment. In animals, however, which had received U69593 with morphine for 5 days, an enhanced response to cocaine was still seen. These findings confirm that sensitization and cross-sensitization develop to the conditioned rewarding effects of cocaine and morphine. They also indicate that the ability of a kappa-opioid receptor agonist to prevent the development of these sensitized responses depends on the sensitizing agent employed. U69593 prevents sensitization and cross-sensitization induced by cocaine, but does not modify morphine-induced sensitization or the cross-sensitization which develops to cocaine after morphine administration.
Neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies have consistently implicated dorsolateral prefrontal cortex as abnormal in schizophrenia. However, other areas of frontal cortex have received far less attention. In particular, few studies have examined orbital frontal regions with other than olfactory tests. In the present study we wished to assess the functional capability of orbital frontal cortex using a test developed by Bechara et al. (1994) that assesses a subject's capacity to acquire a preference through reward and punishment, using a gambling task that involved gains and losses of play money. Thirty normal subjects and 12 patients with schizophrenia (three undifferentiated, eight paranoid, one schizoaffective) comprised the sample in the present study. We found that patients with schizophrenia exhibited a pattern of findings similar to that of normals and dissimilar to that of patients with known orbital frontal damage. In our study, both normal subjects and schizophrenic patients chose most frequently from decks of cards in which there were frequent rewards and infrequent penalties, as might be expected on the basis of operant conditioning literature. We also found that performance on this task was not correlated with tests of working memory or long-term memory, suggesting that the development of a preference may occur implicitly. Our findings also argue against a general deficit in schizophrenia, as performance on the gambling task appeared relatively uncompromised.
Remote memory, as the term is used in the present study, refers to semantic information or autobiographical information for events and facts that are thought to be stored in the neocortex. In schizophrenia, findings of abnormalities in remote memory have been reported. However, it is unclear whether these are due to retrieval factors or other factors (e.g. paucity of information, disorganized lexicosemantic representations). Furthermore, it is unclear whether there is a temporal gradient in remote memory. In the first study, we utilized a cueing procedure for semantic fluency in order to determine whether retrieval factors play a marked role in impairments. In comparing patients with schizophrenia to patients with affective disorder and normal controls, we found that cueing had an equivalent effect upon all groups, suggesting that marked retrieval deficits were not the primary determinant of poor performance in fluency. Furthermore, we found that semantic fluency was disproportionately impaired vis-a-vis phonologic fluency, suggesting that abnormalities may be greater in storage areas presumed to be in temporal parietal cortex rather than in prefrontal cortex (which has been associated with retrieval deficits). In the second study, we examined the temporal gradient of autobiographical memory in patients with schizophrenia and normal controls. Whereas normal controls exhibited high and equivalent performance across childhood, early adult, and recent memories, patients with schizophrenia exhibited a u-shaped profile perhaps unique in the neuropsychiatric literature. This may reflect a combination of secondary memory impairments which effect the acquisition of new information coupled to very mildly accelerated rate of forgetting, 'recency' effects, and/or inefficient encoding. Taken together, these studies provide further support for the notion that schizophrenia has a relatively unique pattern of neuropsychological deficit based on neocortical dysfunction that includes, though is not restricted to, temporoparietal regions.
Neuromagnetic studies in humans and single-unit studies in monkeys have provided conflicting views regarding the role of primary auditory cortex (A1) in pitch encoding. While the former support a topographic organization based on the pitch of complex tones, single-unit studies support the classical tonotopic organization of A1 defined by the spectral composition of the stimulus. It is unclear whether the incongruity of these findings is due to limitations of noninvasive recordings or whether the discrepancy genuinely reflects pitch representation based on population encoding. To bridge these experimental approaches, we examined neuronal ensemble responses in A1 of the awake monkey using auditory evoked potential (AEP), multiple-unit activity (MUA) and current source density (CSD) techniques. Macaque monkeys can perceive the missing fundamental of harmonic complex tones and therefore serve as suitable animal models for studying neural encoding of pitch. Pure tones and harmonic complex tones missing the fundamental frequency (f0) were presented at 60 dB SPL to the ear contralateral to the hemisphere from which recordings were obtained. Laminar response profiles in A1 reflected the spectral content rather than the pitch (missing f0) of the compound stimuli. These findings are consistent with single-unit data and indicate that the cochleotopic organization is preserved at the level of A1. Thus, it appears that pitch encoding of multi-component sounds is more complex than suggested by noninvasive studies, which are based on the assumption of a single dipole generator within the superior temporal gyrus. These results support a pattern recognition mechanism of pitch encoding based on a topographic representation of stimulus spectral composition at the level of A1.
The up- and downregulation of polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) expression on motorneurons during development is associated respectively with target innervation and synaptogenesis, and is regulated at the level of PSA enzymatic biosynthesis involving specific polysialyltransferase activity. The purpose of this study has been to describe the cellular mechanisms by which that regulation might occur. It has been found that developmental regulation of PSA synthesis by ciliary ganglion motorneurons is not reflected in the levels of polysialyltransferase-1 (PST) or sialyltransferase-X (STX) mRNA. On the other hand, PSA synthesis in both the ciliary ganglion and the developing tectum appears to be coupled to the concentration of calcium in intracellular compartments. This study documents a calcium dependence of polysialyltransferase activity in a cell-free assay over the range of 0.1-1 mM, and a rapid sensitivity of new PSA synthesis, as measured in a pulse-chase analysis of tissue explants, to calcium ionophore perturbation of intracellular calcium levels. Moreover, the relevant calcium pool appears to be within a specific intracellular compartment that is sensitive to thapsigargin and does not directly reflect the level of cytosolic calcium. Perturbation of other major second messenger systems, such as cAMP and protein kinase-dependent pathways, did not affect polysialylation in the pulse chase analysis. These results suggest that the shuttling of calcium to different pools within the cell can result in the rapid regulation of PSA synthesis in developing tissues.
We have studied the long-term effects of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) on axotomy-induced cell death in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of adult rats. LGN neurons were axotomized by a visual cortex lesion in 31 adult rats. A gelatin sponge soaked in a solution of bFGF, CNTF, or saline (control) was placed on the surface of the lesion, and the animals were allowed to survive for 1-12 weeks. Compared with controls, no major improvement was noted in the mean cross-sectional area of surviving LGN neurons in rats treated with bFGF or CNTF at any survival time. However, treatment with either factor significantly increased the number of surviving neurons at each survival time. At 1 week, the survival of LGN neurons in rats treated with bFGF or CNTF was 136% and 131% greater, respectively, than in controls. At 12 weeks, the number of surviving LGN neurons in bFGF- and CNTF-treated rats exceeded that seen in controls by 114% and 58%, respectively. Thus, a single administration of bFGF or CNTF following axotomy reduced neuronal death for long periods of time, but could not prevent atrophy. A single treatment with bFGF or CNTF, therefore, may block the full execution of a cell death program, but cannot prevent its initiation. Alternatively, the transduction pathways for maintaining cell size and preventing cell death may not be identical, and bFGF and CNTF applied as described above may be effective in activating one pathway but not the other.
Following a unilateral lesion of the visual cortex (cortical areas 17, 18, and 18a) in adult rats, neurons in the ipsilateral dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) are axotomized, which leads to their atrophy and death. The time course of this neuronal degeneration was studied quantitatively, and the astroglial response was examined with glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry. More than 95% of the neurons in the ipsilateral LGN survive during the first 3 days following a lesion of the visual cortex. However, in the next 4 days, massive neuronal death ensues, reducing the number of surviving neurons to approximately 33% of normal by the end of the first postoperative week. Between 2 weeks and 24 weeks postoperatively, the number of neurons present in the LGN declines very gradually from 34% to 17% of normal. Three days after a lesion of the visual cortex, the mean cross-sectional areas of ipsilateral LGN neurons are 13% smaller than normal (87%). By 1 week after the operation, surviving LGN neurons have atrophied to 66% of their normal area. Subsequently, the size of surviving neurons declines slowly to approximately 50% of normal at 24 weeks after the cortical lesion. Astrocytes in the ipsilateral LGN also react to cortical damage. At 1 day after a lesion of the visual cortex, glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in the LGN is almost undetectable, but a distinct increase in immunoreactivity is seen at 3 days. Immunoreactivity peaks between 1 week and 2 weeks postoperatively and, thereafter, remains intense for at least 24 weeks. Thus, following a lesion of the visual cortex, the somata of neurons in the LGN remain essentially normal morphologically for about 3 days before the onset of rapid atrophy and death. Moreover, most of the neural cell death that occurs in the LGN after axotomy takes place in the last half of the first postoperative week.
By using immunofluorescence methodology, extensive galanin (GAL) and GAL message-associated peptide (GMAP)-positive terminal networks were observed in the hippocampal formation. The majority of the GAL/GMAP fibers were dopamine beta-hydroxylase- (DBH) positive, that is, they were noradrenergic. This finding was established with GAL/GMAP-DBH double-staining and with 6-hydroxy-dopamine treatment, which totally abolished all fibers in which GAL/GMAP and DBH coexisted. Also, reserpine treatment caused a marked depletion of GAL. No evidence for GAL/GMAP coexistence with 5-hydroxytryptamine was obtained. In the ventral hippocampus, GAL/GMAP-, DBH-negative fibers were seen in the stratum oriens, the anterior stratum radiatum, along the granule cell layer and in the strata oriens and alveus. In the locus coeruleus (LC), around 80% of the GMAP-positive neurons contained neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY), and about 40% of the NPY-positive neurons expressed GMAP. GAL-R1 receptor mRNA was expressed in Barrington's nucleus (close to the LC), but was not detected in the hippocampal formation/dorsal cortical areas. GAL-R2 receptor mRNA was found in the granule cell layer in the dentate gyrus. The present results show that most, but not all, immunohistochemically detectable GAL/GMAP in the hippocampal formation/dorsal cortex is present in noradrenergic nerve terminals originating in the LC, which has a robust GAL/GMAP synthesis. The functional role of GAL may be related to noradrenaline, possibly by a presynaptic action. However, the presence of GAL in other systems and of GAL-R2 receptor mRNA in granule cells also indicates other targets.
An extensive system of sensory organs resembling taste buds was previously known in the skin of hagfishes. These sensory organs, called here Schreiner organs, are found throughout the epidermis of both Eptatretus stoutii and Myxine glutinosa. They are found also at high densities in the prenasal sinus, nasopharyngeal duct, and pharynx, and at lower densities in the oral and velar chambers. Schreiner organs are multicellular aggregates composed of acetylated tubulin-immunoreactive receptor cells and nonimmunoreactive cells. A considerable range of variation was found in Schreiner organ morphology, but discrete classes of organs could not be recognized. Schreiner organs are innervated by all sensory trigeminal rami, the glossopharyngeal/vagal nerve, and cutaneous rami of spinal nerves, but not by the facial nerve. The central projections of these rami form a continuous tract in the trigeminal sensory zone and the dorsolateral funiculus of the spinal cord. Some Schreiner organs may be represented in the nucleus of the solitary tract, but this structure is certainly not the primary recipient zone of Schreiner organ afferents. In light of these systemic differences between vertebrate taste systems and the Schreiner organ system of hagfishes, it is concluded that Schreiner organs are not homologous to taste buds. This sensory modality of hagfishes has no direct homolog in vertebrates and appears to be a specialization of hagfishes, perhaps derived from the primitive somatosensory system of the earliest craniates.
To elucidate synaptic interactions between expiratory (Exp) and other respiratory neurons in the ventrolateral medulla of brain stem-spinal cord preparations from newborn rats, we analyzed postsynaptic potentials in Exp and a subclass of inspiratory (Insp) neurons using whole-cell recordings. About 72% of the Exp neurons (Exp-p-i) showed Cl--dependent synaptic inhibition during the Insp and pre/post-Insp phases, corresponding to the active phase of the Insp and pre-inspiratory (Pre-I) neurons, respectively. The other 28% neurons (Exp-i) received Cl--dependent inhibition during the Insp phase only. Some Insp neurons showed reversed IPSPs during the active phase of Exp-p-i after Cl-loading. We suggest the existence of inhibitory connections from Pre-I and Insp to Exp and from Exp to Insp neurons. Basic synaptic connections among respiratory neurons similar to those in intact adult mammals may already exist in newborn rats.
Inhibition of the enzyme inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) (E.C. 3.1.3.25) has been linked to the therapeutic action of lithium in the treatment of manic-depression (bipolar) disorder. Because of the link between bipolar and IMPase, we felt it would be of considerable importance to determine the human chromosomal localization of the IMPase gene. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis using a human cDNA clone, which included the 5'-UTR and the complete coding region, mapped the human IMPase gene to chromosome 8q21.2-21.3. No gene locus for manic-depressive disorder has yet been identified. Further studies on this IMPase gene, and other potential gene variants and mutations, should help to determine if specific subgroups of patients with manic-depressive disorder can be determined on a molecular basis, with regard to the IMPase gene.
To investigate the possible role of 5HT1B and/or 5HT1D receptors in controlling neurogenic inflammation, we performed a co-localization study of the mRNA for 5HT1B and 5HT1D receptors and of substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) mRNA in the guinea pig trigeminal ganglion using double labelling in situ hybridization techniques. The 5HT1D receptor mRNA is abundant whereas 5HT1B receptor mRNA is scarce. The vast majority of cells containing substance P mRNA also contained 5HT1B receptor mRNA, but very few cells expressed substance P mRNA and 5HT1D receptor mRNA. Both receptor mRNAs were co-localized with CGRP mRNA. Hence, 5HT1D receptors may control the release of CGRP only, whereas 5HT1B receptors may control the release of both substance P and CGRP. The question remains whether selective 5HT1D agonists will have migraine abortive properties.
We evaluated the incentive motivational properties of MK-801 by determining its priming effect on drug-seeking behaviour following extinction of cocaine self-administration, an animal model for drug craving. Rats were allowed to self-administrate cocaine (0.5 mg/kg) or saline during 10 daily sessions. MK-801 (0.1-0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently reinstated responding for cocaine following an extinction period of 3 weeks. Responding was selectively enhanced in the previously drug-paired hole and was completely absent in rats with a history of saline self-administration. These data provide evidence for a possible role of NMDA receptors in the incentive motivation underlying cocaine-seeking behaviour. In addition, the ability of MK-801 to elicit drug-seeking behaviour may prove to be a serious drawback for the proposed use of NMDA antagonists in the treatment of drug addiction.
This study provides direct evidence from measurements of its metabolites, NO2- and NO3-, that NO is released in the spinal cord during central sensitization. A microdialysis fiber was implanted in the dorsal horn at L5 for collecting dialysate and administering drugs. Dialysate was pumped through a cadminum reducing column, a post-column derivatizing unit, and then a u.v. detector. After injection of capsaicin into one hind foot, NO2-increased in the dialysate. Pretreatment with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) significantly reduced NO release induced by a second injection of capsaicin into the opposite foot. This supports the ideas that NO is involved in central sensitization in the spinal cord and contributes to hyperalgesia and allodynia following capsaicin injection.
We previously established a novel mouse model for human aging and identified the genetic foundation responsible for it. A defect in expression of a novel gene, termed klotho (kl), leads to a syndrome resembling human aging in mice. The kl gene encodes a single-pass membrane protein whose extracellular domain carries homology to beta-glucosidases. In this report, we present the entire mouse kl gene organization. The mouse kl gene spans about 50 kilobases and consists of five exons. The promoter region lacks a TATA-box and contains four potential binding sites for SP1. We further show that two kl gene transcripts encoding membrane or secreted protein are generated through alternative transcriptional termination. These findings provide fundamental information for further study of the kl gene which may regulate aging in vivo.

PD 154075 ([(2-benzofuran)-CH2OCO]-(R)-alpha-MeTrp-(S)-NHCH(CH3) Ph) is a selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist. Its effect on development and maintenance of thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity was examined in a rat model of surgical pain. When administered 30 min before surgery, PD 154075 dose-dependently (3-100 mg/kg, s.c.) prevented the development of thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity with respective minimum effective doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg. These antihypersensitivity effects lasted for 72 h. In contrast, the administration of PD 154075 (30 mg/kg, s.c.) after surgery had little or no effect on these nociceptive responses. PD 154075 antagonised thermal hypersensitivity induced by intrathecal administration of substance P, over the same dose range that blocked surgical hypersensitivity. However, it only partially blocked the thermal hypersensitivity induced by the selective NK2 receptor agonist [betaAla8]neurokinin A-(4-10). Morphine dose-dependently (1-6 mg/kg, s.c.) lengthened isoflurane and pentobarbitone-induced sleeping time in the rat. In contrast, PD 154075 (3-100 mg/kg, s.c.) did not interact with these anaesthetics. It is suggested that tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonists, such as PD 154075, may possess therapeutic potential as pre-emptive antihypersensitive agents.
Since the report of new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (nvCJD) in humans last year, the search was on for direct evidence to link the condition to Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE). The first case nvCJD was noted 10 years after the recognition of BSE in UK cattle. A direct link is now established. There are, however, some 'protective' mechanisms, the most important of which are the inefficiency of the gastric route of introducing the infected material, the species barrier and genetic 'predisposition'. None of these is full proof and time will tell whether feeding ruminants with their own species will turn out to be a major public health disaster?
In isolated preparations of the urinary bladder detrusor of the house musk shrew Suncus murinus (order: insectivora; family: Soricidae), electrical field stimulation (0.5-32 pulses/s) evoked neurogenic contractile responses that were markedly attenuated by atropine (1 microM). The non-cholinergic component was reduced but not abolished by the P2-purinoceptor antagonist, suramin (300 microM). Thus, neuromuscular transmission in the suncus urinary bladder is effected by cholinergic and purinergic nerves together with an as-yet unidentified component. Using immunohistochemical methods, the suncus urinary bladder was seen to be supplied by nerves containing neuropeptide Y, tyrosine hydroxylase, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, galanin, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and type I nitric oxide synthase. The pattern of responses to electrical field stimulation was more similar to that of humans and Old World primates, than to that of rodents or lagomorphs. The pattern of innervation of the bladder wall, in terms of the distribution of populations containing a given neuropeptide, was very similar to that in humans. Hence, Suncus murinus may provide a novel species for modelling the neuropharmacology of the human bladder, and also for studying the evolution of autonomic innervation.
Click-evoked otoacoustic emissions (CEOAEs) are echo-like waveforms emitted by normal-hearing cochleas in response to a brief transient. CEOAEs are known to be stronger in females than in males. In this experiment, the CEOAEs of homosexual and bisexual females were found to be intermediate to those of heterosexual females and heterosexual males. A parsimonious explanation is that the auditory systems of homosexual and bisexual females, and the brain structures responsible for their sexual orientation, have been partially masculinized by exposure to high levels of androgens prenatally. No difference in CEOAEs was observed between homosexual and heterosexual males.
We injected biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into single vibrissal 'barrels' of primary somatosensory (SI) cortex and reconstructed the topography of labelled varicosities in the dorsolateral caudate-putamen. Plots of labelled varicosities revealed densely-packed clusters of corticostriatal arborizations along the dorsolateral edge of the caudate-putamen and sparsely-packed arborizations more medially. The medial and lateral clusters of labelled terminals were separated by regions of unlabelled neuropil and lead us to conclude that a single cortical column sends divergent projections to multiple regions of the caudate-putamen.
To assess the degree of order exhibited during development by crossed and uncrossed retinocollicular pathways, focal deposits of 1,1'-dioctodecyl-3,3,3'3'-tetramethylinodocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) were made into the temporal or nasal retina of prenatal and postnatal ferrets. This procedure revealed that the first retinal fibers (from the ipsilateral temporal retina) grow into the superior colliculus at embryonic (E) day 30. Both crossed and uncrossed fibers innervate the colliculus by E34. At this age, terminal arbors were lacking, and there was no evidence of extensive axonal branching. Retinocollicular arbors first appeared at E38, with both the crossed and uncrossed projections forming well-defined terminal zones that appeared to be localized to topographically appropriate regions. At E38, the ipsilateral terminal zone was significantly larger but notably less dense than the contralateral zone. At this and later ages (postnatal day [P] 0 and P7), a few crossed and uncrossed fibers extended beyond the terminal zone. Four days later, at P0, the terminal zone of the uncrossed projection was reduced in size in comparison with that of earlier ages, whereas the crossed projection became substantially larger. By P7, the few misprojecting fibers seen in younger ferrets had been virtually eliminated. When focal retinal deposits of tracer were made into the nasal retina of E36 and E40 ferrets, crossed fibers were found to innervate the caudal segment of the superior colliculus. These crossed nasal cells appear to project to the topographically appropriate region of the superior colliculus (caudal segment) but on the wrong side of the brain. Collectively, the present findings indicate that throughout development the ferret retinocollicular pathway is characterized by a remarkable degree of topographic precision as evident by the paucity of axonal branches and the low number of grossly misprojecting axons.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a T cell-mediated autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system that serves as an animal model for multiple sclerosis. Antigen-specific tolerance regimens, including oral tolerance, have been used prophylactically to prevent development of acute EAE as well as a number of other autoimmune diseases. Two mechanisms have been proposed to explain the immunologic basis for disease inhibition: bystander immune suppression and clonal anergy/deletion. This report demonstrates a novel mechanism for monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1 as a regulatory factor of oral tolerance. Oral administration of proteolipid protein peptide (PLP139-151) increased MCP-1 expression in the intestinal mucosa, Peyer's patch, and mesenteric lymph nodes. Increase in MCP-1 expression resulted in downregulation of mucosal interleukin (IL)-12 expression with concomitant increase in mucosal IL-4 expression. Functionally, MCP-1 upregulation was shown to regulate oral tolerance induction by the ability of antibodies to MCP-1 to inhibit tolerance induction. The anti-MCP-1 abrogation of oral tolerance induction also resulted in restoration of mucosal IL-12 expression as well as peripheral antigen-specific T helper cell 1 responses. These results demonstrate a novel and important role for MCP-1 in the regulation or oral tolerance for the prevention and treatment of autoimmune disease.
The objective of this study was to compare the features of female-to-male transsexuals (F-M) with those of male-to-female transsexuals (M-F) in the cohort of all applicants for sex reassignment over a 20-year period. In an observational, cross-sectional design the cohort was retrospectively identified, consisting of all 233 subjects who applied for sex reassignment in Sweden during the period 1972-1992. The cohort was subdivided into the groups M-F (n=134) and F-M (n=99), and the two groups were compared. M-F were older when applying for sex reassignment surgery than F-M, and more often had a history of marriage and children than their F-M counterparts. M-F also had more heterosexual experience. F-M, on the other hand, more frequently exhibited cross-gender behaviour in childhood than did M-F transsexuals. The present and previous studies strongly support the view that transsexualism manifests itself differently in males and females. Various models for understanding these differences are discussed.

As a preliminary part of a longitudinal clinical study of carriers of the Swedish amyloid precursor protein (APP) 670/671 mutation, 13 members of a family were investigated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain volumetry and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements. Five of the family members were mutation carriers; eight were not carriers. Two carriers were younger than 40 years of age and had no evidence of cognitive dysfunction or structural or functional brain changes. One carrier with 4 years to expected disease onset showed poor performance in episodic memory tests and also slightly low temporal lobe CBF, although there were no clearly abnormal findings. One carrier with mild Alzheimer disease (AD) had no clear structural brain changes, although CBF measurements showed clear reduction of temporal lobe CBF. One carrier with severe AD had both temporal lobe atrophy and CBF reduction. This indicates that in carriers of the APP 670/671 mutation, reduction of regional CBF is more severe than regional atrophy. The clearest change related to development of clinical AD was a reduction of CBF in the basal and lateral temporal lobes. Further longitudinal studies of these subjects are needed to confirm these preliminary findings, which might provide important data regarding early brain changes in AD.


This study assessed whether the mechanisms regulating cardiac norepinephrine (NE) synthesis with changes in NE release are influenced by functions of sympathetic nerves affecting transmitter turnover independently of transmitter release. Differences in arterial and coronary venous plasma concentrations of NE and its metabolites and of dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), the immediate product of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), were examined before and during cycling exercise. Relative increases during exercise in cardiac tyrosine hydroxylation (as reflected by the %increase in cardiac DOPA spillover) matched closely corresponding increases in NE turnover, but were much lower than increases in NE release. The much larger relative increases in release than turnover of NE were largely attributable to the extensive contribution to transmitter turnover from intraneuronal metabolism of NE leaking from storage vesicles. This contribution remains unchanged during sympathetic activation so that the relative increase in NE turnover is much smaller than that in exocytotic release of NE. To replenish the NE lost from stores during sympathetic activation, TH activity need increase only in proportion to the smaller increase in turnover rather than the larger relative increase in release. The ability to &quot;gear down&quot; increases in tyrosine hydroxylation relative to increases in NE release provides sympathetic nerves the capacity for a more extended range of sustainable release rates than otherwise possible.

The spatio-temporal pattern of expression for the Eph receptor tyrosine kinase, Cek8, was observed in normal chick embryos from H-H stage 6 to 23 by immunohistochemical techniques. Expression of Cek8 was already present in embryos at H-H stage 6, where it was located in the neural plate of the brain region, paraxial mesoderm, and the primitive streak. Regions expressing Cek8 subsequently increased during development to include the neural folds of the brain, rhombomeres 3 and 5, the caudal part of the neural plate, neural crest cells related to the formation of glossopharyngeal nerve ganglia, invaginated cells throughout the primitive groove and the epithelium of the rudiment of the gall bladder. Cek8 was also expressed in the mesenchymal cells of the pharyngeal arches, allantoic stalk and limb buds as well as in the areas surrounding the eye vesicles and nasal pits. Furthermore, cells in the tail bud progressing to the secondary neurulation expressed Cek8. Thus, the spatiotemporal patterns of Cek8 expression appears to have intimate relationships with tissue rebuilding, the maturation of differentiated cells, and the spatial organization of tissues. Consequently, it appears that Cek8 plays an integral role in the developmental events leading to the formation of a wide--though not inclusive--variety of tissues and organ systems.
Eight of 38 patients (21%) with familial and 5 of 175 patients (3%) with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) had missense mutations in the SOD-1 gene. Two novel mutations were identified. One in exon 4 substituting leucine with phenylalanine (L84F) in a familial patient and the second in exon 3 at substituting glycine with serine (G72S) in an &quot;apparently&quot; sporadic patient. Over 60 point mutations have now been described in all five exons of SOD-1, involving 43 of the 153 residues. Hypotheses about the toxic role of mutant SOD-1 in the pathogenesis of ALS must account for this molecular diversity.
The prevalence of Parkinson's disease (PD) is higher in whites than in nonwhites and it increases with advancing age. The pathological hallmarks of PD are loss of pigmented neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and presence of Lewy bodies. With increasing age, a similar loss of pigmented neurons in the SNpc has been reported. Hence, age and race possibly play a role in the pathogenesis of PD. The objectives of this study were to count the number of melanized neurons in the SNpc in normal human brains from India and study the change in neuronal count with advancing age and to compare the neuronal counts from this Indian population with counts reported in normal brains from the United Kingdom. Melanized neurons in the SNpc were counted in 84 normal human brains (age range, 5-84 years) in a single 7-microm section at the level of emergence of the oculomotor nerve. In the brains from India, there was no loss of melanized nigral neurons with advancing age. The absolute number of these melanized neurons was about 40% lower than the brains from UK. Despite a low number of melanized nigral neurons in the brains from India, individuals function normally and have dopamine levels comparable with their Western counterparts, suggesting that it is not the absolute number of melanized nigral neurons but the percent loss of nigral neurons that results in dopaminergic deficiency in PD. There is no significant loss of pigmented nigral neurons with age, suggesting that the loss seen in PD is exclusively due to the disease process itself. Indians have a lower prevalence of PD despite having a low count of melanized nigral neurons, suggesting that better protective mechanisms may be present in the Indians to prevent the loss of nigral neurons.
Some apparatuses stimulating the region of tongue innervated by chorda tympani nerve were well known and they were used popularly, but the apparatuses for glossopharyngeal nerve were not produced yet. In the study, the apparatus for the stimulations of glossopharyngeal nerve was trially produced. It was known that the substance of &quot;Umami&quot; was responded well in the tongue region innervated by glossopharyngeal nerve. The evoked potential for the stimulations of monosodium glutamate (MSG) solution which was known as substance of Umami was measured with the use of the trial stimulating apparatus. The evoked potential was detected by monopolar lead for the positions between Cz and A1 (left lobe) with the ground at Fpz. The evoked potential of MSG consisted of a positive peak wave with the latency at approximately 250 ms. The amplitudes increased and the latency decreased as the concentration of MSG increased. The evoked potential stimulating the tongue innervated by this glossopharyngeal nerve could be detected for the first time by the use of the trial apparatus.


The basic functional organization of the cat primary auditory cortex is discussed as it is revealed by electrophysiological studies of the distribution of elementary receptive field (RF) parameters. RFs of cortical neurons have been shown to vary considerably from neuron to neuron; additionally, specific RF properties vary independently. Furthermore, some of the RF properties are nonhomogeneously distributed across the auditory cortex and can be interpreted as forming &quot;maps&quot; that represent specific stimulus information in a topographic way. Accordingly, the functional organization of the primary auditory cortex is interpreted as a series of superimposed independent parameter maps. The consequences of such a layout for the spatial and temporal coding of pure tones and speech sounds is illustrated and ramifications for the interpretation of far-field event-related potentials are discussed.
To determine whether the tail of the domestic cat plays a role in balance during locomotion, four cats were trained to traverse a narrow beam. To challenge balancing ability, a sudden lateral displacement was imparted to the beam as the subject was crossing. Freeze-frame videotape analysis revealed that cats responded to beam movement by rapidly moving the tail in the opposite direction. Adjustment of the tail contributed to realignment of the hips over the beam and enabled the animal to remain aboard the beam. Following complete sacrocaudal spinal transection, that eliminated supraspinal control to only the tail, cats fell significantly more often in response to movements of the beam. The importance of the cat's tail for balance, and the utility of this system for modeling functional consequences of spinal cord injury and therapeutic interventions, are discussed.
During the first week of adult life the olfactory system of the honey bee undergoes a critical period of maturation [Masson and Arnold, Organisation and plasticity of the olfactory system of the honeybee, Apis mellifera, in: Menzel and Mercer (Eds.), Neurobiology and Behaviour of Honeybees. Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1987, pp. 280 295]. This is accompanied by dramatic increases in the volume of the antennal lobes [Winnington et al., Structural plasticity of identified glomeruli in the antennal lobes of the adult worker honey bee. J. Comp. Neurol., 365 (1996) 479-490], centres of the brain that receive direct input from primary olfactory receptor neurons housed in the antennae of the bee. Here, we show that during the first 4-6 days of adult life there is a significant increase in the percentage of bees that respond to a conditioned olfactory stimulus after a single conditioning trial and, furthermore, that the ontogeny of this olfactory learning behaviour is altered significantly if the queen is removed from the colony. The absence of a queen during early adult life also has site-specific effects on the maturation of the antennal lobes of the brain. These results show for the first time that the queen's presence in a colony has a significant impact not only on the behaviour of the adult worker honey bee, but also on the structure of the brain.
An original olfactory recognition task was developed in order to examine the effect of lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) lesion on olfactory mnesic processes. The task was based on the spontaneous exploratory behavior of rats toward odor sources. It consisted of a learning phase during which an odor was presented twice and in a recognition test, during which the same odor plus a new one was presented. The time rats spent sniffing the odor sources was measured. Olfactory recognition was identified by a short investigatory duration for the familiar odor as compared to a normal investigatory duration for the new odor during the test. The first three experiments aimed to validate the procedure. Experiment 1 was designed to show the decay of investigatory behavior caused by repeated exposure of the rats to one odor. Experiment 2 showed that normal rats display recognition when a short (5 or 40 min) pre-test delay was used, but not when a long pre-test delay (120 min) was used. Experiment 3 showed that FG7142, a well-known promnesic drug, enhanced the performance of the rats in this test as it allowed recognition at longer pre-test delays. The last experiment aimed at testing the effects of aspirative lesion of the LEC. Therefore, LEC-lesioned and sham-lesioned rats were submitted to variable pre-test delays. The experiment showed that an entorhinal lesion did not produce an impairment, but on the contrary facilitated olfactory recognition, as lesioned rats displayed recognition for delays at which sham-operated rats did not. These results show that LEC lesion apparently prolongs the duration of the olfactory mnesic trace. This effect might result from a modification of the functioning of structures innervated by the LEC. In this regard, it is noteworthy that LEC lesion produced a sprouting of septo-hippocampal fibers in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus as assessed by acetylcholinesterase staining. Although the functional significance of this regrowth is not fully understood, the possible role of this sprouting should be considered.
Adipose differentiation related protein (ADRP) is a 50 kDa protein expressed at high level in differentiated adipocytes. ADRP expression is very low in undifferentiated adipocytes and increases rapidly and dramatically as the cells undergo adipose differentiation. In the present study, we demonstrate that ADRP expression at the mRNA and protein level is stimulated in adipocyte precursor cells in a time- and dose-dependent fashion by treatment with cyclooxygenase inhibitors, particularly indomethacin and ibuprofen. Lipoxygenase inhibitors such as AA861 and nordihydroguaiaretic acid were ineffective. Stimulation of ADRP expression was observed with 10(-5) M ibuprofen but maximal stimulation required a concentration of 3 x 10(-4) M. Nuclear run-on experiments indicated that indomethacin or ibuprofen stimulated the transcription of the ADRP gene in undifferentiated adipocytes. In addition to stimulating the induction of ADRP in undifferentiated cells, ibuprofen and indomethacin also stimulated the level of ADRP mRNA and protein in differentiated adipocytes. These experiments provide new information on the regulation of ADRP, an early inducible gene in the adipocyte differentiation programme in adipocyte precursors and in adipocytes and identify a new target for cyclooxygenase inhibitor action during adipocyte differentiation.
Parsing strategies in temporarily ambiguous sentences were investigated in readers with different sentence memory capacities using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Readers with a high memory span as well as readers with a low memory span were required to read subject and object relative sentences which were either ambiguous until the last word (late disambiguation) or were disambiguated by case marking either the clause initial pronoun (immediate disambiguation) or the noun phrase following it (early disambiguation). ERPs registered during sentence reading elicited the following effects: In the late disambiguation condition, high span readers, but not low span readers, displayed a more positive going wave at the disambiguating number marked auxiliary for the object relative sentences than for the subject relative sentences. This positivity is taken to reflect processes of revision that become necessary at the disambiguating element if the initial structure considered is a subject relative clause. When case marking was available in the clause initial at the relative pronoun, both high and low span readers showed a positivity at the disambiguating element for the object relative sentences, suggesting the immediate use of case marking information for revision. When case marking was available in the noun phrase following an ambiguous pronoun both groups showed no clear effect of revision at the disambiguating element, but only at the sentence final number marked auxiliary. This non-immediate use of the case marking information seems to be due to an inherent ambiguity in the German case marking system which interacts with the disambiguating element's position in the sentence. The combined data indicate that morphological information can be used immediately by high and low span readers to resolve syntactic ambiguity during sentence processing whenever the information given is clearly unambiguous. In addition they suggest that possible processing differences in ambiguity resolution between high and low span readers may only appear when the ambiguous regions are long.
In many medical experiments, data are collected across time, over a number of similar trials, or over a number of experimental units. As is the case of neuron spike train studies, these data may be in the form of counts of events per unit of time. These counts may be correlated within each trial. It is often of interest to know if the introduction of an intervention, such as the application of a stimulus, affects the distribution of the counts over the course of the experiment. In such investigations, each trial generates a sequence of data that may or may not contain a change in distribution at some point in time. Each sequence of integer counts can be viewed as arising from a Poisson process and are therefore independently distributed or as an integer-valued time series that allows for correlations between these counts. The main aim of this paper is to show how the ensemble of sample paths may be used to make inference about the distribution of the instantaneous times of change in a given population. This will be accomplished using a Bayesian hierarchical model for these change-points in time. A bonus of these models is they also allow for inference about the probability of a change in each unit and the magnitude of the effects, if any. The use of such change-point models on integer-valued time series is illustrated on neuron spike train data, although the methods can be applied to other situations where integer-valued processes arise.
Cyclic-nucleotide-activated, nonselective cation channels have a central role in sensory transduction. They are most likely tetramers, composed of two subunits (alpha and beta or 1 and 2), with the former, but not the latter, being able to form homomeric cyclic-nucleotide-activated channels. Identified members of this channel family now include, in vertebrates, the rod and cone channels mediating visual transduction and the channel mediating olfactory transduction, each apparently with distinct alpha- and beta-subunits. Homologous channels have also been identified in Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans. By co-expressing any combination of two alpha-subunits, or alpha- and beta-subunits, of this channel family in HEK 293 cells, we have found that they can all co-assemble functionally with each other, including those from fly and nematode. This finding suggests that the subunit members so far identified form a remarkably homogeneous and conserved group, functionally and evolutionarily, with no subfamilies yet identified. The ability to cross-assemble allows these subunits to potentially generate a diversity of heteromeric channels, each with properties specifically suited to a particular cellular function.
1. Purinergic and cholinergic components of parasympathetic neurotransmission and contractile responses to exogenous alpha,beta-methylene ATP, acetylcholine, substance K, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and capsaicin have been investigated in the urinary bladder of hibernating hamsters (4 weeks), cold exposed (4 weeks) and age-matched controls. 2. Electrical field stimulation (EFS) evoked increased frequency-dependent contractions in the detrusor strips from hibernating hamsters compared with those obtained from cold-exposed and age-matched animals. Tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M) completely blocked the frequency-dependent contractions in all groups. 3. The purinergic component of the parasympathetic neurotransmission was not affected in hibernating and cold-exposed animals while the cholinergic component was increased with respect to age-matched animals. The neurogenic response to EFS, still present after incubation with atropine (10(-6) M) and suramin (10(-4) M), was attenuated by indomethacin (10(-6) M) and blocked by tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M). 4. Exogenous administration of alpha,beta-methylene ATP elicited a significantly reduced contraction in strips from hibernating and cold-exposed hamsters relative to age-matched animals. The contractile response to exogenous acetylcholine was greater in the detrusors from hibernating hamsters than in cold-exposed and age-matched animals. Substance K elicited reduced contractions in preparations from hibernating animals compared with cold-exposed and control animals. Calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P and capsaicin did not elicit any relaxant or contractile response either at resting tone or in carbachol (5 x 10(-7) M)-precontracted tissues. 5. In summary, our findings indicate that 4 weeks of hibernation can significantly increase neurogenic responses in the hamster urinary bladder. This appears to be due to an increase in postjunctional responses to acetylcholine. In contrast, there was a decrease of the postjunctional responses to the parasympathetic cotransmitter ATP and also to the sensory-motor neurotransmitter substance K.
1. SB-205384, and its (+) enantiomer (+)-SB-205384 were tested for their modulatory effects on human GABA(A) receptor subunit combinations expressed in Xenopus oocytes by electrophysiological methods. 2. The slowing of the decay rate induced by SB-205384 on native GABA-activated currents in rat neurones was also seen on GABA(A) currents in oocytes expressing human GABA(A) subunits. This temporal effect was observed for the alpha3beta2gamma2 subunit combination with little effect in subunit combinations containing either alpha1 or alpha2. 3. Potentiation of the peak amplitude of the GABA-activated currents by SB-205384 or (+)-SB-205384 was less specific for a particular subunit combination, although the greatest effect at 10 microM drug was seen on the alpha3beta2gamma2 subunit combination. 4. In contrast, zolpidem, a benzodiazepine site modulator, did not significantly slow decay rates of GABA(A) currents in oocytes expressing the alpha3beta2gamma2 subunit combination. Zolpidem, as expected, did selectively potentiate GABA-activated currents on oocytes expressing the gamma2 subunit compared to those containing the gamma1. 5. The results show that the novel kinetic modulatory profile of SB-205384 is selective for the alpha3beta2gamma2 subunit combination. This suggests that the compound is binding to a novel regulatory site on the subunit complex.
1. Studies on canine lower oesophageal sphincter (LOS) evaluated the existence and function of a myogenic, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) by use of immunocytochemistry for NOS isozymes, NADPH-d histochemistry, [3H]-L-arginine to [3H]-L-citrulline transformation. In addition, functional studies in the muscle bath were performed. 2. Smooth muscle bundles or freshly isolated smooth muscle cells of LOS were NADPH-d reactive but did not recognize some antibodies against neural, endothelial or inducible NOS. NADPH-d reactivity and immunoreactivity to a neural NOS antibody were colocalized in LOS enteric nerves. Muscle plasma membrane-enriched fractions from fresh and cultured LOS cells converted [3H]-L-arginine to [3H]-L-citrulline; activity was mostly Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent. 3. N-Nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG) persistently increased tone (blocked by L-arginine) in muscle strips despite blockade of nerve function. Nifedipine prevented or abolished L-NOARG-induced, but not carbachol-induced, contraction showing that tone increase by L-NOARG required functional L-Ca channels. 4. Membrane-bound, myogenic NOS in canine LOS may release NO continuously when Ca2+ entry through L-Ca channels occurs under physiological conditions and thereby modulate tone in LOS.
1. Sympathetic neurotransmission and noradrenaline content of the tail artery of Donryu rats fed for 2 months with a cholesterol-supplemented diet enriched with 4% cholesterol, 1% cholic acid, 0.5% thiouracil (CCT), were examined. 2. Total serum cholesterol level of CCT fed rats (7.05 +/- 1.77 mg ml(-1), n = 8) was significantly greater than lab-chow fed controls (2.58 +/- 0.32 mg ml(-1), n = 8). Low density lipoprotein level was also significantly increased in CCT-fed (1.79 +/- 0.26 mg ml(-1), n = 8) compared with control fed rats (1.35 +/- 0.25 mg ml(-1), n = 8) but plasma levels of triglyceride and high density lipoproteins did not differ significantly between the two groups. 3. Contractile responses of the arterial rings to transmural nerve stimulation (65 V, 0.1 ms, 4-64 Hz, 1 s), were markedly attenuated in the CCT fed animals compared with the controls. This reduction involved the noradrenergic rather than purinergic component of sympathetic transmission. 4. Vasoconstrictor responses to exogenous noradrenaline (0.01-300 microM) and adenosine 5'-triphosphate (0.3-1000 microM) were unaffected by CCT diet, indicating prejunctional alteration of sympathetic neurotransmission during CCT-induced hyperlipidaemia. 5. The noradrenaline content of the tail arteries of CCT fed animals (2.64 +/- 0.36 ng mg(-1), n = 6) was significantly lower than that of controls (3.82 +/- 0.32 ng mg(-1), n = 6). 6. These findings show that chronic treatment of Donryu rats with a cholesterol-supplemented diet led to altered levels of circulating lipid fractions accompanied by attenuated sympathetic noradrenergic neurotransmission and reduced noradrenaline content of the rat tail artery.
1. The effect of basal tension (transmural tensions 235 +/- 29 mg wt (low tension: equivalent to approximately 16 mmHg) and 305 +/- 34 mg wt (high tension: equivalent to 35 mmHg)) on rat pulmonary resistance artery responses to endothelin-1 (ET-1) and the selective ET(B)-receptor agonist sarafotoxin S6c (S6c) were studied. The effects of nitric oxide synthase inhibition with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME, 100 microM) on ET receptor-induced responses, as well as vasodilator responses to acetylcholine (ACh) and S6c, were also investigated. Changes with development of pulmonary hypertension, induced by two weeks of chronic hypoxia, were determined. 2. Control rat preparations showed greatest sensitivity for ET-1 when put under low tension (pEC50: 8.1 +/- 0.1) compared with at the higher tension (pEC50: 7.7 +/- 0.1) and there were significant increases in maximum contractile responses to S6c (approximately 80%) and noradrenaline (approximately 60%) when put under high tension. 3. In control pulmonary resistance arteries, both ET-1 and S6c produced potent vasoconstrictor responses. S6c was 12 fold more potent than ET-1 in vessels set at low tension (S6c pEC50: 9.2 +/- 0.1) and 200 fold more potent than ET-1 when the vessels were set at high tension (S6c pEC50: 9.0 +/- 0.1). Chronic hypoxia did not change the potencies of ET-1 and S6c but did significantly increase the maximum contractile response to ET-1 by 60% (at low tension) and 130% (at high tension). 4. In control rat vessels, L-NAME itself caused small increases in vascular tone (5-8 mg wt tension) in 33-56% of vessels. In the chronic hypoxic rats, in vessels set at high tension, L-NAME-induced tone was evident in 88% of vessels and had increased to 26.9 +/- 6.6 mg wt tension. Vasodilatation to sodium nitroprusside, in non-preconstricted vessels, was small in control rat vessels (2-6 mg wt tension) but increased significantly to 22.5 +/- 8.0 mg wt tension in chronic hypoxic vessels set at the higher tensions. Together, these results indicate an increase in endogenous tone in the vessels from the chronic hypoxic rats which is normally attenuated by nitric oxide production. 5. L-NAME increased the sensitivity to S6c 10 fold (low tension) and 6 fold (high tension) only in chronic hypoxic rat pulmonary resistance arteries. It had no effect on responses to ET-1 in any vessel studied. 6. Vasodilatation of pre-contracted vessels by ACh was markedly greater in the pulmonary resistance arteries from the chronic hypoxic rats (pIC50: 7.12 +/- 0.19, maximum: 72.1 +/- 0.2.0%) compared to their age-matched controls (pIC50: 5.77 +/- 0.15, maximum: 28.2 +/- 2.0%). There was also a 2.5 fold increase in maximum vasodilatation induced by ACh. 7. These results demonstrate that control rat preparations showed greatest sensitivity for ET-1 when set at the lower tension, equivalent to the pressure expected in vivo (approximately 16 mmHg). Pulmonary hypertension due to chronic hypoxia potentiated the maximum response to ET-1. Pulmonary resistance arteries from control animals exhibited little endogenous tone, but exposure to chronic hypoxia increased endogenous inherent tone which is normally attenuated by nitric oxide. Endogenous nitric oxide production may increase in pulmonary resistance arteries from chronic hypoxic rats and attenuate contractile responses to ET(B2) receptor stimulation. Relaxation to ACh was increased in pulmonary resistance arteries from chronic hypoxic rats.
The aim of this study was to compare, retrospectively, the value of chronic bilateral stimulation of the internal globus pallidus (GPi) and the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in patients with young onset Parkinson's disease. We selected 13 consecutive patients with similar characteristics at the time of surgery: age at onset &lt; 40 years, disabling motor fluctuations (Hoehn and Yahr stage 4 or 5 in off-drug phases) and levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). Eight patients were operated on in the STN and five in the GPi. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), timed motor tests and a LID scale were compared in on- and off-drug conditions before surgery and 6 months after surgery on stimulation using the chronic electrical parameters found to improve best the motor state of the individual patient, without adverse effects. In off-drug phases, the motor score of the UPDRS was improved by 71% with STN stimulation and by 39% with GPi stimulation on average. This difference was statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05). Whereas rigidity and tremor showed good improvement in both groups, the decrease in the akinesia score was more pronounced in the STN group. In the STN group, the improvement of all motor symptoms was very close, or equal, to the best levodopa response. Thus the levodopa test was predictive of outcome. The improvement in off-drug period motor handicap allowed a decrease in the levodopa-equivalent dose only in the STN group (-56%). The voltage, frequency and pulse width used for chronic stimulation were lower in the STN group. In the on-drug phases there was a marked improvement in LID in the GPi group, as measured by the dyskinesias score during an acute levodopa test, whereas there was only a small decrease in the STN group (P &lt; 0.05). However, in the long term, the reduction of levodopa dosage in the STN group led to an indirect reduction of LID similar to that in the GPi group during activities of everyday life. In conclusion, the overall results favour the neurosurgical treatment of Parkinson's disease by stimulating the STN rather than the GPi.
We studied the long-term effect of intravenous immunoglobulin (IV Ig) treatment in seven patients with multifocal motor neuropathy. In six patients, treatment with a full IV Ig course (0.4 g/kg for 5 consecutive days) improved muscle strength but for not longer than 12 weeks. These patients received IV Ig maintenance treatment consisting of one infusion every week for 2-4 years. One patient in whom the effect of the initial full IV Ig treatment lasted for more than 1 year received incidental IV Ig treatment when muscle strength deteriorated. In all patients IV Ig treatment had a beneficial effect on most muscle groups during the follow-up period. However, in three of the seven patients muscle strength deteriorated during IV Ig maintenance treatment in four of the 28 muscle groups that had initially shown an improvement of muscle strength after the start of IV Ig treatment, and in two muscle groups with normal strength at the start of IV Ig treatment. The electrophysiological follow-up studies indicated that there was an improvement of conduction block, but also that there were new sites of conduction block and ongoing axonal degeneration during IV Ig maintenance treatment.
A key issue in developmental neuroscience is the role of activity-dependent mechanisms in the epigenetic induction of functional organization in visual cortex. Ocular blindness and ensuing visual deprivation is one of the rare models available for the investigation of experience-dependent cortical reorganization in man. In a PET study we demonstrate that congenitally blind subjects show task-specific activation of extrastriate visual areas and parietal association areas during Braille reading, compared with auditory word processing. In contrast, blind subjects who lost their sight after puberty show additional activation in the primary visual cortex with the same tasks. Studies in blind-raised monkeys show that crossmodal responses in extrastriate areas can be elicited by somatosensory stimulation. This is consistent with the crossmodal extrastriate activations elicited by tactile processing in our congenitally blind subjects. Since primary visual cortex does not show crossmodal responses in primate studies, the differential activation in late and congenitally blind subjects highlights the possibility of reciprocal activation by visual imagery in subjects with early visual experience.
It is demonstrated that cell proliferation in response to mitogens, natural killer cell (NK) activity, and macrophage functioning of mice may be influenced by either a neurogenic stressor (footshock) or a psychogenic stressor (exposing the mouse to a predator, namely a rat). The nature and magnitude of the immune changes, however, varied across three strains of mice (BALB/cByJ, C57BL/6ByJ, and CD-1), differing in reactivity to stressors and also as a function of the type of stressor employed. While footshock reduced mitogen-stimulated B-cell proliferation in BALB/cByJ mice, it had the opposite effect in the CD-1 strain. Exposure to the predator, however, had little effect in any of the strains. Macrophage activity and NK cytotoxicity were reduced in response to both stressors in a strain-dependent fashion. Plasma corticosterone in response to footshock was greater in BALB/cByJ than in C57BL/6ByJ mice; however, the strain difference was not evident in response to the psychogenic stressor. It is suggested that analyses of stressor effects on immune functioning need to consider the specific strain/species employed, the particular immune parameters being examined, and the nature of the stressor employed.
The neuropathological characteristics and alteration of the dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) were investigated in 27 cases of hypoxic-ischemic basal ganglia necrosis (BGN) by means of neuropathological and immunohistochemical methods. Perinatal hypoxic-ischemic BGN manifested neuronal karyorrhexis as well as eosinophilia, karyorrhexis being more predominant in preterm infants and eosinophilia more predominant in full-term infants. Immunoreactivity to D2R was detected in the cytoplasm and dendrites of small and large neurons in the basal ganglia, and increased with neuronal maturation during the late gestational period in normal human basal ganglia. The number of D2R-positive neurons was smaller in all cases of acute BGN than that in controls, the areas of decreased D2R-positive neurons corresponding to the damaged regions observed on HE staining. Furthermore, neurons showed high expression of D2R in a few cases of remote BGN, suggesting some plasticity as to the recovery of D2R. Thus, the neuropathological characteristics of perinatal hypoxic-ischemic BGN may be related to neuronal maturation during different developmental stages in each region, and D2R development may play a role in the basal ganglia vulnerability to hypoxic-ischemia.
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD or causalgia) has been rarely reported in children. We now report a 10-year-old boy with RSD in whom we performed extensive ancillary investigations including thermography, bone scintigraphy and dermo-echography. The clinical, laboratory and ancillary studies reported here highlight the profound focal acquired autonomic disturbance in this disorder. The patient presented a compression of the deep peroneal nerve at the inferior extensor retinaculum in the affected limb. Surgical decompression lead to rapid improvement of the patient's condition. Peripheral nerve decompression should be considered as a possible treatment of RSD in children, particularly those that are refractory to conservative maneuvers.
The use of model systems derived from cell lines has been a valuable tool in understanding the molecules and cellular processes that govern differentiation processes (T.R. Breitman, S.E. Selonick, S.J. Collins, Induction of differentiation of the human promyelocytic leukemia cell line (HL-60) by retinoic acid, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 (1980) 2936-2940 [2]; N. Gomez, S. Traverse, P. Cohen, Identification of a MAP kinase in phaeochromocytoma (PC12) cells, FEBS Lett. 314 (1992) 461-465 [4]). The use of such systems provides an inexpensive, quick and simple way to identify and test molecules that can be further studied in more complex in vivo experiments. Some cell lines such as embryonic stem cells can be induced to differentiate in vitro, however, the differentiation is difficult to control and most often leads to the generation of a wide variety of cell types. Cell lines derived from sources committed to a restricted cell fate provide an opportunity to examine cell growth and differentiation within a specific cell type (G.M. Keller, In vitro differentiation of embryonic stem cells, Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 7 (1995) 862-869 [10]). In this article we describe a simple system for the differentiation of the human neuroblastoma cell line LA-N-5 into cholinergic neurons using all-trans retinoic acid (G. Han, B. Chang, M.J. Connor, N. Sidell, Enhanced potency of 9-cis versus all-trans retinoic acid to induce the differentiation of human neuroblastoma cells, Differentiation, 59 (1995) 61-69 [5]; D.P. Hill, K.R. Robertson, Characterization of the cholinergic neuronal differentiation of the human neuroblastoma cell line LA-N-5 after treatment with retinoic acid, Dev. Brain Res. 102 (1997) 53-67 [6]; J.A. Robson, N. Sidell, Ultrastructural features of a human neuroblastoma cell line treated with retinoic acid, Neuroscience 14 (1985) 1149-1162 [12]; N. Sidell, C.A. Lucas, G.W. Kreutzberg, Regulation of acetylcholinesterase activity by retinoic acid in a human neuroblastoma cell line, Exp. Cell Res. 155 (1984) 305-309 [14]). These cells provide a setting for the study of cholinergic neuronal differentiation and of the factors that influence that process. We also discuss procedures that can be used to study gene expression in LA-N-5 cells by immunohistochemistry and reporter gene analysis.
A fundamental issue in neurobiology entails the study of the formation of neuronal connections and their potential to regenerate following injury. In recent years, an expanding number of gene families has been identified involved in different aspects of neurite outgrowth and regeneration. These include neurotrophic factors, cell-adhesion molecules, growth-associated proteins, cytoskeletal proteins and chemorepulsive proteins. Genetic manipulation technology (transgenic mice, knockout mice, viral vectors and antisense oligonucleotides) has been instrumental in defining the function of these neurite outgrowth-related proteins. The aim of this paper is to provide an overview of the above-mentioned four approaches to manipulate gene expression in vivo and to discuss the progress that has been made using this technology in helping to understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate neurite outgrowth. We will show that work with transgenic mice and knockout mice has contributed significantly to the dissection of the function of several proteins with a key role in neurite outgrowth and neuronal survival. Recently developed viral vectors for gene transfer in postmitotic neurons have opened up new avenues to analyze the function of a protein following local expression in naive adult rodents. The initial results with viral vector-based gene transfer provide a conceptual framework for further studies on genetic therapy of neuroregeneration and neurodegenerative diseases.

We have exploited the availability of the &quot;orphan&quot; opioid receptor (referred to here as ORL1) in its &quot;natural state&quot; to investigate the effect of nociceptin (orphanin FQ), the endogenous agonist for the ORL1 receptor in the brain, vas deferens, and myenteric plexus of the small intestine. Nociceptin was a potent agonist in electrically stimulated preparations of vasa deferentia (rat and rabbit) and myenteric plexus (guinea-pig) (IC50 ranging from 18 to 31 nM) and susceptible to enzymic cleavage as addition of a cocktail of peptidase inhibitors to the organ bath produced a leftward shift in concentration-response curves (IC50 ranging from 2.1 to 4.9 nM). In radioligand binding experiments using brain membranes from rat, rabbit, and guinea-pig, [3H]nociceptin bound a single population of binding sites with high affinity (KD values ranging from 0.049 to 0.124 nM) and capacity (Bmax ranging from 143 to 254 fmol.mg-1 protein). However, the response to nociceptin in functional studies and in radioligand binding inhibitory assays was resistant to antagonism/displacement by naloxone and a range of other opioid receptor antagonists, thus displaying a very different pharmacological profile from that of the &quot;classical&quot; opioids. Therefore, we conclude that the effect of nociceptin in these studies is not via an action at mu, delta, or kappa opioid receptors but rather at an orphan opioid receptor, ORL1.
The ultrastructure of the endolymphatic sac (ES) of the late stage larva of the Japanese red-bellied newt, Cynops pyrrhogaster (stage 57), was examined by light and transmission electron microscopy. The two endolymphatic sacs are located at the dorsal-medial side of the otic vesicle on the dorsal-lateral side of the midbrain in the cranial cavity. The wall of the sac is composed of a layer of cubical epithelial cells with loose, interposed intercellular spaces. The sac contains a large luminal cavity, in which endolymph and numerous otoconia are present. The epithelial cells of different portions of the sac have a similar structure. These cells contain an abundance of cytoplasmic organelles, including ribosomes, Golgi complexes, and numerous vesicles. Two types of vesicles are found in the epithelial cells: the &quot;floccular&quot; vesicle and the &quot;granular&quot; vesicle. The floccular vesicles are located in the supra- and lateral-nuclear cytoplasm and contain floccular material. The granular vesicles have a fine granular substance and are usually situated apposed to the apical cell membrane. The granular vesicles are suggested to be secreted into the lumen, while the floccular vesicles are thought to be absorbed from the lumen and conveyed to the intercellular spaces by the epithelial cells. The apical surfaces of the epithelial cells bear numerous microvilli. Apparently floating cells, which bear long microvilli on the free surfaces, are observed in the lumen of the ES. Based on the fine structure, the function of the endolymphatic sac of the newt Cynops pyrrhogaster is discussed.
Retrograde tracing, combined with immunohistochemistry, was used to study the projections of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-accumulating neurones within the ileum of the guinea-pig, with confocal microscopy being used to characterise further their morphology. Two classes of neurones in the myenteric plexus, capable of taking up 5-HT or analogues, were distinguished. One class had Dogiel type I morphology with lamellar dendrites, was located on the edge or in the middle of ganglia and lacked immunoreactivity for somatostatin (SOM). The other class had smooth ovoid cell bodies with multiple filamentous dendrites and a single axon and represented a subset of the SOM-immunoreactive interneurones in the myenteric plexus. Varicosities immunoreactive for 5-HT alone, 5-HT/SOM or SOM alone were present in the myenteric ganglia. Both classes of 5-HT-accumulating neurones had long aboral projections within the myenteric plexus (up to 100 mm long) and to the submucous plexus and probably function as descending interneurones.
We examined the potential for &quot;double grafts,&quot; i.e., grafts from two donors in each recipient, to enhance the total number of ventral mesencephalic dopamine neurons that survive grafting in adult African green monkeys. Because dopamine cell survival in grafts represents a small percentage of the total number of neurons grafted, several human clinical trials recently have employed grafts of tissue from multiple donors (e.g., from two to eight embryos per host recipient) in attempts to increase the total number of dopamine neurons that survive in grafts. Presumably, this is intended to elevate dopamine levels by providing more dopamine neurons to the damaged brain to alleviate the symptoms of parkinsonism. While well-developed grafts with several thousand dopamine neurons were found in most recipient animals, we observed a reduced total number of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons in the grafts in spite of the presence of some double grafts that were larger than normal. The overall growth of the grafts was impressive; some grafts were so large that they spanned the full dorsoventral extent of the caudate nucleus, probably reflecting the fact that twice as much tissue was implanted in each drop site in comparison to our standard protocol. However, some animals revealed atypical patterns of neurite outgrowth that appeared limited to the grafted tissue, and at least one monkey revealed &quot;amorphous&quot; grafts generally lacking in cellular structure, which suggests a possible rejection phenomenon. These findings raise questions about the use of multiple donors and suggest that the likelihood of rejection and/or cell death may be enhanced, which is of potential importance in the design of grafting strategies for clinical applications.
Schwann cells naturally support axonal regeneration after injury in the peripheral nervous system, and have also shown a significant, albeit limited, ability to support axonal growth and remyelination after grafting to the central nervous system (CNS). It is possible that Schwann cell-induced axonal growth in the CNS could be substantially increased by genetic manipulation to secrete augmented amounts of neurotrophic factors. To test this hypothesis, cultured primary adult rat Schwann cells were genetically modified using retroviral vectors to produce and secrete high levels of human nerve growth factor (NGF). These cells were then grafted to the midthoracic spinal cords of adult rats. Findings were compared to animals that received grafts of nontransduced Schwann cells. Spinal cord lesions were not placed prior to grafting because the primary aim of this study was to examine features of grafted Schwann cell survival, growth, and effects on host axons. In vitro prior to grafting, Schwann cells secreted 1.5+/-0.1 ng human NGF/ml/10(6) cells/day. Schwann cell transplants readily survived for 2 wk to 1 yr after in vivo placement. Some NGF-transduced grafts slowly increased in size over time compared to nontransduced grafts; the latter remained stable in size. NGF-transduced transplants were densely penetrated by primary sensory nociceptive axons originating from the dorsolateral fasciculus of the spinal cord, whereas control grafts showed significantly fewer penetrating sensory axons. Over time, Schwann cell grafts also became penetrated by TH- and DBH-labeled axons of putative coerulospinal origin, unlike control cell grafts. Ultrastructurally, axons in both graft types were extensively myelinated by Schwann cells. Grafted animals showed no changes in gross locomotor function. In vivo expression of the human NGF transgene was demonstrated for periods of at least 6 m. These findings demonstrate that primary adult Schwann cells 1) can be transduced to secrete augmented levels of neurotrophic factors, 2) survive grafting to the CNS for prolonged time periods, 3) elicit robust growth of host neurotrophin-responsive axons, 4) myelinate CNS axons, and 5) express the transgene for prolonged time periods in vivo. Some grafts slowly enlarge over time, a feature that may be attributable to the propensity of Schwann cells to immortalize after multiple passages. Transduced Schwann cells merit further study as tools for promoting CNS regeneration.
During development of the nigrostriatal dopamine system, a patchy and a diffuse type of striatal innervation pattern can be seen. It has been suggested that when fetal dopaminergic neurons, obtained from the ventral mesencephalon (VM), are grafted adjacent to mature striatal tissue, only the diffuse growth is induced. Intraocular grafting studies have indicated that the dopaminergic growth pattern might be influenced by the age of the target area, the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE). In this study VM grafts were allowed to innervate LGE grafts of different ages. Fetal VM was implanted next to 2-wk-old or 26-day-old striatal in oculo grafts, and the resulting dopaminergic innervation of the striatal grafts was studied using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry. In striatal grafts receiving innervation at the age of 2 wk in oculo, a patchy TH-immunoreactive growth pattern was found, while in striatal grafts innervated at the age of 26 days mainly the diffuse growth pattern was seen. This implies that grafted striatum reached maturity at approximately 1 mo of age. The age of the dopaminergic neurons at dissection and grafting was also studied concerning the ability to induce patchy growth into mature striatum. Thus, VM dissected from 13- and 18-mm fetuses was implanted to either 4-mo-old LGE (grafted in sequence) or to LGE from the same fetus (grafted simultaneously) as controls. TH-positive innervation of striatal tissue, evaluated 4 wk after implantation of VM, revealed a patchy growth pattern in LGE grafted simultaneously with 13- and 18-mm VM. However, when the striatum was mature at the time of innervation, diffuse growth was observed in striatum innervated by VM dissected from 13-mm fetuses. Interestingly, patchy growth was noted in striatal areas close to VM grafts when the dopaminergic neurons were derived from older fetuses (CRL 18 mm). Furthermore, potassium-induced dopamine release was greater in striatal grafts exhibiting the patchy growth than those showing the diffuse pattern of innervation. In conclusion, patchy dopaminergic growth can be induced in mature striatal tissue by grafting VM from older fetuses. Functionally, potassium-evoked dopamine release is enhanced in dopaminergic patches. These results have implications in terms of finding ways to induce patchy growth when grafting to the mature striatum of patients suffering from Parkinson's disease.

Large, simple trials can provide reliable evidence on the balance of risk and benefit of widely practicable treatments that have moderate effects on major clinical outcomes. Treatments for stroke will potentially be used extensively world-wide. Each year about 8,000,000 people have an acute stroke, with about 5,000,000 being ischaemic. Of these, perhaps 1,000,000 receive medical attention within the first few hours of stroke onset. If reliable decisions about the treatment of such large numbers of patients are to be made, we need to be certain about the effects of treatment on death from any cause (and on other important outcomes) and in many different types of patient. Generally, such reliable evidence on whether to treat and on whom to treat, will only come from large, randomised trials recruiting many thousands of patients. Such trials are only feasible and affordable if they are simple.

Patients presenting with thrombotic stroke of unexplained etiology and or migraine with aura were screened for mitochondrial (mt) DNA mutations associated with cytopathies given that both migraine and stroke-like episodes are recognised with certain mt DNA mutations. Mutations usually associated with either mitochondrial encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episode, myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibres, or those strongly linked to Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) were not detected in patients or controls. However, increased levels of two of the secondary LHON mutations were found. The T--&gt;C mutation at nucleotide 4216 was more common than expected in patients aged 35 years or less, as was the 13708 G--&gt;A mutation in young stroke patients. This data lends support to the possibility that an accumulation of minor mt DNA mutations may contribute to the pathoaetiology of stroke and migraine with aura in some young patients.

A framework within which to generate and characterize populations of correlated spike trains is presented. Spike trains are generated using integrate to threshold and fire type encoders. Spectral analysis techniques form the basis for specifying the strength of correlation within the population. To accurately specify weak correlation, a combined coherence estimate is formed between several independent pairs of spike trains from a population. The aim is to produce populations of spike trains which have a realistic stochastic correlation structure and which can be used to explore the role of correlated neuronal discharge in information processing in neuronal systems.
Segmentation of objects of interest in magnetic resonance imaging is a necessary procedure for volumetric calculations. However, these direct measurements tend to be inaccurate due to the intrinsic MRI partial volume effects. In this paper, a general method for correcting these effects based on the geometry and grey level intensity of the segmented objects is presented. This method is independent of the segmentation strategy used to extract the objects of interest. An evaluation for three different segmentation methods is presented and it is shown that the proposed partial volume correction can improve the volume estimation of all three methods.
The mere exposure effect is the increase in positive affect that results from the repeated exposure to previously novel stimuli. We sought to determine if judgments other than affective preference could reliably produce a mere exposure effect for two-dimensional random shapes. In two experiments, we found that brighter and darker judgments did not differentiate target from distracter shapes, liking judgments led to target selection greater than chance, and disliking judgments led to distracter selection greater than chance. These results for brighter, darker, and liking judgments were obtained regardless of whether shape recognition was greater (Experiment 1) or not greater (Experiment 2) than chance. Effects of prior exposure to novel shapes were reliably observed only for affective judgment tasks. These results are inconsistent with general predictions made by the nonspecific activation hypothesis, but not the affective primacy or perceptual fluency hypotheses which were discussed in terms of cognitive neuroscience research.

In the current health care market, there is a sharp awareness by both consumers and managed care providers that hospitals are only as good as the outcomes they can produce. Collaboration among disciplines that provide services, in this case treatment for stroke has enhanced patient outcomes. The synergy that has developed among those involved has thus far created a win-win situation. The key to successful outcomes is to have all those involved possessing a clear picture of their role, accepting it, and taking ownership of it.
To elucidate the nature of language disturbance in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the cerebral area involved in it, we studied 65 AD patients with the Western Aphasia Battery (WAB) and with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. Partial correlations were evaluated between the Aphasia Quotient of WAB and regional cerebral glucose metabolism normalized by the mean metabolic rate in the bilateral primary sensorimotor areas after controlling age, sex, education and severity of illness. Language disturbance in AD is accounted for by deficits in the semantic processing of language and is related to glucose hypometabolism in the inferior temporal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule, especially in the dominant side. These results offer further evidence suggesting that the lexico-semantic processing system is mediated in these regions.
This study assessed 46 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 21 aged controls using positron emission tomography. Repeated analyses using a general linear model examined the effect of age at onset on the pattern of the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc). The results showed significant age effects on the rCMRglc in the fronto-temporo-parietal association cortices and retrosplenial areas. Disease duration, overall cognitive severity or normal aging could not account for the effects. The age effects were delineated as a double dissociation, that is, early-onset patients have a more severe reduction of regional glucose metabolism in the association cortices, while late-onset patients show a more prominent metabolic deficit in the paralimbic area.

A boy with a dystonic quadriparesis presented with acquired paralysis, spasticity, and a feeding disorder. Spinal MRI revealed a cervical cord lesion and os odontoideum. Excessive movement of the neck, leading to failure of ossification of the dens and then to cervical cord trauma was the likely mechanism. The poor outcome of this subject is described, emphasising the need to pay careful attention to neurological changes in children with extrapyramidal cerebral palsy, who may be at particular risk of cord pathology. The management issues are discussed.
MATH1 is a neural-specific basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor. Members of this family of transcription factors are involved in the development of specific subsets of neurons in the developing vertebrate nervous system. Here we examine the cells expressing MATH1 with respect to their proliferative state and co-expression of cell-type-specific differentiation markers. We localize the MATH1 protein to the nucleus of cells in the dorsal neural tube and the external germinal layer (EGL) of the developing cerebellum. Using double-label immunofluorescence, we demonstrate that MATH1-expressing cells span both the proliferating and the differentiating zones within the dorsal neural tube, but within the EGL of the cerebellum are restricted to the proliferating zone. The early differentiating MATH1-expressing cells in the dorsal neural tube co-express TAG-1, DCC-1 and LH2, markers of dorsal commissural interneurons. In addition, transgenic mice with lacZ under the transcriptional control of MATH1-flanking DNA sequences express beta-galactosidase specifically in the developing nervous system, in a manner that mimics subsets of the MATH1-expression pattern, including the dorsal spinal neural tube. Expression of the MATH1/lacZ transgene persists in differentiated dorsal commissural interneurons. Taken together, we demonstrate MATH1 expression in a differentiating population of neuronal precursors in the dorsal neural tube that appear to give rise specifically to dorsal commissural interneurons.
The detectability of telomerase activity in human cells almost always correlates with indefinite proliferation capability (immortalization). To make quantitative statements about telomerase activity levels, complete extraction of the telomerase activity is needed. A series of detergents was tested for this purpose, and a combination of NP-40 and sodium deoxycholate (NaDOC) was found to be the most efficient for extracting telomerase activity. Tumor-derived cell lines originally thought to contain differing amounts of telomerase on the basis of the original CHAPS bases extraction procedures have nearly equivalent amounts of activity when extracted with the NP-40/NaDOC lysis buffer. These results indicate that these lysis conditions can be used to extract telomerase activity more efficiently from tumor-derived cell lines.
A sudden visual onset is thought to 'attract attention to its location' within less than 100 ms. We attempted to measure the effect of this attentional process on the event-related potential (ERP) to a probe presented about 140 ms after the onset, and to delineate the spatiotemporal characteristics of such an effect, if any. ERPs were recorded from 30 channels from 6 subjects while they performed a target detection task. Both targets and probes could be located in each of the 4 quadrants (eccentricities 6.1 degrees and 7 degrees, respectively). For a given single target, the subsequent probe was either presented near the location of the target ('valid target') or at the diagonal opposite ('invalid target'). Appropriate 'neutral' conditions (probes preceded by no target, or by simultaneous targets in all quadrants) were applied, and ERPs to probes were corrected for the contribution of the ERPs to targets. The earliest effect of (in)validity was found at about 120 ms after probe onset for lower field probes. This effect consisted of enhanced posterior positivity for valid relative to neutral relative to invalid conditions. This positivity was superposed on a contralateral, extrastriate negative ongoing wave peaking at about 150 ms ('N150'). Source localization suggested that the (in)validity effects originate from deep medial parietal areas. The source corresponding to the N150 activity was not influenced by (in)validity. An earlier deflection to the probe at 80 ms ('NP80') depended on location, but not on (in)validity, and seemed to be of striate origin. Results are discussed in terms of a model postulating an attention-independent 'input module' from which activation is fed to a 'location module' embodying the actual attention mechanism.
Psychiatric disorders are thought to arise as a result of interactions between genetic vulnerability and environmental risk factors. However, research methods to actually investigate the pattern of hypothesized interactions have only recently been developed. In this article, we review the evidence that genes increase the risk for psychosis by making individuals more sensitive to environmental risk factors (genotype-environment interaction), or by making individuals more likely to select high-risk environments (genotype-environment correlation). It is likely that at least some of the impact of genes on the occurrence of psychosis is mediated through (sensitivity for ) environmental risk factors such as a dysfunctional early family rearing environment, paternal absence, use of cannabis, complications of birth and pregnancy, stressful life events and unknown environmental risk factors associated with urban life and membership of certain ethnic groups. With the advent of molecular genetics, further knowledge about possible genotype-environment interactions is urgently required in order to develop and improve strategies for the prevention and early treatment of psychosis.
In this report the photosensitive teleost pineal organ was studied in three teleosts, in which melatonin production is known to exhibit a daily rhythm with higher levels at night; in pike and zebrafish this increase is driven by a pineal clock, whereas in trout it occurs exclusively in response to darkness. Here we investigated the regulation of messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding serotonin N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT), the penultimate enzyme in melatonin synthesis, which is thought to be primarily responsible for changes in melatonin production. AA-NAT mRNA was found in the pineal organ of all three species and in the zebrafish retina. A rhythm in AA-NAT mRNA occurs in vivo in the pike pineal organ in a light/dark (L/D) lighting environment, in constant lighting (L/L), or in constant darkness (D/D) and in vitro in the zebrafish pineal organ in L/D and L/L, indicating that these transcripts are regulated by a circadian clock. In contrast, trout pineal AA-NAT mRNA levels are stable in vivo and in vitro in L/D, L/L, and D/D. Analysis of mRNA encoding the first enzyme in melatonin synthesis, tryptophan hydroxylase, reveals that the in vivo abundance of this transcript changes on a circadian basis in pike, but not in trout. A parsimonious hypothesis to explain the absence of circadian rhythms in both AA-NAT and tryptophan hydroxylase mRNAs in the trout pineal is that one circadian system regulates the expression of both genes and that this system has been disrupted by a single mutation in this species.

Autonomic function was studied by the use of spectral analysis of heart-rate variability in patients with epilepsy in relation to type of epilepsy and anti-epileptic drug therapy. A total of 21 patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) and 21 with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) were included; 18 patients were treated with carbamazepine (CBZ), 16 with valproate (VPA) and seven with phenytoin (PHT). One healthy drug free control, matched for age and sex, was selected for each patient. Patients and controls underwent an ambulatory 24 h EKG. Heart-rate variability was analyzed in time and frequency domains. Patients with TLE had significantly lower S.D. of the RR-intervals, lower low frequency power and a lower low frequency/high frequency power ratio than their controls. A lower low frequency/high frequency power ratio was the only significant difference between the JME patient group and their controls. Treatment, however, may have had a considerable influence on the heart rate variability in the epilepsy patients. Patients on CBZ had significantly lower S.D. of RR-intervals, low frequency power and a low frequency/ high frequency power ratio than did their matched healthy drug free controls. The ratio of low frequency/high frequency power was also lower in patients on VPA compared with their controls, but apart from that no differences could be demonstrated between this treatment group and the controls. In conclusion, patients with epilepsy appear to have an altered autonomic control of the heart, with a reduction in some heart-rate variability measures, suggesting a decreased sympathetic tone, which may be related to the drug therapy or the epilepsy as such. Further studies are warranted to explore these changes and their possible relevance for sudden death in epilepsy.
To study the function of GLAST, a glutamate transporter highly expressed in the cerebellar Bergmann astrocytes, the mouse GLAST gene was inactivated. GLAST-deficient mice developed normally and could manage simple coordinated tasks, such as staying on a stationary or a slowly rotating rod, but failed more challenging task such as staying on a quickly rotating rod. Electrophysiological examination revealed that Purkinje cells in the mutant mice remained to be multiply innervated by climbing fibres even at the adult stage. We also found that oedema volumes in the mutant mice increased significantly after cerebellar injury. These results indicate that GLAST plays active roles both in the cerebellar climbing fibre synapse formation and in preventing excitotoxic cerebellar damage after acute brain injury.
It is well known that noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) neurons decrease their activity during slow wave sleep (SWS) and are virtually quiescent during paradoxical sleep (PS). It has been proposed that a GABAergic input could be directly responsible for this sleep-dependent neuronal inactivation. To test this hypothesis, we used a new method combining polygraphic recordings, microiontophoresis and single-unit extracellular recordings in unanaesthetized head-restrained rats. We found that iontophoretic application of bicuculline, a specific GABA(A)-receptor antagonist, during PS and SWS restore a tonic firing in the LC noradrenergic neurons. We further observed that the application of bicuculline during wakefulness (W) induced an increase of the discharge rate. Of particular importance for the interpretation of these results, using the microdialysis technique, Nitz and Siegel (Neuroscience, 1997; 78: 795) recently found an increase of the GABA release in the cat LC during SWS and PS as compared with waking values. Based on these and our results, we therefore propose that during W, the LC cells are under a GABAergic inhibitory tone which progressively increases at the entrance and during SWS and PS and is responsible for the inactivation of these neurons during these states.
Early stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology is associated with neurodegeneration of systems within the temporal cortex, e.g. the entorhinal cortex, perforant pathway and hippocampus. The perforant pathway provides the major neuronal input to the hippocampus from the entorhinal cortex and thus relays multimodal sensory information derived from cortical zones into the hippocampus. The earliest symptoms of AD include cognitive impairments, e.g. deficits in short-term memory and attention. Consequently, we have investigated the effect of bilateral knife cut lesions to the perforant path on cognition in rats using models measuring primarily short-term memory (operant delayed match to position task), attention (serial five-choice reaction time task) and spatial learning (Morris water maze). Rats receiving bilateral perforant path lesions showed normal neurological function and a mild hyperactivity. The lesion produced little effect on attention assessed using the five-choice task. In contrast, animals with equivalent lesions showed a robust delay-dependent deficit in the delayed match to position task. Spatial learning in the water maze task was also severely impaired. The delay-dependent deficit in the match to position task was not reversed by tacrine (3 mg/kg) pretreatment. The present data support a selective impairment of cognitive function following perforant path lesions that was confined to mnemonic rather than attentional processing. These findings complement primate and human studies identifying a critical role of the perforant pathway and associated temporal lobe structures in declarative memory. Degeneration of the perforant pathway is likely to contribute to the mnemonic deficits characteristic of early AD. The failure of tacrine to ameliorate these deficits may be relevant to an emerging clinical literature suggesting that cholinomimetic therapies improve attentional rather than mnemonic function in AD.

The expression of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) was studied in a rat model of Huntington's disease, produced by unilateral intrastriatal ibotenic acid injections. The most pronounced effect registered was that the number of PDGF-immunoreactive cells increased in the lesioned area up to 10 weeks after the surgery. Double immunofluorescence staining indicated that the PDGF-positive cells were astrocytes. The increased PDGF immunoreactivity was associated with only minor changes in total PDGF mRNA and PDGF protein levels in the lesioned area. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) demonstrated a slight increase in PDGF mRNA after ibotenic acid lesion, but this was not reflected in an increase in PDGF A- and B-chain protein concentration as measured with ELISA. After sham operation an increase in PDGF protein concentration was seen, while the number of PDGF-immunoreactive cells was unchanged. The accumulation of PDGF in the astrocytes might reflect the role of PDGF in a repair process in neurodegenerative processes.
The relationship between phantom limb phenomena and cortical reorganization was examined in five subjects with congenital absence of an upper limb and nine traumatic amputees. Neuromagnetic source imaging revealed minimal reorganization of primary somatosensory cortex in the congenital amputees (M=0.69 cm, SD 0.24) and the traumatic amputees without phantom limb pain (M=0.27 cm, SD 0.25); the amputees with phantom limb pain showed massive cortical reorganization (M=2.22 cm, SD 0.78). Phantom limb pain and nonpainful phantom limb phenomena were absent in the congenital amputees. Whereas phantom limb pain was positively related to cortical reorganization (r=0.87), nonpainful phantom phenomena were not significantly correlated with cortical reorganization (r=0.34). Sensory discrimination was normal and mislocalization (referral of stimulation-induced sensation to a phantom limb) was absent in the congenital amputees. The role of peripheral and central factors in the understanding of phantom limb pain and phantom limb phenomena is discussed in view of these findings.
The axotomy reaction in motoneurons after a peripheral nerve transection in the adult animal is characterized by a robust upregulation of alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) messenger RNA (mRNA) together with mRNAs encoding cytoskeletal and growth-related proteins. Here we have examined whether the nature of the lesion and the age of the animal have any impact on the mRNA regulation in severed cells. Thus, the effect of a sciatic nerve transection in the adult rat was compared with, on the one hand, ventral root avulsions in the adult animal and, on the other hand, sciatic nerve transection in the immature animal. In the two latter cases, a proportion of the lesioned cells die and overall chances of regeneration are small. In the adult animal a sciatic nerve transection induced an upregulation of alpha-CGRP mRNA from the 3rd day after surgery and throughout the first 3 weeks (the time span of the study). Also low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75) and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) mRNAs were upregulated during the entire 3-week period. In contrast, after ventral root avulsion, the expression of alpha-CGRP, c-jun, and p75 mRNAs were normalized within the 1st postoperative week, while GAP-43 mRNA was still upregulated at 3 weeks. Galanin message-associated peptide (GMAP) mRNA became upregulated preferentially in motoneurons subjected to ventral root avulsion, while nitric oxide synthase (NOS) mRNA was expressed exclusively after the latter type of injury. In the immature animal, alpha-CGRP mRNA was downregulated after sciatic nerve transection in rats aged 3 days or 7 days at the time of surgery; while, in contrast, an upregulation was seen in 12- or 21-day-old animals. GAP-43 and c-jun mRNAs were upregulated in lesioned motoneurons of all ages, while GMAP mRNA was upregulated preferentially in lesioned motoneurons of early postnatal animals. p75 mRNA was expressed in unlesioned immature motoneurons until the age of 7-10 days. The downregulation of p75 mRNA in intact cells at this age coincided with a developmental switch in the ability of axotomized cells to express increased levels of p75 mRNA. No expression of NOS mRNA was detectable in lesioned cells of any of the age groups. These results show that the age of the animal and the type of axonal injury are indeed to a high degree influencing the changes seen in the protein expression pattern in axotomized rat motoneurons. The different responses in these paradigms suggest differences in the trophic response from surrounding glia or the trophic responsiveness of lesioned motoneurons. Also, the results may indicate different roles for the studied substances during the regenerative response of lesioned neurons. Of the substances studied here, upregulation of alpha-CGRP and p75 mRNAs best correlated with a possibility of axon regeneration.
Nitric oxide is a multifunctional molecule that acts as messenger/modulator in synaptogenesis and potential neurotoxin and is synthesized by three isozymes of Nitric oxide synthase (NOS). The role of NOS in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is unclear. For example, neurons in the entorhinal cortex (EC) that are highly vulnerable to neurodegeneration in AD express low levels of NOS and while it has been suggested that the inducible form of NOS is upregulated in AD, it is still not clear if the constitutive expressed isozyme (nNOS) is involved in the process of neurodegeneration. In order to better understand the role of nNOS in the pathogenesis of AD, sections from the EC and hippocampus (HC) of AD and control cases were immunohistochemically analyzed by single- and double-immunolabeling using antibodies against nNOS and PHF-tau. Semiquantitative assessment of numbers of nNOS expressing neurons in different areas of the HC and EC showed a remarkable loss of nNOS expressing neurons in the entorhinal cortex layer II and--less severe--CA1 and CA3 of the hippocampus in patients with AD. In addition, double-immunolabeling studies revealed that nNOS is strongly associated with neurofibrillary tangles and plaques. These findings indicate that nNOS expressing neurons are highly susceptible to neurodegeneration and that nNOS might contribute to the pathogenesis of AD.
Prosaposin, the precursor of saposins A, B, C, and D, was recently reported to be a neurotrophic factor in vivo and in vitro. The neurotrophic region of prosaposin has been localized to a 12-amino acid sequence within the saposin C domain and has been used to derive biologically active synthetic peptides (14-22 residues), called prosaptides. Treatment of primary Schwann cells and an immortalized Schwann cell line, iSC, with a 14-mer prosaptide, TX14(A) (10 nM), enhanced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated kinases ERK1 (p44 MAPK) and ERK2 (p42 MAPK) within 5 min, which was blocked by 4 h pretreatment with pertussis toxin. Furthermore, incubation of Schwann cells with the nonhydrolyzable GDP analog GDP-betaS inhibited TX14(A)-induced ERK phosphorylation. TX14(A) enhanced the sulfatide content of primary Schwann cells by 2.5-fold, which was inhibited by pretreatment with pertussis toxin or the synthetic MAP kinase kinase inhibitor PD098059. In addition, TX14(A) increased the tyrosine phosphorylation of all three isoforms of the adapter molecule, Shc, which coincided with the association of p60Src and PI(3)K. Inhibition of PI3(K) by wortmannin blocked TX14(A)-induced ERK phosphorylation. These data demonstrate that TX14(A) uses a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein pathway to activate ERKs, which is essential for enhanced sulfatide synthesis in Schwann cells.
A fundamental process in all organisms is their ability to regulate gene expression in response to developmental and environmental signals. In Chlamydia, changes in gene expression are closely linked to the presence or to undetectability of eukaryotic-like histones observed late in the parasites life cycle. It is becoming increasingly clear that these histone-like proteins are involved in macromolecular confirmation of DNA. However, their functional role(s) in chlamydial development and the underlying mechanism(s) involved in their degradation and dissociation are largely unknown. It is not surprising therefore that eukaryotic-like histones are a focus of intense research in several laboratories around the world. Recent studies on the interaction of eukaryotic- like histones with DNA, the role of phosphorylation and identification of a histone specific protease are beginning to unravel the mechanism of stage specific differentiation and gene expression in Chlamydia. In this article we review recent advances on the eukaryotic-like histones that have set the stage for elucidation of the chlamydial developmental cycle.
1. Glutamate is the neurotransmitter released by bipolar cells at their synapses with amacrine cells. The amacrine cells express ionotropic (NMDA, AMPA and kainate) and metabotropic (mGluR1, mGluR2, mGluR4 and mGluR7) glutamate receptors and may take up glutamate from the synaptic cleft. 2. Activation of the ionotropic glutamate receptors increases the intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i), owing to Ca2+ entry through the receptor-associated channels as well as through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The [Ca2+]i response to glutamate may be amplified by Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release from intracellular sources. 3. Activation of NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors stimulates the release of GABA and acetylcholine from amacrine cells. GABA is released by a Ca2+-dependent mechanism and by reversal of the neurotransmitter transporter. 4. Excessive activation of glutamate receptors during ischemia leads to amacrine cell death. An increase in [Ca2+]i due to Ca2+ influx through NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptor channels is related to cell death in studies in vitro. In other studies, it was shown that nitric oxide may also take part in the process of cell damage during ischemia.

In order to test the sensitivity of the human medial olivocochlear bundle (MOCB) to stimulus frequency fluctuations, changes in transient-evoked otoacoustic emission (TEOAE) amplitude induced by frequency modulated (FM) tones were measured in 18 normal-hearing subjects. The results revealed that TEOAE amplitude was reduced by contralateral FM tones at 40 dB above pure-tone threshold, with significant influences of both modulation rate (MR) and modulation depth (MD). This finding is discussed in the light of other recent results indicating amplitude fluctuation and frequency bandwidth effects in MOCB activation in humans.
Supporting cells in the inner ear sensory epithelium are most likely hair cell progenitors. In an effort to establish an in vitro model system of hair cell differentiation, we developed immortalized epithelial cell lines by transferring the tsA58 allele of the SV40 large T antigen oncogene into neonatal rat utricular supporting cells using a retrovirus. The established cell lines have been stably maintained continuously for more than 25 passages and display many features similar to primary supporting cells. They grow in patches and assume a polygonal morphology. Immunocytochemical characterization of the established cell lines reveals that these cells can be labeled by epithelial cell markers, but not by fibroblast, glial or neuronal markers. The immortalized cells grow rapidly in serum medium at permissive temperature, but the majority cease proliferation when cultured in serum free medium at non-permissive temperature. These cells respond to mitogenic growth factors including bFGF, EGF and TGF-alpha and express growth factor receptors in a manner similar to the primary supporting cells. Furthermore, we find that the cells undergo a morphological differentiation when cultured in serum free medium at non-permissive temperature in the presence of bFGF. Under these conditions, the cells shrink in size, become elongated, and express early hair cell markers such as calretinin and calmodulin. The utricular epithelial cell line we have established may potentially provide an invaluable system for studying hair cell differentiation and regeneration.
As a standard preparation for neurophysiological experiments, brain slices were introduced some 20 years ago. Although this technique has greatly advanced our understanding of brain physiology, the utility of this preparation has been limited to some extent by the difficulty of visualizing individual neurons in standard thick slices. The use of infrared videomicroscopy has solved this problem. It is now possible to visualize neurons in slices in great detail, and neuronal processes can be patch-clamped under visual control. Infrared videomicroscopy has also been applied successfully to other fields of neuroscience, such as neuronal development and neurotoxicity. A further development of infrared videomicroscopy allows the visualization of the spread of excitation in slices, making the technique a tool for investigating neuronal function and the pharmacology of synaptic transmission.
Actigraphy, the long-term measurement of human movement with a small solid state recorder, is gaining acceptance as a useful method in many research fields. Currently available actigraphs assess or estimate the movement duration per time interval. However, the output gives no information on movement type or intensity, and cannot be used in subjects suffering from tremor. The present paper describes a new type of actigraph, that has been developed primarily for the long-term evaluation of motor symptoms in Parkinson patients. The device is the first to discriminate tremor from other movements and to assess both duration and intensity of the two types of movement. It is based on a Motorola 68HC805B6 microcontroller and contains: an accelerometer, programmable gain stages, programmable low- and highpass filters, a programmable level comparator, a peak detector, interface circuits, a real time clock, data storage, and control circuitry. The micro-controller performs a period amplitude sequence analysis (PASA) on the conditioned accelerometer signal, and stores four output variables (tremor duration, tremor amplitude, movement duration, and movement amplitude) at the end of programmable time intervals. The analysis of fluctuations in the motor symptoms of, e.g., Parkinson patients using this actigraph can be of great help in the pharmacological management of symptoms.
A common and serious drawback of the conventional antipsychotics is their association with a range of motor disturbances: acute extrapyramidal symptoms, including parkinsonism, acute akathisia and acute dystonia; and chronic motor problems such as tardive dyskinesia, chronic akathisia and tardive dystonia. In addition to physical disability directly related to abnormal movements, the acute movement disorders can cause considerable subjective discomfort and distress, and are frequently cited as a reason for poor compliance with medication, at least during acute treatment. They can also confound clinical assessment of mental-state phenomena because of symptom overlap with the psychotic illness being treated. The results of clinical trials of the newer antipsychotic drugs such as clozapine, risperidone, olanzapine, amisulpride, quetiapine and sertindole suggest a lower liability for acute extrapyramidal symptoms than conventional antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol and chlorpromazine. The relative liability of each of the newer drugs to cause acute extrapyramidal side effects is not known, as they have been available for a relatively short time and there is a paucity of direct comparative studies. Evidence is accumulating that those patients exhibiting acute extrapyramidal side effects are at greater risk of developing tardive dyskinesia, which raises the hope that the newer antipsychotic drugs may also be associated with less tardive dyskinesia in the longer term. Encouraging data are already available for clozapine, which appears to have a low incidence of tardive dyskinesia, and therapeutic value in a proportion of established cases of tardive dyskinesia and tardive dystonia. Here we review the available data on atypical antipsychotics and adverse motor effects.
Positron emission tomography (PET) can be used to explore relationships between central neuroreceptor occupancy, psychotropic drug blood levels and clinical effects. Treatment with conventional neuroleptics induces high (70-90%) dopamine (D2)-receptor occupancy. The risk of extrapyramidal side effects increases at D2-receptor occupancies above 80%. Standard doses of clozapine induced a low (20-67%) D2-receptor occupancy, but very high (85-90%) 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT2A)-receptor occupancy. The novel antipsychotics risperidone and olanzapine induced high occupancy of both D2 and 5-HT2A receptors at suggested standard doses. The occurrence of extrapyramidal side effects in some patients in the higher dose ranges does not support the view that 5-HT2A-receptor occupancy completely prevents the development of extrapyramidal side effects. These results emphasize the need for further exploration of the low dose ranges of risperidone and olanzapine. A preliminary analysis of an ongoing PET study showed that a schizophrenic patient treated with sertindole at 20 mg/day had a D2-receptor occupancy of below 70%. Further studies are needed to show whether sertindole is the first new antipsychotic that induces low occupancy in the clinical dose range, suggesting a mechanism of action distinct from that of classical neuroleptics and analogous to that of clozapine.
Synaptic pathology has attained increasing attention as being central in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To address the question whether synaptic pathology in AD involves the whole synapse, or is limited to specific components thereof, we studied three different synaptic vesicle proteins (rab3a, synaptotagmin, synaptophysin) and also the presynaptic membrane protein GAP-43 and the postsynaptic protein neurogranin. The material included postmortem brain tissue (frontal cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum) from 8 patients with early-onset AD (EAD), 11 patients with late-onset AD (LAD), 6 patients with vascular dementia (VAD), and 9 control subjects. A reduction of all synaptic proteins was found in AD, more pronounced in EAD than in LAD, in both the frontal cortex (EAD 30% to 70% vs. LAD 82% to 88% of control value) and hippocampus (EAD 22% to 82% vs. LAD 76% to 89% of control value), whereas only minor changes were found in VAD. The finding that all synaptic proteins were reduced in AD suggests a degeneration and loss of whole synaptic elements that are more pronounced in EAD than in LAD.
In the developing compound eye of Drosophila, neuronal differentiation of the R7 photoreceptor cell is induced by the interaction of the receptor tyrosine kinase Sevenless with its ligand Bride of sevenless (Boss), which is expressed on the neighboring R8 cell. Boss is an unusual ligand of a receptor tyrosine kinase: it is composed of a large extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain with seven membrane-spanning segments and a cytoplasmic tail. Expression of a monomeric, secreted form of the extracellular domain of Boss is not sufficient for Sevenless activation, and instead acts as a weak antagonist. Because oligomerization appears to be a critical step in the activation of receptor tyrosine kinases, we used oligomerized forms of the Boss extracellular domain to test their ability to bind to Sevenless in vivo and restore R7 induction in vivo. Oligomerization was achieved by fusion to the leucine zipper of the yeast transcription factor GCN4 or to the tetramerization helix of Lac repressor. Binding of these multivalent proteins to Sevenless could be detected in vitro by immunoprecipitation of cross-linked ligand/receptor complexes and in vivo by receptor-dependent ligand localization. However, neither R8-specific or ubiquitous expression of multivalent Exboss ligands rescued the boss phenotype. Instead, these ligands acted as competitive inhibitors for wild-type Boss protein and thereby suppressed R7 induction. Therefore the role of the transmembrane or cytoplasmic domains of Boss in the activation of the Sev receptor cannot be replaced by oligomerization.
The authors recently cloned a cDNA for an ICE/CED3-related cysteine protease from rat brain, which is closely related to human CPP32 (now designated caspase-3). In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed a profound developmental regulation of the caspase-3 transcript in rat brain, with relatively high levels of caspase-3 mRNA observed in neurons of the fetal and neonatal brain and low levels of mRNA in neurons of the adult brain. The authors report that transient forebrain ischemia, which results in a delayed apoptotic death of CA1 pyramidal neurons, results in prolonged expression of caspase-3 mRNA in these same pyramidal neurons. Up-regulation of caspase-3 mRNA in CA1 pyramidal neurons is prominent 24 hours after transient global ischemia, and expression is maintained at higher levels for at least 72 hours after ischemia. However, by 96 hours after ischemia, a marked decrease in caspase-3 mRNA expression is observed in CA1 pyramidal neurons, showing severe degenerative changes (e.g., nuclear condensation). By contrast, there is no change in the expression of a closely related member of caspase family, caspase-2, in CA1 pyramidal neurons after global ischemia. Instead, caspase-2 mRNA is induced in lamina layers of cerebral cortex 24 hours after the ischemia. A selective and prolonged induction of the caspase-3 gene in committed CA1 pyramidal neurons suggests that transcriptional activation of this caspase-3 gene may be involved in the apoptotic cell death cascade of CA1 neurons after transient global ischemia.
Clinical neurophysiologic studies have an important role in the diagnosis and management of the patient with epilepsy. Epilepsy is a clinical diagnosis and the EEG is an important adjunct used to differentiate epileptic seizures from nonepileptic events, refine the diagnosis of epilepsy into specific seizure types and epileptic syndromes, and provide a measure of brain function. The value of the EEG is highly dependent on the clinical context in which it is being applied. In some epilepsies the interictal EEG may be diagnostic whereas in others an ictal recording may be necessary to obtain a specific diagnosis. Both the interictal and ictal EEG characteristics vary with specific seizure types and epilepsies and are described in detail in this review. The usefulness of the EEG in the management of epilepsy and in aiding in the decision to discontinue antiepileptic therapy is also discussed.

We report a simple new method for measuring the conduction velocity (CV) of A delta fibers in normal subjects. A large positive component of somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) whose peak latency was approximately 250 ms was clearly recorded only when strong electrical stimulation causing a definite painful feeling was applied to the skin. The CV of the peripheral nerve was calculated by measuring the latency difference of this component between the distal-stimulated SEP and proximal-stimulated SEP and the distance between two stimulus sites. The CV was approximately 11.4 m/s, (range 8.8-15.9 m/s), in the range of A delta fibers. The sleep effect on pain-related SEP was also observed in 3 subjects. The amplitude of pain-related SEP decreased with the progress of sleep stage. This simple and novel method is available in most clinics and should be very useful in investigating the physiologic functions of peripheral nerves in patients as well as normal subjects.

Motor threshold is a means of quantifying stimulus in transcranial magnetic stimulation. Two methods are used. One involves neurophysiology techniques and the other is visualization of movement. The aim was to compare the percentage of total machine output (PTMO) necessary to achieve motor threshold using these different methods. Neurophysiological and visualization of movement thresholds were determined in six subjects. In all subjects, the two thresholds were achieved with a &lt; 10% difference in PTMO. Determination of motor threshold with a neurophysiological and a visualization of movement method produced similar results.
We investigated the effect of electroconvulsive treatment (ECT) on platelet 14C-serotonin uptake, 3H-paroxetine binding and 5-HT2 receptors in 12 patients (10 women and 2 men) unresponsive to pharmacological treatment. The mean numbers of ECTs given was 6.1 +/- 1.5. Mean treatment days was 14.6 +/- 3.8. Mean percent reduction in MADRS scores was 80.7 +/- 19.7 (p &lt; 0.002). The number of 5-HT2 receptors increased significantly and uniformly after ECT (p = 0.011). There was no correlation between the degree of increase in 5-HT2 receptor densities and the reduction in MADRS scores after ECT. There was no difference in mean Bmax for platelet 3H-paroxetine binding before and after ECT. Bmax increased in six patients and decreased in six patients. The study shows an increase in platelet 5-HT2-receptor densities in depression after repeated ECT. Recognizing the similarities between 5-HT2 receptors in platelets and cerebral cortex, it seems reasonable to assume that a similar upregulation of cortical 5-HT2 receptors occurs after ECT.
The role of conscious awareness in human Pavlovian conditioning was examined in 2 experiments using masked fear-relevant (snakes and spiders; Experiments 1 and 2) and fear-irrelevant (flowers and mushrooms; Experiment 1) pictures as conditioned stimuli, a mild electric shock as the unconditioned stimulus, and skin conductance responses as the primary dependent variable. The conditioned stimuli were presented briefly (30 ms) and were effectively masked by an immediately following masking stimulus. Experiment 1 demonstrated nonconscious conditioning to fear-relevant but not to fear-irrelevant stimuli. Even though the participants could not recognize the stimuli in Experiment 2, they differentiated between masked stimuli predicting and not predicting shocks in expectancy ratings. However, expectancy ratings were not related to the conditioned autonomic response.
In Italy, blood exudation from objects of worship recurs frequently in ancient chronicles and literature, in popular beliefs, and even in modern mass-media reports. This phenomenon, that was associated with epochal or catastrophic events, has roots that reach classical antiquity. In the last few years, several events connected with the detection of bloody &quot;tears&quot; on statues of the Virgin Mary required forensic medicine investigations. In the present report we describe genetic investigations conducted on dried blood of unknown derivation found on a statuette representing the Virgin Mary. To test the human or animal origin of the blood, we amplified Alu-specific sequences from DNAs obtained from the unknown sample and from humans, large apes, various Old and New World monkeys, a prosimian, mouse, common domestic artiodactyls and chicken. This investigation restricted the range of possible origin of the statue blood to humans, apes and Old World monkeys. To test the male or female origin of the blood, we used a multiplex nested polymerase chain reaction method, that allows the simultaneous amplification of the X-specific locus DXZ4 and of the Y-specific locus SRY. Considering the unlikelihood of an origin from simian Old World primates, the exclusive amplification of the X-specific product from the unknown sample and from human female blood controls, compared to the amplification of distinct X- and Y-specific bands from human male blood controls, strongly supports a human female origin of the statue blood.
There are dramatic changes in the electroencephalogram of the inactivated hemisphere in the intracarotid sodium amobarbital test. One of the more profound behavioral changes during this procedure is left hemispatial neglect accompanying right hemisphere inactivation. The present study was designed to ascertain whether there was a clear relationship between the degree of hemispheric inactivation (as measured by the electroencephalogram) and the degree of left hemispatial neglect during this procedure. Sixty-nine participants undergoing right hemisphere intracarotid sodium amobarbital testing were presented with a random letter cancellation test at various points during the procedure. Neglect was quantified as significant, moderate, minimal, or none, based on how many target letters the patients missed. The simultaneous electroencephalogram from each of these testing points was spectrally analyzed and topographic maps were generated. The degree of neglect was then compared with the comparable topographic map. It was found that as the amobarbital-induced right hemispheric dysfunction regressed, the degree of neglect lessened in a systematic fashion, as did the profound electroencephalographic changes induced by the drug. Thus, there is a clear relation between the degree of hemispheric inactivation induced by the amobarbital and the degree of left hemispatial neglect. This relationship held regardless of side of hemispheric language dominance or epileptic focus. These results replicate previous findings that right hemisphere inactivation during the intracarotid sodium amobarbital test results in left hemispatial neglect. They extend these findings by clearly showing that neglect changes in a quantitative fashion (rather than being an all-or-none phenomenon) and further, show that there is a clear relationship between the severity of neglect and the degree of hemispheric dysfunction.
Changes in the local utilization of cerebral glucose resulting from administered drugs acting on the central nervous system can be evaluated quantitatively by the [14C]2-deoxyglucose method. We report the findings obtained by the [14C]2-deoxyglucose method that contribute to understanding the cerebral functional effects of drugs of abuse and discuss in particular the similarities between nicotine and other addictive drugs. A common consequence of the intravenous administration of psychomotor stimulants and opioids in the rat is the increase in glucose utilization in the shell of nucleus accumbens. This functional change is accompanied by increased local extracellular concentrations of dopamine. Altered functional activity and dopamine neurotransmission in the shell of the nucleus accumbens thus represent distinctive neurobiological markers of the addictive properties of several drugs, independently of the specific neurochemical mechanisms of action. It has recently been shown that the intravenous administration of a pulse of nicotine, at single-unit doses corresponding to those that maintain self-administration in the rat, produces neurochemical and metabolic changes in the shell of the nucleus accumbens that closely resemble those of psychomotor stimulants and opioids. The latter results demonstrate that nicotine shares with highly addictive drugs a distinct neurochemical and functional consequence. They therefore contribute to the neurochemical definition of the addictive nature of nicotine. These neurochemical and functional changes may contribute to the changes in expression of intracellular second messengers and neurotransmitter/receptor systems observed particularly in the shell following the administration of drugs of abuse.
The enzyme diamine oxidase (DAO) catalyzes the oxidative deamination of histamine, diamines, and polyamines. DAO has been localized to several tissues, including thymus, kidney, intestine, seminal vesicles, placenta, and pregnancy plasma. DAO is not constitutively expressed in the mammalian brain, but it becomes detectable following focal injury. Although the physiologic role of DAO remains unknown, the observation that it is present at the interface between rapidly dividing and quiescent cells in several tissues suggests that it might be involved in regulating cell division or differentiation at tissue boundaries. In addition, the observation that DAO is expressed in the brain following injury suggests that the protein might play a role in the CNS response to focal neuronal damage. To test that hypothesis, we assessed the ability of purified DAO to alter the pattern of neuronal differentiation and nerve growth in vitro. In chick dorsal root ganglion explant cultures, purified porcine DAO induced neurite outgrowth in the low nanomolar range. Addition of aminoguanidine, which inhibits DAO enzyme activity, did not inhibit the protein's neurotrophic activity. These findings suggest that DAO can function as a neurotrophic ligand independent of its enzymatic activity.
The human NMDAR2D subunit was cloned, and the pharmacological properties of receptors resulting from injection of transcripts encoding human NMDAR1A and NMDAR2D subunits in Xenopus oocytes were characterized by profiling NMDA receptor agonists and antagonists. We found that glutamate, NMDA, glycine, and D-serine were significantly more potent on hNMDAR1A/2D than on hNMDAR1A/2A or hNMDAR1A/2B. Also, the potencies of NMDA and glycine were higher for hNMDAR1A/2D than for hNMDAR1A/2C. Ifenprodil was more potent at hNMDAR1A/2B than at hNMDAR1A/2D, whereas 5,7-dichlorokynurenate was more potent at hNMDAR1A/2A than at hNMDAR1A/2D. As measured in transiently transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells, the maximal inward current in the presence of external Mg2 occurred at -40 mV, and full block was not observed at negative potentials. Kinetic measurements revealed that the higher affinity of hNMDAR1A/2D for both glutamate and glycine relative to hNMDAR1A/2A and hNMDA1A/2B can be explained by slower dissociation of each agonist from hNMDAR1A/2D. The hNMDAR1A/2D combination represents a pharmacologically and functionally distinct receptor subtype and may constitute a potentially important target for therapeutic agents active in the human CNS.
Previous studies examining the regulation of immediate early gene mRNAs by neuronal stimulation have revealed that two members of the Egr family of transcription factors, Egr-1 and Egr-3, display parallel response patterns. As these transcription factors compete for the same consensus sequence, we investigated how their expression and DNA binding activities are coordinated. Following electroconvulsive stimulation, which induces rapid increases in both Egr-1 and Egr-3 mRNA levels in dentate granule cells, we found that these proteins are induced sequentially. Egr-1 protein levels peak at 0.5-1 h and decay to basal levels by 4 h. In contrast, Egr-3 protein levels respond more slowly; little change is apparent at 1 h, and peak levels are not reached until 4 h following stimulation. Gel shift assays demonstrated that Egr-1 and Egr-3 DNA binding activities follow the same pattern. These findings indicate that Egr-1 and Egr-3 act in concert to mediate early and late phases, respectively, of the transcriptional response regulated by their cognate response element.
Beta-amyloid peptides (A beta) are deposited in an aggregated fibrillar form in both diffuse and senile plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The neurotoxicity of A beta in cultured neurons is dependent on its aggregation state, but the factors contributing to aggregation and fibril formation are poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated whether alpha2-macroglobulin (alpha2M), a protein present in neuritic plaques and elevated in Alzheimer's disease brain, is a potential regulatory factor for A beta fibril formation. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that alpha2M is an A beta binding protein. We now report that, in contrast to another plaque-associated protein, alpha1-antichymotrypsin, alpha2M coincubated with A beta significantly reduces aggregation and fibril formation in vitro. Additionally, cultured fetal rat cortical neurons are less vulnerable to the toxic actions of aged A beta following pretreatment with alpha2M. We postulate that alpha2M is able to maintain A beta in a soluble state, preventing fibril formation and associated neurotoxicity.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a common feature of many neurodegenerative disorders. The metabolic encephalopathy caused by thiamine deficiency (TD) is a classic example in which an impairment of cerebral oxidative metabolism leads to selective cell death. In experimental TD in rodents, a reduction in the activity of the thiamine diphosphate-dependent, mitochondrial enzyme alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) occurs before the onset of pathologic lesions and is among the earliest biochemical deficits found. To understand the molecular basis and the significance of the deficiency of KGDHC in TD-induced brain damage, the enzyme activity and protein levels of KGDHC were analyzed. The effect of TD on the subregional/cellular distribution of KGDHC and the anatomic relation of KGDHC with selective cell death were also tested by immunocytochemistry. Consistent with several previous studies, TD dramatically reduced KGDHC activity in both anatomically damaged (thalamus and inferior colliculus) and spared (cerebral cortex) regions. Immunocytochemistry revealed no apparent correlation of regional KGDHC immunoreactivity or its response to TD with affected regions in TD. The basis of the enzymatic and immunocytochemical behavior of KGDHC was further assessed by quantitative immunoblots, using antibodies specific for each of the three KGDHC components. Despite the marked decrease of KGDHC activity in TD, no reduction of any of the three KGDHC protein levels was found. Thus, TD impairs the efficacy of the KGDHC catalytic machinery, whereas the concentration of protein molecules persists. The generalized decline of KGDHC activity with no apparent anatomic selectivity is consistent with the notion that the compromised mitochondrial oxidation sensitizes the brain cells to various other insults that precipitate the cell death. The current TD model provides a relevant experimental system to understand the molecular basis of many neurodegenerative conditions in which mitochondrial dysfunction and KGDHC deficiency are prominent features.
For a study of the underlying mechanisms of a possible interaction between ethanol and nicotinic receptors during ethanol dependence, the aim of this work was to investigate the effect of chronic ethanol exposure on nicotinic receptor subtypes in a transfected fibroblast cell line (M10 cells) stably expressing alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor subtype and an SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line expressing alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, beta2, and beta4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits. A significant dose-related decrease (-30-80%) in number of [3H]nicotine binding sites was observed in ethanol-treated (25-240 mM) compared with untreated M10 cells. Similarly, 4-day treatment with ethanol in concentrations relevant to chronic alcoholism (100 mM) decreased the number of nicotinic receptor binding sites in the SH-SY5Y cells when measured using [3H]epibatidine. When M10 cells were chronically treated with nicotine, ethanol partly inhibited the up-regulation of nicotinic receptors when present in the cells together with nicotine. Chronic treatment for 4 days with 100 mM ethanol significantly decreased the mRNA level for the alpha3 nAChR subunit (-39%), while the mRNA levels for the alpha7 (+30%) and alpha4 (+22%) subunits were significantly increased. Chronic ethanol treatment did not affect the mRNA levels for the beta2 nAChR subunit. Changes in the levels of nAChR protein and mRNA may have adaptive significance and be involved in the development of dependence, tolerance, and addiction to chronic ethanol and nicotine exposure. They also may be targets for therapeutic strategies in the treatment of ethanol and nicotine dependence.
On-line in vivo microdialysis was used to determine the effects of a 16-min handling period on release of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens and of DA and noradrenaline (NA) in the medial prefrontal cortex of awake, freely moving rats. DA and NA were determined in one HPLC run. Handling resulted in an immediate and strong increase of both catecholamines in the prefrontal cortex. Maximal values for DA were 295%, and for NA 225%, of controls. DA in the nucleus accumbens was also increased (to 135% of controls) but only after a short delay. Local inhibition of ionotropic glutamate receptors by continuous reversed dialysis of the drugs 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline, D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, or dizocilpine did not significantly affect handling-induced increases in cortical DA and NA release. Neither did the agonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors, trans-(1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), or the GABA-B agonist baclofen. Reversed dialysis of dizocilpine in the nucleus accumbens was equally ineffective, but ACPD inhibited the increase in DA release in this area. Stimulation of metabotropic glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens was previously reported to inhibit activation of DA release in that area after stimulation of glutamatergic or dopaminergic afferents. It is concluded that metabotropic receptors in the nucleus accumbens are important for the control of activation of DA release in the accumbens by physiological stimuli but that a similar mechanism is lacking in the prefrontal cortex.
We have examined the role of the p75 neurotrophin receptor in survival-promoting effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) on cultured Purkinje cells. Previously, we showed that NGF promotes Purkinje cell survival in conjunction with (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), an agonist of metabotropic excitatory amino acid receptors, whereas NT-3 by itself increases cell number. We now present evidence that p75 plays different roles in Purkinje cell responses to the two neurotrophins. A metabotropic receptor of the mGluR1 subtype may interact with p75 function, so as to regulate Purkinje cell responsiveness to neurotrophins. When cerebellar cultures were grown for 6 days in the presence of ACPD and a mutant form of NGF that does not bind to p75, no increase in Purkinje cell number was observed. Moreover, the survival-promoting effect of wild-type NGF and ACPD could be inhibited by a neutralizing antiserum to p75 or by a pyrazoloquinazolinone inhibitor of neurotrophin binding to p75. In contrast, the response to NT-3 was potentiated by anti-p75 treatment and by the quinazolinone. These data indicate the mediation of p75 in the trophic response to NGF-ACPD and a negative modulatory role of p75 in the action of NT-3. To probe the role of ACPD in the p75-dependent response to NGF, metabotropic receptor subtype-specific ligands were tested. The pattern of agonist specificity implicated the mGluR1 subtype, a receptor that is expressed at high levels by Purkinje cells and linked to activation of protein kinase C (PKC). Down-regulation or blockade of PKC abolished the response to NGF-ACPD. Consistent with the opposite roles of p75 in effects of the two neurotrophins, blockade of mGluR1 or PKC potentiated the survival response elicited by NT-3. In sum, our data suggest that afferent excitatory transmitters activate specific metabotropic receptors to elicit a p75-mediated action of NGF. NT-3 acts on Purkinje cells by a different mechanism that is not absolutely p75-dependent and that is reduced by neurotrophin access to p75 and metabotropic receptor activity.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been suggested to act as cellular messengers that mediate signal transduction cascades in various cell types. However, little is known about their role in this capacity in the nervous system. We have begun to investigate the role of ROS, and that of nitric oxide (NO), in mediating mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling in rat hippocampal slices. Our studies have revealed that direct exposure of hippocampal slices to hydrogen peroxide, xanthine/xanthine oxidase (a superoxide-generating system), sodium nitroprusside (an NO donor compound), S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (an NO donor compound), or 3-morpholinosydnonimine (a compound that produces NO and superoxide) results in an enhancement in tyrosine phosphorylation of several proteins, including proteins with apparent molecular masses of 42 and 44 kDa. We investigated the possibility that these proteins correspond to the active forms of p42 MAPK and p44 MAPK. Hippocampal slices exposed to various ROS and NO donors resulted in increases in levels of the active forms of both p42 MAPK and p44 MAPK. The ROS- and NO-enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of p42 MAPK and p44 MAPK were inhibited by pretreatment with the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Our observations indicate that ROS and NO can mediate protein tyrosine phosphorylation and MAPK signaling in the hippocampus via a redox-sensitive mechanism and suggest a potential cellular mechanism for their effects in the nervous system.
Regenerated retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons can re-form functional synapses with target neurons in the superior colliculus (SC). Because preterminal axon branching determines the size, shape and density of innervation fields, we investigated the branching patterns and bouton formation of individual RGC axons that had regrown along peripheral nerve (PN) grafts to the SC. Within the superficial layers of the SC, the regenerated axons formed terminal arbors with average numbers of terminal boutons that were similar to the controls. However, axonal branches were shorter than normal so that the mean area of the regenerated arbors was nearly one-tenth that of control arbors and the resulting fields of innervation contained greater than normal numbers of synapses concentrated in small areas of the target. Our results have delineated a critical defect in the reconstitution of retino-collicular circuitry in adult mammals: the failure of terminal RGC branches to expand appropriately. Because recent studies have documented that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) can specifically lengthen RGC axonal branches not only during development in the SC but also within the adult retina after axotomy, the present quantitative studies should facilitate experimental attempts to correct this deficit of the regenerative response.
Exocytosis is dependent on specific proteins that are located at the secretory granule membrane, in the cytoplasm or at the plasma membrane. The mRNA expression of synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) isoforms SNAP-25a and SNAP-25b, vesicle associated membrane protein (VAMP) 2, mammalian homologue of unc-18 (munc-18) and Hrs-2 was studied in the pituitary of ovariectomized rats after subcutaneous insertion of capsules containing estrogen or placebo using in situ hybridization. Estrogen treatment (0.25 mg estradiol) significantly decreased SNAP-25a (32%; 10%) and SNAP-25b (25%; 22%) mRNA levels in the anterior and intermediate lobes, respectively, whereas VAMP-2, munc-18 and Hrs-2 mRNA levels remained unchanged. The results suggest that estrogen selectively regulates SNAP-25 transcription in the pituitary gland, but leaves VAMP-2, munc-18 and Hrs-2 mRNA levels unaffected.
To elucidate the role of brain cells in the immune regulation in the central nervous system (CNS), acute and chronic relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was induced in Lewis rats and the location of apoptotic inflammatory cells and their interaction with astrocytes and microglia was investigated at various stages of the disease. Apoptotic cells detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) were few in number at day 10-12 post-immunization (PI), increased and peaked at day 13 PI. Then, these cells decreased gradually by day 21 PI. The most characteristic finding was that apoptotic cells were mainly distributed in the CNS parenchyma with only a few cells present in perivascular cuffs. Double staining by the TUNEL method and immunocytochemistry for astrocytes and microglia revealed that astrocytes were more closely associated with apoptotic cells than microglia. Apoptotic cell death may be one mechanism by which T cells are eliminated from the CNS. Furthermore, the present study suggests that astrocytes, rather than microglia, induce programmed cell death of infiltrating inflammatory cells.
Serum antibodies from 8 (13%) of 62 patients with the acute Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and 1 of 3 patients with the Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS) recognized a minor ganglioside in bovine and human brain trisialoganglioside fractions. The ganglioside antigen migrated between GD1a and GD1b on thin-layer chromatograms. The structure of this ganglioside was established to be GT1a by thin-layer chromatography blotting and mass spectrometry. GT1a a ganglioside was also detected in human and bovine peripheral nerves by thin-layer chromatogram immunostaining. Serum from the GBS patients had IgM, IgG, or IgA antibodies against GT1a detectable by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Serum from the MFS patient also had elevated levels of IG against GT1a. None of the sera from 43 patients with other neurological diseases or from 24 healthy controls reacted with GT1a. Sera from 6 of 8 GBS patients with anti-Gt1a antibodies also reacted with GQ1b. There was no difference in the incidence of anti-GT1a immunoglobulins in acute GBS patients with or without oculomotor abnormalities. Levels of anti-GT1a antibodies correlated temporally wit clinical symptoms in GBS patients. Although the incidence of dysphagia was slightly higher in GBS patients with anti-GT1a antibodies than in those without, the number of patients studied may have been too small to detect an association between anti-GT1a antibodies and an a specific clinical variant of GBS. Our data demonstrate that a proportion of GBS patients have antibodies against GT1a ganglioside and suggest that these antibodies may play a role in the pathogenesis of neuropathy in GBS.
The neurofilament protein is a major structural protein of neurons and a marker for axonal damage. The concentrations of the light subunit of the neurofilament triplet protein (NFL) in CSF were significantly increased in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis compared with healthy controls (p&lt;0.001). Seventy eight per cent of patients with multiple sclerosis showed increased NFL concentrations. Significant correlations between the NFL concentration in CSF and clinical indices were discerned for disability, exacerbation rate, and time from the start of the previous exacerbation to the time of the lumbar puncture. The results suggest that axonal damage occurs during relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and that the damage contributes to disability and the appearance of clinical exacerbations. The concentration of NFL in CSF is a potential marker of disease activity in multiple sclerosis and might be useful in future clinical trials of multiple sclerosis.

Much of what is known about the organization of the superior colliculus is based on the arrangement of its external connections. Consequently, there is little information regarding pathways that remain intrinsic to it, even though recent data suggest that a horizontally oriented local circuit may mediate the functional reciprocity among fixation and saccade-related neurons. Therefore, the present experiments sought physiological evidence for neurons intrinsic to the superior colliculus that might participate in a horizontally oriented local circuit. Parasagittal slices of the ferret superior colliculus were prepared for in vitro recording, and 125 intermediate/deep layer neurons were examined in response to electrical stimulation rostral or caudal to the recording site. A substantial proportion (37%) of neurons responded with a prolonged period (means = 59.3 +/- 30 ms) of poststimulus suppression of spontaneous action potential activity. Of the suppressed neurons, most (53%) were disinhibited when the excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-APV) and 6-nitro-7 sulphamoylbeno[f]-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (NBQX) were administered, indicating that excitatory input to inhibitory interneurons was blocked. Of the neurons that received inputs from inhibitory interneurons, all had their suppressive responses decreased or eliminated by the gamma-aminobutyric acid antagonist, bicuculline. Finally, severing the superficial layers from the slice had no effect on intermediate layer responses to intrinsic stimulation. These data provide physiological evidence for the presence of horizontally oriented inhibitory interneurons in the superior colliculus. Furthermore, these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that an intrinsic circuit, routed through interneurons, might account for the reciprocal inhibition observed among fixation and saccade-related neurons.
The invasion of fast (Na+) spikes from the soma into dendrites was studied in single pyramidal cells of the sensorimotor cortex by simultaneous extracellular recordings of the somatic and dendritic action potentials in freely behaving rats. Field potentials and unit activity were monitored with multiple-site silicon probes along trajectories perpendicular to the cortical layers at spatial intervals of 100 micron. Dendritic action potentials of individual layer V pyramidal neurons could be recorded up to 400 micron from the cell body. Action potentials were initiated at the somatic recording site and traveled back to the apical dendrite at a velocity of 0.67 m/s. Current source density analysis of the action potential revealed time shifted dipoles, supporting the view of active spike propagation in dendrites. The presented method is suitable for exploring the conditions affecting the somadendritic propagation action of potentials in the behaving animal.
1508-1517, 1998. Whole cell recordings (nystatin-perforated patch) were carried out on magnocellular neurons of the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) to study the modulation of inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) by gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABAB) receptors. Field stimulation adjacent to the SON in the presence of kynurenic acid, evoked monosynaptic GABAergic IPSCs. Baclofen reversibly reduced the amplitude of the IPSCs in a dose-dependent manner (EC50: 0.68 microM) without apparent effect on the holding current (Vh = -80 mV) or input resistance and altered neither the kinetic properties, nor the reversal potential of IPSCs. Concomittant to IPSC depression, baclofen enhanced the paired-pulse ratio for two consecutive IPSCs [interstimulus interval (ISI): 50 ms], an effect consistent with a presynaptic locus of action. Both actions of baclofen were abolished by CGP35348 (500 microM), a GABAB receptor antagonist. In testing for involvement of synaptically activated presynaptic GABAB receptors, we only recorded paired-pulse facilitation at most ISIs tested (50-500 ms), suggesting that the classical GABAB autoreceptors may not normally be activated in our conditions. However, enhancement of local GABA concentration by perfusion of a GABA uptake inhibitor (NO-711) revealed an action of endogenous GABA at these presynaptic GABAB receptors. The nonselective K+ channel blocker Ba2+ abolished baclofen's effect and pertussis toxin (PTX) pretreatment (200-500 ng/ml for 18-24 h) was ineffective in blocking the baclofen-induced inhibition, making an involvement of PTX-sensitive G protein unlikely. The present results show that presynaptic GABAB receptors that are coupled to PTX-insensitive G-proteins may be activated by endogenous GABA under conditions of reduced GABA uptake, thus regulating the inhibitory synaptic input to SON.
In the brain stem trigeminal nuclei of rodents there is a patterned representation of whiskers and sinus hairs. The subnucleus interpolaris (SPI) contains the largest and the most conspicuous whisker patterns (barrelettes). Although neural activity plays a role in pattern formation, little is known about the electrophysiological properties of developing barrelette neurons. Here we examined the functional state of early postnatal SPI neurons during and after the consolidation of patterns by using in vitro intracellular recording techniques. After the consolidation of barrelettes [&gt;/= postnatal day (P)4], responses to intracellular current injection consistently reflected the activation of a number voltage-dependent conductances. Most notable was a mixed cation conductance (IH) that prevented strong hyperpolarization and a large low-threshold Ca2+ conductance, which led to Ca2+ spikes and burst firing. At the oldest ages tested (P11-P14) some cells also exhibited an outward K+ conductance (IA), which led to significant delays in action-potential firing. Between P0-3, a time when the formation of barrelettes in the brain stem is still susceptible to damage of the sensory periphery, cells responded linearly to intracellular current injection, indicating they either lacked such voltage-gated properties or weakly expressed them. At all ages tested (P0-14), SPI cells were capable of generating trains of action potentials in response to intracellular injection of depolarizing current pulses. However, during the first few days of postnatal life, spikes were shorter and longer. Additionally, spike trains rose more linearly with stimulus intensity and showed frequency accommodation at early ages. Taken together, these results indicate that the electrophysiological properties of SPI neurons change markedly during the period of barrelette consolidation. Moreover, the properties of developing SPI neurons may play a significant role in pattern formation by minimizing signal distortion and ensuring that excitatory responses from sensory periphery are accurately received and transmitted according to stimulus strength.
The intermediate layers of the monkey superior colliculus (SC) contain neurons the discharges of which are modulated by visual fixation and saccadic eye movements. Fixation neurons, located in the rostral pole of the SC, discharge action potentials tonically during visual fixation and pause for most saccades. Saccade neurons, located throughout the remainder of the intermediate layers of the SC, discharge action potentials for saccades to a restricted region of the visual field. We defined the fixation zone as that region of the rostral SC containing fixation neurons and the saccade zone as the remainder of the SC. It recently has been hypothesized that a network of local inhibitory interneurons may help shape the reciprocal discharge pattern of fixation and saccade neurons. To test this hypothesis, we combined extracellular recording and microstimulation techniques in awake monkeys trained to perform oculomotor paradigms that enabled us to classify collicular fixation and saccade neurons. Microstimulation was used to electrically activate the fixation and saccade zones of the ipsilateral and contralateral SC to test for inhibitory and excitatory inputs onto fixation and saccade neurons. Saccade neurons were inhibited at short latencies following electrical stimulation of either the ipsilateral (1-5 ms) or contralateral (2-7 ms) fixation or saccade zones. Fixation neurons were inhibited 1-4 ms after electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral saccade zone. Stimulation of the contralateral saccade zone led to much weaker inhibition of fixation neurons. Stimulation of the contralateral fixation zone led to short-latency (1-2 ms) excitation of fixation neurons. Only a small percentage of saccade and fixation neurons were activated by the electrical stimulation (latency: 0.5-2.0 ms). These responses were confirmed as either orthodromic or antidromic responses using collision testing. The results suggest that a local network of inhibitory interneurons may help shape not only the reciprocal discharge pattern of fixation and saccade neurons but also permit lateral interactions between all regions of the ipsilateral and contralateral SC. These interactions therefore may be critical for maintaining stable visual fixation, suppressing unwanted saccades, and initiating saccadic eye movements to targets of interest.
The shell compartment of the nucleus accumbens (AcbSh) is prominently involved in the rewarding aspects of delta-opioid receptor (DOR) agonists, including one of its putative endogenous ligands, Met5-enkephalin (Enk). We examined the ultrastructural immunocytochemical localization of an antipeptide DOR antiserum and an antibody against Enk to determine the major cellular sites for DOR activation and the spatial relationship between DOR and Enk in this region. Sixty percent of DOR-immunoreactive profiles were axon terminals and small unmyelinated axons, whereas the remainder were mainly dendrites and dendritic spines. In axons and terminals, DOR labeling was distributed along plasma and vesicular membranes. DOR-containing terminals were mainly large and primarily formed symmetric synapses or occasionally asymmetric synapses. DOR immunoreactivity also was associated with terminals that were small and formed punctate symmetric or nonrecognizable synapses. Dual immunoperoxidase and immunogold labeling showed that 35% of DOR-labeled axons apposed other terminals that contained Enk. In addition, 25% of the DOR-labeled terminals contained Enk. Thirty-five percent of DOR labeling was observed within dendrites and dendritic spines. DOR-labeled spines showed intense immunoreactivity within asymmetric postsynaptic junctions, which were formed by terminals that lacked Enk immunoreactivity. DOR-labeled spines, however, were apposed to Enk-containing terminals in 13% of all associations between dually labeled profiles. These results provide ultrastructural evidence that activation of DOR in the AcbSh is primarily involved in modulating the presynaptic release of mainly inhibitory, but also excitatory, neurotransmitters. These data also suggest that DOR plays a role in determining the postsynaptic response to excitatory afferents.
Nicotine is reported to increase arousal and attention and to elevate mood, effects that are most often associated with changes in the function of monoaminergic neuromodulatory systems (Feldman et al., 1997). Recent studies have shown a nicotinic receptor-mediated presynaptic enhancement of fast glutamatergic (McGehee et al., 1995; Gray et al., 1996) and GABAergic (Lena and Changeux, 1997) transmission. However, the mechanism of nicotinic effects on metabotropic-mediated transmission in general, and on monoaminergic transmission in particular, is less well understood. We have examined nicotinic effects on dorsal raphe neurons of rats using whole-cell current and voltage-clamp recording techniques in vitro. In the majority of these neurons, activation of presynaptic nicotinic receptors induced a depolarization mediated by norepinephrine acting on alpha1 receptors. Blockade of this response revealed a hyperpolarization mediated by serotonin acting on 5-HT1A receptors. Because the norepinephrine effect was sensitive to methyllycaconitine (100 nM), it is concluded that nicotinic receptors with an alpha7 subunit can facilitate release of norepinephrine to activate metabotropic receptors. In contrast, methyllycaconitine-insensitive nicotinic receptors can induce 5-HT release in the dorsal raphe nucleus.
The rat hippocampus contains cells that are characterized by location-specific firing. Previous work has shown that the angular position of hippocampal place cell firing fields is accurately controlled by the position of visual cues, suggesting that vision plays a important role in triggering place cell activity. However, a role for other types of information has also been suggested because place cell activity can be recorded while animals are moving in the darkness. In this study, we asked whether place fields can get established in rats that have never seen their environment. We studied place cell activity in early blind rats and found that these rats had place cells very similar to those recorded from sighted rats. This result suggests that early vision is not necessary for normal firing of hippocampal place cells. Dynamic, motion-related information in conjunction with stimulus recognition seems to be sufficient.
Members of the En and Wnt gene families seem to play a key role in the early specification of the brain territory that gives rise to the cerebellum, the midhindbrain junction. To analyze the possible continuous role of the En and Wnt signaling pathway in later cerebellar patterning and function, we expressed En-2 ectopically in Purkinje cells during late embryonic and postnatal cerebellar development. As a result of this expression, the cerebellum is greatly reduced in size, and Purkinje cell numbers throughout the cerebellum are reduced by more than one-third relative to normal animals. Detailed analysis of both adult and developing cerebella reveals a pattern of selectivity to the loss of Purkinje cells and other cerebellar neurons. This is observed as a general loss of prominence of cerebellar fissures that is highlighted by a total loss of sublobular fissures. In contrast, mediolateral patterning is generally only subtly affected. That En-2 overexpression selectively affects Purkinje cells in the transition zone between lobules is evidenced by direct observation of selective Purkinje cell loss in certain fissures and by the observation that growth and migration of the external germinal layer (EGL) is selectively retarded in the deep fissures during early postnatal development. Thus, in addition to demonstrating the critical role of Purkinje cells in the generation and migration of granule cells, the heterogeneous distribution of cellular effects induced by ectopic En expression suggests a relatively late morphogenetic role for this and other segment polarity proteins, mainly oriented at lobule junctions.
The cellular mechanisms that regulate progenitor cell lineage elaboration and maturation during embryonic development of the mammalian brain are poorly understood. Conditionally immortalized mouse hippocampal multipotent progenitor cells (MK31 cells) were found to be strongly coupled by gap junctions comprising connexin 43 (Cx43) during early neuronal ontogeny; the presence of this Cx type was confirmed by electrophysiological, molecular biological, and immunocytochemical assays. However, as progenitor cells underwent intermediate stages of neuronal differentiation under the influence of interleukin 7 (IL-7) alone or terminal differentiation after composite exposure to basic fibroblast growth factor, IL-7, and transforming growth factor alpha, coupling strength and the level of Cx43 expression declined. An additional population of junctional channels with distinct properties was detected at an intermediate stage of neuronal differentiation. Reverse transcription-PCR assays detected mRNA encoding Cx40 in IL-7-treated cells and Cx33 after both treatment conditions. Because functional channels in exogenous expression systems are not formed by pairing Cx40 with Cx43 or by pairing Cx33 with itself or additional connexins, these experimental observations raise the possibility that the progressive loss of coupling during differentiation of neural progenitor cells may involve downregulation of Cx43 coupled with potentiation of expression of Cx33 and Cx40. Furthermore, continued expression of Cx43 in differentiating neuroblasts could mediate intercellular communication between neuronal precursor cells and astrocytes by direct signaling via homotypic gap junction channels.
To investigate how dopamine influences the subcellular localization of the dopamine receptors in the striatal dopaminoceptive neurons, we have used immunohistochemistry to detect D1 dopamine receptors (D1R) after modifications of the dopamine environment. In normal rats, D1R are located mostly extrasynaptically at the plasma membrane of the cell bodies, dendrites, and spines. The intrastriatal injection of the full D1R agonist SKF-82958 and the intraperitoneal injection of the same molecule or of amphetamine (which induces a massive release of dopamine in the striatum) induce modifications of the pattern of D1R immunoreactivity in the dorsal and ventral striatum. Whereas normal rats display homogenous staining of the neuropile with staining of the plasma membrane of the cell bodies, either treatment provokes the appearance of an intense immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm and the proximal dendrites. The labeling pattern is heterogeneous and more intense in the striosomes than in the matrix. Analysis of semithin sections and electron microscopy studies demonstrates a translocation of the labeling from the plasma membrane to endocytic vesicles and endosomes bearing D1R immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of cell bodies and dendrites. Injection of D1R antagonist (SCH-23390) alone or injection of D1R antagonist, together with amphetamine or SKF-82958, do not provoke modification of the immunoreactivity, as compared with normal rat. Our results demonstrate that, in vivo, the acute activation of dopamine receptors by direct agonists or endogenously released dopamine provokes dramatic modifications of their subcellular distribution in neurons, including internalization in the endosomal compartment in the cytoplasm. This suggests that modifications of the localization of neurotransmitter receptors, including extrasynaptic ones, may be a critical event that contributes to the postsynaptic response in vivo.
The vertebrate myelin sheath is greatly enriched in the galactolipids galactocerebroside (GalC) and sulfatide. Mice with a disruption in the gene that encodes the biosynthetic enzyme UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyl transferase (CGT) are incapable of synthesizing these lipids yet form myelin sheaths that exhibit major and minor dense lines with spacing comparable to controls. These CGT mutant mice exhibit a severe tremor that is accompanied by hindlimb paralysis. Furthermore, electrophysiological studies reveal nerve conduction deficits in the spinal cord of these mutants. Here, using electron microscopic techniques, we demonstrate ultrastructural myelin abnormalities in the CNS that are consistent with the electrophysiological deficits. These abnormalities include altered nodal lengths, an abundance of heminodes, an absence of transverse bands, and the presence of reversed lateral loops. In contrast to the CNS, no ultrastructural abnormalities and only modest electrophysiological deficits were observed in the peripheral nervous system. Taken together, the data presented here indicate that GalC and sulfatide are essential in proper CNS node and paranode formation and that these lipids are important in ensuring proper axo-oligodendrocyte interactions.
Previous studies have shown that treating rat cortical neurons in primary culture with apolipoprotein E (apoE) peptide increased cytoplasmic Ca2+ by 2 mechanisms: 1) an influx of extracellular Ca2+ resulting from the activation of a cell surface Ca2+ channel; and 2) release of Ca2+ from internal Ca2+ stores via a G-protein-coupled pathway (Wang and Gruenstein, 1997). These studies employed a biologically active apoE synthetic peptide (apoEdp) derived from the receptor binding domain of apoE. In the present study we examined whether activation of these 2 signal transduction pathways affects phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau. The levels of tau phosphorylation at thr231, ser235, and ser396 were quantified by ELISA employing monoclonal antibodies PHF-6, SMI33, and PHF-1. ApoEdp treatment resulted in a concentration- and time-dependent dephosphorylation of tau at all 3 phosphorylation sites. The apoEdp-induced dephosphorylation of tau at thr231, and ser235 was dependent on the influx of extracellular Ca2+, while dephosphorylation at ser396 was mediated by a pertusis toxin-sensitive G-protein pathway. The involvement of protein phosphatases in mediating the apoEdp-induced dephosphorylation of tau was examined. Pretreatment with the protein phosphatase 2B inhibitor cyclosporin A blocked the apoEdp-induced dephosphorylation of tau at thr231 and ser235 but not at ser396. Pretreatment with the protein phosophatase 2A/1 inhibitor okadaic acid blocked the apoEdp-induced dephosphorylation of tau at all 3 sites, while pretreatment with the protein phosphates 1 inhibitor tautomycin was without effect. The present study suggests that apoE may affect several Ca2+-associated signal transduction pathways that increase the activity of protein phosphatases 2A and 2B, which in turn dephosphorylate tau.
In the present study we examined the effect of oxidative stress-mediated hydroperoxide formation on the activity of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in retinal cells in culture. Oxidative stress was induced in the presence of Fe2+ and ascorbate or Fe2+ alone and compared to H2O2-induced maximal cellular oxidation, and was measured by following the formation of intracellular hydroperoxides with the probe DCFH2 (2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein). After a 15-min exposure to the oxidants, formation of hydroperoxides was significantly increased in the presence of 100 microM Fe2+ (about twofold), as compared to the control. Coadministration of Fe2+ and ascorbate (Fe-Asc) did not affect DCF fluorescence, but highly reduced the intracellular pH (pHi = 6.32 +/- 0.08), in comparison with control conditions (pHi = 7.05 +/- 0.11), as determined with the probe BCECF (2',7'-bis-(carboxyethyl)-5(and-6) carboxyfluorescein). Nevertheless, preincubation of Fe-Asc at acidic pH also increased the formation of hydroperoxides. Oxidative stress induced in the presence of Fe-Asc (at pH 6.5) significantly decreased the activity of NOS by 20% of control activity, as determined by the formation of [14C]citrulline. Fe-Asc (pH 6.5) also reduced the production of cyclic GMP (cGMP) in retinal cells by 1.5-fold, although a decrement in pH from 7.4 to 6.5 was not sufficient to decrease cGMP production. These data suggest that NO. production may be compromised in the presence of Fe-Asc. Moreover, neither 4 mM dithiotreitol (DTT) nor 4 mM glutathione (GSH) altered the production of cGMP in retinal cells submitted to oxidative stress. A reduction in NO. generation upon oxidative stress may reduce major damaging effects induced by ONOO- in cultured retinal cells.
Combined sialyltransferase (ST) activities were induced in the HN9 hippocampal cell line following treatment with the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (dex) for 24 hr. Induction occurred in a dose-dependent manner, with the maximum induction of a 2-fold increase over control enzyme levels occurring at a concentration of 10(-8) M dex. A minimum of 6 hr pretreatment with drug was required before significant induction could be detected and elevated enzyme levels persisted for up to 48 hr post-treatment. The induced form of the enzyme showed an increase in reaction maximum velocity (Vmax) while showing no change in affinity (Km) for the acceptor substrate asialofetuin. The alpha2,6 ST enzyme was demonstrated to be the primary enzyme induced and there was no change in expression of the alpha2,3 ST enzyme. Lectin blot analysis demonstrated an increase in the levels of the alpha2,6-linked cellular sialoglycoproteins and a parallel decrease in the alpha2,3 sialoglycoprotein levels.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are ligand-activated transcription factors that form a subfamily within the steroid hormone receptor group. Recent work has shown that one member of this group, PPARgamma, plays a central role in adipocyte differentiation. As oligodendrocytes are major lipid-producing cells, we investigated whether members of the PPAR family were present in oligodendrocytes and whether known PPAR activators affect oligodendrocyte differentiation. Polymerase chain reaction and nuclease protection analyses demonstrated that the principal PPAR present in optic nerve and sciatic nerve is PPARdelta, whereas adipose tissue expresses mainly PPARgamma. In situ hybridization of primary glial cultures revealed PPARdelta message in oligodendrocytes but not in astrocytes. PPARdelta message was strongly expressed in immature oligodendrocytes, suggesting a role in oligodendrocyte differentiation. Glial cultures containing immature oligodendrocytes were treated with CP 68,722 and bromopalmitate, compounds known to activate PPARs in adipocytes. These agents increased the number of oligodendrocytes with membrane sheets three- to fourfold, accelerated the rate of formation of membrane sheets, and increased the size of the membrane sheets. The abundant expression of PPARdelta in oligodendrocytes in vivo and in vitro suggests that this PPAR plays a critical role in oligodendrocyte development and that PPAR activators can be used to manipulate oligodendrocyte maturation in tissue culture.
The authors provide an overview of the past, present and future of intracranial aneurysms management. Excellent results achieved today by neurovascular surgeons are to be ascribed not only to refinements in microsurgical technique but also to an always more aggressive and effective treatment of vasospasm, the most feared complication of aneurysmal SAH. &quot;Triple H&quot; therapy, calcium channel blockers, rTPA and balloon angioplasty represent the corner-stones of arterial spasm treatment. Hopefully new agents such as lazaroids, endothelins inhibitors and nitric oxyde modulators will become available for clinical use in the next future. Although clipping of aneurysmal neck is still considered the &quot;gold standard&quot;, obliteration of the aneurysmal sac can now be safely achieved by coil embolization: the exact role and respective indications of each technique are yet to be defined. Further prognostic improvement will be possible through an early diagnosis, i.e. before the occurrence of SAH, as shown by negligible morbidity and mortality associated with the treatment of &quot;incidental&quot; and &quot;unruptured&quot; aneurysms.
The endothelin (ET) receptor that mediates vasoconstriction of the isolated rabbit pulmonary resistance artery was characterized using selective ET receptor agonists and antagonists. We also examined changes in ET-induced vasoconstriction brought about by left ventricular dysfunction using the rabbit coronary ligation model. The rank order of potency for contraction was sarafotoxin S6c (S6c) &gt; ET-1 = ET-3, which is characteristic of an ETB-like receptor. The combined ETA/ETB receptor antagonist SB209670 (1 microM) antagonized responses to ET-1 and S6c with estimated pKb values of 6.8 +/- 0.2 and 7.8 +/- 0.2, respectively. BQ788 (1 microM) antagonized responses to S6c and ET-3 (but not ET-1) with estimated pKb values of 7.1 +/- 0.2 and 6.6 +/- 0.1, respectively. The ETA receptor antagonist FR139317 (1 microM), either alone or in combination with BQ788, did not inhibit responses to ET-1. The profile of the ET-1 response was not altered by left ventricular dysfunction. In control rabbits, the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 microM) had no significant effect on the potency of either ET-1 or S6c. In the coronary-ligated rabbits, however, it significantly increased the potency (10-15-fold) of both ET-1 and S6c. These results suggest that the ET receptor that mediates contraction in rabbit pulmonary resistance arteries has the characteristics of an ETB-like receptor. The responses to ET-1 are not altered by LVD but may be modified by increased release of nitric oxide.
Sleep-wake habits and control of postural muscle tone were investigated by self-report questionnaire in 183 subjects considered to have the narcoleptic syndrome, 62 subjects with hypersomnia and 10 with obstructive sleep apnoea. Results were compared with those in a group of 188 control subjects with normal sleep wake habits. Excessive daytime sleepiness, determined by the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), was five times greater in the narcoleptic syndrome than in control subjects (score range 0-24, mean scores +/-SD 19.6+/-3.0; and 4.5+/-3.3 respectively; P&lt;0.001). The propensity to cataplexy, as determined by a rating scale developed to estimate the likelihood of loss of postural tone in response to sudden emotional stimuli, including laughter, was 10 times greater in narcoleptic syndrome than in control subjects (postural atonia total score range 0-600; mean + SD 334+/-122 and 28+/-45, respectively; P&lt;0.001). Narcoleptics had more disturbances of night sleep than controls with episodes of muscle jerking, sleep walking, sleep talking and sleep terrors, as well as sleep paralysis, and higher insomnia self-rating scores. Sleep latency from bedtime to sleep-onset time was shorter in narcoleptics than controls. The hypersomniac group of 62 subjects was heterogeneous. Subsequent investigation showed that 18 subjects (29%) had idiopathic hypersomnia, four (6%) 'incomplete' narcolepsy without cataplexy and 10 (16%) hypersomnia accompanying a mood disorder. The mean ESS scores in this group and in subjects with obstructive sleep apnoea were comparable to those of the narcoleptic syndrome subject group. Mean postural atonia scores were similar to those of control subjects.

Treatment of portal hypertension by portal decompressive surgery or transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunt (TIPS) results in new or worsening episodes of portal-systemic encephalopathy, particularly in older patients. As part of a series of studies to elucidate the pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for the age-related increased portal-systemic encephalopathy following shunt surgery, local cerebral glucose utilization, a measure of regional brain functional activity, was assessed using the 14C-2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique in 2 month-old (young adult) and 24 month-old (old adult) rats following end-to-side portacaval anastomosis. Cerebral glucose utilization was decreased by 22% (p&lt;0.05) in frontal cortex of 2 month-old rats following portacaval anastomosis. More widespread alterations of glucose utilization, involving frontal and frontoparietal cortices, as well as thalamic structures were observed in the brains of 24 month-old rats following portacaval anastomosis despite blood ammonia concentrations of a comparable magnitude. Decreased cerebral glucose utilization in frontal and frontoparietal cortex of old adult rats following portacaval anastomosis probably results from decreased cerebral energy requirements as a consequence of neurotransmitter-related dysfunction. The greater susceptibility of aging brain to the deleterious effects of portacaval anastomosis is consistent with the higher incidence of encephalopathy in older cirrhotic patients following portacaval anastomosis or TIPS.
A two-liter cerebrospinal fluid pseudocyst complicating a ventriculoperitoneal shunt was drained and a distal catheter retrieved from the peritoneal cavity by laparoscopy. Adoption of such a minimally invasive approach allowed the prompt resolution of the complication and an early recovery for out patient.
Immediate-early genes are part of a cellular response mechanism that reacts to biochemical, electrical, pharmacological, and physiological stimuli as well as changes in behavioral state. In the brain, immediate-early genes-such as egr-1 have been used as markers for neuronal activity. These markers could be invaluable in studies that utilize the chick-quail chimaera system to investigate neural components of behavior. Therefore, we decided to clone avian homologs of immediate-early genes to allow an expression analysis in behavioral paradigms and to determine the degree of conservation among diverse species. We report in this study the cloning of the ZENK gene, an egr-1 homolog, from chicken, quail, zebrafinch, and canary. We show that the coding region of this gene is highly conserved and follows established phylogenetic relationships. In situ hybridization demonstrates that the expression pattern is also conserved among species. We further demonstrate that there are regions in the 3' untranslated area of the ZENK gene that are as highly conserved as the protein-coding region and that may play a role in postranscriptional regulatory mechanisms of ZENK gene expression.
We studied tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene variants in mood disorders using linkage disequilibrium techniques. One hundred and forty-five inpatients affected by bipolar (n = 88) and unipolar (n = 57) disorders, and 84 healthy controls, were typed for TH variants using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. TH was associated with mood disorder, with all affected subjects presenting an excess of TH*2 allele (chi 2 = 8.30, d.f. = 1; P = 0.004) and lack of the TH*1 allele (chi 2 = 6.90, d.f. = 1, P = 0.009). Linkage disequilibrium analyses confirmed the association. Our results suggest a moderate linkage disequilibrium of TH variants with mood disorders.


Excessive glutamate transmission in the basal ganglia is a major factor in the neural mechanisms underlying parkinsonian akinesia. Activation of kappa opioid receptors causes a presynaptic reduction in glutamate release. Kappa opioid receptors are concentrated in those regions of the basal ganglia associated with increased glutamate transmission in parkinsonism. In this study, we use the alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine and reserpine-treated rat model of parkinsonism to investigate whether systemic administration of the kappa opioid agonists enadoline (CI-977) and U69,593 can alleviate the symptoms of parkinsonism either alone or in conjunction with dopamine replacement therapy. We report that, when administered alone, both enadoline and U69,593 can increase locomotion in monoamine-depleted rats. No increase in locomotor activity was seen after kappa opioid agonist administration in non-parkinsonian rats. The responses to kappa opioid agonists were blocked by co-administration of either the nonspecific opioid receptor antagonist naloxone or the selective kappa opioid receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI). An important finding is that when enadoline and L-dopa are administered together, their anti-akinetic properties are synergistic. Thus, the doses of enadoline and L-dopa required to alleviate akinesia when administered together are lower than either administered alone. These data illustrate the importance of kappa opioid receptors in the neural mechanisms controlling voluntary movement and suggest that kappa opioid agonists may have a role as adjuncts to dopamine replacement in the management of Parkinson's disease.
The cause and mechanism of neuronal cell death in the substantia nigra of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are unknown. There is also controversy about whether the cell death results from a single event followed by cell loss consistent with aging or whether there is an ongoing pathologic process. Using postmortem tissue obtained from the Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Tissue Bank in London, we have sought to establish whether apoptosis, or more specifically DNA fragmentation of neurons, is a prominent feature of nigral pathology. In addition, we have studied microglial activation in the substantia nigra as an indicator of ongoing pathology using the highly sensitive markers CR3/43 and EBM11. Reactive astrocytes have been assessed using immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Ten patients with pathologically proven PD were studied. In all cases, regardless of disease duration, severity, drug treatment, or age of the patient, there was no evidence of apoptosis in the substantia nigra as assessed by in situ end-labeling of DNA fragments using biotinylated dUTP and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT). In contrast, a case of multiple system atrophy (MSA) served as a positive control for the technique. In this case, positive DNA end-labeling could be found in neurons and non-neuronal cells in the brain stem. In the PD cases, there was, however, localized pathology in the substantia nigra as revealed by the CR3/ 43 and EBM11 markers for activated microglia. This process seemed independent of disease duration and was florid even in patients with severe neuronal loss. It remains to be determined to what extent the activation of glial cells reflects progressive nigral pathology, and whether those factors which are classically associated with prominent apoptotic neuronal cell death in vivo, such as neurotrophic factor deprivation, are prime causes of nigral neuronal loss in PD. Future studies should focus on recent-onset PD or incidental Lewy body disease to further address these questions.



The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of the primate is an area known to be important for memory. Since the discovery of a homologous area in subprimate mammals, the caudal medial prefrontal cortex, rabbits have become useful in the investigation of working memory. The subprimate prefrontal cortex is intimately interconnected with the hippocampus, which is also recognized for its role in learning and memory. In addition, the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex have been shown to be similarly involved in a variety of tasks. Therefore, we hypothesized that the caudal medial prefrontal cortex of the rabbit would be necessary for acquisition of the hippocampally dependent trace eyeblink conditioning task. A total of 16 young rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) received bilateral aspiration lesions of the prefrontal cortex. Six of the lesioned subjects were unable to acquire the trace eyeblink conditioning task, but were unimpaired when tested subsequently in the hippocampally independent delay conditioning task. The lesions of these 6 subjects either were limited to or extended into the caudal medial prefrontal cortex. In the remaining 10 subjects, which were not impaired in trace conditioning, the lesions were limited to the rostral pole. Our results support our original hypothesis and provide further evidence of the involvement of the subprimate caudal medial prefrontal cortex in learning.
Cyclothiazide has been shown to block desensitization of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-preferring receptors and to enhance quisqualate-, AMPA- and kainate-induced neurotoxicity. The pharmacology behind this cyclothiazide-enhanced kainate-induced excitotoxicity was characterized in embryonic rat hippocampal cell cultures. Treatment of cell cultures with a combination of cyclothiazide and kainate for 24 h resulted in excessive neuronal death as measured by the release of lactate dehydrogenase into the culture media. Cyclothiazide produced a leftward shift of the kainate dose-response curve and enhanced the maximum response of kainate excitotoxicity. AMPA-preferring receptor antagonists, 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline(NBQX) and 1-(4-amino-phenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine (GYKI 52466) blocked cyclothiazide-enhanced kainate toxicity completely, and cyclothiazide increased the IC50S for NBQX and GYKI 52466 against kainate toxicity. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK801) also blocked cyclothiazide-enhanced kainate toxicity, but only partially. Cyclothiazide also increased the IC50 for MK801 against kainate toxicity. These data suggest that cyclothiazide enhances both AMPA-preferring receptor- and NMDA receptor-mediated toxicity in kainate-induced toxicity in embryonic rat hippocampal cultures.

The rapid accumulation of myelin in the peripheral nervous system during the early postnatal period requires large amounts of cholesterol, a major myelin lipid. All of the cholesterol accumulating in the developing rat sciatic nerve is synthesized locally within the nerve, rather than being derived from the supply in lipoproteins in the systemic circulation (Jurevics and Morell, J. Lipid Res. 5:112-120; 1994). Since this lack of utilization of circulating cholesterol may relate to exclusion by the blood-nerve barrier, we examined the sources of cholesterol needed for regeneration following nerve injury, when the blood-nerve barrier is breached. One sciatic nerve was crushed or transected, and at various times later, the rate of cholesterol accumulation was compared with the rate of local in vivo synthesis of cholesterol within the nerve, utilizing intraperitoneally injected 3H2O as precursor. The accumulation of additional cholesterol in nerve during regeneration and remyelination could all be accounted for by that locally synthesized within the nerve. There was also an increase in cholesterol esters in injured nerve segments; in crushed nerves, these levels decreased during regeneration and remyelination, consistent with reutilization of cholesterol originally salvaged by phagocytic macrophages and Schwann cells. Thus, regeneration and remyelination following injury in sciatic nerve utilizes both salvaged cholesterol and cholesterol synthesized locally within the nerve, but not cholesterol from the circulation.
The Apolipoprotein E4 allele (Apo-epsilon4) is the major susceptibility gene for late onset Alzheimer Disease (AD) but epidemiological data suggest that the effect of this allele is modified in different individuals by genetic or environmental factors. Age and head injury are major non-genetic factors modifying the Apo-epsilon4 risk. There is conflicting data as to whether alleles of other chaperon proteins (such as alpha-1-antichymotrypsin (ACT)) or Apo-epsilon4 receptors (such as the VDRL receptor) modify the Apo-epsilon4 risk for AD. We analyze problems posed by genetic association studies including those of multiple comparisons and selection of controls, the latter problem exacerbated by the wide variations in Apolipoprotein E allele frequencies observed in different groups and localities.
The mechanism of focal demyelination in multiple sclerosis has been a long-standing enigma of this disorder. Cytokines, a diverse family of signalling molecules, are viewed as potential mediators of the process based on clinical observations and studies with animal models and tissue/cell culture systems. Myelin and oligodendrocyte (OL) destruction occur in cultured preparations subjected to cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) and lymphotoxin (LT). Many studies have shown these and other cytokines to be elevated at lesion sites and in the CSF of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients, with similar findings in animal models. Some variability in the nature of MS lesion formation has been reported, both OLs and myelin being primary targets. To account for myelin destruction in the presence of apparently functional OLs we hypothesize that cytokines such as TNF alpha and LT alpha contribute to myelin damage through triggering of specific reactions within the myelin sheath. We further propose that neutral sphingomyelinase (SMase) is one such enzyme, two forms of which have been detected in purified myelin. An additional event is accumulation of cholesterol ester, apparently a downstream consequence of cytokine-induced SMase. The resulting lipid changes are viewed as potentially destabilizing to myelin, which may render it more vulnerable to attack by invading and resident phagocytes.
Twenty five years ago in 1972, a hypothesis was introduced to explain the pathogenetic mechanism underlying the unusual cellular and biochemical characteristics of globoid cell leukodystrophy (Krabbe disease). It postulated that galactosylsphingosine (psychosine), which cannot be degraded due to the underlying genetic defect, is responsible for the very rapid loss of the oligodendrocytes and the consequent paradoxical analytical finding, the lack of accumulation of the primary substrate, galactosylceramide, in patients' brain. It took nearly ten years before the actual accumulation of psychosine was demonstrated in human Krabbe patients and also in the brain of twitcher mice, an equivalent murine mutant. Meanwhile this &quot;psychosine hypothesis&quot; has been extended to Gaucher disease and then to a more general hypothesis encompassing all sphingolipidoses that the &quot;lyso-derivatives&quot; of the primary sphingolipid substrates of the defective enzymes in respective disorders play a key role in their pathogenesis. Some of these extensions not only remain speculative without conclusive factual evidence but may eventually turn out to be an overstretching. This article attempts, from my personal perspective, at tracing historical development of the &quot;psychosine hypothesis&quot; and examining its current status and possible future directions.
We report a pilot study of three oral doses of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) (200 mg administered two, three, or four times per day for 1 month) in 15 subjects with Parkinson's disease. Oral CoQ10 caused a substantial increase in the plasma CoQ10 level. It was well tolerated, but at the highest dose (200 mg four times per day) mild, transient changes in the urine were noted. CoQ10 did not change the mean score on the motor portion of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. There was a trend toward an increase in complex I activity in the subjects.
Oculomotor abnormalities, particularly in smooth pursuit tracking, are one of the most widely investigated biological markers of schizophrenia. However, despite the wealth of published data, important questions concerning the exact nature of these abnormalities remain unanswered. Many of the studies use unreliable methodology, and few attempts have been made to interpret the observed oculomotor dysfunction in terms of current understanding of eye movement physiology. Also, the potential effects of antipsychotic medication have been poorly addressed. Recent research, using more reliable measurement techniques and novel saccadic paradigms are producing important results and may provide a more productive framework for future studies of oculomotor abnormalities in schizophrenia.
The duration of the window to treat acute cerebral ischemia has become an important question since the first effective drug for stroke victims has become available. Statistical analysis of relevant animal studies suggests that irreversible focal injury begins within a few minutes and is complete within about 6 hours. There will be substantial difficulties in attempting to obtain accurate estimates of the duration of ischemia that causes permanent damage in patients unless technical obstacles are overcome. Empirical estimates of the therapeutic window for stroke can be obtained from properly designed clinical trials, but optimal care will continue to necessitate urgent treatment.






This study investigated the simple reaction time (RT) and event-related potential (ERP) correlates of biasing attention towards a location in the visual field. RTs and ERPs were recorded to stimuli flashed randomly and with equal probability to the left and right visual hemifields in the three blocked, covert attention conditions: (i) attention divided equally to left and right hemifield locations; (ii) attention biased towards the left location; or (iii) attention biased towards the right location. Attention was biased towards left or right by instructions to the subjects, and responses were required to all stimuli. Relative to the divided attention condition, RTs were significantly faster for targets occurring where more attention was allocated (benefits), and slower to targets where less attention was allocated (costs). The early P1 (100-140 msec) component over the lateral occipital scalp regions showed attentional benefits. There were no amplitude modulations of the occipital N1 (125-180 msec) component with attention. Between 200 and 500 msec latency, a late positive deflection (LPD) showed both attentional costs and benefits. The behavioral findings show that when sufficiently induced to bias attention, human observers demonstrate RT benefits as well as costs. The corresponding P1 benefits suggest that the RT benefits of spatial attention may arise as the result of modulations of visual information processing in the extrastriate visual cortex.
There now is general agreement that dopaminergic neurons projecting from ventral mesencephalic nuclei to forebrain targets play a critical role in reward-related incentive learning. Many recent experiments evaluate the role of dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes in various paradigms involving this type of learning. The first part of this paper reviews evidence from these studies that use antagonists or agonists relatively specific for D1- or D2-like receptors in operant paradigms with food, brain stimulation, self-administered stimulant or conditioned rewards or place conditioning. The focus is on studies that directly compare agents acting at the two DA receptor families, especially those studies where the agents produce differential actions. Results support the conclusion that D1-like receptors play a more critical role in reward-related learning than D2-like receptors. D1-like receptors initiate a cascade of intracellular events including cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) formation and activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). The final section of this paper reviews evidence from a wide range of neuroscience experiments that implicates the cAMP/PKA pathway in learning in general and in reward-related incentive learning in particular. We conclude that the molecular mechanism underlying DA-mediated incentive learning may involve DA release in association with reward, stimulation of D1-like receptors, activation of the cAMP/PKA cascade and additional intracellular events leading to modification of cortico-striatal glutamatergic synapses activated by stimuli encountered in close temporal contiguity with reward. Thus, when reward-related incentive learning takes place, it may be the action of DA acting at D1-like receptors that leads to plastic changes in the striatum that form the substrate of that learning.
How do ensembles of neurons distributed across the hippocampal and entorhinal cortices effectively interact? In the awake-behaving rat, specific subpopulations of hippocampal and entorhinal neurons become entrained into two prominent fast-frequency rhythms (gamma [40-100 Hz], and 200 Hz). These fast rhythms are coupled to slower synchronizing potentials (theta and sharp wave, respectively), are correlated to macroscopic behavioral states, and to some extent are anatomically distinct. These population dynamics allow distributed populations of neurons across the hippocampal and entorhinal cortices to discharge together in time on the order of tens of milliseconds, and thus allow interconnected domains of a distributed neural network to become transiently entraining into synchronized, fast-frequency, population ensembles. We believe that these transient population dynamics allow interconnected domains to &quot;effectively communicate&quot; and modify their synaptic connectivity.
Recent evidence indicates that neocortical electrocorticographic (ECoG) activation depends critically on cholinergic (ACh) inputs from the basal forebrain and serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) inputs from the midbrain raphe to the neocortex. It appears that ACh and 5-HT block synchronized ECoG activity and induce cortical activation by a direct, local action in the neocortex that is not mediated by secondary systems. Concurrent blockade of cholinergic and serotonergic inputs to the cortex abolishes all ECoG activation, suggesting that: (a) together, ACh and 5-HT are essential for cortical activation to occur; and (b) other systems cannot maintain cortical activation in the absence of the cholinergic and serotonergic inputs. Nevertheless, additional neural systems (amygdala, locus coeruleus-noradrenaline (-NA), superior colliculus, orbitofrontal cortex, dopamine, histamine, glutamate) also modulate the ECoG and can produce cortical activation. In contrast to ACh and 5-HT, however, none of these systems are essential for the maintenance of cortical activation. Further, rather than producing activation via direct inputs to the neocortex, these systems appear to produce cortical activation by stimulating the cholinergic or serotonergic inputs to cortex. Thus, neocortical activation is maintained by multiple, parallel systems; cholinergic and serotonergic pathways are essential for activation and produce activation directly and locally in the neocortex, whereas additional pathways are not essential and contribute to activation indirectly by acting through these two direct activating inputs to the cortex.
The problems and issues associated with the use of pharmacological antagonists in studies on learning and memory are considered in a review of the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, NMDA receptor-mediated long-term potentiation (LTP), and muscarinic receptors in spatial learning in the water maze. The evidence indicates that neither NMDA nor muscarinic receptors, nor NMDA receptor-mediated LTP, are required for spatial learning, although they might normally contribute to it. Detailed behavioral analyses have indicated that the water maze task is more complex than generally has been appreciated, and has a number of dissociable components. Naive rats trained under NMDA or muscarinic antagonism display sensorimotor disturbances that interfere with their ability to acquire the task. Rats made familiar with the general requirements of the task can learn the location of a hidden platform readily under NMDA or muscarinic antagonism. The ability of a rat to acquire the water maze task depends on its ability to apply instinctive behaviors to performance of the task in an adaptive manner. The instinctive behaviors undergo modification as the rat learns the general strategies required in the task. The evidence suggests that at least some of the plastic changes involved in acquiring the task occur in existing neural circuits situated in widespread areas of the brain, including sensory and motor structures in the cortex and elsewhere, and are therefore difficult to distinguish from existing sensorimotor mechanisms. More generally, the findings indicate the difficulty of inferring the occurrence or nonoccurrence of learning from behavior, and the difficulty of causally linking the action of particular receptor populations with the formation of specific memories.
I have attempted a comprehensive review of psychological and neuroscientific findings relevant to the problem of mind in relation to the brain and behavior. The following conclusions are suggested: (a) current discussions of the mind often make implicit assumptions derived from the theories of Aristotle and Descartes while ignoring more recent scientific evidence; (b) psychological studies indicate that humans are directly aware of the external world and of their own bodies but of little else. Descartes' assumption that one has direct access to one's own thoughts appears to be an error; (c) there are no clear objective criteria for assessing the existence of subjective awareness in others. This problem is particularly acute in the cases of non-human animals and humans with impaired brain function; (d) the theory that the conventional subdivisions of the mind, such as emotion or cognition, reflect natural subdivisions of brain function is largely false; and (e) the main scientific challenge confronting neuroscience is not explaining the mind but rather achieving an understanding of how neural activity generates behavior.
In this study we have tried to elaborate necessary theoretical approaches for the adequate analysis of the central motor commands to a mammalian muscle in the equilibrium states and during transition movements between these states. At present, the equilibrium point hypothesis has obtained a wide distribution in this field. The muscle is considered in the framework of the theory as an executive element of the reflex circuits originating in the muscle proprioceptors and being closed at the level of spinal cord and the supraspinal motor centres. The main parameter defining the muscle state is supposed to be the threshold of the stretch reflex--the minimal length value at which muscle begins to resist to the externally applied force. We have attempted to show that the theory has an essential shortcoming because it does not take into account such important non-linearity in the muscle behaviour as hysteresis. In the framework of the equilibrium point hypothesis, the muscle behaviour within the stretch reflex system does not depend on movement direction. The stretch and unloading reflexes are supposed to have the same length tension dependencies when the muscle is stretching or contracting with a rather slow velocity. However, powerful hysteresis of the stretch reflex system requires taking into account the direction of the current movement, the after-effects of previous movement led to a principal uncertainty in the muscle steady-state. We would like to stress that any process of active muscle shortening should be controlled by dynamic components in efferent inflow. At the same time, the resulting steady-state develops by using effective hysteresis mechanism for its maintenance. The following hypothesis was proposed to explain the length clamping mechanisms in shortening transition movements. A significant decrement of the arrived efferent activity at the phase of the length fixation can evoke an internal elongation of the contractile elements within the muscle and corresponding hysteresis-like enhancement of the contractile effectiveness. Hence, instead of considering the quasi-static and dynamic components of movement commands as in the equilibrium point hypothesis, it is preferable to adopt a model of the shared coding of both the final position and movement velocity. The dynamic component of the efferent discharge seems to be required for a complete definition of the final steady-state, but maintenance of the state is closely associated with energetically advantageous hysteresis mechanisms. It was concluded that the dynamic phase of efferent activity should play an extremely important role in the central coding of the real movements produced, in particular, by contraction of agonists in the absence of antagonist activation.
Determination of the molecular mechanisms involved in organophosphate-induced axonopathy may help to elucidate those involved in normal axonal maintenance and in other neurodegenerative conditions. In this study we aimed to define the cellular distribution of neuropathy target esterase, the primary target protein for neuropathic organophosphates. A synthetic peptide corresponding to the sequence of a proteolytic fragment of neuropathy target esterase purified from chicken brain was used to raise a rabbit antiserum designated R28. The antiserum was shown by immunoprecipitation and western blotting of brain extracts to react with a polypeptide of the expected molecular size (155,000 mol. wt); this reaction was blocked by preincubating the antiserum with the immunizing peptide. Prominent intracellular immunostaining by R28 was seen in neuronal cell bodies and, in some cases, proximal axon segments in frozen sections of chicken brain cortex, optic tectum, cerebellum, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia. Cells with glial morphology were not immunostained, neither were normal sciatic nerve or motor end plates. However, 8-12 h following sciatic nerve ligation, immunoreactive material was seen to accumulate both proximal and, to a lesser extent, distal to the ligature, indicating that neuropathy target esterase undergoes fast axonal transport. No gross qualitative or quantitative changes in the above pattern of neuropathy target esterase immunoreactivity were detected in tissue obtained from chickens one or three days following treatment with a neuropathic organophosphate. The presence of neuropathy target esterase in essentially all neurons indicates that the selective vulnerability of long axons to neuropathic organophosphates is dependent on factors additional to the presence of the target protein.
The inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 has been implicated as a mediator of many centrally controlled responses, such as fever and increased activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis, after systemic infections. To identify the neuroanatomical loci of brain interleukin-1-producing cells during infection, we investigated interleukin-1beta messenger RNA expression by in situ hybridization histochemistry using a 500 nt ribonucleotide probe applied on brain sections from rats injected intraperitoneally with 2.5 mg/kg bacterial lipopolysaccharide or saline. In control animals, interleukin-1beta messenger RNA was not detectable. In the brains of lipopolysaccharide-injected animals, two temporally and spatially distinct waves of interleukin-1beta messenger RNA induction were observed. First, cell labelling appeared at 0.5 h, peaked at 2 h, and declined at 4-8 h. The labelled cells were concentrated in circumventricular organs--organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, subfornical organ, median eminence, and area postrema--and in choroid plexus, meninges, and blood vessels. Second, at 8-12 h, scattered small cells became labelled throughout the entire brain parenchyma; the labelling subsided by 24 h. Labelling was not observed in any neurons. In the pituitary, lipopolysaccharide induced strong interleukin-1beta messenger RNA expression initially in the anterior lobe at 0.5-1 h, and later in the neural lobe at 1-2 h, and subsiding thereafter. The results show that at early time points, peripheral lipopolysaccharide induces interleukin-1beta message production at the blood brain barrier and in circumventricular organs where the blood brain barrier is leaky. After a time delay of 6-10 h, however, interleukin-1beta messenger RNA is primarily expressed by non-neuronal cells of the brain in the brain parenchyma. These results suggest that the source of initial brain IL-1 activity after peripheral lipopolysaccharide injection derives from cells of the blood-brain barrier and the circumventricular organs, and the sustained interleukin-1 activity in the central nervous system thereafter is derived from glia.
Previous work has demonstrated that nitric oxide can be an important intracellular messenger in the regulation of neurosecretion in chromaffin cells. Since standard chromaffin cell cultures are mixed populations of noradrenaline and adrenaline producing cells, it would seem important to understand the functional differences between these individual components. The use of fluorescence imaging techniques for the recording of cytosolic calcium from single chromaffin cells together with the immunoidentification of individual cells with specific antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase, N-phenyl ethanolamine methyl transferase and nitric oxide synthase, has allowed us to measure single-cell calcium responses in identified adrenergic, noradrenergic and nitrergic chromaffin cells, thus helping us to clarify the differential role of nitric oxide in the function of these chromaffin cell types. 53 +/- 2% of chromaffin cells were able to synthesize nitric oxide (nitric oxidesynthase-positive cells), these cells being mainly noradrenergic (82 +/-2%). Results indicate that nitric oxide donors such as sodium nitroprusside, molsidomine and isosorbide dinitrate evoke [Ca2+]i increases in a 62 +/- 4% of chromaffin cells, the response to nitric oxide donors being between 30 and 50% of that of 20 microM nicotine. Cells responding to nitric oxide donors were mainly adrenergic (68 +/- 5%) although 45 +/- 9% of noradrenergic cells also gave [Ca2+]i increasing responses. The distribution of nitric oxide responding cells between nitric oxide synthase-positive and negative was very similar in the whole population (63 +/- 5 and 60 +/- 7%, respectively), but these differences were more prominent when considering the distribution of nitric oxide response between noradrenergic and adrenergic nitric oxide synthase-positive cells; while 73 6% of adrenergic nitric oxide synthase-positive cells evoke [Ca2+]i increases by nitric oxide stimulation, only 35 +/- 11% of noradrenergic nitric oxide synthase-positive cells respond. Taken together these results seem to indicate that (i) nitric oxide could act within adrenal medulla as both an intracellular and intercellular messenger; and (ii) noradrenergic cells seem to be specialized in nitric oxide synthesis while adrenergic cells with an endocrine function could mainly act as a target of neurosecretory action of this second messenger.
In the aldehyde-fixed rat brain NADPH-diaphorase is suggested to be related to brain nitric oxide synthase but also to other isoforms of this enzyme as well as to several non-related types of NADPH-oxidoreductases. In this study NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry using the tetrazolium salt BSPT (2-(2'-benzothiazolyl)-5-styryl-3-(4'-phthalhydrazidyl)-tetrazoliu m chloride) (to yield an electron dense formazan) and immunocytochemistry were applied for the cellular and subcellular localization of brain nitric oxide synthase in the striatum and the pontine laterodorsal tegmental nucleus of the rat. Combining the two techniques, in both brain regions identical distribution patterns of heavily-stained neurons were observed at the light microscopic level. There are inconsistencies in the literature with regard to the subcellular localization of brain nitric oxide synthase and NADPH-diaphorase in neurons. In our results brain nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in abundantly stained neurons was mainly cytosolically distributed, sometimes in a patch-like form and distant from membranes, whereas the NADPH-diaphorase reaction product BSPT-formazan was closely attached to discrete portions of intracellular membranes. Other neurons and glial cells including their processes showed also, but to a lesser extent, formazan-labelled membrane portions. In such cell populations brain nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was not detectable. Possible reasons for these inconsistencies are discussed in detail. The strength but not the specificity of the NADPH-diaphorase related reaction was shown to be dependent on concentrations of Triton X-100 and tetrazolium salt. We suggest that, for electron microscopical cytochemistry, the BSPT technique combined with other independent techniques, such as immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization, may be a viable means for the identification and subcellular localization of the different nitric oxide synthase isoforms, and to discriminate them from other types of NADPH-diaphorases.
Kindling is an animal model of epileptogenesis, whereby repeated administration of an initially subconvulsive electrical stimulation eventually leads to the development of generalized motor seizures. Once established, the kindling effect is permanent. Although the molecular basis of kindling remains incompletely understood, emerging lines of evidence suggest that the induction of immediate-early genes could represent a link between periodic short-term stimuli and the long-lasting functional and structural alterations in the brain associated with the development of seizures. A recent study showed that null mutation of the immediate-early gene c-fos impairs the structural and functional plasticities in kindling. In the present study, we examined whether two other seizure-inducible immediate-early genes--NGFI-A (also termed EGR-1, zifl268, and Krox-24) and NGFI-B (also termed Nur77)--play requisite roles in kindling. We found that neither the rate of kindling nor seizure-induced granule cell axonal sprouting was affected in mice carrying a null mutation of NGFI-A. Furthermore, double knock-out of NGFI-A and NGFI-B genes does not result in detectable changes in kindling development and associated mossy fibre sprouting. Taken together, our observations indicate that neither constitutive nor seizure-induced expression of NGFI-A or NGFI-B is uniquely required for the establishment of kindling. These findings underscore the specificity of the immediate-early genes whose transcriptional activation contributes to kindling epileptogenesis.
Two closely-related subsets of spinal motor neurons are differentially vulnerable in the degenerative neurological disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Autonomic motor neurons (i.e. preganglionic sympathetic neurons) survive in this disorder, whereas most spinal somatic motor neurons do not. The present study was undertaken in order to begin to understand the phenotypic differences between the two motor neuronal subsets which might contribute to this differential survival. Organotypic slice cultures of postnatal rat thoracic spinal cord were maintained in defined medium for one to 12 days in the presence or absence of N-methyl-D-aspartate or its antagonist, D-amino-phosphonopentanoic acid. Autonomic motor neurons that were stained for either nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate reduced diaphorase or choline acetyltransferase only were both able to tolerate 50 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate treatment for over seven days in culture with no apparent adverse effects. In contrast, cultures maintained for only one day in medium containing 50 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate showed a dramatic and highly significant decrease in the numbers of neurofilament-positive somatic motor neurons, as well as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate reduced diaphorase-positive interneurons. These N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced effects were dose-dependent and blockable. The results of this investigation indicated that autonomic motor neurons and somatic motor neurons were differentially susceptible to N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced excitotoxicity, and that the resistance of autonomic motor neurons to this insult appeared to be independent of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate reduced diaphorase phenotype.
Selective immunostaining for calcium-binding proteins identifies subpopulations of neurons with hypothetical distinct functional roles. The neuronal localization of calcium-binding proteins calretinin, parvalbumin and calbindin is here correlated to GABA and glutamate immunoreactivity in the guinea-pig piriform cortex. In the external border of the molecular layer, neurons positive for calretinin with morphological features of Cajal-Retzius cells were found. Rare GABA immunoreactive cells were observed in the same subpial region, whereas neurons containing GABA were abundant within layers Ia and Ib. Aspartate- and glutamate-immunoreactive cells were also found in the outer Ia layer. A distinct band of calretinin-immunoreactive fibres and terminals localized in layer Ia, where the afferent fibres originating from the olfactory bulb are segregated. In layer II the number of cells containing calretinin exceeded the number of neurons positive for the anti-GABA antibody. Part of the layer II calretinin-positive neurons with pyramidal shape and large apical dendrites directed toward the surface were found to be immunoreactive for the anti-glutamate antibody on adjacent sections. Neurons in layer II immunoreactive for either parvalbumin or calbindin showed morphological features of interneurons, and their number matched the count of GABA containing cells. Calretinin-positive neurons with the general morphological features of interneurons were scarcely represented in the deep piriform cortical layers, where large multipolar and small bipolar calbindin-positive cells prevailed. The present data show that in the piriform cortex of the guinea-pig calretinin, although expressed in Cajal-Retzius-like cells as in other cortical areas, also marks a subpopulation of glutamate containing pyramidal-like neurons in layer II.
Cells inside the intact organ of Corti were labelled with fluorescent probes reflecting various aspects of structure and function. The dyes were introduced into the perilymphatic space by perfusion of the scala tympani of the temporal bone from the guinea-pig maintained in isolation. The dyes were able to diffuse through the basilar membrane and into the organ of Corti where they were spontaneously absorbed by the sensory and supporting cells. Confocal microscopic observation was made through an opening in the apex of the cochlea. A number of different dyes were used; a carbocyanine dye which stains mitochondria; two styryl dyes which are absorbed by the cell membranes and calcein, a cytoplasmic marker that fluoresces in vital cells. Extracellular space was stained by a cell-impermeant Dextran fluorescein. The most striking finding was that the membrane dyes preferentially stained the sensory cells and neural elements whereas the staining of the supporting cells was faint. The cytoplasmic dye in general stained sensory and supporting cells to the same extent. By tilting the organ, a view could be obtained from the side like a radial section through the organ. Outer and inner hair cells with their sensory hairs, nerve fibres and nerve endings, especially under the inner hair cells, could be seen in profile. Introduction of a high molecular weight Dextran into the endolymphatic space outlined the tectorial membrane which was seen in negative contrast. The simultaneous perfusion with a membrane dye stained the hair cells and their sensory hairs. Merging of the two images gave the possibility to examine, in the living tissue, the cilia to tectorial membrane relationship. Of general interest is the finding that the membrane dyes preferentially stained the sensory and neural elements of the nervous system, represented here by the hair cells and nerve fibres of the inner ear.
To evaluate the reversibility of neural function in the brainstem following ischemia, we investigated the effect of transient brainstem ischemia on the brainstem auditory evoked potential in gerbils. Brainstem ischemia was produced by bilateral extracranial occlusion of vertebral arteries. Local cerebral blood flow was measured by quantitative autoradiography after 5 min of ischemia and was reduced to less than 3 ml/100 g per min in the pons and lower midbrain, indicating severe and reproducible brainstem ischemia. During brainstem ischemia, brainstem auditory evoked potential waveforms disappeared completely. After a brief ischemic insult (5 min), all four brainstem auditory evoked potential components recovered to normal. After longer ischemic insults (10-30 min), brainstem auditory evoked potential components never recovered to normal. Microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity revealed differential vulnerability of the acoustic relay nuclei in the brainstem. Neurons in the lateral lemniscus were most vulnerable, followed in order by neurons in the trapezoid body, the superior olive and the cochlear nucleus. We also demonstrated a close relationship between the reversibility of ischemia-induced changes on brainstem auditory evoked potential and ischemic lesions of these relay nuclei. These data may be useful for evaluating the therapeutic window of thrombolytic therapy during acute vertebrobasilar occlusion.
The olfactory neuroepithelium retains the unique capacity to produce a new set of mature neurons every three to four weeks from a precursor population situated at the base of the epithelium. It is not known however, whether developing olfactory neurons in the adult rat follow the same program that is initiated embryonically. By tracking the expression of beta-III tubulin (by immunoreactivity to TuJ-1, an isoform-specific antibody) throughout embryogenesis, we have demonstrated a commitment to the olfactory neuron lineage in a subset of cells in the embryonic olfactory placode and followed their development into adulthood. We have also shown that this developmental pattern of beta-III tubulin expression is recapitulated in neurons undergoing a synchronized neurogenic response to either physical or chemical lesion in the adult neuroepithelium. The embryonic expression pattern reported here is similar to, but earlier than that reported for other markers of developing neurons, such as growth-associated protein-43 and neural cell adhesion molecule. The results of these studies suggest the retention of a conserved neurogenic program from embryonic to adult life in the olfactory neuron and, in addition, support the use of a readily accessible system such as the regenerating olfactory neuroepithelium as an alternative means of studying genes which may be crucial to normal neuronal development.
Recent evidence suggests that extracellular ATP plays a neurotransmitter role in the central nervous system. Its fast ionotropic effects are exerted through a family of P2X ATP-gated channels expressed in brain and spinal cord. To determine the physiological significance of central ATP receptors, we have investigated the localization of a major neuronal P2X receptor at the cellular and subcellular levels using affinity-purified antibodies directed against the C-terminal domain of P2X4 subunit. Subunit-specific anti-P2X4 antibodies detected a single band of 57,000 +/- 3000 mol. wt in transfected HEK-293 cells and in homogenates from adult rat brain. The strongest expression of central P2X receptors was observed in the olfactory bulb, lateral septum, cerebellum and spinal cord. P2X4 immunoreactivity was also evident in widespread areas including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and brainstem. In all regions examined, P2X receptors were associated with perikarya and dendrites where they were concentrated at the level of afferent synaptic junctions, confirming a direct involvement of postsynaptic ATP-gated channels in fast excitatory purinergic transmission. Moreover, P2X4-containing purinoceptors were localized in axon terminals in the olfactory bulb and in the substantia gelatinosa of nucleus caudalis of the medulla and dorsal horn of the spinal cord, demonstrating an important selective presynaptic role of ATP in the modulation of neurotransmitter release in central sensory systems.
Changes in D1-, D2- and D4-like dopamine receptor binding in rat brain were examined by quantitative autoradiography following: (i) unilateral surgical ablation of frontal cerebral cortex to remove descending projections to corpus striatum and nucleus accumbens, (ii) unilateral injections of kainic acid into corpus striatum or nucleus accumbens to degenerate local intrinsic neurons, (iii) unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine into substantia nigra to degenerate ascending dopamine projections. Rats were killed one week after lesioning, with contralateral tissue controls. Radioligands were: [3H]SCH-23390 for D1-like (D1/D5) receptors, [3H]nemonapride alone for D2-like (D2/D3/D4) receptors, and [3H]nemonapride with 300 nM S[-]-raclopride and other masking agents for D4-like receptors (identified by blockade with D4 selective L-745,870). Frontal cerebral cortex ablation did not alter D1- or D2-like receptor density, but D4-like binding decreased significantly in both corpus striatum (18%) and nucleus accumbens (23%). Kainic acid markedly reduced D1-like (75% and 84%) and D2-like binding (44% and 52%), with smaller D4-like losses (28% and 27%) in corpus striatum and nucleus accumbens, respectively. Nigral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions (verified by autoradiographic loss of dopamine transporters labelled with [3H]GBR-12935) did not significantly change D1-, D2-, or D4-like binding in the corpus striatum. These results suggest that the majority of D1-, and D2-like, and a smaller portion of D4-like receptors in corpus striatum and nucleus accumbens arise on intrinsic postsynaptic neurons, and that some D4-like, but neither D1- nor D2-like, receptors are found on presynaptic corticostriatal afferents.
Neurotrophins mediate specific effects on sensory neurons through tyrosine kinase receptors. Most of these neurons also co-express the neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75NTR), but its function has remained obscure. We now show that nerve growth factor but not brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-3 selectively increases the expression of bradykinin binding sites on cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from adult mouse via p75NTR. This up-regulation of bradykinin binding sites did not occur in neurons from mice lacking p75NTR or in neurons from wild-type mice treated with p75NTR-blocking antibody, indicating that tyrosine kinase receptors alone are not sufficient to trigger this physiological neuronal response. Thus, the interaction of nerve growth factor with p75NTR is an important factor contributing to chronic pain conditions.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has two receptors, receptor-tyrosine kinase c-ret and glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked cell surface receptor GDNFRalpha. Kainate-induced seizures, a widely studied model of neuronal plasticity and human epilepsy, have been shown to increase gene expression of several trophic factors, including GDNF, in the rat hippocampus. Here we show that systemic kainate-induced excitation leads to a transient increase of both c-ret and GDNFRalpha messenger RNAs in the rat brain. Northern analysis demonstrated that, in the hippocampus, the maximal 2.5-fold increase of c-ret and four-fold increase of GDNFRalpha messenger RNAs was observed after 12 h of kainate injection, in contrast to GDNF messenger RNA, which reaches its maximum in 4-6 h. The blocking of de novo protein synthesis by cycloheximide inhibited the induction of GDNF receptors by kainate, whereas blocking of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors by the antagonist dizocilpine maleate did not significantly alter the response. Thus, GDNF receptor messenger RNA increase by kainate depends on protein synthesis, but is not mediated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. GDNFRalpha and c-ret show distinct, but partially overlapping, patterns of expression in the brain after kainate treatment. GDNFRalpha messenger RNA was prominently induced in the dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus, less in the habenular and reticular thalamic nuclei and cerebral cortex as revealed by in situ hybridization. C-ret transcripts were induced in the hilus of the hippocampus, several thalamic and amygdala nuclei and in superficial layers of the piriform cortex. These data suggest that GDNF and its receptors may play a local role in neuronal plasticity and in neuronal protection following epileptic insults.
Increasing evidence underlies the importance of neurotrophins as neuron-derived trophic signals in the developing visual system, although their precise roles are still undefined. Here we show that brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA is simultaneously expressed in a subpopulation of retinal ganglion cells and in their target during late embryogenesis. Moreover, light as well as the excitotoxin; kainic acid, induced an increase of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA, which could be blocked by the sodium-channel blocker; tetrodotoxin. Messenger RNA for trkB, a receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor, was found in the retinal ganglion cells expressing brain-derived neurotrophic factor showing that certain retinal ganglion cells express messenger RNA both for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and trkB. Furthermore, trkB messenger RNA was found in tectum, in the same layers as the brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. These findings suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression is regulated in an activity-dependent manner during the phase of development when neuronal activity plays an important role.
A recent study has shown that ventral hippocampal galanin plays a role in spatial learning and that it has an inhibitory effect on basal acetylcholine release [Ogren S. O. et al. (1996) Neuroscience 75, 1127-1140]. The present studies were designed to compare the in vivo tissue distribution and kinetics of infused galanin (porcine) with the temporal effect of galanin on spatial learning in the rat. Daily bilateral microinfusions of galanin (1.5 nmol/side for five days) via chronic cannulae placed in the ventral hippocampus produced a significant impairment of acquisition of the spatial task when infused 20 min, but not 5 or 60 min, before the daily training session. No overall impairment of memory retention (examined 24 h after the last training session) was observed in the galanin-treated rats. These results indicate that galanin given in the ventral hippocampus produces a time-dependent effect on acquisition. Using an antibody to porcine galanin and immunohistochemistry, galanin infused in the ventral hippocampus was found to be distributed mainly within the ventral part of the hippocampus and around the infusion site. The infused galanin was rapidly cleared from the extracellular space between 5 and 20 min after infusion. Five minutes after infusion of galanin, a number of cells in the ventral hippocampus, both within and outside the zone of extracellularly located galanin, showed a positive galanin-like immunoreactivity. These cells appear morphologically to be medium-sized neurons with a similar position as cells showing neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity. At 20 and 60 min after infusion of galanin, no cells with detectable levels of galanin-like immunoreactivity could be seen. These results indicate that the temporal kinetics and distribution of infused galanin are of major importance for its behavioural effect in the ventral hippocampus. The rapid clearance of the infused galanin and its internalization by neuronal endocytotic mechanisms may be important for its effect on cognition.
It has been proposed that parkinsonian tremor is produced either by the activity of an intrinsic thalamic pacemaker or by the oscillation of an unstable long loop reflex arc. The former (central) hypothesis proposes that overactivity of neurons in the internal segment of the globus pallidus inhibits or hyperpolarizes thalamic neurons. When hyperpolarized, thalamic cells oscillate with bursting of the type associated with low threshold calcium spikes (low threshold spike-bursts). Low threshold spike-bursts can be identified by particular patterns of interspike intervals within the burst. The alternative (peripheral) hypothesis proposes that tremor results from oscillation of a reflex arc transmitting activity from muscle stretch receptors to thalamus, motor cortex, and back to the stretched muscle. When the gain of this reflex is increased, the arc may become unstable and oscillate. Oscillations produced by peripheral inputs may produce an acceleration-deceleration pattern within the burst which results in sinusoidal modulation of a spike train if bursting is periodic. We have assessed these two hypotheses by studying the pattern of interspike intervals occurring within bursts recorded in patients with parkinsonian tremor. The spike trains were analysed for 118 cells located in the ventral nuclear group including ventralis intermedius (thalamic cerebellar relay nucleus, n=48) and ventralis oralis posterior (thalamic pallidal relay nucleus, n=39) of patients with parkinsonian tremor. Two cells recorded in ventralis intermedius of a sleeping patient with chronic pain showed bursting activity similar to the low threshold spike-bursts recorded in sleeping animals, suggesting a common mechanism for low threshold spike-bursts across species. Forty-two cells recorded in patients with parkinsonian tremor (ventralis intermedius, n=19; ventralis oralis posterior, n=12) were classified as tremor-related cells because their activity was characterized by both a concentration of power at tremor frequency and significant correlation with tremor. Eleven tremor-related cells, 10 located in ventralis intermedius or ventralis oralis posterior and most responding to sensory inputs, had an acceleration-deceleration pattern of intraburst firing. Only one cell, a tremor-related cell in ventralis intermedius, showed the pattern expected of presumed low threshold spike-bursts. Therefore, intraburst interspike interval patterns consistent with either the central or the peripheral hypothesis were recorded in the thalamus of patients with parkinsonian tremor. Twenty-one tremor-related cells (15 cells in ventralis intermedius or ventralis oralis posterior) had bursts with intraburst interspike intervals which were independent of position of the interspike interval within the burst. Therefore, the activity of the majority of cells was not consistent with either hypothesis, suggesting that another oscillatory process may contribute to parkinsonian tremor.
We investigated the role of glutamatergic synapses in the expression of Fos protein at the nucleus tractus solitarii following baroreceptor activation in rats anaesthetized with pentobarbital sodium. Microinjection of L-glutamate (1 nmol) bilaterally into the nucleus tractus solitarii elicited significant hypotension and bradycardia. There was a concurrent increase, as determined immunohistochemically, in the expression of Fos protein at the commissural, medial and dorsomedial subnuclei of the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii. These effects were blunted when L-glutamate was co-administered with either the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate or non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate (200 pmol) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (8 pmol), into the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii. Repeated and scheduled transient hypertension evoked by phenylephrine (2.5, 5.0 or 10.0 microg/kg, i.v.) also appreciably increased the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons at the commissural, medial and dorsomedial subnuclei of the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii. The expression of Fos protein in this fashion was reduced, simultaneous with a discernible depression in baroreceptor reflex response, when baroreceptor activation was coupled with microinjection bilaterally of dizocilpine maleate (200 pmol) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (8 pmol) into the nucleus tractus solitarii. Regression analysis showed that the depressive action on the baroreceptor reflex response by both glutamate receptor antagonists correlated positively to the reduction in Fos-immunoreactivity in the nucleus tractus solitarii after baroreceptor activation. Double immunohistochemical staining revealed that nucleus tractus solitarii neurons that showed Fos immunoreactivity were generally also immunoreactive to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor subunit 1. On the other hand, Fos immunoreactivity was usually absent from neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii that were immunoreactive to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1. These results suggest that glutamatergic neurotransmission plays an active role, via comparable contributions from both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, in the expression of Fos protein at the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii in response to baroreceptor activation.
In the present study, in vivo voltammetry was used to monitor changes in dopamine levels in the left and right medial prefrontal cortex of rats exposed to mild physical and psychological stress. These were 2 min of tail-pinch and 15 min exposure to cat odour, respectively. Fourteen male Long Evans rats with bilateral carbon fibre recording electrodes were tested on four consecutive days, and records obtained in each medial prefrontal cortex for each stressor. A week later, animals underwent a 20 min restraint stress, with plasma samples taken at 0, 20 and 80 min to determine stress-induced corticosterone responses. It was found that dopamine responses to tail-pinch were significantly longer-lasting in the left hemisphere than in the right, while this asymmetry was not present for the dopamine response to cat odour. Stress-induced dopamine increases elicited by the two stressors were significantly correlated only in the right medial prefrontal cortex. Restraint stress-induced increases in plasma corticosterone were positively correlated with dopaminergic responses to tail-pinch, but were only related to dopamine cat odour responses when individual asymmetries favoured the right medial prefrontal cortex. The data suggest that asymmetric mesocortical dopamine activation depends on the type of stress, and that regulation of dopamine responses to both types of stress is most tightly coupled in the right hemisphere. While neuroendocrine and dopaminergic stress responses are positively linked, this relationship is only asymmetrical for the psychological stressor, suggesting a specialized role for right cortical mechanisms in the integration of emotional and physiological responses to stressful situations. A preliminary report of this work was presented at the Society for Neuroscience meeting in Washington DC, November, 1996.
An influence of the prefrontal cortex on noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons would have profound implications for the function of the locus coeruleus system. Although the medial prefrontal cortex does not substantially innervate the core of the nucleus locus coeruleus, evidence indicates that the medial prefrontal cortex projects to regions containing locus coeruleus dendrites; indirect medial prefrontal cortex-locus coeruleus projections are also possible. Here, we examined influences of prefrontal cortex activity on locus coeruleus firing rates by activating or inactivating the medial prefrontal cortex while recording impulse activity of locus coeruleus neurons extracellularly in anaesthetized rats. Most of our electrical stimulation experiments were conducted in rats which underwent lesions of the ascending dorsal bundle of noradrenergic fibres from the locus coeruleus to eliminate locus coeruleus projections to the prefrontal cortex, because antidromic activation of locus coeruleus from the prefrontal cortex affects even non-driven locus coeruleus neurons through collaterals. Single pulse stimulation (1 mA, 0.3-0.5 ms) of the dorsomedial (frontal region 2) or prelimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex synaptically activated 13/16 (81%) or 16/56 (29%) locus coeruleus neurons, respectively. Train stimulation (20 Hz for 0.5 s) synaptically activated greater percentages of locus coeruleus cells, 11/12 cells (92%) for the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, and 41/50 cells (82%) for the prelimbic cortex. No inhibitory responses in the locus coeruleus were obtained with dorsomedial prefrontal stimulation, and weak inhibition was found in 16% of locus coeruleus cells with prelimbic stimulation. Electrical stimulation of more lateral frontal cortex (Fr1 area) had no effects on locus coeruleus activity. Chemical stimulation of the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex with L-glutamate (10 or 100 mM) or D,L-homocysteic acid (10 mM) phasically activated 15/26 (55%) locus coeruleus cells, and 15/68 cells (22%) with prelimbic stimulation; such activation was sometimes followed by long-lasting oscillatory activity. No locus coeruleus cells exhibited purely inhibitory responses with chemical stimulation of any prefrontal cortex site. Inactivation of the dorsomedial or prelimbic region of the prefrontal cortex with lidocaine microinjection (2%, 180 or 300 nl) reduced locus coeruleus firing rates in 6/10 (60%) or 7/19 (37%) locus coeruleus cells, respectively. In no case did lidocaine in any prefrontal cortex site activate a locus coeruleus neuron. These results indicate that the medial prefrontal cortex provides a potent excitatory influence on locus coeruleus neurons. The fact that inactivation of the medial prefrontal cortex suppressed locus coeruleus firing indicates that the medial prefrontal cortex also provides a resting tonic excitatory influence on locus coeruleus activity.
The follicles of whiskers C1-3 were removed from the left side of the snout of adult mice. Adjacent whiskers B1-3 and D1-3 were stimulated while local rates of glucose utilization were measured with the [14C]2-deoxyglucose method two, four, eight, 64, 160 and approximately 250 days after follicle removal. Local metabolic activity in the trigeminal sensory brainstem and somatosensory thalamus was compared with that of unoperated mice with the same stimulation and of mice with the same lesion that had all whiskers clipped. Actual rates of glucose utilization were measured in brainstem subnuclei caudalis and interpolaris whereas metabolic activation was only assessable by colour-coded imaging in brainstem nucleus principalis and in the thalamic ventrobasal complex. Whisker stimulation activated the somatotopically appropriate loci in brainstem and thalamus. In addition, the territory deprived by follicle removal was metabolically activated in subnuclei caudalis and interpolaris at all time intervals examined. The activation was statistically significant in subnucleus interpolaris at two days, indicating that the metabolic representations of whiskers neighbouring the lesion rapidly expanded into the deprived territory. Nucleus principalis showed a broad metabolic activation at two and four days that was absent at the longer time intervals examined. Instead, at approximately 250 days the metabolic representations of the whiskers adjacent to the lesion were enlarged into the deprived territory as in the subnuclei. Since metabolic whisker representation in the ventrobasal complex appeared to have changed in the same fashion, follicle removal apparently resulted in congruent modifications of the whisker map in the three nuclei of termination as well as in the thalamic relay at the longest time interval examined. Since metabolic responsiveness of the deprived barrels in barrel cortex of the same animals increased statistically significantly only several months after follicle removal, the novel neural responses in the brainstem were not effectively transmitted to barrel cortex immediately and the slowly evolving cortical modifications are more likely to be associated with regrowth of the connectivity of primary neurons. By contrast, unmasking of hitherto suppressed inputs may underlie the early expansion of metabolic whisker representation in the brainstem.
We investigated alterations of the metabolic whisker map of barrel cortex after the removal of the follicles of left whiskers C1, C2 and C3 in adult albino mice. The quantitative autoradiographic [14C]deoxyglucose method was used to measure local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in barrel cortex of mice two, four, eight, 64, 160 and 250 days after the lesion. Metabolic rates were measured in three groups of animals: (i) mice with lesions that had all whiskers clipped; (ii) mice with lesions that had left whiskers B1-3 and D1-3 stimulated; and (iii) unoperated mice that had left whiskers B1-3 and D1-3 stimulated. Compared with the metabolic rates in barrels C1-3 of stimulated unoperated mice, barrels C1-3 of stimulated mice with lesions showed the first discernible increase in metabolic rate four days after the lesion. The increase became distinct at 64 days, but attained statistical significance only approximately 160 days after the lesion. The lesion per se, i.e. without whisker stimulation, caused only a small increase in metabolic rate in barrels C1-3 accounting for not more than one fourth of the increase in metabolic rate measured after whisker deflection. The removal of whisker follicles C1-3 led, therefore, to an enlargement of the metabolic representations of the adjacent whiskers into the barrels deprived by the lesion. The gradual consolidation of the alterations of the metabolic whisker map coincided with the regeneration of follicular nerves in the whiskerpad. We detected anomalous deep nerves innervating follicles surrounding the lesion at approximately 64 days, and the number of myelinated nerve fibres in the deep nerves of these follicles was increasing with increasing time after the lesion. The coincidence of peripheral and central change suggests that the reorganization of the innervation of the sensory periphery plays an important role in the persistent alterations of the cortical somatotopy in adults following a lesion in the sensory periphery.
We investigated, with whole-cell recordings from rat visual cortex slices, how sinusoidal modulation of the membrane potential affects signal transmission. Subthreshold oscillations activate tetrodotoxin sensitive, transient inward currents whose threshold, phase lag and duration change with modulation frequency. These periodically recurring phases of enhanced excitability affect synaptic transmission in two ways. Weak and short lasting excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoke discharges only if they are coincident within a few milliseconds with these active membrane responses. Long-lasting, N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated or polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials, by contrast, evoke trains of spikes, that are precisely time-locked to the oscillations and may last for more than 100 ms. Thus, oscillations impose a precise temporal window for the integration of synaptic inputs, favouring coincidence detection and they generate temporally-structured responses whose timing and amplitude are largely independent of the input. These properties are ideally suited for the synchronization of neuronal activity and the encoding of information in the precise timing of discharges. A preliminary account of these data has appeared in an abstract form [Volgushev M. et al. (1995) Eur. J Neurosci. 8, 77].
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent neurotrophic factor with diverse biological functions. Signal transduction of GDNF is mediated by binding to a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked receptor GDNFR-alpha and activation of c-RET tyrosine kinase. The recent discovery of a new GDNF homolog neurturin raises the possibility that multiple receptors exist for the members in the GDNF family. Here we report isolation of the gene encoding a new receptor called GDNFR-beta. Sequence analysis indicated that GDNFR-beta is also a GPI-linked protein, with 47% identity to GDNFR-alpha. The GDNFR-beta transcript was preferentially expressed in the brain, spleen and lung, but moderate levels of GDNFR-beta mRNA were also found in kidney and the entire gastrointestinal track. In situ hybridization revealed high expression levels in the entorhinal cortex and olfactory bulb, followed by cortex, septum, inferior and superior colliculus, and zona inserta. A laminar pattern of expression was detected in layer III of the cortex. Treatment with GDNF of PC12 cells transfected with the GDNFR-beta gene activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and elicited neurite outgrowth. GDNFR-alpha and GDNFR-beta together form a new family of GPI-linked receptors for GDNF-like molecules.
Voltage-gated calcium channels form a complex family of distinct molecular entities which participate in multiple neuronal functions. In cerebellar Purkinje cells these channels contribute to the characteristic electrophysiological pattern of complex spikes, first described in birds and later in mammals. A specific calcium channel, the P-type channel, has been shown to mediate the majority of the voltage-gated calcium flux in mammalian Purkinje cells. P-type channels play an essential role in synaptic transmission of mammalian cerebellum. It is unclear whether the P-type calcium channel is present in birds. Studies in chick synaptosomal preparations show that the pharmacological profile of calcium channels is complex and suggest a minimal expression of the P-type channel in avian central nervous system. In the present work, we studied voltage-gated calcium channels in dissociated chick cerebellar Purkinje cells to examine the presence of different calcium channel types. Purkinje cells were used because, in mammals, they express predominantly P-type channels and because the morphology of these cells is thought to be phylogenetically conserved. We found that omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx GVIA), a specific antagonist of N-type calcium channel, rather than the synthetic funnel-web spider toxin (sFTX), a P-type channel antagonist, blocks the majority of the barium current flowing through calcium channels in chick Purkinje neurons.
We investigated the effects of a single administration of tetrahydroaminoacridine (25 and 50 mg, orally), a cholinesterase inhibitor, on memory function in Alzheimer's disease patients. The recall of memory items from the end of the word list (recency effect) was improved in a subgroup of Alzheimer's disease patients (responders 10 out of 28) by tetrahydroaminoacridine 50 mg. However, tetrahydroaminoacridine 50 mg had no effect on the recall of those words from the beginning or middle of the list. Tetrahydroaminoacridine did not markedly improve non-verbal delayed matching to sample or paired associates learning in any of the Alzheimer's disease patients. The &quot;responders&quot; performed better than the &quot;non-responders&quot; in tests measuring memory and frontal functions. The responders had less severe hippocampal atrophy and less prefrontal blood flow defect, and had a lower frequency of the apolipoprotein E4 allele than the &quot;non-responders&quot;. These results suggest that acute tetrahydroaminoacridine treatment may stimulate the recency effect, and that a severe dysfunction of hippocampus and prefrontal regions blocks this effect of tetrahydroaminoacridine on short-term memory performance.
In these experiments a large portion of the pelvic ganglion of adult female rats was transplanted into the wall of the urinary bladder of the same animals. The morphology and fine structure of the transplants were studied in whole-mounts and in sections for light and electron microscopy, from two days up to four months after operation. The general architecture of the ganglion was preserved in all the transplants. The vascularization was re-established. Nerves grew out of the transplant and connections with the original intramural nerves of the bladder wall were established. All the synapses degenerated at the time of transplantation; new synapses began to reappear on the ganglion neurons in the oldest transplants. Although some neurons in the transplant degenerated during the first few days, the majority of neurons survived for the full length of the experiments (four months). Satellite glial cells and small intensely fluorescent cells had a similar structure and distribution as in control ganglia. The results show that the homotransplant of pelvic neurons into the bladder has a high rate of success, in terms of survival, maintenance of fine structure, growth and re-connections; these neurons of adult organisms display plastic and regenerative abilities.
The effect of chronic spinal cord transection on neurofilament immunoreactivity and capsaicin sensitivity of L6 and S1 dorsal root ganglion neurons innervating the urinary bladder was examined using an antibody (RT97) against 200,000 mol. wt subunit of neurofilament protein and a cobalt uptake assay, respectively. Bladder afferent neurons labelled by axonal transport of a fluorescent dye (Fast Blue) injected into the bladder wall were identified in sections of intact dorsal root ganglia and among dissociated neurons in short-term culture. Approximately two thirds of bladder afferent neurons from spinal intact rats were neurofilament-poor (i.e. C-fibre neurons). These neurons were on average 37% smaller in cross-sectional area than neurofilament-rich neurons (A delta-fibre neurons). In spinal intact rats, 78% of neurofilament-poor dissociated bladder afferent neurons were sensitive to capsaicin, while only 6.2% of neurofilament-rich neurons were capsaicin-sensitive. Dissociated bladder afferent neurons from spinal transected animals had larger diameters (34.2 +/- 1.1 microns) than those from spinal intact animals (29.2 +/- 1.2 microns). In tissue sections from dorsal root ganglia, the mean cross-sectional area of bladder afferent neuron profiles in spinal transected animals was also larger by approximately 35% than in spinal intact animals. Immunoreactivity to neurofilament protein which occurred in 32% of bladder afferent neurons in spinal intact animals was detected in a larger percentage (56% to 62%) of neurons from spinal transected animals. Conversely, the population of capsaicin-sensitive dissociated neurons was reduced from 55% in spinal intact rats to 38% in spinal transected rats. These results indicate that spinal cord injury induces functional and morphological plasticity in C-fibre visceral afferent neurons innervating the urinary bladder.
The rostroventrolateral medulla is a key site for the regulation of vasomotor tone. Sympatho-excitatory neurons project from this region to contact sympathetic preganglionic neurons located in the intermediolateral nucleus of the thoracic and lumbat spinal cord. Functional studies show that stimulation of specific sites in the ventral medulla lead to selective activation of different vascular effectors. The present study was designed to determine the anatomical basis for this selectivity in vasomotor control. Anterograde and retrograde tracing methods were utilized to determine if the descending rostral ventrolateral projection is topographically organized such that neurons in particular locations within the nucleus project preferentially and contact a specific group of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. For this purpose spinally-projecting neurons at 15 sites from three separate rostrocaudal locations within the rostroventrolateral medulla in nine rats were anterogradely labelled with biotin dextran amine. The spinal cord was examined for axon terminals having close apposition to two groups of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, those projecting to the superior cervical ganglion and those to the adrenal medulla which were retrogradely labelled with cholera B chain-conjugated horseradish peroxidase. Areas of close apposition between retrogradely-labelled dendrites, cell bodies and anterogradely-labelled axons were found. Axons descending from the more rostral part of the rostroventrolateral medulla produced the highest density of close appositions to sympathetic preganglionic neurons in both target-specific populations. Caudal rostroventrolateral medulla injection sites gave rise to a less dense distribution of axons and terminals around the spinal sympathetic nuclei. This study has demonstrated that spinally-projecting neurons in the rostroventrolateral medulla are both topographically and viscerotopically organized. It is suggested that such an arrangement provides the means for selective and differential control of autonomic effectors and in particular those involved in cardiovascular regulation.
Cross-sections of the vas deferens taken from control adult male rats showed positive histochemical reactivity to acetylcholinesterase and immunoreactivity for antibodies to protein gene product 9.5, tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, nitric oxide synthase and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Immunoreactivity to substance P was very sparse. Histochemical reactivity to acetylcholinesterase and immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and nitric oxide synthase was concentrated in the subepithelial lamina propria and inner smooth muscle layers. Complete surgical denervation resulting from transection of the nerve arising from the pelvic ganglion which supplies the vas deferens totally abolished the immunoreactivity to all of the antibodies tested as well as the histochemical reactivity to acetylcholinesterase. In sections of the prostatic end of the vas deferens taken from rats neonatally pretreated with capsaicin, immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P was reduced by 75 and 83%, respectively. Immunoreactivity to neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and nitric oxide synthase was similar in tissue sections taken from capsaicin-treated rats and those taken from control tissues. Pretreatment of rats with guanethidine or 6-hydroxydopamine decreased immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y by 60-70%, but immunoreactivity to substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and nitric oxide synthase was unchanged, while immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide and acetylcholinesterase staining was increased by guanethidine but not by 6-hydroxydopamine treatment. Triple labelling experiments showed nitric oxide synthase, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and acetylcholinesterase all to be co-localized in some nerve fibres. These results indicate that the nitric oxide synthase contained in the nerve fibres innervating the rat vas deferens is unaffected by pretreatment of rats with capsaicin, 6-hydroxydopamine or guanethidine but is abolished by surgical denervation, of postganglionic parasympathetic, sympathetic and sensory nerves. Therefore it appears that nitric oxide synthase is co-localized with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the postganglionic parasympathetic nerves which innervate the rat vas deferens.
The present study demonstrates that approximately 36% of postganglionic sympathetic axons in gray rami express receptors for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and 10% express the glutamate receptor 1 subunit of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor. If these receptors are active, glutamate released from primary afferent terminals could activate these receptors resulting in the release of noradrenaline and other substances from postganglionic sympathetic neurons. This interaction would constitute a non-synaptic, sensory-sympathetic, peripheral reflex that might be important in local vascular control and in pain states that have a sympathetic component.
Trigeminal ganglia provides sensory innervation to the rat nasal cavity. The purpose of this study was to identify the location and characterize the neuropeptide content of trigeminal neurons that project specifically to the rat nasal epithelium. The right nasal cavity was instilled with 4 microliters of rhodamine-labelled latex microspheres. Seven, 10 or 14 days after tracer instillation, both trigeminal ganglia were removed and prepared for substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunocyto-chemistry. neurons labelled with microspheres were located in the trigeminal ganglia at the division of the ophthalmic and maxillary nerves and were only found on the side ipsilateral to the instillation. The percentage of labelled cell body profiles in the right trigeminal ganglia averaged 1.61 +/- .04% at seven days. 1.54 +/- .01% at 10 days, and 1.65 +/- .02% at 14 days after instillation. These values were not statistically different, but the fluorescence intensity in labelled neurons was increased after 14 days. The right trigeminal ganglia contained a mean of 166 +/- 13.81 labelled cell body profiles representing 1.60 +/- .09% of the total. Of the labelled profiles, 81.6 +/- 3.27% were immunoreactive for substance P and 35.2 +/- 4.00% for calcitonin gene-related peptide. Sections of nasal mucosa showed that the microspheres were localized only in the epithelial layer and did not enter the lamina propria indicating that the microsphere transport was confined to nerve fibres present in the epithelial layer. These studies have identified specific neurons in the trigeminal ganglia that project to the nasal epithelium. Most of the neurons retrogradely labelled from the nasal cavity contained substance P but some contained calcitonin gene-related peptide, suggesting that the nasal epithelium is predominantly targeted by substance P-containing neurons.
Microprobes bearing immobilized antibodies to the C-terminus of neuropeptide Y were used to measure the release of this neuropeptide in the spinal cords of rats with a unilateral peripheral neuropathy and in sham-operated animals. All neuropathic animals showed the characteristic behavioural syndrome and were studied at 14 days postsciatic nerve loose-ligation. An extensive spontaneous release of immunoreactive neuropeptide Y was detected in the spinal cords of the neuropathic rats and, compared to sham-operated rats, a new zone of release was found in the deep dorsal horn. Electrical stimulation of large diameter primary afferents proximal to the nerve ligature produced widespread release of neuropeptide Y in the dorsal horn which persisted for up to 1 h poststimulation. It is possible that ectopic impulses arising in the injured nerve were responsible for the spontaneous central release of neuropeptide Y and this neuropeptide may play a role in the central response to peripheral nerve injury.
The role of metabotropic glutamate receptors in the processing of somatosensory information was studied in dorsal horn neurons of the rat spinal cord. Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors by local iontophoresis of (1S,3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid resulted in an increased response of dorsal horn neurons to ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists (N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainic acid) applied by iontophoresis. Greater amounts of 1S,3R-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, ejected at high iontophoresis currents, directly excited dorsal horn neurons. Application of (1S,3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid also led to a significant increase in responses to innocuous (brush, pressure) but not in responses to noxious (pinch, squeeze) mechanical stimulation. The excitatory effects of (1S,3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid were selectively blocked by (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenyl-glycine, an antinociceptive phenylglycine derivative which is a selective group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, confirming the involvement of these receptors. In wide dynamic range neurons, wind-up, the progressive potentiation of C-fibre-evoked responses during a train of stimuli, was increased by iontophoretic application of (1S,3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid or decreased by iontophoresis of (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenyl-glycine without significant change in the C-fibre input. The results suggest an interaction between metabotropic and ionotropic glutamate receptors in spinal dorsal horn neurons. Metabotropic glutamate receptors proved to be involved in the frequency-dependent potentiation of C-fibre responses possibly via modulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors. The long-lasting effects of (1S,3R)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid on wind-up and on responses to peripheral mechanical stimuli strongly support the view that metabotropic glutamate receptors in these neurons may play a significant role in spinal synaptic plasticity, and therefore, may contribute to the central sensitization during mechanical hyperalgesia.
Neurons and glial cells are capable of synthesizing various bioactive steroids, but the neuronal mechanisms controlling neurosteroid-secreting cells are poorly understood. In the present study, we have investigated the possible effect of an endogenous ligand of benzodiazepine receptors, the triakontatetraneuropeptide [17-50] (TTN), on steroid biosynthesis in the frog hypothalamus. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that most hypothalamic neurons expressing 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/delta 5-delta 4-isomerase also contained peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor-like immunoreactivity. Confocal laser scanning microscopic analysis revealed that the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor-immunoreactive material was located both in the cytoplasm and at the periphery of the cell bodies. By using the pulse-chase technique, TTN was found to stimulate the conversion of [3H]pregnenolone into various steroids, including 17-hydroxypregnenolone, 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone and 17-hydroxyprogesterone, in a dose-dependent manner. The peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor agonist Ro5-4864 mimicked the stimulatory effect of TTN on the formation of neurosteroids. The peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor antagonist PK11195 significantly reduced the effect of TTN on neurosteroid synthesis, while the central-type benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil did not affect the formation of neurosteroids evoked by TTN. These data indicate that TTN stimulates the biosynthesis of 3-keto-17 alpha-hydroxysteroids in frog hypothalamic neurons through activation of peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors likely located at the plasma membrane level.
We applied antiserum to PEP-19, a presumptive calcium-binding polypeptide, to the auditory brainstem of cats to determine whether this antiserum would selectively reveal cochlear nucleus neurons and their projections. We report that the entire populations of ventral cochlear nucleus bushy and multipolar cells, but not octopus cells, express this peptide in their somata and dendrites. Presumed axons of spherical bushy cells located dorsally and thicker globular bushy cell fibers located ventrally in the trapezoid body are immunostained, as are thin fibers presumed to represent the axons of multipolar cells. Large calyceal endings in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body are densely immunoreactive as are smaller punctate profiles that outline immunonegative neuronal profiles in the medial and lateral superior olives. These features of immunolabeling indicate that PEP-19 is expressed in all neuronal compartments. Within the entire superior olivary complex, relatively few neurons are immunolabeled, and the vast majority of these are found in the periolivary nuclei. There are many more immunostained neurons in lateral than in medial periolivary cell groups, but their combined numbers are dwarfed by the numbers of immunolabeled cells in the ventral cochlear nucleus. The borders of the principal nuclei and some of the periolivary cell groups are well defined by the distribution of PEP-19-immunoreactive fibers and puncta. Since ventral cochlear nucleus bushy cells comprise the predominant input to principal nuclei of the superior olive, and the entire bushy cell population is immunolabeled by PEP-19 antiserum, the numbers and distribution of their inputs can be quantified. In this study we report that immunoreactive puncta apposed to the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of neurons in the medial superior olive occur at a density of 20/100 microns2. Moreover, we demonstrate by pre-embedding immunoelectron microscopy that the PEP-19-immunoreactive punctate profiles observed in the medial superior olive by light microscopy represent presynaptic terminal boutons that contain round synaptic vesicles and form asymmetric synaptic junctions, features traditionally associated with excitatory synapses. Thus, this antiserum represents a useful tool for investigating the distribution of ventral cochlear nucleus fibers and synaptic terminals within their target nuclei in the superior olive.
Stimulation of the cornea activates neurons in two distinct regions of the spinal trigeminal nucleus: at the transition between trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris and subnucleus caudalis and at the transition between trigeminal subnucleus caudalis and the upper cervical spinal cord as estimated by expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos. To determine if receptors for substance P or neurokinin A, neurokinin 1 and neurokinin 2 receptors, respectively, contribute to the production of Fos-positive neurons in these brainstem regions, receptor-selective antagonists were given intracerebroventricularly 15 min prior to stimulation of the cornea in anesthetized rats. The number of Fos-positive neurons produced in superficial laminae at the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition by application of the selective small fiber excitant, mustard oil, to the corneal surface was reduced by the neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist, CP99,994 (5-100 nmol, i.c.v.) and the neurokinin 2 receptor antagonist, MEN10,376 (0.01-1.0 nmol, i.c.v.). Combined pretreatment with CP99,994 and the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, CPP, caused a greater reduction in c-fos expression at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition than after either drug alone suggesting interaction between receptors for glutamate and substance P. Tachykinin receptor antagonists did not reduce the number of Fos-positive neurons produced at the subnucleus interpolaris/subnucleus caudalis transition. The elevation in plasma concentration of adrenocorticotropin, but not the increases in arterial pressure or heart rate, evoked by corneal stimulation was prevented by pretreatment with CP99,994 or MEN10,376 at doses lower than those needed to reduce c-fos expression. The results indicate that receptors for substance P and neurokinin A contribute to the transmission of sensory input from corneal nociceptors to brainstem neurons in trigeminal subnucleus caudalis and to increased activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary axis that accompanies acute stimulation of the cornea.
Expression of c-fos-like immunoreactivity has been used as a marker for neuronal activation and is elevated in the periaqueductal gray following stressful and noxious stimuli, and opioid withdrawal. The present study examined the staining of c-fos-like immunoreactivity following opiate withdrawal or swim-stress (2.5-3 min at 21 degrees C) in periaqueductal gray neurons of the rat which had projections to and through the rostral ventromedial medulla identified by microinjection of the retrograde tracer, Fast Blue, into the nucleus raphe magnus prior to development of morphine dependence. Both naloxone-precipitated withdrawal and swim-stress increased numbers of neurons expressing c-fos-like immunoreactivity in periaqueductal gray. Naloxone-precipitated withdrawal did not increase the number of double-labelled neurons in periaqueductal gray suggesting that neurons excited during opioid withdrawal do not project to the ventromedial medulla. In contrast, swim-stress produced increases in double-labelled neurons in periaqueductal gray suggesting that many periaqueductal gray neurons activated by swim-stress project to the ventromedial medulla. These findings suggest that naloxone-precipitated withdrawal does not activate ventrolateral periaqueductal gray neurons which are involved in descending inhibitory pathways, consistent with behavioural observations that naloxone-precipitated withdrawal is qualitatively opposite to electrical and chemical stimulation of the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. The results are also consistent with a role of descending projections from periaqueductal gray in stress-induced antinociception.
In this study, c-fos immunohistochemistry was used to identify the brain regions activated by rewarding brain stimulation in rats. Rats had monopolar electrodes implanted in the medial forebrain bundle and were allocated to either a self-stimulation (n = 4), yoked stimulation (n = 4) or no stimulation (n = 6) group. In a single 1 h test session, each rat in the self-stimulation group made 1000 nose poke responses with each response followed by a 0.5 s train of brain stimulation. Rats in the yoked-stimulation group were paired with a partner in the self-stimulation group and received brain stimulation whenever their partner did. However, their nose poke responses did not trigger stimulation. This yoked procedure was thus used to identify any Fos-like immunoreactivity due to operant responding. Rats in the no stimulation group were placed in the same apparatus as the other rats but received no brain stimulation and were thus used to assess baseline Fos-like immunoreactivity. Results showed that stimulation increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in many areas of the brain in both the self-stimulation and yoked groups. The areas with the highest Fos-like immunoreactivity were ipsilateral to the electrode site and included the medial prefrontal cortex, lateral septum, nucleus accumbens (shell), the medial and lateral preoptic areas, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central amygdala, lateral habenula, dorsomedial hypothalamus, lateral hypothalamus and the anterior ventral tegmental area. Bilateral Fos-like immunoreactivity was evident in the nucleus accumbens core, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the retrorubral fields and the locus coeruleus. A double-labelling procedure identifying both Fos and tyrosine hydroxylase was used to show that very few (&lt; 5%) of the A10 dopamine cell bodies in the ventral tegmental area expressed Fos following brain stimulation. In contrast, most of the noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus (A6), rubrospinal tract (A5) and pontine tegmental area (A7) were Fos positive. Overall, the results show that rewarding, brain stimulation induces Fos-like immunoreactivity in many forebrain regions but only sparsely in mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine neurons. The similar patterns of Fos-like immunoreactivity seen in the self-stimulation and yoked-stimulation groups suggests that the operant responding for brain stimulation causes minimal Fos expression in itself.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether differences in the function of monoaminergic systems could account for the variability in attention and impulsive behaviour between rats tested in the five-choice serial reaction time task in a model of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. The ability of a rat to sustain its attention in this task can be assessed by measuring choice accuracy (percent correct responses) to visual stimuli, whereas the percentage of premature responses indicates the level of impulsivity. Following training with the five-choice serial reaction time task, rats were decapitated and brain pieces taken for neurochemical determination. Levels of dopamine, noradrenaline, 5-hydroxytryptamine, the dopamine metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid and the 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were determined in the frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, dorsal striatum and hippocampus. Multivariate regression analysis with a stepwise method revealed that the indeces of utilization of serotonin (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid/5-hydroxytryptamine) in the left frontal cortex and dopamine (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine) in the right frontal cortex together accounted for 49% of the variability in attentional performance between subjects. According to the regression analysis, a negative correlation existed between the left frontal cortex 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid/5-hydroxytryptamine and choice accuracy, and a positive correlation was observed between 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio and choice accuracy on the opposite hemisphere. Additionally, right frontal cortex serotonin utilization was found to correlate positively with the proportion of premature hole responses and this relation accounted for about 24% of the variability in this index of impulsivity between animals. These data indicate that frontal cortex dopamine and serotonin play an important role in the modulation of attention and response control.
This study examined the effect of isolation-rearing in the Lister hooded rat on extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in the medial nucleus accumbens following footshock and in relation to a conditioned emotional response. Inescapable mild footshock was associated with an immediate and prolonged increase in extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in the medial nucleus accumbens of isolation-reared rats. In group-reared rats (footshock-treated) and control groups (no footshock) there was no significant change in extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine levels. When exposed to the contextual stimulus 140 min later (testing box without shock) there was an immediate and long-lasting increase in extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in the nucleus accumbens of the isolation-reared rats, however, the contextual stimulus did not significantly affect extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in the medial nucleus accumbens of group-reared rats. The results show that exposure to footshock and conditioning to context are not normally associated with a change in extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in the medial nucleus accumbens, however, in rats exposed to social isolation from weaning, both stimuli increase extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine. The isolation-induced increase in presynaptic serotonergic function in the medial nucleus accumbens contrasts with previous reports of reduced 5-hydroxytryptamine release in the hippocampus and therefore suggests that isolation-rearing differentially affects the function of serotonergic neurons in the brain. The changes in 5-hydroxytryptamine function in the medial nucleus accumbens may represent physiological adaptations to stress or may occur secondary to changes in the function of another neurotransmitter, possibly dopamine.
Changes in neuronal activity and extracellular concentrations of ions were measured in rat striatum for 60-90 min after intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid, an agonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. The excitotoxin induced bursts of synchronous electrical activity which were accompanied by rises in [K+]e (to approximately 6 mM) and decreases in [Ca2+]e (by less than 0.1 mM); [H+]e usually increased (0.1-0.3 pH unit) after a short and small (&lt; 0.1 pH unit) alkaline shift. The magnitude and frequency of these periodic changes decreased with time; after 90 min the amplitudes fell to 10-20% of the early values and the frequency to about one every 8 min as compared to one every 2-3 min immediately after quinolinate injection. By 90 min there was an increase in [K+]e from 3.3 mM to 4.2 mM and a decrease in [Ca2+]e from 1.34 mM to 1.30 mM. It is postulated that activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor causes disturbances in neuronal activity and ion gradients; restoration of the original ionic balances raises utilization of ATP and places an additional demand on energy-producing pathways. Increased influx of calcium into neurons may lead to an enhanced accumulation and subsequent overload of mitochondria with the cation. This, in turn, could result in dysfunction of the organelles and account for the decrease in respiration and [ATP]/[ADP] that have been observed previously in this model. The results of the present study lead to the conclusion that quinolinic acid produces early changes in activity of striatal neurons and movements of several cations which may contribute to subsequent abnormalities in energy metabolism and ultimately, cell death.
Secondary elevations in extracellular amino acids occur during reperfusion after transient cerebral ischemia. The delayed accumulation of excitatory amino acids may contribute to the progressive development of neuronal injury. In this study, we explored the mechanisms that may be involved in this phenomenon. Microdialysis samples from probes located in rabbit cortex were analysed with a chiral amino acid procedure. Concentrations of neurotransmitters (L-Glu, GABA), N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor modulators (D-Ser, Gly), an inhibitory neuromodulator (Tau), the lipid component phosphoethanolamine, and L-Gln, L-Ser and L-Ala were measured. Depolarization via perfusion with potassium was used to assess the status of release/reuptake systems at 2 and 4 h reperfusion after 2 h transient focal ischemia. Background experiments classified potassium evoked responses as calcium dependent or calcium-independent by inclusion of 30 microM omega-conopeptide MVIIC or by inclusion of 20 mM magnesium and ommision of calcium. During ischemia, large elevations of almost all amino acids occurred. During reperfusion, secondary elevations in transmitter amino acids (L-Glu, GABA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor modulators (D-Ser, Gly) occurred. Tau remained slightly elevated whereas the lipid component phosphoethanolamine remained high and stable during reperfusion. Reperfusion significantly potentiated the potassium response for amino acids with calcium-dependent responses (L-Glu and GABA). In contrast, calcium-independent responses (Tau, phosphoethanolamine, L-Gln) were significantly attenuated. Intermediate behavior was observed with Gly, while no potassium responses were observed for D-Ser, L-Ser or L-Ala. These data demonstrate that perturbations in evoked amino acid profiles after ischemia-reperfusion are selective. Reduction of calcium-independent responses implicate a general decline in efficacy of transporter mechanisms that restore transmembrane gradients of ions and transmitters. Decreased efficacy of transporter systems may reduce transmitter reuptake and account for the amplified release of L-Glu and GABA, thus contributing to progressive neural dysfunction after cerebral ischemia.
Apoptosis has drawn attention in ischemic neuronal death recently. However, studies of apoptosis in cerebral ischemia have concentrated largely in DNA fragmentation, a late phase in apoptotic nuclei, at the expense of possible primary ischemic targets at the subcellular level and of upstream apoptotic signalling. To assess those issues, we used an intraluminal middle cerebral artery occlusion model in mice with or without reperfusion, and examined sequential changes of Bcl-2 family proteins modulating apoptotic signalling immunohistochemically and studied nuclear DNA fragmentation, to compare their chronology in relation to the development of infarct as detected by loss of microtubule-associated protein-2, an early marker of cytoplasmic damage. In the centre of the lesion, Bax protein increased and Bcl-2 and Bcl-x proteins decreased after loss of microtubule-associated protein-2 antigenicity occurred, but at the border of the lesion, the former changes preceded loss of microtubule-associated protein-2 antigenicity. Additionally, close morphologic analysis of DNA fragmentation in situ indicated that transient ischemia predominantly induced apoptotic cells but permanent ischemia produced necrosis of cells in the centre of the lesion. The contrasting cell death mechanisms, apoptosis and necrosis, are selectively involved in the pathology of cerebral ischemia, depending on its severity.
The secreted form of beta-amyloid precursor protein (sAPP alpha) is released from neurons in an activity-dependent manner; data suggest sAPP alpha may play roles in regulating neuronal excitability, plasticity, and survival. In cultured hippocampal neurons sAPP alpha can suppress elevation of [Ca2+]i induced by glutamate and can protect neurons against excitotoxicity. We now report whole-cell patch-clamp data from studies of cultured embryonic rat hippocampal neurons which demonstrate that sAPP alpha selectively suppresses N-methyl-D-aspartate currents without affecting currents induced by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate or kainate. sAPP alpha suppressed N-methyl-D-aspartate current rapidly and reversibly at concentrations of 0.011 nM. Suppression of N-methyl-D-aspartate current by sAPP alpha is apparently mediated by cyclic guanosine monophosphate because 8-bromo-cyclic guanosine monophosphate suppressed N-methyl-D-aspartate current in a manner similar to sAPP alpha, and two different inhibitors of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase prevented sAPP alpha-induced suppression of N-methyl-D-aspartate current. In addition, okadaic acid prevented suppression of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced current suggesting the involvement of a protein phosphatase in modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate current by sAPP alpha. These data identify a mechanism whereby sAPP alpha can modulate cellular responses to glutamate, and suggest important roles for sAPP alpha in the various physiological and pathophysiological processes in which N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors participate.
The sigma1 (sigma 1) receptor agonists exert potent anti-amnesic effects, as they apparently block the learning impairments either induced by the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine or inherently due to the age-related deficits in senescence-accelerated mice. We recently described the amnesia induced by the beta-amyloid-related peptide beta 25-35, administered centrally in an aggregated form, in mice. The deficits were sensitive to cholinomimetics or to N-methyl-D-aspartate/glycine modulatory site agonists. Herein, we examined the effects of sigma 1 receptor ligands on the beta 25-35 peptide-induced amnesia. The effects of neuro(active) steroids, which interact in vitro and in vivo with sigma 1 receptors were examined in parallel. Mnesic capacity was evaluated seven days after administration of aggregated beta 25-35 peptide (3 nmol), using spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze for spatial short-term memory, or after 14 days, using the step-down type passive avoidance test for long-term memory. The sigma 1 receptor agonists (+)-pentazocine, PRE-084, or SA4503 attenuated, in a dose-dependent and bell-shaped manner, the beta 25-35 peptide-induced deficits on both tests. These effects were antagonized by haloperidol or BMY-14802, confirming the sigma 1 receptor pharmacology. Pregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone, and their sulphate esters, but not progesterone, also dose-dependently attenuated the beta 25-35 peptide-induced deficits. Progesterone blocked the beneficial effects of each other neurosteroid, behaving as an antagonist. Furthermore, haloperidol blocked the effects induced by neurosteroids, whereas progesterone antagonized the effects of the non-steroidal sigma 1 receptor agonists, showing a clear crossed pharmacology of different drug classes. These results demonstrate that: (i) the anti-amnesic effect of sigma 1 receptor agonists may be of therapeutic relevance in pathological states affecting the cholinergic and/or glutamatergic systems, such as in pathological aging; (ii) neurosteroids play an important role in learning processes and may collectively constitute a therapeutic target; (iii) the interaction between sigma 1 systems and neurosteroids appears indeed of behavioural relevance.
Immunohistochemical distribution of cannabinoid receptors in the adult rat brain was studied using specific purified antibodies against the amino-terminus of the CB1 receptor. Our results generally agree well with the previous studies using CB1 receptor autoradiography and messenger RNA in situ hybridization. However, because of its greater resolution, immunohistochemistry allowed identification of particular neuronal cells and fibers that possess cannabinoid receptors. CB1-like immunoreactivity was found in axons, cell bodies and dendrites, where it appeared as puncta in somata and processes. Both intensely and moderately or lightly stained neurons were observed. The intensely stained neurons were dispersed and only occur in cortical structures including hippocampal formation and olfactory bulb. Moderately or lightly stained neurons were found in caudate-putamen and amygdala. In the hippocampal formation only intensely stained neurons were observed. The cell bodies of pyramidal neurons in CA1 and CA3 fields appeared to be unstained but surrounded by a dense plexus of immunoreactive fibers. The granule cells in the dentate area were also immunonegative. Many intensely stained neurons were located at the base of the granule cell layer. CB1-like immunoreactive neurons and fibers were also found in the somatosensory, cingulate, perirhinal, entorhinal and piriform cortices, in claustrum, amygdaloid nuclei, nucleus accumbens and septum. Beaded immunoreactive fibers were detected in periaqueductal gray, nucleus tractus solitarius, spinal trigeminal tract and nucleus, dorsal horn and lamina X of the spinal cord. A triangular cap-like mass of immunoreactivity was found to surround the basal part of the Purkinje cell body in the cerebellum. Only small, lightly stained cells were found in the molecular layer in the cerebellum close to the Purkinje cell layer. The CB1 receptor is widely distributed in the forebrain and has a more restricted distribution in the hindbrain and the spinal cord. It appears to be expressed on cell bodies, dendrites and axons. According to the location and morphology, many, but not all, CB1-like immunoreactive neurons appear to be GABAergic. Therefore, cannabinoids and cannabinoid receptors may play a role in modulating GABAergic neurons.
The effect of bilateral central retinal lesions on the GAD67 and GAD65 messenger RNA levels in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, the perigeniculate nucleus and the visual cortex of the adult cat was investigated by in situ hybridization. Three days post-lesion, a decrease in the number of GAD67-expressing cells was apparent in the deafferented dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. This decrease persisted until 7.5 months post-lesion and was more pronounced with longer survival times. The decrease in GAD67 mRNA was mirrored by a decrease in glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive cells. GAD65 messenger RNA expression levels were low in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of both control and retinally-lesioned cats. In the perigeniculate nucleus the messenger RNA levels of both glutamate decarboxylase isoforms were clearly decreased over a restricted region. In the lesion-affected visual cortex, no changes at the messenger RNA level were observed for either GAD67 or GAD65 although changes in glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity have been previously described. Hence, in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, the perigeniculate nuclcus and the visual cortex, different intracellular mechanisms seem to lead to decreased GABAergic inhibition in response to sensory deafferentation.
For many years nerve growth factor was the only factor known to influence embryonic and postnatal development of sympathetic neurons. Its deprivation by antibody neutralization or gene mutation results in extensive neuron death. Recently it has been shown that these neurons also require neurotrophin-3 for survival in the late developmental period. Using neurotrophin-3 antiserum to neutralize endogenous factor in newborn rats. Our laboratory has shown that extensive numbers of neurons are lost from both pre- and paravertebral ganglia, indicating a continuing requirement for neurotrophin-3. In the present study we sought to determine whether neurons could survive in vivo in the presence of excess amounts of either nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 alone. Consistent with previous findings, administration of antiserum to nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 to newborn rats for eight days, resulted in an extensive loss of sympathetic neurons. Interestingly, administration of neurotrophin-3 together with nerve growth factor antiserum or nerve growth factor with neurotrophin-3 antiserum reversed this neuronal loss. However the latter combination was less effective than the former. Furthermore, the ability of exogenous nerve growth factor to increase both the number and size of sympathetic neurons was prevented by the simultaneous deprivation of endogenous neurotrophin-3. Unlike nerve growth factor, exogenous neurotrophin-3 failed to rescue the naturally occurring neuronal death in these newborn rats. Further evidence for a physiological role for both nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 was found by the detection of both trkA and trkC immunoreactivity in neurons of the superior cervical ganglion. Taken together, these results suggest that sympathetic neurons do not have an absolute requirement for either nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 and that the endogenous supply of either factor alone is insufficient to support neuronal survival postnatally. However, while each factor may play similar roles in the regulation of postmitotic neuronal function, some evidence for distinct functions has been identified.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, the newest member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, has been shown to promote the survival and differentiation of dopaminergic neurons in the ventral mesencephalon. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor has been implicated in both the in vitro and in vivo recovery of mesencephalic dopaminergic cells challenged with the neurotoxins 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium and 6-hydroxydopamine. Previous studies have shown increased survival of intrastriatally transplanted dopaminergic cells when followed by infusion of neurotrophic factors such as basic fibroblast growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. However, the effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor co-administered with dopaminergic cells prior to implantation in the host striatum have not been studied. In the present study, the hypothesis was that treating fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue containing the dopaminergic substantia nigra with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor either during storage or at the time of transplantation, would enhance grafted dopaminergic cell survival and functional reinnervation of the host striatum in the unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat. To test this hypothesis, two experiments were performed. In the first experimental group (n = 7), fetal ventral mesencephalons from embryonic day 14 rats were maintained in hibernation medium containing glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (1 migrogram/ml) at 4 degrees C for six days prior to dissociation and stereotactic implantation into the host striatum: the control group (n = 5) received tissue hibernated without glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. The second experimental group (n = 8) received fresh fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue treated with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (0.2 microgram/microliter) while the control group (n = 5) received the fresh graft with no glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. Transplantation success was assessed by behavioural analysis (rotometry) and tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Cell counts of tyrosine hydoxylase-stained sections revealed a statistically significant increase in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in grafts exposed to glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor during hibernation as compared to control grafts. In addition, there was a statistically significant enhancement of fibre density in the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor hibernation graft group as compared to the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor fresh graft group. Behavioural analysis three weeks post-grafting exhibited a statistically significant decrease in amphetamine-induced rotations in animals transplanted with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor grafts as compared to control grafts. These findings suggest that storing dopaminergic cells in a glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-containing medium prior to transplantation increases graft survival, graft derived fibre outgrowth, and behavioural recovery in the adult host. This observation has potential implications for enhancing the efficacy of neural transplantation in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Regional levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein were measured in the rat brain using enzyme immunoassay following seizures evoked by hippocampal kindling stimulations. One stimulation, which induced a brief, single episode of epileptiform activity in hippocampus and piriform cortex but not in parietal cortex or striatum, gave rise to a transient increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in dentate gyrus and CA3 region and a decrease in piriform cortex. After 40 rapidly recurring seizures, with epileptiform activity also involving parietal cortex and striatum, increases were observed in dentate gyrus, CA3 and CA1 regions, piriform cortex and striatum. Maximum levels were reached at 2-24 h and brain-derived neurotrophic factor then returned to baseline except in dentate gyrus, where elevated protein content was sustained for four days. The differential regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein levels in various forebrain structures, which only partly correlates to messenger RNA changes, could indicate regional differences in protein release, antero- or retrograde transport, or brain-derived neurotrophic factor promotor activation. The dynamic changes of brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in regions involved in the generation and spread of seizure activity may regulate excitability and trigger plastic responses in the post-seizure period.
In the immunohistochemical staining of nerve growth factor, it has been reported that fixation-dependent lability of nerve growth factor hampers its localization. In the present study, we used two different polyclonal antibodies to immunostain nerve growth factor in rat brain tissue. We found that in paraformaldehyde-fixed (immersion- or perfusion-fixed) brains, nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity was located primarily in the cytoplasmic membrane and fiber tract of hippocampal neurons and was sparse in cortical neurons. When fresh frozen brain sections were fixed in paraformaldehyde solution, nerve-growth factor-like immunoreactivity was distributed evenly in the cell body. However, when fresh frozen brain sections were fixed in acetone, immunoreactivity to nerve growth factor was present as discrete or confluent dense particles in the cell body, especially in the nuclear region. Also, when paraformaldehyde-perfusion-fixed brain sections were heat treated in salt solution before immunostaining, nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity could be retrieved in the cytoplasmic and nuclear regions. The hippocampal formation, cerebral cortex and basal forebrain expressed nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity. Double immunostaining in fresh frozen brains showed that the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75) co-expressed with nerve growth factor and trkA proto-oncogene in basal forebrain neurons. Our study shows that formaldehyde fixation can mask nerve growth factor antigen, and special treatment, such as heating, is needed to retrieve nerve growth factor antigen to permit immunohistochemical detection. For immunohistochemical study of nerve growth factor in rat brain tissue, successful immunostaining can be obtained by using fresh frozen brains to prevent the masking effect of fixatives or by using paraformaldehyde-fixed brains with heat treatment. It is likely that nerve growth factor is synthesized and accumulated mainly in the cell body but not in the fiber tracts, which is similar to the distribution of its messenger RNA. The co-existence of p75 with nerve growth factor and trkA in basal forebrain neurons suggests the role of low- and high-affinity receptors in regulating the trophic effect of nerve growth factor.
Although development of transgenic animals overexpressing insulin-like growth factor-I has allowed the establishment of a role of this trophic factor in brain growth, detailed knowledge of the action of insulin-like growth factor-I on different brain areas is still lacking. We now provide evidence for a pleiotrophic role of this growth factor on cerebellar development. Insulin-like growth factor-I produced by cerebellar cultures is a survival factor for Purkinje cells and a mitogen/differentiation factor for cerebellar glioblasts. Trophic effects of insulin-like growth factor-I were observed only during specific developmental stages. In addition, insulin-like growth factor-I increased intracellular Ca2+ levels in Purkinje cells and c-Fos in dividing glioblasts. Survival-promoting effects of insulin-like growth factor-I on Purkinje cells required activation of protein kinase C, while glioblast division induced by insulin-like growth factor-I depended on phosphatidylinosytol 3-kinase activation. We conclude that insulin-like growth factor-I is a paracrine/autocrine pleiotrophic factor for both glia and neurons in the cerebellum. Its effects are mediated by distinct intracellular signals and appear to be specific to the developmental stage of the target cell. Since development of the different cell populations that compose a specific brain territory is not synchronized, the pleiotrophic action of growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor-I may be essential to ontogenetic processes underlying normal brain growth.
Mitochondrial disorders are caused by either nuclear or mitochondrial DNA abnormalities. The latter but not the former can be examined as a means of diagnosis at present. The peculiarities and problems of the mtDNA test depend strongly on the characteristics of mtDNA itself, such as the multiplicity in number, vulnerability to mutation, and maternal transmission. The mtDNA abnormalities observed in patients with mitochondrial disorders indicate heteroplasmy, tissue/cell specificity, and threshold effects. It should be stressed that the presence of mutant mtDNA in an individual does not mean that he or she is ill. The problems of the mtDNA test could be solved if the genotype-phenotype relationship is farther elucidated in the future study.
Trauma center nurses joined forces with their city's leaders and organizations to address juvenile violence and crime. Metropolitan Partners Against Crime's primary initiatives focus on overcoming race, class and gender variances and establishing community awareness programs.
Computerized dynamic posturography (CDP) has been under development since 1970. Several reviews summarize key basic and clinical research studies and outline important clinical uses of CDP along with research applications. This report summarizes new information about the otolith control of posture obtained from the study of astronauts. The dynamics of recovery of postural control upon return from orbital flight provide insight to the peripheral vestibular and central nervous system components of vestibular compensation. The dynamics of postural compensation should aid the clinician in the diagnosis and management of imbalance of vestibular origin.
Human balance control is known to be transiently disrupted after spaceflight; however, the mechanisms responsible for postflight postural ataxia are still under investigation. In this report, we propose a conceptual model of vestibulospinal adaptation based on theoretical adaptive control concepts and supported by the results from a comprehensive study of balance control recovery after spaceflight. The conceptual model predicts that immediately after spaceflight the balance control system of a returning astronaut does not expect to receive gravity-induced afferent inputs and that descending vestibulospinal control of balance is disrupted until the central nervous system is able to cope with the newly available vestibular otolith information. Predictions of the model are tested using data from a study of the neurosensory control of balance in astronauts immediately after landing. In that study, the mechanisms of sensorimotor balance control were assessed under normal, reduced, and/or altered (sway-referenced) visual and somatosensory input conditions. We conclude that the adaptive control model accurately describes the neurobehavioral responses to spaceflight and that similar models of altered sensory, motor, or environmental constraints are needed clinically to predict responses that patients with sensorimotor pathologies may have to various visual-vestibular or changing stimulus environments.
Noninvasive measurements of three-dimensional eye position can be accurately achieved with video methods. A case study showing the potential clinical benefit of these enhanced measurements is presented along with some thoughts about technological advances, essential for clinical application, that are likely to occur in the next several years.
Exposure to extended periods of weightlessness in orbital flight has profound effects on the neurovestibular system and influences head and eye movements, postural control, and spatial orientation. The associated space motion sickness is among the earliest of the signs of adaptation to this new environment. This report both reviews the prominent neurovestibular phenomena associated with going into space and returning to earth and relates the issues to vestibular compensation and rehabilitation. New results from the Spacelab SLS-2 mission are included, showing significant reductions in postflight ocular counterrolling and changes in ocular counterrolling left/right asymmetries after 2 weeks in space.
Two different space life sciences missions (SLS-1 and SLS-2) have demonstrated that the synapses of the hair cells of rat vestibular maculae increase significantly in microgravity. The results also indicate that macular synapses are sensitive to stress. These findings argue that vestibular maculae exhibit neuroplasticity to macroenvironmental and microenvironmental changes. This capability should be clinically relevant to rehabilitative training and/or pharmacological treatments for vestibular disease. The results of this ultrastructural research also demonstrated that type I and type II hair cells are integrated into the same neuronal circuitry. The findings were the basis for development of three-dimensional reconstruction software to learn details of macular wiring. This software, produced for scientific research, has now been adapted to reconstruct the face and skull directly from computerized tomography scans. In collaboration with craniofacial reconstructive surgeons at Stanford University Medical Center, an effort is under way to produce a virtual environment workbench for complex craniofacial surgery. When completed, the workbench will help surgeons train for and simulate surgery. The methods are patient specific. This research illustrates the value of basic research in leading to unanticipated medical applications.
Physiological mechanisms underlying vestibular function have important implications for our ability to understand, predict, and modify balance processes during and after spaceflight. The microgravity environment of space provides many unique opportunities for studying the effects of changes in gravitoinertial force on structure and function of the vestibular system. Investigations of basic vestibular physiology and of changes in reflexes occurring as a consequence of exposure to microgravity have important implications for diagnosis and treatment of vestibular disorders in human beings. This report reviews physiological principles underlying control of vestibular processes on earth and in space. Information is presented from a functional perspective with emphasis on signals arising from labyrinthine receptors. Changes induced by microgravity in linear acceleration detected by the vestibulo-ocular reflexes. Alterations of the functional requirements for postural control in space are described. Areas of direct correlation between studies of vestibular reflexes in microgravity and vestibular disorders in human beings are discussed.
Neurofibromin, the protein product of the neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF-1) gene, has important roles in tumor suppression or normal embryogenesis. Cerebellar leptomeningeal astroglial heterotopia (LAH) is a proliferation of heterotopic astroglial cells and fibers in the cerebellar leptomeninges, which is characteristically demonstrated in the NF-1 patients. In this study, neurofibromin expression was investigated in NF-1 and non-NF-1 human tissues, especially in the cerebellum of NF-1 patients. Neurofibromin was found by immunoblotting in the CNS but not in the heart, liver, and kidney. Immunohistochemistry in the normal areas of the brains with NF-1 demonstrated neurofibromin immunoreactivity as did the brains of unaffected controls. Cerebellar LAH showed no neurofibromin immunoreactivity. The results of this study suggest that neurofibromin expression remains unchanged in the nonproliferated region of the CNS of the NF-1 patient but changes occur in the abnormally proliferated region, resulting in cerebellar LAH. Loss of neurofibromin may result in the excessive migration and growth of astrocytes in the early fetal period.
We have previously reported that the serotonin 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT and the 5-HT2c agonist TFMPP impair performance on a water maze. In the present report we extended those studies by examining a second 5-HT1A agonist, buspirone, to see whether its effects paralleled those of 8-OH-DPAT, and by testing the effects of the 5-HT2 agonist DOI. Unlike the open pool Morris water maze, the maze used in these experiments has alleys and doorways. The maze can be easily reconfigured to present rats with both previously learned or new maze challenges. Performance is assessed by time to reach the maze exit platform and the number of wrong doorways entered (errors). At doses that did not affect performance in a previously learned maze, the 5-HT1A agonists 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg) and buspirone (1 mg/kg) slowed acquisition of a new maze configuration as measured by both swim time to the exit platform and errors committed. A higher dose of buspirone (10 mg/kg) completely blocked acquisition of a novel maze. In contrast. DOI slowed performance as assessed by swim time on both a well-learned maze as well as acquisition of a new maze, but did not affect error rate on either task, suggesting that this 5-HT2 agonist impaired performance by depressing motor activity. These experiments demonstrate that serotonin agonists, especially the 5-HT1A subtype, can impair learning.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) is an endogenous compound present in mammalian brain suggested as a putative neurotransmitter, which has been shown to affect several aspects of dependence from various classes of drugs of abuse. In the present study, two sets of experiments were performed to investigate the effects of acute pretreatment with GHB on intravenous cocaine self-administration in rats. In the first experiment GHB was administered intragastrically at the doses of 175, 350, and 700 mg/kg to Long-Evans rats trained to self-administer cocaine using nose-poke as operandum. In the second experiment, GHB was administered intraperitoneally at the doses of 100, 200, and 400 mg/kg to Wistar rats trained to self-administer cocaine intravenously using lever-pressing as operandum. In both experiments acute pretreatment with GHB significantly and dose dependently reduced cocaine self-administration. The effectiveness of GHB was similar in both experiments, indicating that the effect of GHB on cocaine self-administration is independent of animal strain. route of administration, and type of operant response required. These results indicate that GHB reduces cocaine-seeking behavior in rats, modulating the acute reinforcing effect of cocaine. The clinical effectiveness of GHB in dependence from various classes of abused drugs warrants further studies to evaluate the possibility that GHB might represent a useful therapeutic agent for cocaine addiction in humans.
The present study investigated the effects of scopolamine hydrobromide (SCOP: 0.06-1.0 mg/kg IP) and its quartenary analogue, scopolamine methylbromide (SCOPMB), on performance in a radial arm maze foraging task, to dissociate general drug-induced alterations of motor performance from measurement of impairments on more complex behaviors involving timing and memory. In this paradigm. rats are trained to free run a radial maze under an eight-alternative concurrent fixed-interval (FI) schedule of food reinforcement. The eight FIs (55 to 759 s) were assigned randomly to the arms of the maze, with a different pattern for each animal. SCOP produced dose-dependent degradation in response patterning and response rates in the concurrent FI schedules without significantly affecting the rates of arm entries or arm traversal latencies. The peripheral cholinergic antagonist, SCOPMB, generally produced small to moderate depressions in all measures with the exception of patterning of arm entries and pellets earned, but there were no clear dose-response relationships evident in the data. These results are consistent with the notion that central cholinergic mechanisms are involved in the mediation of complex conditioned behaviors.
The present study investigated the effects of the NMDA channel blocker MK-801 (0.05, 0.10, and 0.15 mg/kg) on a task that allows for the assessment of both spatial working memory and within-session spatial learning. During the first trial of each day, subjects were shown the spatial location of a food reward on a six-arm radial-arm maze. During nine subsequent free-choice trials, subjects were reinforced for returning to that same spatial location. The location of the food reward varied across days. Thus, choosing correctly on any given trial required subjects to remember where food had been received during the previous trials of that day. The effects of MK-801 on working memory were assessed by analyzing the overall number of errors committed during the nine free-choice trials of each day. The effects of MK-801 on within-session learning were assessed by comparing the number of errors committed during the first three trials of each day to the number of errors committed during the last three trials of each day. Only the highest dose of MK-801 tested (0.15 mg/kg) impaired spatial working memory. No dose of MK-801 impaired the ability of subjects to acquire spatial information within a given session. The failure of MK-801 to impair within-session spatial learning stands in contrast to the well-known effects of MK-801 on spatial learning measured across days. Thus, when coupled with previous research, the findings of the present study further suggest that the NMDA receptor plays a role in the long-term, but not short-term, storage of spatial information.
Chronic stress has been reported to impair spatial memory and cause hippocampal impairment in rodents. Glucocorticoids are believed to be the active agent in this impairment. Studies have demonstrated that chronic glucocorticoid administration results in animals being impaired in the Morris water maze (MWM) or eight-arm radial maze. Although both of these methods are well established means of testing spatial memory, neither might be considered optimal for studying the behavioral effects of stress. The Morris maze is itself highly stressful to the animals. The eight-arm maze relies on a food reward to motivate the animals, and glucocorticoids have profound effects on hunger and satiety. We therefore investigated behavioral deficits of corticosterone-treated animals in the two previously used mazes and the Barnes circular platform maze (BCM), a test similar in design to the Morris maze, but one that does not require the animal to perform a highly stressful swim. Consistent with results in other tests, we found that animals that had been treated for 3 months with stress-equivalent concentrations of glucocorticoids showed significantly impaired behavior in the Barnes maze.
Antipsychotic medications are the mainstay of treatment for schizophrenia. The recent advent of atypical antipsychotics has provided new clinical options and set higher expectations for the treatment of schizophrenia. It is not yet clear how each different drug will fit within the therapeutic armamentarium and this lack is most evident with considering patients with treatment refractory schizophrenia. On the other hand, the expectation of superior efficacy, more benign side effect profile and potential to impact the longitudinal course of schizophrenia provide a rationale for the use of novel antipsychotics as a first-line treatment of schizophrenia.
Substantial progress, in part owing to recent refinements in methodology, has been made in unraveling the anatomic correlates of schizophrenia. Subtle pathomorphologic changes, distinct from those of well-known degenerative brain disorders, have been observed. Neurochemical characterization has illuminated the nature of these morphologic abnormalities and has pointed to complex dysregulation of neurotransmitters and G proteins. New biochemical hypotheses such as the glutamate hypothesis have replaced and revitalized more established concepts in the neurochemistry of schizophrenia.

For the smoker, nicotine has a positive effect on attention, cognition and mood. Conversely, nicotine abstinence is characterized by uncomfortable psychological effects such as impaired attention, but also irritability. We postulated that nicotine exerts an effect on cerebral areas important for attention and mood. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), as an index for cerebral activity, was measured in both smokers and non-smokers. They were scanned during performance of a psychometric task with and without i.v. infusion of nicotine (1-methyl-2-[3-pyridyll] pyrrolidine). Nicotine induced rCBF decreases in the anterior cingulate cortex and the cerebellum, and concomitant increases in the occipital cortex. The changes were similar in nature and magnitude in smokers and non-smokers. Thus, specific changes were induced in areas pertaining to the anterior attention system and to higher order visual cortex. We conclude that these effects on cerebral activity provide insights into the desired positive effects of nicotine on cognition as well as the negative effects experienced during nicotine abstinence.
It has been suggested that the increased reinforcement rate on a differential-reinforcement-of-low-rate of responding (DRL) schedule observed following acute antidepressant administration in the rat is due to an improvement in timing accuracy. The aim of the present work was to evaluate the effects of antidepressants in another schedule that requires accurate estimation of time intervals, the peak procedure. Three antidepressant drugs were tested, the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (1.0-10.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and the 5-HT reuptake inhibitors, zimelidine (10.0-40.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and clomipramine (1.0-10.0 mg/kg, i.p.). For reference, the full benzodiazepine receptor agonist, diazepam (1.0-5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and the psychomotor stimulant, d-amphetamine (0.5-1.5 mg/kg, s.c.) were also tested. All doses of d-amphetamine tested significantly increased lever-pressing rates, whereas all the other compounds induced significant decreases in lever-pressing rates. Overall, the time at which the maximal lever-pressing rate occurred was not altered by any of the compounds, suggesting that timing accuracy was not significantly affected by any of the compounds administered. The only exception was zimelidine (40.0 mg/kg), which reduced the time at which the maximal lever-pressing rate occurred, although lever-pressing rates were also significantly reduced at this dose. These data suggest that previously reported antidepressant-induced improvement in performance on the DRL schedule may not have been due to improved timing accuracy per se but may have been due to a decrease in lever-pressing rates.
Current concepts in cognitive neuroscience are presented: neuroimaging, connectionism, models for visual perception and memory. Encountering a convergence of certain concepts like the one for memory between cognitive neuroscience and psychoanalysis makes it necessary to compare the framework assumptions underlying these concepts in each discipline. As it turns out, only a change away from the traditional functionalist framework to a modern, externalist form of non-reductionism makes it possible to use the theoretical convergences in a coherent manner. Conceptual consequences of this change in framework assumptions are discussed, particularly for the role of (neuronal) causes versus reasons in the explanation of behaviour within a broadly psychoanalytic context.
Stroke is a major health problem in all industrialised countries and evidence is mounting that this problem also affects the developing countries. In the industrialised countries, it is the third largest killer and, of the survivors, about one-half are left with a permanent handicap. Despite the huge burden of stroke on healthcare and social services (several USA studies estimate the annual cost of stroke to be between US $6.5 and 11.2 billion) the cost of strokes has aroused little attention. An absence of effective therapies may be one of the reasons for this lack of interest; the costs have been taken as inevitable. With the advent of new therapies for acute ischaemic stroke (thrombolytics and neuroprotectants) there is renewed interest in improving both the management and outcome for patients. Key to the evaluation (both clinical and economic) of new stroke therapies is the choice of evaluation scales/instruments. Increasingly, stroke investigators are using measures of functional outcome (for example the Barthel index) as a primary endpoint in stroke trials. This is pertinent, as functional outcome has been found to reflect reasonably well the degree to which a patient needs support after stroke, irrespective of whether this is provided by the family or society.
A 44-year-old white male presented with marked hypertension and encephalopathy. His spinal fluid showed a neutrophilic pleocytosis in the absence of infection. While cases of hypertensive encephalopathy with concomitant minor lymphocytic pleocytosis have been occasionally described, it is distinctly abnormal to have a neutrophilic pleocytosis in this setting.
We describe a new method for the quantitative analysis of facial features using a range camera with a three-dimensional measuring program. The range camera consists of a video camera, a light projector, and a computer. The video camera captures a number of images of different light patterns projected on to the face. From these, a &quot;range image&quot; is computed. One fully illuminated intensity image of the face is also taken. By defining anatomical landmarks manually on the intensity image, three-dimensional measurements are automatically obtained from corresponding positions in the range image. The method is highly accurate and precise, and is a simple and reliable way of assessing facial features. We recommend that the system be adapted in clinical practice--for example, in diagnosing syndromes and planning plastic and reconstructive surgery.

This study identifies personality characteristics in a group of Swedish women (N = 60) attending their first treatment for alcohol problems. The treatment programme specifically addressed women in an early phase of their drinking career, and was called &quot;Early Treatment of Women with Alcohol Addiction&quot; (EWA). Rorschach personality profiles of the 60 women differed significantly in almost all investigated aspects in a psychopathological direction from norms reported by Exner for a reference group of female non-patients. The findings are consistent with the assumption that, although the EWA women were socially well-functioning and fairly early in their drinking career, they nevertheless reveal serious underlying psychopathology. Clinical implications of the findings are discussed.
Developmental delay includes mental retardation (IQ less than 70) and borderline intellectual functioning (IQ 71 to 84). The overall frequency is between 1% and 2% of the child population with most cases in the mild range (IQ 50 to 70). Severe mental retardation is mostly due to genetic or acquired biological causes. Mild retardation is more commonly of acquired causes, and in borderline intellectual functioning, sociocultural factors play a role in addition to biological factors. The main prenatal causes include chromosomal and nonchromosomal genetic conditions, metabolic disorders, and adverse events during gestation, whereas environmental factors (eg, alcohol) more commonly cause mild retardation.
While India has a long tradition of home-based spiritual and religious care of the dying, there has been no contemporary palliative care until relatively recently. The existing and planned palliative care services in India are presented, and future perspectives and the opportunities for training for both professionals and lay volunteers are discussed.
A survey conducted among African neurosurgeons shows that there are now 500 neurosurgeons in Africa; that is, one neurosurgeon for 1,350,000 inhabitants, and 70,000 km2. The distribution of these neurosurgeons shows a striking regional disparity: North Africa has 354 neurosurgeons for 119 million inhabitants; that is, one neurosurgeon for 338,000 inhabitants; and South Africa has 65 neurosurgeons for 40 million inhabitants; that is, one neurosurgeon for 620,000 inhabitants. Between these two areas where neurosurgery is developing quite well, we have the majority of African countries with a scant density of neurosurgeons (81 neurosurgeons for 515 million inhabitants; that is, one neurosurgeon for 6,368,000 inhabitants). The Panafrican Association of Neurological Sciences (PAANS) brings together African neurosurgeons. This continental African association represents African neurosurgeons in the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies (WFNS). In addition to this continental association, there are national societies of neurosciences. However, there are only six societies of neurosurgery. Two systems of training exist in Africa: (1) local training, and (2) training abroad. These two systems have unequal quality and specific difficulties that are pointed out. Among the optimistic elements that make us believe in the development of neurosurgery in Africa, are the existence of a quite good level of neurosurgery at the two extremities of the continent (North Africa and South Africa), the development of neurosciences in African universities, and the increasing interest that the international community bears to Africa in the last years. However, the real factor of optimism is the African neurosurgeons who should promote neurosurgery in their continent, at the level of their own countries by developing information and health education, setting their specialty in the education syllabus and health planning, and settling into active and performing societies. At the continental and international level, African neurosurgeons should institutionalize inter-African cooperation, expedite their continental association (PAANS), and further exchanges with the other continents through the WFNS. The latter, together with other associations such as the European Association of Neurosurgical Societies (EANS) could provide help to the development of neurosurgery in Africa as far as training, exchanges, research, and organization are concerned.
In Monet's painting impression. Rising Sun, when one steadily fixates the image of a sailor in the center of the picture for several seconds, the solar disk progressively disappears, being replaced in both brightness and color by the surrounding sky. This &quot;filling-in&quot; phenomenon reflects a process of cortical remapping, similar to the one that occurs in the presence of visual field defects. Filling-in is largely ignored by clinicians, despite its major implications in ophthalmologic practice, especially the nonrecognition of visual field deficits.
Dopamine and GABA were detected in intermediate lobe axons around birth, and early axons were closely apposed to glial cells and processes, possibly using them for guidance. In the adult, axons containing colocalized dopamine and GABA were distributed in a distinct pattern within the lobe, with plexuses located dorsally and ventrally. Axons preferentially followed glial processes in interlobular septa, yet were also interspersed between melanotropes. Individual melanotropes were contacted by varying numbers of axon terminals, with some devoid of contacts. Boutons contained both small clear vesicles and large dense-cored vesicles; membrane specializations were not well-developed. From these findings we concluded that in addition to direct synaptic inhibition, dopamine and GABA could stimulate their receptors by mechanisms similar to &quot;parasynaptic&quot; [Schmitt (1984) Neuroscience, 13:991-1001] or &quot;volume&quot; [Agnati et al. (1995) Neuroscience, 69:711-726] transmission as proposed for the CNS. Humoral agents passing into the intermediate lobe from portal vessels, thus acting as classical hormones, further regulate the melanotropes. Moreover, approximately 50% of the axonal elements were closely apposed to glia, suggesting that glia could have regulatory roles. Previous studies from our laboratory [Chronwall et al. (1987) Endocrinology, 120:1201-1211; Chronwall et al. (1988) Endocrinology, 123:1992:1202] demonstrated heterogeneity in proopiomelanocortin (POMC) biosynthesis among individual melanotropes, prompting the hypothesis that the degree of innervation could govern the expression of certain molecules. We combined immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry to evaluate whether melanotrope molecular heterogenity is spatially correlated with axons and terminals. Tentatively, melanotropes expressing low levels of POMC and alpha1A subunit P/Q type Ca2+ channel mRNAs often were apposed to axons, whereas those with low levels of D2L receptor mRNA rarely were contacted by axons, suggesting that innervation could be one of the factors inducing and maintaining heterogeneity.
A number of fundamental biological processes, ranging from fertilization and embryonic development to viral infections, depend upon a complex interplay between cells that results in the fusion of their plasma membranes. Surprisingly, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying cell-cell fusion remain largely unknown. Here, the authors discuss evidence suggesting that microvilli play a central role in fusion of many cells and present features of these actin-filled, cell-surface protrusions that might make them particularly well suited as cell-fusion organelles.
The panoply of non-invasive techniques for brain imaging is responsible for much of the current excitement in cognitive neuroscience; sensory, perceptual and cognitive behaviour can now be correlated with cerebral blood flow as assessed by functional imaging, the electrical fields generated by populations of neurons or changes in magnetic fields created by electrical activity. Correlations between localized brain activity and behaviour, however, do not of themselves establish that any brain area is necessary for a particular task; necessity is the domain of the lesion technique. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a technique that can be used non-invasively to produce reversible functional disruption and has already been used to investigate visual detection, discrimination, attention and plasticity. The power of TMS as a `lesion' technique lies in the opportunity to combine reversible disruption with high degrees of spatial and temporal resolution. In this review we trace some of the major developments in the use of TMS as a technique for the investigation of visual cognition.
Work in behavior-based systems focuses on functional modeling, that is, the synthesis of life-like and/or biologically inspired behavior that is robust, repeatable and adaptive. Inspiration from cognitive science, neuroscience and biology drives the development of new methods and models in behavior-based robotics, and the results tie together several related fields including artificial life, evolutionary computation, and multi-agent systems. Ideas from artificial intelligence and engineering continue to be explored actively and applied to behavior-based robots as their role in animal modeling and practical applications is being developed.
A defining feature of the vertebrate nervous system is the ensheathment of axons by myelin, a multilamellar membrane containing a small group of proteins and an abundance of the galactolipid galactocerebroside (GalC) and its sulfated derivative sulfatide. Several in vitro studies have suggested that these galactolipids transduce developmental signals, facilitate protein trafficking and stabilize membranes. In addition, mice lacking the ability to synthesize GalC or sulfatide form dysfunctional and unstable myelin. These findings suggest that the galactolipids are essential components of myelin, and that functional and structural properties of myelin result from the combined contributions of galactolipids and proteins.
Structural brain repair has become a possibility with the identification and characterization of persistent neuronal progenitor cells in both the neonatal and adult brain. However, despite recent advances in the identification, propagation and expansion of these cells, they will not be useful therapeutically until methods are available for directing or delivering them to sites of need. As a result, the natural history and induction of neuronal migration into adult brain tissue has assumed new importance in clinical neurobiology. In this review we consider the cellular and molecular bases of neuronal migration into the postnatal forebrain. In particular, we discuss two natural paradigms of postnatal neuronal recruitment: radial-cell-directed neuronal migration to the songbird neostriatum, and neurophilic migration to the rodent olfactory bulb. In each, we will focus on the dynamic interactions between the migrants, their cellular guides and the local environment, and the effect of those interactions on migrational success.

Connections of the thalamo-hyperstriatal system of hatchling chicks were investigated using multiple injections of cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) in the wulst. In the diencephalon, cells with CTb-like immunoreactivity (CTb-LI) were seen bilaterally in n. dorsolateralis anterior thalami, pars lateralis dorsalis and ventralis, n. dorsolateralis anterior thalami, pars magnocellularis, and pars lateralis rostralis. Within this complex, more CTb-LI cells were observed in the ventral portions of the ipsilateral side, whereas more labeled cells were found in the dorsolateral portions of the contralateral side. Moreover, CTb-LI cells were seen bilaterally in n. superficialis magnocellularis. In the nonvisual thalamic structures, numerous CTb-LI cells were seen in n. dorsolateralis anterior thalami, pars medialis and n. dorsolateralis posterior thalami. In the ventral thalamus, intense CTb-LI fibers/terminals were present in the external half of the external laminae of n. geniculatus lateralis, pars ventralis. Moderate to minor concentrations of fibrous labeling were found in n. intercalatus thalami and n. ventrolateral thalami. Moreover, efferent projections of the wulst were evident in the most ventral half of the optic tectum and the pretectal areas. The latter included n. pretectalis medialis, n. spiriformis medialis, n. principalis precommissuralis, n. lentiformis mesencephali, pars magnocellularis, and n. superficialis synecephali. Also, CTb-LI fibers were seen in n. basal optic root. The present study provides strong evidence that neuronal connections of the thalamo-hyperstriatal system are well established by the time of hatching. Additionally, efferent projections from the wulst to the diencephalic, mesencephalic, and pretectal structures are evident.
The impulse discharge of single ganglion cells was recorded extracellularly in superfused eyecup preparations of the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum). Contrast flashes (500 ms) were applied at the center of the receptive field while the retina was light adapted to a background field of 20 cd/m2. The incidence of cell types in a sample of 387 cells was: ON cells (4%), OFF cells (28%), and ON/OFF cells (68%). Quantitative contrast/response measurements were obtained for 83 cells. On the basis of C50, the contrast necessary to evoke a half-maximal response, ON/OFF cells fell into 3 groups: (1) Positive Dominant (26%), (2) Balanced (23%), and (3) Negative Dominant (51%). Positive Dominant cells tended to be relatively contrast insensitive. On the other hand, many Negative Dominant cells showed remarkably low C50 values and very steep contrast/response curves. Contrast gain to negative contrast averaged 8.5 impulses/s/% contrast, some four times greater than that evoked by positive contrast. In most ON/OFF cells, the latency of the first spike evoked by a negative contrast step was much shorter (40-100 ms) than that evoked by a positive contrast step of equal contrast. OFF cells typically showed higher C50 values, larger dynamic ranges, and longer latencies than those of Negative Dominant ON/OFF cells. Thus, different pathways or mechanism apparently mediate the off responses of OFF and ON/OFF cells. In sum, the light-adapted retina of the tiger salamander is strongly biased in favor of negative contrast, as shown by the remarkably high contrast sensitivity and faster response of Negative Dominant cells, the remarkably low incidence of ON cells, and the insensitivity of Positive Dominant cells. Some possible underlying influences of bipolar and amacrine cells are discussed.
A simple visual test was used to measure how much Listing's plane rotates as a function of the vergence angle. This test measured the elevation-dependent torsional disparity of horizontal and vertical lines during three tasks: vergence on a near target, vergence through prisms that remained fixed, and through prisms that rotated with eye elevation. Consistent with our previous search-coil measurements, the results here suggest that the angle between the Listing's planes of the two eyes is somewhat less than the vergence angle.
It is widely accepted that the maturation of the extrastriate cortex is not completed before late puberty. To gain insight into the functionality of the extrastriate cortex during normal development, we tested a group of 21 children (age 6-16 years) on their ability to detect motion-defined forms. With a two-alternative forced-choice procedures we determined thresholds and visual half-field asymmetries (i.e., left vs right) for detection of relative motion. It was found that children had higher thresholds than adults. Furthermore, children had more difficulty with the detection of motion in the left than right half-field, whereas the control group of 33 adults (age 21-55 years) performed similarly in both visual half-fields. These results are discussed in the light of a hemispheric asymmetry in the maturation of the extrastriate cortex.
Recently we have shown that children's ability to perceive motion-defined forms shows an asymmetry in the left and right visual half-fields which disappears in adulthood. The present study is focused on the visual half-field development of colour contrast vision in the same group of subjects. It was found that colour contrast thresholds for the detection of colour-contrast-defined forms decrease with age to reach adult values around puberty. This improvement of colour contrast vision with age is attributed to the maturation of cortical mechanisms. However, in contrast to a visual half-field asymmetry for motion detection during childhood, no visual half-field differences were observed for colour contrast detection in children.
(+)-MK-801 is known to be a specific non-competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. However, besides having an anticonvulsant effect, this compound possesses a central sympathomimetic effect and an anxiolytic-like action, raising the possibility that (+)-MK-801 might affect monoamine uptake systems. To elucidate this possibility, we investigated the effects of (+)-MK-801 on monoamine transporters expressed in HEK cells. (+)-MK-801 significantly inhibited the uptake of all three monoamine transporters in a dose-dependent manner and the inhibitions were competitive with respect to monoamines. The Ki values of (+)-MK-801 on the norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin transporters were 3.2 microM, 40 microM and 43 microM, respectively. In addition, (-)-MK-801, a less potent antagonist of NMDA receptors, also inhibited monoamine transporters with a similar potency as that of (+)-MK-801. These results clearly indicate that MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors, competitively inhibits monoamine transporters without stereoselectivity.
The G-protein-regulated, inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels are critical for functions as diverse as heart rate modulation and neuronal post-synaptic inhibition. GIRK channels are distributed predominantly throughout the heart, brain, and pancreas. In recent years, GIRK channels have received a great deal of attention for their direct G-protein betagamma (Gbetagamma) regulation. Native cardiac IKACh is composed of GIRK1 and GIRK4 subunits (Krapivinsky, G., Gordon, E. A., Wickman, K. A., Velimirovic, B., Krapivinsky, L., and Clapham, D. E. (1995) Nature 374, 135-141). Here, we examine the quaternary structure of IKACh using a variety of complementary approaches. Complete cross-linking of purified atrial IKACh protein formed a single adduct with a total molecular weight that was most consistent with a tetramer. In addition, partial cross-linking of purified IKACh produced subsets of molecular weights consistent with monomers, dimers, trimers, and tetramers. Within the presumed protein dimers, GIRK1-GIRK1 and GIRK4-GIRK4 adducts were formed, indicating that the tetramer was composed of two GIRK1 and two GIRK4 subunits. This 1:1 GIRK1 to GIRK4 stoichiometry was confirmed by two independent means, including densitometry of both silver-stained and Western-blotted native atrial IKACh. Similar experimental results could potentially be obtained if GIRK1 and GIRK4 subunits assembled randomly as 2:2 and equally sized populations of 3:1 and 1:3 tetramers. We also show that GIRK subunits may form homotetramers in expression systems, although the evidence to date suggests that GIRK1 homotetramers are not functional. We conclude that the inwardly rectifying atrial K+ channel, IKACh, a prototypical GIRK channel, is a heterotetramer and is most likely composed of two GIRK1 subunits and two GIRK4 subunits.
Recent findings have focused attention on the role of apoptosis in neurodegenerative diseases, however, the apoptotic process in child-onset brain disorders has been little investigated. Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) and Cockayne syndrome (CS) are hereditary disorders characterized by impaired DNA repair and neurodegeneration. We investigated apoptotic cell death in the cerebellum of five cases of XP group A (XPA), four cases of CS, and twelve controls, using TdT-mediated DIG-dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) and immunohistochemical staining for bcl-2, bcl-x, p53, bax, BDNF and Trk B. The TUNEL-positive cells were found in the granule cells of the cerebellar cortex of two patients with XPA and two patients with CS, whereas such cells were not detected in the cerebellar cortex in controls. Upregulation of bcl-2 or BDNF was not observed, and bcl-x expression was not altered. Some patients showed nuclear expression of p53 in the granule cells and/or molecular layer, bax-positive glial cells in the cerebellar white matter, and a few Trk B-positive cells in the granular layer. These findings suggest that apoptotic cell death can be involved in the cerebellar degeneration in patients with hereditary defects in DNA repair mechanisms.
We examined the occurrence of apoptotic cell death in the autopsied brains of four patients with Werdnig Hoffmann disease (WH), using TdT-mediated DIG-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and immunohistochemistry for apoptosis-related proteins. Three of the four patients, aged over 6 months, exhibited TUNEL-positive cells in the lateral nuclei of the thalamus, and one of the three patients also had TUNEL-positive cells in the cerebral cortex. The labeled nuclei did not show characteristic features such as nuclear fragmentation or apoptotic bodies, and synaptophysin-positive granules were observed around some of the TUNEL-positive cells, although none of the antibodies against glial markers could visualize TUNEL-positive cells. TUNEL-positive cells were not observed in other regions examined, including the spinal cord, medulla and cerebellum or in the brains of three age-matched controls. There were neither immunopositive structures for bcl-2 or p53 nor alteration of in situ expression of bcl-xs/l or bax in any subject, and the TUNEL-positive cells lacked immunopositivity against apoptosis-related proteins. The presence of these TUNEL-positive cells might suggest latent neurodegeneration in the thalamus before central chromatolysis of neurons or neuronal loss appears, although it is not clear whether apoptotic cell death is involved in this degenerative process.
Saporin, a ribosome-inactivating protein, was coupled to a monoclonal antibody to dopamine-B-hydroxylase (DBH) and injected unilaterally into the olfactory bulb of rats. After 4-13 days survival, the rat brain was processed histologically and the locus coerulei (LC) examined with Nissl and anti-DBH staining. There were degenerating dendrites in surviving LC neurons on the side ipsilateral to the immunotoxin-injected olfactory bulb. The number of Nissl-positive LC neurons in a transverse section through the caudal one third of the LC was reduced from 116+/-10 to 50+/-8 neurons (P &lt; 0.01, n = 7) and the number of DBH-positive neurons in the more rostral LC sections was reduced from 13+/-2 to 5+/-1 (P &lt; 0.05, n = 4). Our results indicate that it is possible to lesion LC neurons via retrograde intraaxonal transport of saporin-anti-DBH immunotoxin from the olfactory bulb.
Following spinal cord transection (SCT), sensory input to the spinal cord causes increases in arterial pressure that are small in rats 1 week after SCT, but become large and well established by 2 weeks. Moreover, sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) undergo atrophy by 1 week after SCT, and regeneration of these neurons may be an important factor in the etiology of this autonomic dysreflexia. Therefore, we examined the morphology of SPNs 2 weeks after SCT using retrograde transport of the cholera toxin subunit B. The dendritic arbors of SPNs were re-established by 2 weeks after SCT. This regeneration parallels the time course of the development of autonomic dysreflexia after cord injury in the rat, and may play a role in initiating this disorder.
Previous work indicated that diacylglycerol (DG) molecules translocate across the cytoplasm of mammalian cells, a process relevant to the signalling role of this lipid as protein kinase C activator. Here we investigated the possible mechanism underlying DG translocation. We examined the interaction between 1,2-di-[1-14C]oleoyl-sn-glycerol and rat liver cytosol (rlc) using assays based on Lipidex-1000 and on coelution on Sepharose CL 6B. We measured high DG binding activity and found that it resides in cytosolic proteins and not in cytosolic lipids. Chromatography of rlc proteins on Sepharose CL 6B showed profiles in which the activity measured by either method coincided. Further, we showed that the DG-rlc protein interaction results in the stabilization of DG in a micellar form, eluting in the void volume of Sepharose CL 6B. Such stabilized micelles are reminiscent of insect lipophorins and may represent a new, thus far unrecognized, mode of lipid transport within living cells.
Recent electrophysiological experiments, in which purified calbindin-D28k (calbindin) and calretinin antibodies were diffused into these neurons, showed that Ca2+-dependent membrane potentials and firing patterns were profoundly and predictably affected by Ca2+-binding proteins (CaBPs). The present study used quantitative analyses of a dual-labeling immunofluorescence method to investigate the colocalization of the CaBPs, calbindin and calretinin in oxytocin (OT)- and (VP)-containing neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. Analyses of tissue immunostained with two different dilutions of each CaBP antibody used, revealed that 84% and 72% of the OT neurons were positive for calbindin immunoreactivity (-ir) at the higher and lower antibody concentrations, respectively. 52% and 50% of OT neurons were positive for calretinin-ir; thus, many OT neurons express both calbindin and calretinin. In contrast, only 25% and 18% of VP neurons showed calbindin-ir, and they were virtually devoid of calretinin-ir. These results provide evidence that CaBP expression in OT neurons is both greater and more diverse than in VP neurons, and are consistent with the hypothesis that Ca2+ buffering capacity contributes to the control of intrinsic firing patterns.
The possible prophylactic effects of local injection of NMDA receptor antagonists that are currently used in humans was investigated in the present study. Intraplantar pretreatment with either 5 mM dextrorphan (DEX), 10 mM memantine (MEM) or 10 mM ketamine (KET) significantly attenuated formalin-induced lifting and licking behaviors, however flinching behavior was not effected. Control experiments indicated that these drug actions could be attributed to local and not systemic effects of the antagonists. We hypothesize that these actions result from blocking NMDA receptors present on unmyelinated sensory axons in the skin. These data suggest that peripheral NMDA receptors contribute to nociceptor activation and can be manipulated to reduce pain of peripheral origin. Since DEX, MEM and KET are currently used in humans and considered clinically safe, they have potential therapeutic value in the treatment of physiologic or pathologic pain states which are induced or maintained by peripheral nociceptor activity. Topical or local application would avoid the side effects that can accompany systemic or intrathecal injection of NMDA antagonists.
The tumor-derived antigen 90K (Mac-2 BP) is a widely expressed, secreted glycoprotein found in the serum of healthy individuals and at elevated levels in the serum of patients with breast cancer and other types of cancer. The precise function of 90K, particularly in the context of tumor-host relationships, has not yet been established. In this study, the clinical significance of 90K mRNA expression was studied in relation to other established prognostic parameters in 86 patients with primary breast carcinoma. The 2.2-kb 90K message was detected in all tumor samples, but there was marked variation in expression levels from tumor to tumor. Patients were classified into 2 groups on the basis of 90K expression: group 1 (n = 62) included patients with low expression, and group 2 (n = 24) consisted of patients with high expression. An inverse significant correlation was found between the levels of 90K mRNA expression and overexpression of c-erbB2/Neu receptor kinase, a marker of poor prognosis for patients with breast cancer. There was no significant difference between the groups with respect to tumor size, number of involved axillary lymph nodes, hormone-receptor status, p53 expression or proliferation activity as estimated by Ki-67 count. Similarly, no association was found between the level of 90K expression and the risk of death from breast cancer. These data are at variance with published findings showing that high serum 90K levels are associated with poor survival. Significantly, investigation of 90K-gene expression in peripheral-blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) revealed higher levels of 90K message in PBMC of breast-cancer patients than in healthy individuals. This new finding suggests that PBMC activated in response to tumor growth and progression may be an important source of serum 90K in breast cancer.
The antagonistic interactions between adenosine A1 and dopamine D1 receptors were studied in a mouse Ltk- cell line stably cotransfected with human adenosine A1 receptor and dopamine D1 receptor cDNAs. In membrane preparations, both the adenosine A1 receptor agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine and the GTP analogue guanyl-5'-yl imidodiphospate induced a decrease in the proportion of dopamine D1 receptors in a high affinity state. In the cotransfected cells, the adenosine A1 agonist induced a concentration-dependent inhibition of dopamine-induced cAMP accumulation. Blockade of adenosine A1 receptor signal transduction with the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine or with pertussis toxin pretreatment increased both basal and dopamine-stimulated cAMP levels, indicating the existence of tonic adenosine A1 receptor activation. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin also counteracted the effects of low concentrations of the A1 agonist on D1 receptor-agonist binding. The results suggest that adenosine A1 receptors antagonistically modulate dopamine D1 receptors at the level of receptor binding and the generation of second messengers.
The induction of several forms of long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the mammalian hippocampus is dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation and the subsequent activation of protein kinase C (PKC), but the mechanisms that underlie the regulation of PKC in this context are largely unknown. It is known that reactive oxygen species, including superoxide, are produced by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation in neurons, and recent studies have suggested that some reactive oxygen species can modulate PKC in vitro. Thus, we have investigated the role of superoxide in both the induction of LTP and the activation of PKC during LTP. We found that incubation of hippocampal slices with superoxide scavengers inhibited the induction of LTP. The effects of superoxide on LTP induction may involve PKC, as we observed that superoxide was required for appropriate modulation of PKC activation during the induction of LTP. In this respect, superoxide appears to work in conjunction with nitric oxide, which was required for a portion of the LTP-associated changes in PKC activity as well. Our observations indicate that superoxide and nitric oxide together regulate PKC in a physiologic context and that this type of regulation occurs during the induction of LTP in the hippocampus.
Mass spectrometry (MS) was employed to detect and structurally characterize peptides in two functionally related neurons, named VD1 and RPD2, which form a network involved in the modulation of heartbeat in Lymnaea. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization MS, directly applied to single neurons VD1 and RPD2, showed overlapping yet distinct mass profiles, with a subset of putative peptides specifically present in neuron VD1. Direct tandem MS of a single VD1 neuron revealed the primary structures of the VD1-specific peptides, which were identified as members of the family of small cardioactive peptides. Based on the tandem MS data, a degenerate oligonucleotide was made for use in a polymerase chain reaction strategy to isolate the cDNA encoding the precursor to the small cardioactive peptides from a brain-specific cDNA library. The calculated masses of the mature, posttranslationally modified peptides, as predicted from the corresponding cDNA, agreed with the measured masses of the actual peptides, as detected in single-cell MS analysis. In situ hybridization studies showed that the transcript encoding the precursor is present in VD1, but not in RPD2, thus corroborating the single-cell MS analysis. Finally, the small cardioactive peptides were shown to enhance the contractions of the auricle in vitro.
The circadian hormone melatonin is synthesized predominantly in the pineal gland by the actions of two pineal-specific enzymes: serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT) and hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT). Pineal night-specific ATPase (PINA), another pineal- and night-specific protein we recently identified, is produced as a truncated form of the Wilson disease gene (Atp7b) product. To identify the regulatory elements required for pineal-specific gene expression, we isolated sequences upstream of the rat PINA gene and discovered a cis-acting element that is recognized by a novel pineal/retina-specific nuclear factor. This pineal regulatory element (PIRE) has a consensus of TAATC/T and is present in six copies in the 5' regulatory region of the PINA gene, at least three copies in the rat NAT promoter, and at least one copy in each of the putative HIOMT promoters A and B. A recently identified retina-specific protein, cone rod homeobox (CRX), binds to PIRE in vitro and transactivates PIRE-reporter constructs. These data suggest that Crx may play a crucial role in regulating pineal gene expression through interactions with PIRE.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is able to restore spatial learning and reverse forebrain cholinergic neuron atrophy when administered intracerebrally to behaviorally impaired aged rats. In the present study, behaviorally unimpaired, middle-aged rats (14-16 months old) received transplants of ex vivo transduced, clonal NGF-secreting immortalized neural progenitor cells, bilaterally in the nucleus basalis and septum. During the subsequent 9 months the aged control animals developed the expected impairment in spatial learning in the water maze task, whereas the animals with NGF-secreting grafts maintained a performance level not different from the 12-month-old control rats. The marked age-induced atrophy (-25%) of the cholinergic neurons in medial septum and nucleus basalis, seen in the aged control rats, was not present in the NGF-treated aged animals. 3H-labeled thymidine autoradiography showed that the transduced cells survived well and had become integrated into the host tissue surrounding the injection sites, and reverse transcription-PCR analysis revealed expression of the NGF transgene, at both 4 and 9 months postgrafting, in the grafted tissue. The results show that long-term supply of NGF from ex vivo transduced immortalized neural progenitor cells locally within the nucleus basalis and septum can prevent the subsequent development of age-dependent neuronal atrophy and behavioral impairments when the animals reach advanced age.
The complex of rapamycin with its intracellular receptor, FKBP12, interacts with RAFT1/FRAP/mTOR, the in vivo rapamycin-sensitive target and a member of the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)-related family of kinases that share homology with the catalytic domain of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. The function of RAFT1 in the rapamycin-sensitive pathway and its connection to downstream components of the pathway, such as p70 S6 kinase and 4E-BP1, are poorly understood. Here, we show that RAFT1 directly phosphorylates p70(S6k), 4E-BP1, and 4E-BP2 and that serum stimulates RAFT1 kinase activity with kinetics similar to those of p70(S6k) and 4E-BP1 phosphorylation. RAFT1 phosphorylates p70(S6k) on Thr-389, a residue whose phosphorylation is rapamycin-sensitive in vivo and necessary for S6 kinase activity. RAFT1 phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 on Thr-36 and Thr-45 blocks its association with the cap-binding protein, eIF-4E, in vitro, and phosphorylation of Thr-45 seems to be the major regulator of the 4E-BP1-eIF-4E interaction in vivo. RAFT1 phosphorylates p70(S6k) much more effectively than 4E-BP1, and the phosphorylation sites on the two proteins show little homology. This raises the possibility that, in vivo, an unidentified kinase analogous to p70(S6k) is activated by RAFT1 phosphorylation and acts at the rapamycin-sensitive phosphorylation sites of 4E-BP1.
Application of high K+ concentrations to a limited area of the brain surface is known to trigger spreading depression. We used this model to observe the response of cortical areas, distant to the exposed site, at the cellular level. Immunostaining of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and of the proto-oncogene c-Fos was analyzed in brain sections at different times after K+ application. Piriform and parietal cortices, as observed in coronal sections located 3 mm rostrally from the center of the stimulated area and ipsilateral to it, showed a dramatic increase in immunostaining for both markers. However, the time course for such increments was different. c-Fos protein(s) expression was high at 1.5 h and decreased at 24 h after K+ exposure and c-fos mRNA expression correlated with the immunohistochemical results. At these initial times GFAP immunoreactivity was still low but began to rise between 2 and 7 days after treatment in exactly the same areas where c-Fos expression had been up-regulated. No significant effect, for either marker, was evident in the contralateral piriform or parietal cortices. In addition, we studied the effects of the NMDA antagonist MK-801 (4 mg/kg i.p.) on the expression of mRNA for GFAP and c-fos and demonstrated a marked reduction in the upregulation of these genes.
Our previous study has demonstrated that astrocytes derived from the rat frontal cortex contain 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)7 receptors positively coupled to adenylyl cyclase. In this study, we observed a desensitization of 5-HT7 receptors induced by a treatment with agonists (0.1, 1, and 10 muM, 0.5 to 3.5 h). Maximum responses, but not the EC50 values, in the concentration-response curve of 5-HT-induced cyclic AMP formation were decreased after pretreatment with 5-HT. Pretreatment with 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) elicited a potent desensitization of 5-HT-induced cyclic AMP formation. Neither 2-methyl-5-HT nor alpha-methyl-5-HT caused the desensitization. When the astrocytes were treated with isoproterenol, N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine, and dibutyryl cyclic AMP (all of which increase intracellular cyclic AMP levels), 5-HT-induced cyclic AMP responses were not affected. Conversely, adenylyl cyclase activity mediated by either isoproterenol or N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine was attenuated by pretreatment with each of these agonists, but not 5-HT. In addition, our study showed that the administration of 5-HT, 5-CT, and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin to the astrocytes stimulated cyclic AMP formation both in the presence and absence of forskolin, whereas in neuron-rich cultures of the frontal cortex, these agonists did not change basal cyclic AMP levels and decreased forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP formation. Neurons may predominantly contain 5-HT1A receptors that are negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase. These results suggest that 5-HT7 receptors are highly expressed in astrocytes but not in neuronal cells, and that pretreatment with their agonists results in a homologous desensitization of the receptors.
A modular organization of bands enriched in high concentrations of D2 receptors are observed throughout the rostral to caudal aspects of the temporal cortex of the normal human at postmortem, but are most frequently observed in the inferior and superior temporal cortices [S. Goldsmith, J.N. Joyce, Dopamine D2 receptors are organized in bands in normal human temporal cortex, Neuroscience 74 (1996) 435-451]. In the tissue derived at postmortem from Alzheimer's disease cases (AD), these D2 receptor-enriched modules were found to be largely absent at rostral and mid-levels of the temporal cortex. Regions exhibiting this loss of receptor binding also showed a marked reduction in the number of pyramidal neurons stained for D2 mRNA. In addition, the AD material exhibited numerous thioflavin-positive plaques and tangle-filled extraneuronal (ghost) pyramidal neurons that were D2 mRNA-negative. Regions that are the earliest affected and most susceptible to classical AD pathology are also most sensitive to the loss of D2 receptors. These results, along with our previous data [J.N. Joyce, C. Kaeger, H. Ryoo, S. Goldsmith, Dopamine D2 receptors in the hippocampus and amygdala in Alzheimer's disease, Neurosci. Lett. 154 (1993) 171-174; H. Ryoo, J. N. Joyce, The loss of dopamine D2 receptors varies along the rostrocaudal axis of the hippocampal complex in Alzheimer's disease, J. Comp. Neurol. 348 (1994) 94-110], indicate that specific pathways enriched with D2 receptors, including that within modules of higher order association cortices of the temporal lobe and continued through segregated pathways within the parahippocampus and hippocampus, are particularly susceptible to the loss in AD. These dopamine D2 receptor-enriched modules may play an important role in the reciprocal activity of large groups of neurons in these high-order association cortical regions. Hence, the loss of the D2 receptor-enriched modules in Alzheimer's disease contributes to disturbances in information processing in these high-order association cortices, and may promote the cognitive and non-cognitive impairments observed in Alzheimer's disease.
The distribution and cellular localization of the somatostatin sst2(a) receptor was investigated in selected human brain areas using an anti-peptide antibody raised against a carboxy-terminal portion of the receptor protein. The sst2(a) receptor was found to be present on neurones and processes in the deep layers of the cerebral cortex, in the subicular complex and the hippocampal formation. Further signals were obtained in the molecular and granular layer of the cerebellum, with occasional weakly stained Purkinje cells. The regional distribution of the receptor protein was compared with quantitative autoradiography using a sst2 receptor selective ligand [125I]BIM23027.
Recent studies have revealed that FMRP, the gene product of the fragile-X gene FMR1, is an RNA-binding protein. These and other data have led to the idea that FMRP may play a role in targeting mRNAs for transport to synaptic sites. The present study evaluated whether a null mutation of FMR1 disrupts the patterns of localization of three mRNAs that are present constitutively in dendrites (the mRNAs for MAP2, CAMII kinase and dendrin), or disrupt the rapid dendritic transport of the mRNA for activity-regulated cytoskeletal protein (ARC), coded for by an immediate-early gene. In situ hybridization analyses revealed that the patterns of mRNA localization in dendrites and the dendritic transport of ARC mRNA are indistinguishable from normal in FMR1 knockout mice. These results indicate that FMRP does not play an obligatory role in targeting this set of mRNAs to dendrites, although it might be involved in targeting other dendritic mRNAs yet to be identified.
Compound action potentials (CAPs) from adult rat optic nerves were recorded in vitro. The area under the CAP was compared before and after 1 h anoxia/reoxygenation. Resting compound membrane potential was measured using the cold grease-gap technique. The acute reduction of CAP magnitude by anoxia was unaffected by TEA (20 mM), 4-AP (300 microM), or the KATP blockers glibenclamide (300 microM) and tolbutamide (2 mM). Neither these K+ channel blockers, nor glipizide (100 microM) or the KATP activator diazoxide (500 microM) altered post-anoxic CAP area recovery. In contrast, although Cs+ (5 mM) accelerated anoxic CAP failure and membrane depolarization, this cation significantly increased CAP area recovery post-anoxia from 22+/-10% (s.d.) to 60+/-22% (p &lt; 0.0001). The unique effects of Cs+ suggest that inward rectifier channels may play an important role in the induction of anoxic injury in optic nerve axons.
A disturbance in the frontal-striatal-thalamic circuitry has been proposed for schizophrenia, but this concept has been based primarily on indirect evidence from psychopharmacology and analogies with animal research. Diffusion tensor imaging, a new MRI technique that permits direct assessment of the large axon masses stretching from the prefrontal cortex to the striatum, was used to study white matter axon bundles. Diffusion tensor images, high-resolution structural MRI and positron emission tomography scans with 18-fluorodexoyglucose were obtained on five patients with schizophrenia and six age- and sex-matched normal controls. Significantly lower diffusion anisotropy in the white matter of the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenic patients than in normal controls was observed in statistical probability maps. Co-registered PET scans revealed significantly lower correlation coefficients between metabolic rates in the prefrontal cortex and striatum in patients than in controls. These twin findings provide convergent evidence for diminished fronto-striatal connectivity in schizophrenia.
Pontine projections of second-order neurons activated by vagal afferents originating from pulmonary slowly adapting receptors were studied electrophysiologically in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed and artificially ventilated cats. Extracellular recordings from these neurons (referred to as P-cells) were made in the nucleus tractus solitarii. Antidromic mapping of the brain stem showed that many P-cells examined projected their axons to the ipsilateral pons as well as the medulla. Axonal arborizations were found in the parabrachial nucleus, i.e. in the area corresponding to the pontine respiratory group. In some P-cells, axonal arborizations were also found in the A5 area. The present results suggest that the P-cells are involved in pontine pneumotaxic mechanisms.
This study was conducted to determine whether nitric oxide (NO) is involved in the maintenance of behavioral signs of neuropathic pain induced by tightly ligating the left L5 and L6 spinal nerves. Neuropathic rats showed behavioral signs representing mechanical allodynia, cold allodynia and cold-stress exacerbated ongoing pain. Mechanical allodynia was suppressed by Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 200, 100, 50, 10 microM/kg, i.p.), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, in a dose-dependent manner. Cold allodynia and cold-stress exacerbated ongoing pain was also attenuated by L-NAME. Neither Nomega-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (D-NAME; 200 microM/kg) nor saline changed any of the neuropathic pain behaviors. These results suggested that NO plays an important role in the maintenance of the behavioral signs of neuropathic pain and is involved in common steps in the maintenance of the different modalities of pain such as mechanical allodynia and cold allodynia.
Prosaposin is the precursor of four small glycoproteins, saposins A-D, that activate lysosomal sphingolipid hydrolysis. A full-length cDNA encoding prosaposin from chicken brain was isolated by PCR. The deduced amino acid sequence predicted that, similarly to human and other mammalian species studied, chicken prosaposin contains 518 residues, including four domains that correspond to saposins A-D. There was 59% identity and 76% similarity of human and chicken prosaposin amino acid sequences. The basic three-dimensional structures of these saposins is predicted to be similar on the basis of the conservation of six cysteine residues and an N-glycosylation site. Identity of amino acid sequences was higher among saposins A, B and D than in saposin C. The predicted amino acid sequence of saposin B matched exactly that of purified chicken saposin B protein. The chicken prosaposin gene was mapped to a single locus, PSAP, in chicken linkage group E11C10 and is closely linked to the ACTA2 locus. This confirms the homology between chicken and human prosaposins and defines a new conserved segment with human chromosome 10q21-q24.

Pompe disease is a fatal genetic muscle disorder caused by a deficiency of acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA), a glycogen degrading lysosomal enzyme. GAA-deficient (AMD) Japanese quails exhibit progressive myopathy and cannot lift their wings, fly, or right themselves from the supine position (flip test). Six 4-wk-old acid maltase-deficient quails, with the clinical symptoms listed, were intravenously injected with 14 or 4.2 mg/kg of precursor form of recombinant human GAA or buffer alone every 2-3 d for 18 d (seven injections). On day 18, both high dose-treated birds (14 mg/kg) scored positive flip tests and flapped their wings, and one bird flew up more than 100 cm. GAA activity increased in most of the tissues examined. In heart and liver, glycogen levels dropped to normal and histopathology was normal. In pectoralis muscle, morphology was essentially normal, except for increased glycogen granules. In sharp contrast, sham-treated quail muscle had markedly increased glycogen granules, multi-vesicular autophagosomes, and inter- and intrafascicular fatty infiltrations. Low dose-treated birds (4.2 mg/kg) improved less biochemically and histopathologically than high dose birds, indicating a dose-dependent response. Additional experiment with intermediate doses and extended treatment (four birds, 5.7-9 mg/kg for 45 d) halted the progression of the disease. Our data is the first to show that an exogenous protein can target to muscle and produce muscle improvement. These data also suggest enzyme replacement with recombinant human GAA is a promising therapy for human Pompe disease.
This paper concerns the characterization of performance and perceptual learning of somatosensory interval discrimination. The purposes of this study were to define (1) the performance characteristics for interval discrimination in the somatosensory system by naive adult humans, (2) the normal capacities for improvement in somatosensory interval discrimination, and (3) the extent of generalization of interval discrimination learning. In a two-alternative forced choice procedure, subjects were presented with two pairs of vibratory pulses. One pair was separated in time by a fixed base interval; a second pair was separated by a target interval that was always longer than the base interval. Subjects indicated which pair was separated by the target interval. The length of the target interval was varied adaptively to determine discrimination thresholds. After initial determination of naive abilities, subjects were trained for 900 trials per day at base intervals of either 75 or 125 msec for 10-15 d. Significant improvements in thresholds resulted from training. Learning at the trained base interval generalized completely across untrained skin locations on the trained hand and to the corresponding untrained skin location in the contralateral hand. The learning partially generalized to untrained base intervals similar to the trained one, but not to more distant base intervals. Learning with somatosensory stimuli generalized to auditory stimuli presented at comparable base intervals. These results demonstrate temporal specificity in somatosensory interval discrimination learning that generalizes across skin location, hemisphere, and modality.
The principal cells of the chick tangential nucleus are second-order sensory neurons that participate in the three-neuron vestibulo-ocular and vestibulocollic reflexes. In postnatal animals, second-order vestibular neurons fire repetitively on depolarization. Previous studies have shown that, although this is an important feature for normal reflex function, it is only acquired gradually during embryonic development. Whereas at 13 embryonic days (E13) the principal cells accommodate after firing a single spike, at E16 a few principal cells repetitively can fire multiple action potentials on depolarization. Finally, in the hatchling, the vast majority of principal cells is capable of nonaccommodating firing on depolarization. As a first step in understanding the mechanisms underlying developmental change in excitability of these second-order vestibular neurons, we analyzed the outward potassium currents and their role in accommodation, using brainstem slices at E16. The principal cells exhibited transient and sustained potassium currents, with both of these containing calcium-dependent components. Further, both high- and low-threshold sustained potassium currents have been distinguished. The low-threshold dendrotoxin-sensitive sustained potassium current (IDS) is associated with principal cells that accommodate and is not expressed in those that fire repetitively. Finally, blocking of IDS transforms accommodating cells into neurons capable of firing trains of action potentials on depolarization. These findings indicate that suppression of IDS during development is sufficient to transform accommodating principal cells into nonaccommodating firing neurons and suggests that developmental regulation of this current is necessary for the establishment of normal vestibular function.
Specific isoforms of laminin (LN) are concentrated at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) where they may participate in synaptic organization or function. In myotubes from C2 cells, LN is concentrated within the majority of spontaneous acetylcholine receptor (AChR) aggregates. Neural agrin substantially increases this colocalization, suggesting that agrin can recruit LN into AChR aggregates. Addition of LN to C2 myotubes induces a more than twofold increase in the number of AChR aggregates. These aggregates have a larger size and are more dense than are those induced by agrin, suggesting that LN is involved in the growth and/or stabilization of AChR aggregates. Consistent with this hypothesis, an antiserum to LN reduces the size of individual AChR aggregates but increases their number. In C2 myotubes, extracellular matrix receptors containing the integrin beta1 subunit are poorly colocalized with AChR aggregates, suggesting that integrins may not be involved in LN-induced aggregation. In contrast, almost all AChR aggregates are associated with dystroglycan immunoreactivity, and monoclonal antibody (mAb) IIH6 against alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG), a LN and agrin receptor, causes a concentration-dependent inhibition of LN-induced aggregation. Moreover, S27 cells, which lack a functional alpha-DG, and two C2-derived cell lines expressing antisense DG mRNA fail to aggregate AChRs in response to LN. Finally, LN-induced AChR aggregation does not involve the phosphorylation of the muscle-specific tyrosine kinase receptor (MuSK) or the AChR beta subunit. We hypothesize that the interaction of LN with alpha-DG contributes to the growth and/or stabilization of AChR microaggregates into macroaggregates at the developing NMJ via a MuSK-independent mechanism.
The avian hippocampus plays a pivotal role in memory required for spatial navigation and food storing. Here we have examined synaptic transmission and plasticity within the hippocampal formation of the domestic chicken using an in vitro slice preparation. With the use of sharp microelectrodes we have shown that excitatory synaptic inputs in this structure are glutamatergic and activate both NMDA- and AMPA-type receptors on the postsynaptic membrane. In response to tetanic stimulation, the EPSP displayed a robust long-term potentiation (LTP) lasting &gt;1 hr. This LTP was unaffected by blockade of NMDA receptors or chelation of postsynaptic calcium. Application of forskolin increased the EPSP and reduced paired-pulse facilitation (PPF), indicating an increase in release probability. In contrast, LTP was not associated with a change in the PPF ratio. Induction of LTP did not occlude the effects of forskolin. Thus, in contrast to NMDA receptor-independent LTP in the mammalian brain, LTP in the chicken hippocampus is not attributable to a change in the probability of transmitter release and does not require activation of adenylyl cyclase. These findings indicate that a novel form of synaptic plasticity might underlie learning in the avian hippocampus.
Astrocytes swell during neuronal activity as they accumulate K+ to buffer the increase in external K+ released from neurons. This swelling activates volume-sensitive Cl- channels, which are thought to be important in regulatory volume decrease and in the response of the CNS to trauma and excitotoxicity. Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases also are activated by cell volume changes, but their roles in volume regulation are unknown. We have investigated the role of tyrosine and MAP kinases in the activation of volume-activated Cl- channels in cultured astrocytes, using whole-cell patch-clamp recording and Western immunoblots. As previously described, hypo-osmotic solution induced an outwardly rectifying Cl- current, which was blocked by NPPB and SITS. This Cl- current did not depend on [Ca2+ ]i because it was still observed when 20 mM BAPTA was included in the pipette, but it did exhibit rundown when ATP was omitted. Inhibition of tyrosine kinases with genistein or tyrphostin A23 (but not the inactive agents daidzein and tyrphostin A1) blocked the Cl- current. The MAP kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor PD 98059 reversibly inhibited activation of the Cl- current by hypo-osmotic solution. Western immunoblots showed that genistein or PD 98059 blocked activation of Erk-1 and Erk-2 by hypo-osmotic solution in astrocytes. Therefore, activation of tyrosine and MAP kinases by swelling is a critical step in the opening of volume-sensitive Cl- channels.
The effects of acetylcholine on both pyramidal neurons and interneurons in the area CA1 of the rat hippocampus were examined, using intracellular recording techniques in an in vitro slice preparation. In current-clamp mode, fast local application of acetylcholine (ACh) to the soma of inhibitory interneurons in stratum radiatum resulted in depolarization and rapid firing of action potentials. Under voltage-clamp, ACh produced fast, rapidly desensitizing inward currents that were insensitive to atropine but that were blocked by nanomolar concentrations of the nicotinic alpha7 receptor-selective antagonists alpha-bungarotoxin (alphaBgTx) and methyllycaconitine. Nicotinic receptor antagonists that are not selective for alpha7-containing receptors had little (mecamylamine) or no effect (dihydro-beta-erythroidine) on the ACh-induced currents. Glutamate receptor antagonists had no effect on the ACh-evoked response, indicating that the current was not mediated by presynaptic facilitation of glutamate release. However, the current could be desensitized almost completely by bath superfusion with 100 nM nicotine. In contrast to those actions on interneurons, application of ACh to the soma of CA1 pyramidal cells did not produce a detectable current. Radioligand-binding experiments with [125I]-alphaBgTx demonstrated that stratum radiatum interneurons express alpha7-containing nAChRs, and in situ hybridization revealed significant amounts of alpha7 mRNA. CA1 pyramidal cells did not show specific binding of [125I]-alphaBgTx and only low levels of alpha7 mRNA. These results suggest that, in addition to their proposed presynaptic role in modulating transmitter release, alpha7-containing nAChRs also may play a postsynaptic role in the excitation of hippocampal interneurons. By desensitizing these receptors, nicotine may disrupt this action and indirectly excite pyramidal neurons by reducing GABAergic inhibition.
To investigate the mechanisms by which lipopolysaccharide (LPS) affects Ca2+ signaling systems, we studied the effects of LPS on the serotonin (5-HT)- or thrombin-induced intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) increase in rat C6 glioma cells. Pretreatment of the cells with 1 microg/ml LPS for 24 hr significantly inhibited [Ca2+]i increase induced by 10 microM 5-HT- or 0.5 U/ml thrombin. Its inhibitory effects were both dose- and time-dependent. Treatment with 1 mM dibutyryl cGMP (dbcGMP) for 30 min also significantly inhibited the 5-HT- and thrombin-induced [Ca2+]i increase to approximately 60-70% of control. However, simultaneous pretreatment with LPS and dbcGMP did not show any synergistic inhibition. The simultaneous pretreatment with LPS and the potent cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) inhibitors H-8 and KT5823 for 24 hr significantly antagonized the inhibitory effect of LPS. Pretreatment of the cells with 1 microg/ml LPS for 24 hr significantly enhanced cGMP accumulation, while dexamethasone and NMMA (NOS inhibitors) significantly attenuated the LPS-induced enhancement in cGMP accumulation. In addition, pretreatment of the cells with 100 nM dexamethasone for 24 hr significantly suppressed LPS-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS; type II NOS, NOS-II) protein expression. These results indicate that LPS may inhibit both 5-HT- and thrombin-induced [Ca2+]i increase via iNOS expression and PKG activation pathway in rat C6 glioma cells.
Transferrin (Tf) is accepted as the iron mobilization protein, but its role in transport of other metals is controversial. In this study, we used mixed glial cultures from hypotransferrinemic (Hp) mice to determine the dependence of these cells on transferrin for iron and manganese delivery and release. Hp mice have a splicing defect in the transferrin (Tf) gene, resulting in &lt; 1% of the normal plasma levels of Tf. Cellular iron and manganese uptake increases over 24 hr in cultures of normal and Hp glial cells in the presence of standard concentrations of Tf in the media; although total 59iron uptake in the Hp mouse cultures was 2X greater than normal, 54Mn uptake was similar between the two groups. The absence of Tf in the media resulted in a significant increase in 59iron uptake in both normal and Hp glial but did not affect Mn uptake. Elevated Tf (10X normal) in the media reduced both 59iron and 54Mn uptake. Efflux of 59Iron and 54Mn occurred in normal and Hp cultures, indicating the existence of a dynamic exchange of metals, and that intracellular Tf is not necessary for metal release. However, in the absence of Tf in the media, significantly more iron was retained in the cells than if Tf were present in both normal and Hp glial cultures. 54Mn release was minimally affected by extracellular Tf. The data demonstrate that Tf is not required for iron and Mn uptake into glial cells. These data further demonstrate a dynamic metal exchange system for glial cells which is not dependent on intracellular Tf.
1. The functions of ipsilateral cutaneous reflexes were studied with short trains of stimuli presented pseudorandomly to the sural nerve during human walking. Electromyograms (EMG) of lower (tibialis anterior (TA), soleus, lateral (LG) and medial (MG) gastrocnemius) and upper leg (vastus lateralis and biceps femoris) muscles were recorded, together with ankle, knee and hip joint angles. Net reflex EMG responses were quantified in each of the sixteen parts of the step cycle. The kinematic measurements included ankle eversion- inversion, and ankle, knee and hip flexion-extension. 2. The function of the sural reflexes depended upon the part of the step cycle in which the nerve was stimulated and the intensity of stimulation. During stance, reflexes in MG and TA muscles in response to a medium intensity of stimulation (1.9 x radiating threshold, x RT) were closely associated with ankle eversion and dorsiflexion responses, respectively. These responses could assist in accommodation to uneven terrain that applies pressure to the lateral side of the foot (sural innervation area). Non-noxious, high intensity (2.3 x RT) stimulation resulted in strong suppression of LG and MG during stance which was correlated to a small reduction in ankle plantarflexion. At this higher intensity the response would function to prevent the foot from moving more forcefully onto a potentially harmful obstacle. 3. During swing, ankle dorsiflexion increased and was significantly correlated to the net TA EMG response after both medium and high intensity stimulation. Knee flexion was increased throughout swing at both intensities of stimulation. These responses may serve in an avoidance response in which the swing limb is brought past an obstacle without destabilizing contact. 4. The net EMG and kinematic responses suggest that cutaneous reflexes stabilize human gait against external perturbations produced by an uneven surface in stance or obstacles encountered during swing.
1. The main purpose of this study was to collate population data on the firing characteristics of muscle afferents recorded chronically during normal stepping in cats. 2. Ensemble firing profiles of forty-seven muscle spindle and tendon organ afferents were compiled from stored data. The relationships between the firing profiles and the displacement and force signals were analysed with the help of mathematical models of the response characteristics of spindle primary and secondary afferents and tendon organs. 3. Whereas the firing of hamstring spindle afferents could be predicted with reasonable accuracy from the length and velocity signals alone, the firing profiles of triceps surae spindle afferents deviated from the predicted profiles, particularly during electromyogram (EMG) activity. This indicated that the components of fusimotor action linked to extrafusal muscle activity were significant in triceps surae, possibly because this muscle is more strongly recruited in the cat step cycle. 4. From the limited data available, it was not possible to identify the 'best' or most general mathematical function to predict spindle secondary firing. In the two triceps surae spindle secondary units studied, firing was well predicted by using the simplest possible model, rate proportional to displacement, whereas in the hamstring spindle secondary data, a more complex linear transfer function was needed. The results of modelling the spindle secondary data were consistent with a modest amount of phasic, static fusimotor action linked to EMG activity. 5. The averaged ensemble of tendon organ afferent activity from the triceps surae gave predictions of whole-muscle force that agreed well with separate triceps force measurements in normal cat locomotion. This supports the idea that ensembles of tendon organ afferents signal whole-muscle force. 6. Our overall conclusion is that to a first approximation, large muscle afferents in the cat hindlimb signal muscle velocity, muscle length and muscle force, at least in movements of the speed and amplitude seen in locomotion.
1. The aim of this work was to compare the ability of several mathematical models to predict the firing characteristics of muscle spindle primary afferents recorded chronically during normal stepping in cats. 2. Ensemble firing profiles of nine hamstring spindle primary (presumed group Ia) afferents were compiled from stored data from 132 step cycles. Three sets of profiles corresponding to slow, medium and fast steps were generated by averaging groups of step cycles aligned to peak muscle length in each cycle. 3. Five models obtained from the literature were compared. Each of these models was used to predict the spindle firing profiles from the averaged muscle length signals. The models were also used in the reverse direction, namely to predict muscle length from the firing profiles. A sixth model incorporating some key aspects of the other models was also included in the comparisons. 4. Five of the models predicted spindle firing well, with root mean square (r.m.s.) errors lower than 14 % of the modulation depth of the target profiles. The key variable in achieving good predictions was muscle velocity, the best fits being obtained with power-law functions of velocity, with an exponent of 0.5 or 0.6 (i.e. spindle firing rate is approximately proportional to the square root of muscle velocity). The fits were slightly improved by adding small components of EMG signal to mimic fusimotor action linked to muscle activation. The modest relative size of EMG-linked fusimotor action may be related to the fact that hamstring muscles are not strongly recruited in stepping. 5. Length was predicted very accurately from firing profiles with the inverse of the above models, indicating that the nervous system could in principle process spindle firing in a relatively simple way to give accurate information on muscle length. 6. The responses of the models to standard ramp-and-hold displacements at 10 mm s-1 were also studied (i.e. velocities that were an order of magnitude lower than that during stepping). In these cases components of spindle primary response related to length as well as velocity were needed for good fits. Because these length-related components detracted from rather than improved predictions of the step cycle data, an attenuation of length dependence at high muscle velocities emerged as a possibility. 7. We conclude that in this study we have identified models and parameters that may be used to predict spindle afferent firing from the time course of muscle length in the cat step cycle.
It is shown that in those autoassociative memories that learn by storing multiple patterns of activity on their recurrent collateral connections, there is a fundamental conflict between dynamical stability and storage capacity. It is then found that the network can nevertheless retrieve many different memory patterns, as predicted by nondynamical analyses, if its firing is regulated by inhibition that is sufficiently multiplicative in nature. Simulations of a model network with integrate-and-fire units confirm that this is a realistic solution to the conflict. The simulations also confirm the earlier analytical result that cued-elicited memory retrieval, which follows an exponential time course, occurs in a time linearly related to the time constant for synaptic conductance inactivation and relatively independent of neuronal time constants and firing levels.
The relative contributions of feedforward and recurrent connectivity to the direction-selective responses of cells in layer IVB of primary visual cortex are currently the subject of debate in the neuroscience community. Recently, biophysically detailed simulations have shown that realistic direction-selective responses can be achieved via recurrent cortical interactions between cells with nondirection-selective feedforward input (Suarez et al., 1995; Maex &amp; Orban, 1996). Unfortunately these models, while desirable for detailed comparison with biology, are complex and thus difficult to analyze mathematically. In this article, a relatively simple cortical dynamical model is used to analyze the emergence of direction-selective responses via recurrent interactions. A comparison between a model based on our analysis and physiological data is presented. The approach also allows analysis of the recurrently propagated signal, revealing the predictive nature of the implementation.
Protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is found in the cell nucleus and has been implicated in several aspects of nuclear function. We report here the cloning and initial characterization of a novel protein approximately named phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS). This protein interacts with PP1 in a yeast two-hybrid assay, is found in a stable complex with PP1 in mammalian cell lysates, and exhibits a potent modulation of PP1 catalytic activity toward exogenous substrate in vitro. PNUTS is a ubiquitously expressed protein that exhibits a discreet nuclear compartmentalization and is colocalized with chromatin at distinct phases during mitosis. The subcellular localization of PP1 and the activity toward substrates involved in many aspects of cell physiology have previously been shown to be regulated by association with noncatalytic targeting subunits. The properties of PNUTS are consistent with its role as a targeting subunit for the regulation of nuclear PP1 function.
Sex hormones have activational effects on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in adulthood: For example, corticosterone release is influenced by gonadal status. These experiments investigated whether sex hormones have organizational effects on the HPA axis of male rats: Do sex hormones have relatively permanent effects on its development? In adults, both neonatal (neoGDX) and adult gonadectomy (adult GDX) resulted in elevated corticosterone (CORT) levels in response to stress compared to intact rats. Five days of testosterone propionate (TP) replacement was not as effective at attenuating CORT levels in neoGDX rats as in adult GDX rats. Neonatal GDX elevated corticosterone binding globulin (CBG) levels, whereas adult GDX was without effect. In Experiment 2 the effects of neonatal gonadectomy and neonatal treatment with either TP, estradiol benzoate (EB), or oil vehicle was examined. Despite 14 days of hormone replacement, neoGDX showed elevated CORT levels in response to stress compared to all other groups. A single neonatal dose of TP or EB in neoGDX rats eliminated the increased responsiveness. Neonatal TP and EB were without effect in sham-operated rats. Plasma CBG levels were elevated in neoGDX groups regardless of neonatal hormone treatment. Corticosteroid receptor binding levels were examined in various brain areas and the pituitary in two groups most different in their androgen experience: NeoGDX and shams that did not receive treatments as adults. NeoGDX had lower levels of glucocorticoid receptor, and higher levels of mineralocorticoid receptor binding in the pituitary. No other receptor differences were found. These experiments suggest that neonatal sex hormones influence the sensitivity of the HPA axis to sex hormones in adulthood and, thus, that they have organizational effects in addition to activational effects on HPA function.
Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is characterized by numerous central nervous system anomalies, with the hippocampus being particularly vulnerable to developmental ethanol exposure. In addition to direct ethanol neurotoxicity, other conditions resulting from maternal ethanol consumption, such as hypoglycemia and hypoxia, may also contribute to FAS. The present study used a tissue culture system to model multiple conditions which may relate to in vivo FAS, and assessed their relative neurotoxicity with MTT assays. Gestational day 18 rat hippocampal cultures were exposed to varying ethanol concentrations, glucose withdrawal-induced hypoglycemic (gwHG, 16 h) or acute hypoxic (aHP, 2 h) conditions alone, as well as to co-treatments with ethanol and gwHG or aHP. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) have previously been shown to ameliorate ethanol-, hypoglycemia- and hypoxia-induced neurotoxicity. Therefore, their neuroprotective potential, along with ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), was examined. Neuronal viability was reduced dose-dependently by ethanol, alone or with hypoglycemia or hypoxia. Ethanol + gwHG or aHP was not uniformly additive. NGF treatment provided the most extensive neuroprotection, being effective against ethanol (200 and 400 mg/dl), gwHG, and aHP, alone and combined. BDNF afforded similar protection, but not against ethanol + gwHG. CNTF protected only against aHP. CNTF + BDNF, previously shown to act synergistically, protected against ethanol + aHP up to 800 mg/dl ethanol, but not, paradoxically, against ethanol alone, gwHG, or ethanol + gwHG, all conditions BDNF alone protected against. This study demonstrated that several neurotrophic factors are capable of mitigating neurotoxicity associated with ethanol, hypoglycemia and hypoxia.
Adult dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells are capable of neurite outgrowth in vitro as well as in vivo. We have investigated the influence of adenosine and analogs on the potential of cultured adult mouse DRG neurons to produce neurites in the presence and absence of nerve growth factor (NGF) which is a well-established trophic factor of sympathetic and sensory neurons during development. It is also believed to be essential for the maintenance or regulation of differentiated phenotypes of mature peripheral neurons. The results demonstrate that DRG neurons are modulated by purines in the absence of exogenous NGF. The addition of 100 microM adenosine to neurite-bearing DRG neurons inhibited neurite growth by 47% after 2-day exposures in vitro and by 50% after 5 days whereas in the presence of NGF this inhibition was reduced to 28% and 32%, respectively. 100 microM CHA (N(6)-cyclohexyl adenosine) alone reduced neurite total length by 47% after 2 days and by 48% after 5 days. 100 microM CGS21680 (2-p-(2-carboxyethyl) phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamido adenosine hydrochloride) alone also reduced neurite total length by 46% after 2 days and by 58% after 5 days which was reduced to 21% and 37%, respectively, in the presence of 100 ng/ml NGF. The antagonist studies revealed that activation of A1 adenosine receptors is primarily responsible for the effect on neuritogenesis since the inclusion of 1 or 10 microM CPX (8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropyl xanthine) fully prevented the inhibitory activity of adenosine or CHA whereas DMPX (3,7-dimethyl-1-propargyl xanthine) did not prevent inhibition by CHA. The converse experiment yielded the consistent result that inhibition by the A2 receptor agonist CGS21680 could be prevented by CPX, but not DMPX.
A double-labeling immunohistochemical procedure and correlated light and electron microscopy were used to examine if calretinin-immunoreactive terminals make synapses on calbindin D28k-positive cells. In the lateral nucleus of the human amygdala, calretinin terminals make symmetric-like synapses on the somata and proximal dendrites of calbindin D28k-labeled cells. Our data provide the first evidence that neurons which contain two different calcium-binding proteins form synaptic contacts with each other in the human amygdala.
For a period of time after unilateral brain injury, surviving neural tissue surrounding the lesion may be vulnerable to extremely high behavioral demand. Previously, we found that lesions of the forelimb representation area of the sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC) in rats increase in size substantially when the intact forelimb is immobilized with a plaster of paris cast during the first 15 days after surgery, which forces overuse of the impaired forelimb. The present study was designed to determine whether the adult brain is more vulnerable to forced overuse of the impaired forelimb during the first 7 days post-lesion than during the second 7 days post-lesion. Using behavioral tests of forelimb use and stereological analysis of remaining tissue volume 40 days after FL-SMC lesions, we found that forced overuse of the impaired forelimb during the first 7 days after the initial damage caused expansion of neural injury and greatly interfered with restoration of function. In contrast, forced overuse of the impaired forelimb during the second 7 days had no significant effect on lesion size but nevertheless interfered with restoration of function. Thus, surviving neural tissue in the damaged hemisphere and recovery of function appear to be vulnerable to prolonged forced overuse of the impaired forelimb throughout the first 15 days, but tissue loss was detectable only when the animal was forced to use the impaired forelimb during the first 7 days after injury.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) are concentrated in the depths of the postsynaptic folds at mammalian neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) where they facilitate action potential generation during neuromuscular transmission. At the nodes of Ranvier and the axon hillocks of central neurons, VGSCs are associated with the cytoskeletal proteins, beta-spectrin and ankyrin, which may help to maintain the high local density of VGSCs. Here we show in skeletal muscle, using immunofluorescence, that beta-spectrin is precisely colocalized with both VGSCs and ankyrinG, the nodal isoform of ankyrin. In en face views of rat NMJs, acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), and utrophin immunolabeling are organized in distinctive linear arrays corresponding to the crests of the postsynaptic folds. In contrast, beta-spectrin, VGSCs, and ankyrinG have a punctate distribution that extends laterally beyond the AChRs, consistent with a localization in the depths of the folds. Double antibody labeling shows that beta-spectrin is precisely colocalized with both VGSCs and ankyrinG at the NMJ. Furthermore, quantification of immunofluorescence in labeled transverse sections reveals that beta-spectrin is also concentrated in perijunctional regions, in parallel with an increase in labeling of VGSCs and ankyrinG, but not of dystrophin. These observations suggest that interactions with beta-spectrin and ankyrinG help to maintain the concentration of VGSCs at the NMJ and that a common mechanism exists throughout the nervous system for clustering VGSCs at a high density.
A great deal of evidence suggests that a genetic component underlies obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The response to serotonergic medications and the worsening of obsessive symptoms after administration of serotonergic agonists indicate that serotonergic mechanisms are involved in OCD. We investigated the role of the Cys23Ser mutation of the 5HT2C receptor gene in the etiology of this disorder by performing an association study comparing a sample of 109 OCD patients with a sample of 107 healthy control subjects. No allelic or genotypic association of OCD with the 5HT2C receptor gene mutation was revealed in our data. We also extended the association analysis to a subsample of 39 OCD patients that had previously been submitted to a challenge test with clomipramine. In the subsample of OCD patients that received the challenge with clomipramine, no association between the 5HT2C receptor gene mutation and response to the challenge test was found. Our results exclude any specific role of the Cys23Ser mutation of 5HT2C receptor gene in the etiology of OCD: it seems probable that more complex genetic models are needed to explain the involvement of serotonergic elements in the etiology of this disorder.
Three studies have reported a negative genetic association between schizophrenia and HLA DQB1*0602, an allele of the human leucocyte antigen (HLA) DQB1*06 gene. In a sample of ethnic all homogeneous Caucasians living in Sweden, the frequency of HLA DQB1 alleles in patients with schizophrenia (n = 124) was compared with that in a control group (n = 85). No significant differences were found. Together with previous investigations, the present study indicates that the reported genetic association of DQB1*0602 with schizophrenia may be limited to non-Caucasians.
Obstetric complications (OCs) have been found to occur in higher frequency in patients with schizophrenia. One explanation for this finding is that the genes that contribute to the schizophrenia phenotype also influence the likelihood to experience OCs. If this were true, morbid risk of psychiatric illness should be higher in the first-degree relatives of both schizophrenic and control probands exposed to OCs, compared to probands not exposed to OCs. We set out to test this hypothesis. Information on OCs, blind to family history of psychiatric disorder, was collected retrospectively through maternal interview in 151 psychotic patients and 100 controls. Family history (FH) in relatives of cases (n = 600) and controls (n = 461) was assessed with the FH-RDC and through personal interviews. Tests for associations between family history and OCs were conducted using Cox proportional hazard regression. In the cases, familial morbid risk of affective disorder was greater in those with a history of OCs (hazard ratio (HR) = 1.9, P = 0.007). Analyses examining individual complications revealed associations between FH of affective disorder and pre-eclampsia (HR = 2.9, P = 0.003) and FH of affective disorder and breech presentation (HR = 2.8, P = 0.02), especially when family history in the relatives was confined to affective illness in the mother (HR pre-eclampsia = 4.4, P = 0.009; HR breech-presentation = 4.2, P = 0.008). In controls, affective illness in the mother was not only associated with breech presentation (HR = 7.0, P = 0.01) and pre-eclampsia (HR = 4.4, P = 0.03) but also with other complications. Familial morbid risk of schizophrenia and related psychoses was not associated with OCs. The positive associations between OCs and familial morbid risk of affective disorder suggest that the factors that contribute to familial aggregation of affective symptoms in psychotic patients also influence the likelihood to experience OCs. Although the proportion of OCs that could be attributed to these factors was very small, part of the relationship between family history of affective disorder and psychosis may be mediated by OCs.
Anandamide and allied fatty acylethanolamides (AEs) may act as signalling molecules in brain and peripheral tissues. In the present study, we describe an electron-impact gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) method based on isotope dilution, which may be used for the identification and quantification of anandamide and other AEs in biological matrices. The calibration curves for standard AEs were linear over the range 0-1000 pmol (r2 = 0.99) with a coefficient of variation of 4% at 2.5 pmol. Detection and quantification limits were in the high fmol to low pmol range for all AEs. Using this method we measured nanomolar concentrations of three endogenous AEs in deproteinated rat blood plasma (anandamide: 5.2 pmol/ml; palmitylethanolamide: 16.7 pmol/ml; oleylethanolamide: 8.1 pmol/ml). These results are consistent with a regulatory role of anandamide and other AEs in peripheral tissues.

Immunostaining for GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor is prominent in laminae I and II of the normal dorsal horn, with much less staining in deeper laminae. Three days after dorsal rhizotomy, image analysis demonstrates a significant decrease in staining density for both antibodies in the superficial dorsal horn. By contrast, staining density is significantly increased in laminae III, IV and the reticulated region of lamina V for GluR1 only. This increase suggests that AMPA receptors contribute to deafferentation or radicular pain by at least two mechanisms: (1) up-regulation of GluR1 subunits of the AMPA receptor in deeper laminae, and (2) enhanced Ca2+ permeability of dorsal horn neurons because AMPA receptors lacking the GluR2 subunit are Ca2+ permeable. Glutamate activation of these receptors could initiate or potentiate second messenger cascades that could well contribute to neuronal changes documented in the dorsal horn of deafferented animals.
Yawning is a phylogenetically old, stereotyped event that occurs alone or associated with stretching and/or penile erection in humans and in animals from reptiles to birds and mammals under different conditions. Although its physiological function is still unknown, yawning is under the control of several neurotransmitters and neuropeptides at the central level as this short overview of the literature on the neurochemistry of yawning shows. Among these substances, the best known are dopamine, excitatory amino acids, acetylcholine, serotonin, nitric oxide, adrenocorticotropic hormone-related peptides and oxytocin, that facilitate yawning and opioid peptides that inhibit this behavioral response. Some of the above compounds interact in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus to control yawning. This hypothalamic nucleus contains the cell bodies of oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas that play a key role in the expression of this behavioral event. When activated by dopamine, excitatory amino acids and oxytocin itself, these neurons facilitate yawning by releasing oxytocin at sites distant form the paraventricular nucleus, i.e. the hippocampus, the pons and/or the medulla oblongata. Conversely, activation of these neurons by dopamine, oxytocin or excitatory amino acids, is antagonized by opioid peptides, that, in turn, prevent the yawning response. The activation and inhibition, respectively of these oxytocinergic neurons is related to a concomitant increase and decrease, respectively, of paraventricular nitric oxide synthase activity. However, other neuronal systems in addition to the central paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons are involved in the control of yawning, since they do not seem to be involved in the expression of yawning induced by the stimulation of acetylcholine or serotoninergic receptors, nor by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and related peptides. Nitric oxide is also involved in the induction of yawning by the latter compounds and neuronal links, for instance between dopamine and acetylcholine and dopamine and serotonin, seem to be involved in the yawning response. Finally, other neurotransmitters, i.e. gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and noradrenaline, and neuropeptides, i.e. neurotensin and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH), influence this behavioral response. In conclusion, in spite of some recent progress, little is known of, and more has to be done to identify, the neurochemical mechanisms underlying yawning at the central level.
Axotomy of adult peripheral neurons produces decreases in the levels of transcripts for a number of proteins involved in synaptic transmission. For example, tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y mRNA decrease in axotomized sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG). In the present study, the effects of axotomy on the expression of nicotinic receptor subunit transcripts were examined in the SCG and the results were compared to those produced by deafferentation and explantation. Normally, neurons in the SCG express five different nicotinic subunits: alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, beta2, and beta4. Forty-eight hours after axotomy in vivo or explantation, dramatic decreases in these transcripts were seen, except for beta2, which increased. In contrast, deafferentation of the SCG had negligible effects on any of these transcripts. Both leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) have been shown to play a role in the decrease in neuropeptide Y mRNA expression after axotomy. In the cases of these nicotinic receptor transcripts, however, similar decreases were seen in wild-type and LIF knockout animals. Furthermore, administration of an antiserum to NGF in intact animals produced no changes in transcript levels. On the other hand, providing exogenous NGF to axotomized SCG in vivo or in explant cultures partially prevented the decreases in the transcripts for alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, and beta4. These data indicate that axotomy produces dramatic decreases in the expression of several nicotinic receptor subunit transcripts, and that the molecular signals underlying these changes differ from those previously shown to mediate the decrease in neuropeptide Y expression.
We report a cDNA clone prepared from adrenal chromaffin-derived PC12 cell RNA that encodes a novel ETS-domain factor, Pet-1. The deduced primary structure of Pet-1 is composed of 340 amino acids and the encoded polypeptide has a predicted molecular mass of 35.4 kD. The pattern of Pet-1 gene expression in the neonatal rat is highly restricted and suggests that Pet-1 functions primarily in the nervous system. Adrenal gland expresses the highest level of Pet-1 among the tissues examined. In situ hybridization indicates that Pet-1 is expressed in the adrenal medulla but not the adrenal cortex. Slightly weaker Pet-1 hybridization is detected in brain and low levels are detectable in intestine and eye. Pet-1 can bind specifically to a PEA3 ETS DNA-binding motif and can modulate transcription of synthetic promoter constructs in a sequence-specific manner. We recently identified a neural cell-type specific enhancer, beta43', within the 3'-untranslated exon of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAchR) beta4 subunit gene. Similar to Pet-1, the beta4 gene is also expressed in PC12 cells. The presence of putative ETS-domain binding sites in the beta43' enhancer led us to hypothesize that members of the ets gene family activate neuronal nAchR genes. Cotransfection assays show that Pet-1 can activate reporter gene transcription in a beta43' enhancer-dependent and cell type-dependent manner. Our results lead us to hypothesize that Pet-1 acts as a transcriptional regulator of downstream target genes involved in cholinergic neurotransmission.
The pore-forming alpha subunits of voltage-gated potassium channels in neurons and other excitable cells are expressed in association with accessory beta subunits. These subunits both promote insertion of channel complexes into surface membranes and influence their electrophysiological properties. As part of an effort to understand the regulation of voltage-gated potassium channels during development, we cloned the mouse homolog of the rat Kvbeta1 potassium channel subunit. Kvbeta1 subunits are known to associate preferentially with Shaker (Kv1)-related alpha subunits. We then used a digoxigenin-tagged cRNA probe and in situ hybridization techniques to visualize the appearance of Kvbeta1 mRNA transcripts during late embryonic and early neonatal development of the mouse brain. We detected Kvbeta1-specific labeling of cells in hippocampus, cerebral cortex, caudate putamen, colliculus, and cerebellum. In hippocampus, we observed Kvbeta1 mRNA in CA3 pyramidal neurons at the earliest time examined, embryonic day 16 (E16). Between E16 and postnatal day 7 (P7), cell labeling increased uniformly across the pyramidal neurons of Ammon's horn (CA1, CA2, and CA3). Subsequently, between P7 and P22, regional differences characteristic of mature hippocampus appeared-intense labeling of neurons in CA3 and CA1, and less in CA2. In cortex, labeling of cells in the subplate and cortical plate layers was observed at E16. During development, the intensity of this labeling increased, and labeled cells persisted into the adult stage in the deep cortical layer (VIb) formed from subplate neurons. Additional labeling of scattered solitary cells in cortical layers II-VIa emerged between P3 and P7 and was prominent in mature cortex. In caudate putamen, Kvbeta1-labeled cells were observed at P1 and were restricted to the lateral and rostral half of the caudate. During development, labeling expanded caudally and medially and eventually filled the mature caudate putamen. In colliculus, a small population of inferior colliculus cells showed labeling at P7, and additional labeling of scattered cells appeared during development. In superior colliculus, labeling was observed only in the adult deep gray layer. In cerebellum, intense labeling was observed in Purkinje cells at all stages between P1 and adult. Labeling was also seen in granule neurons in the external granule layer at early postnatal stages and in the inner granule layer beginning at P7.
The cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) and its endogenous antagonist (IL-1ra) have important functions in the central nervous system. Recent experimental observations have suggested that recombinant IL-1RA (rhIL-1ra) has neuroprotective properties in ischaemia, excitotoxicity, and trauma. We wished to see what effect rhIL-1ra had on kainic acid-induced neuronal death and to investigate how this might relate to changes in expression of the amyloid precursor protein gene (APP) and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) using in situ hybridization. Wistar rats were treated by intracerebroventricular administration with rhIL-1ra at doses of 10, 20 and 40 microg given 10 min before and 10 min after intraperitoneal kainic acid 10 mg/kg. Behaviour was measured and, after 10 days, the brains were removed for histology and in situ hybridization. There were no anticonvulsant effects on kainic acid-induced wet dog shakes or limbic motor seizures. There were no differences in the effects of rhIL-1ra at all doses tested on hippocampal temperature, blood pressure, blood gases, pH, and glucose in comparison to control. With rhIL-1ra 10 microg given twice, there was significant protection of neurons in the CA1 and CA3 field of the hippocampus and dorsal thalamus, but not in the primary olfactory cortex-amygdaloid region. Small, but insignificant, neuroprotective effects were observed in the same anatomical regions with a dose of 20 microg given twice, and no neuroprotective effects were observed with 40 microg. The enhanced neuronal survival in CA1, CA3 and the dorsal thalamus was associated with preservation of APP 695 mRNA (neuronal form) and lack of stimulation of APP 770 (glial form) and GFAP messages. Where there was no neuroprotection APP 695 mRNA was reduced and stimulation of both APP 770 and GFAP mRNAs was observed. In conclusion, rhIL-1ra has dose- and region-dependent effects on neuronal survival after kainic acid and prevents damage-induced changes in APP and GFAP mRNAs.
Avian song learning involves memorizing and reproducing song material produced by conspecifics. In several species song repertoire size correlates with the overall volume of two song-related brain regions, the HVc (acronym used as the proper name) and the robust nucleus of the archistriatum (RA). We raised male zebra finches with two adult tutors and found that individual differences in HVc volume and neuron number correlated positively with differences in the number of tutor syllables accurately copied. These results were replicated in a second study. The relationship between RA volume and song learning was similar, but less robust. Importantly, total repertoire size (number of song syllables) did not correlate significantly with anatomical measures of either the HVc or RA. Because previous work suggests that the volume and neuron number of these regions are not regulated by song learning, it is possible that naturally occurring variation in neuron number constrains how much song material can be copied or reproduced.
The retinas of the retinal degeneration (rd) chicken are fully developed and possess normal morphology at hatching but fail to respond to light stimulation. Analyses of retinal cGMP, the internal messenger of phototransduction, show that the amount of cGMP in predegenerate, fully developed rd/rd photoreceptors is 5-10 times less than that seen in normal photoreceptor cells. We show that the low levels of cGMP in rd chicken retina are a consequence of a null mutation in the photoreceptor guanylate cyclase (GC1) gene. Thus, the rd chicken is a model for human Leber's congenital amaurosis. Absence of GC1 in rd retina prevents phototransduction and affects survival of rods and cones but does not interfere with normal photoreceptor development.
Cortical representational plasticity has been well documented after peripheral and central injuries or improvements in perceptual and motor abilities. This has led to inferences that the changes in cortical representations parallel and account for the improvement in performance during the period of skill acquisition. There have also been several examples of rapidly induced changes in cortical neuronal response properties, for example, by intracortical microstimulation or by classical conditioning paradigms. This report describes similar rapidly induced changes in a cortically mediated perception in human subjects, the ventriloquism aftereffect, which presumably reflects a corresponding change in the cortical representation of acoustic space. The ventriloquism aftereffect describes an enduring shift in the perception of the spatial location of acoustic stimuli after a period of exposure of spatially disparate and simultaneously presented acoustic and visual stimuli. Exposure of a mismatch of 8 degrees for 20-30 min is sufficient to shift the perception of acoustic space by approximately the same amount across subjects and acoustic frequencies. Given that the cerebral cortex is necessary for the perception of acoustic space, it is likely that the ventriloquism aftereffect reflects a change in the cortical representation of acoustic space. Comparisons between the responses of single cortical neurons in the behaving macaque monkey and the stimulus parameters that give rise to the ventriloquism aftereffect suggest that the changes in the cortical representation of acoustic space may begin as early as the primary auditory cortex.
What is the role of selective attention in visual perception? Before answering this question, it is necessary to differentiate between attentional mechanisms that influence the identification of a stimulus from those that operate after perception is complete. Cognitive neuroscience techniques are particularly well suited to making this distinction because they allow different attentional mechanisms to be isolated in terms of timing and/or neuroanatomy. The present article describes the use of these techniques in differentiating between perceptual and postperceptual attentional mechanisms and then proposes a specific role of attention in visual perception. Specifically, attention is proposed to resolve ambiguities in neural coding that arise when multiple objects are processed simultaneously. Evidence for this hypothesis is provided by two experiments showing that attention-as measured electrophysiologically-is allocated to visual search targets only under conditions that would be expected to lead to ambiguous neural coding.
This article reviews some recent trends in imaging neuroscience. A distinction is made between making maps of functional responses in the brain and discerning the rules or principles that underlie their organization. After considering developments in the characterization of brain imaging data, several examples are presented that highlight the context-sensitive nature of neuronal responses that we measure. These contexts can be endogenous and physiological, reflecting the fact that each cortical area, or neuronal population, expresses its dynamics in the context of interactions with other areas. Conversely, these contexts can be experimental or psychological and can have a profound effect on the regional effects elicited. In this review we consider experimental designs and analytic strategies that go beyond cognitive subtraction and speculate on how functional imaging can be used to address both the details and principles underlying functional integration and specialization in the brain.
The human cerebral cortex is notorious for the depth and irregularity of its convolutions and for its variability from one individual to the next. These complexities of cortical geography have been a chronic impediment to studies of functional specialization in the cortex. In this report, we discuss ways to compensate for the convolutions by using a combination of strategies whose common denominator involves explicit reconstructions of the cortical surface. Surface-based visualization involves reconstructing cortical surfaces and displaying them, along with associated experimental data, in various complementary formats (including three-dimensional native configurations, two-dimensional slices, extensively smoothed surfaces, ellipsoidal representations, and cortical flat maps). Generating these representations for the cortex of the Visible Man leads to a surface-based atlas that has important advantages over conventional stereotaxic atlases as a substrate for displaying and analyzing large amounts of experimental data. We illustrate this by showing the relationship between functionally specialized regions and topographically organized areas in human visual cortex. Surface-based warping allows data to be mapped from individual hemispheres to a surface-based atlas while respecting surface topology, improving registration of identifiable landmarks, and minimizing unwanted distortions. Surface-based warping also can aid in comparisons between species, which we illustrate by warping a macaque flat map to match the shape of a human flat map. Collectively, these approaches will allow more refined analyses of commonalities as well as individual differences in the functional organization of primate cerebral cortex.
Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) provide high-resolution measures of the time course of neuronal activity patterns associated with perceptual and cognitive processes. New techniques for ERP source analysis and comparisons with data from blood-flow neuroimaging studies enable improved localization of cortical activity during visual selective attention. ERP modulations during spatial attention point toward a mechanism of gain control over information flow in extrastriate visual cortical pathways, starting about 80 ms after stimulus onset. Paying attention to nonspatial features such as color, motion, or shape is manifested by qualitatively different ERP patterns in multiple cortical areas that begin with latencies of 100-150 ms. The processing of nonspatial features seems to be contingent upon the prior selection of location, consistent with early selection theories of attention and with the hypothesis that spatial attention is &quot;special.&quot;
At the forefront of cognitive neuroscience research in normal humans are the new techniques of functional brain imaging: positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. The signal used by positron emission tomography is based on the fact that changes in the cellular activity of the brain of normal, awake humans and laboratory animals are accompanied almost invariably by changes in local blood flow. This robust, empirical relationship has fascinated scientists for well over a hundred years. Because the changes in blood flow are accompanied by lesser changes in oxygen consumption, local changes in brain oxygen content occur at the sites of activation and provide the basis for the signal used by magnetic resonance imaging. The biological basis for these signals is now an area of intense research stimulated by the interest in these tools for cognitive neuroscience research.
The gene bak regulates apoptosis. To explore its role in the human central nervous system, we examined the distribution of its protein product, Bak, in the brains at various ages, by immunochemical and immunohistochemical means. Western blotting revealed that Bak expression in the cerebrum and cerebellum is high in the brains of the fetuses and elderly subjects, but low in those of young adults. Immunostaining of the cerebellum localized Bak immunoreactivity to Purkinje cells, which was strong in the fetal period and senescence, but undetectable from infancy to adolescence. These results suggest that bak regulates neuronal death associated with the development and aging of the central nervous system.
A widely accepted theory postulates that chronic treatment with neuroleptics causes, in rats, the depolarization block of the majority of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons. However, we reported that such treatment fails to reduce the number of spontaneously active DA neurons when the neuronal sampling is performed in the d-tubocurarine-paralyzed instead of chloral-hydrate anesthetized preparation. The present experiments were aimed at verifying whether the negative results might be due to the use of d-tubocurarine as paralyzing agent. Rats were chronically treated with haloperidol (0.5 mg kg-1 i.p., daily) for 3 to 4 weeks. Two to three hours after the last injection, the number of spontaneously active DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) were sampled, and their discharging characteristics analyzed, both in animals under chloral hydrate anesthesia and in rats immobilized either with d-tubocurarine, gallamine or succinylcholine. The results indicate that chronic treatment with haloperidol reduced the number of spontaneously active VTA-DA neurons by about 65% in animals under chloral hydrate anesthesia, but failed to modify the number of spontaneously firing DA neurons in rats immobilized with d-tubocurarine, gallamine or succinylcholine. The results indicate that the depolarization block of DA neurons does not occur in the paralyzed preparation and raise doubts about the presence of this phenomenon in the intact non- anesthetized unrestrained animal.
The effects of escapable and yoked inescapable electric tailshocks on extracellular levels of serotonin (5-HT) in the dorsal raphe nucleus were measured by in vivo microdialysis. In comparison to either control rats or to their own preshock baseline, rats exposed to inescapable shock showed an increase in extracellular 5-HT within 25 min of shock initiation, and 5-HT levels continued to rise during the remainder of the shock session. Rats that were exposed to comparable shock treatment, but that were given the opportunity to escape, did not show an increase in 5-HT. Rats that were restrained but not shocked also did not show an increase in 5-HT. These results add further support to suggestions that serotonergic changes occur in the dorsal raphe nucleus during inescapable shock and that such changes may contribute to the behavioral effects of inescapable shock.
In order to study the expression of Fos protein in catecholaminergic neurons in the medullary visceral zone (MVZ), which project to the habenular nucleus (HB), a triple-labeling method combining wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) retrograde tracing with anti-Fos and anti-tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemical staining was used in the rat. WGA-HRP was stereotaxically injected into unilateral HB. Forty-eight hours later, 50 microl of 8% formalin was injected into the foot pad of the right front paw. Two hours after formalin injection, animals were anesthetized and perfused transaortically. Coronal sections (40 micron) were cut from the cervical segment of spinal cord, the medulla oblongata and WGA-HRP injected area with a cryostat. First, sections of the injected area and the medulla oblongata were histochemically processed to demonstrate the presence of retrogradely transported WGA-HRP using the chromogen tetramethylbenzidine (TMB). Then sections of the spinal cord and the medulla oblongata were immunostained with anti-Fos and anti-TH antibodies using the ABC method. Under the light microscope, seven types of variously labeled neurons could be identified in MVZ, namely Fos and TH-immunoreactive (Fos- or TH-IL) neurons, WGA-HRP labeled ones, Fos/HRP, Fos/TH and HRP/TH double-labeled and Fos/HRP/TH triple-labeled cells. The results suggest that some catecholaminergic neurons in MVZ could send projections to HB and this pathway may be involved to relay nociceptive information from spinal cord to brainstem and on to the forebrain.
The present study determines the proportions of unmyelinated cutaneous axons at the dermal-epidermal junction in glabrous skin and of myelinated and unmyelinated axons in the sural and medial plantar nerves that immunostain for subunits of the ionotropic glutamate receptors. Approximately 20% of the unmyelinated cutaneous axon profiles at the dermal-epidermal junction immunostain for either N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), or kainate receptor subunits. These findings are consistent with previous observations that NMDA and non-NMDA antagonists ameliorate nociceptive behaviors that result from noxious peripheral stimulation. In the sural nerve, where the large majority of myelinated fibers are sensory, approximately half of the myelinated axon profiles immunostain for the NMDA receptor 1 (R1) subunit, 28% immunostain for the glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) AMPA subunit, and 11% for the GluR5,6,7 kainate subunits. Even higher proportions immunostain for these receptors in the medial plantar nerve, a mixed sensory and motor nerve. In the sural nerve, 20% of the unmyelinated axon profiles immunostain for NMDAR1 and only 7% label for GluR1 or GluR5,6,7. Because the sural nerve innervates hairy skin, these data suggest that glutamate will activate a higher proportion of unmyelinated axons in glabrous skin than in hairy skin. Measurements of fiber diameters indicate that all sizes of myelinated axon profiles, including Adelta and Abeta, are positively labeled for the ionotropic receptors. The presence of glutamate receptors on large-diameter myelinated axons suggests that these mechanosensitive receptors, presumably transducing touch and pressure, may also respond to local glutamate and thus be chemosensitive.
Cerebellar torpedoes can be induced by direct damage to Purkinje cell axons. This raises the possibility that the loss of dentate nucleus neurons (DNNs) may also cause torpedo formation through synaptic detachment between DNNs and Purkinje cell axon terminals. To investigate this possibility, we conducted a morphometric study with an image analyzer in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and dentatorubro-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). Using horizontal and sagittal sections of the cerebellar hemispheres containing the greatest proportion of the dentate nucleus, we determined the line densities of torpedoes, Purkinje cells, and DNNs. In PSP and DRPLA, the densities of DNNs were significantly lower, and the densities of torpedoes much greater than in controls, while those of Purkinje cells were normal in both diseases. In addition, the torpedo densities in PSP and DRPLA showed a strong negative correlation with the DNN densities. Thus, this study clearly demonstrated that torpedoes are formed in association with the loss of DNNs, suggesting that they may occur in consequence of synaptic disconnection of Purkinje cells from DNNs.
Cyclin D1 (cycD1) expression was defined immunohistochemically using monoclonal antibody DCS-6 and polyclonal antiserum H-295 in 50 glioma biopsies. The number of positive nuclei was higher for H-295 than for DCS-6, with a ratio of 3:1. The labelling index (LI) was compared to the grade of histological malignancy and to Ki-67 MIB-1 LI. The LI for cycD1 increased with histological malignancy, in parallel with the increase in MIB-1 LI. In most tumours, the maximum LI for cycD1 and MIB-1 were found in the same areas. The mean MIB-1 LI: mean cycD1 LI ratio does not vary in the three grades of astrocytic tumours. However, in this study the correlation between the two LIs was not statistically significant. Staining for cycD1 antigen does not necessarily imply that the gene is overexpressed since other molecular mechanisms can also be responsible for cell cycle deregulation. In invasive areas, the cycD1 LI is frequently higher than in solid tumour, either because more tumour cells are positive or because reactive astrocytes and activated microglia express cycD1. The relative contribution of neoplastic and reactive cells remains to be defined.

An optimal design has been established that maintains a constant level of ethanol when utilizing specific wells within a 96-well culture plate. A control (non-ethanol-containing) column is also included within each plate for direct comparisons of the cytotoxic effects of a given concentration of ethanol.

Rats repeatedly intoxicated with alcohol (ethanol, three times daily) over a 4-day period display neuronal degeneration in the dentate gyrus; entorhinal, piriform, insular, orbital, and perirhinal cortices; and in the olfactory nerve fibers and terminals in the olfactory bulb. Postulating a role for excitotoxicity, we have attempted to prevent the degeneration using antagonists that are neuroprotective in this type of brain damage. In an initial study, continuous subcutaneous infusion of a high dose of the glutamate/NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (2 mg/kg/day) by itself caused extensive neuronal degeneration in several brain regions and severe behavioral intoxication that precluded survival if combined with high blood alcohol levels (approximately 300 mg/dl). Moreover, the lower, nonneurotoxic blood alcohol levels (approximately 150 mg/dl) that were compatible with survival worsened the MK-801-induced brain damage. In a subsequent experiment, daily intraperitoneal injections of a lower dose of MK-801 (1 mg/kg/day) resulted in no MK-801 toxicity and, when combined with neurotoxic levels of alcohol, no reduction in alcohol-induced neurotoxicity. Nimodipine, a voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blocker, reduced the neuronal damage in the dentate gyrus, but greatly increased it in the piriform cortex when administered intragastrically at 600 mg/kg/day; it provided no protection from alcohol-dependent degeneration when given intragastrically at 100 mg/kg/day. Continuous intracerebroventricular delivery of 0.24 to 0.29 mg/day of 6,7-dinitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione, a glutamate/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole receptor antagonist, failed to diminish alcohol-dependent neuronal damage in any brain region. We conclude that brain damage from episodic &quot;binge&quot; alcohol intoxication is not primarily mediated by excitotoxic mechanisms, implying that other, nonexcitotoxic pathophysiological mechanisms, are involved. Furthermore, MK-801, far from protecting from the alcohol-induced damage, at high doses causes widespread neuropathology that is significantly potentiated by alcohol.
Screening for recent alcohol use by testing urine for the ratio of 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) to 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HIAA) was performed in 10 methadone patients on disulfiram (Antabuse) maintenance therapy in an outpatient setting. Apart from alcohol ingestion, treatment with aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitors such as disulfiram is the only known cause of an abnormally high 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio. After introduction of drug therapy, increased ratios were observed in all patients. The new higher level reached was relatively stable over time within the same patient but variable between patients. Four patients continued to consume alcohol, as evidenced by 5HTOL/5HIAA ratios well above the new individual plateau, while still taking 400 mg disulfiram 3 times per week under strict supervision. To try to achieve sobriety in two patients who drank frequently while on therapy, the disulfiram dose was doubled. Continued testing demonstrated this to increase the 5HTOL/5HIAA steady-state level further, and the absence of extreme values above this new baseline level indicated adherence to abstinence with possibly one single relapse. When disulfiram administration was discontinued, as planned, by five of the patients, four of them returned to drinking very soon. The present results show that during disulfiram maintenance the continuous inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase produces a new higher and dose-related 5HTOL to 5HIAA steady state level in urine, but relapse to drinking will still lead to further increased 5HTOL/5HIAA ratios. It is also suggested that an individual dose-titration regimen, whereby the disulfiram dose is raised gradually until 5HTOL/5HIAA testing indicates sobriety, will improve therapeutic effectiveness.
The deleterious effects of ethanol on cognitive processes result from an interaction between ethanol and the neural structures that are critical for executing those cognitive functions. Results from studies that employ contemporary behavioral neuroscience techniques are beginning to elucidate the neural circuits that underlie specific cognitive processes, and the stage is set for rigorous investigations into the neural basis for ethanol-induced cognitive impairments. In this article, the application of single neuron recording techniques to the study of the memory and attentional deficits produced by acute exposure to low levels of ethanol are described, with an emphasis on the advantages of combining physiological techniques with operant behavioral procedures in rats. After reviewing background information on the basic neurophysiological and behavioral techniques, empirical results from this laboratory will be used to illustrate how single-unit analysis can be applied to the study of ethanol-induced cognitive impairments.
The precursor of the non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NACP) (also known as a-synuclein) is a presynaptic terminal molecule that accumulates in the plaques of Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies have shown that a mutation in NACP is associated with familial Parkinson's disease, and that Lewy bodies are immunoreactive with antibodies against this molecule. To clarify the patterns of accumulation and differences in abnormal compartmentalization, we studied NACP immunoreactivity using double immunolabeling and laser scanning confocal microscopy in the cortex of patients with various neurodegenerative disorders. In Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease, diffuse Lewy body disease, and Parkinson's disease, NACP was found to immunolabel cortical Lewy bodies, abnormal neurites, and dystrophic neurites in the plaques. Double-labeling studies showed that all three of these neuropathological structures also contained ubiquitin, synaptophysin, and neurofilament (but not tau) immunoreactivity. In contrast, neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads, Pick bodies, ballooned neurons, and glial tangles (most of which were tau positive) were NACP negative. These results support the view that NACP specifically accumulates in diseases related to Lewy bodies such as Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease, diffuse Lewy body disease, and Parkinson's disease and suggests a role for this synaptic protein in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration.

Aspects of clinical anatomy and neuroanatomy are by far the main subjects of seminars in anatomy held at the Institute of Anatomy of the Free University of Berlin. In the winter term (1995/96) two courses dealing with human phylogeny in the context of the environment have been offered. The engagement and ambition shown by the students was much higher than in traditional courses. The aim, course and results of the seminars are presented. Based on our positive experience, we propose to broaden teaching in anatomy by including interdisciplinary themes and aspects. This should allow a more comprehensive view on man, should help bringing the students in early contact with scientific work and presenting anatomy in its widest context and in scientific history.
To estimate and prevent the effects of prenatal alcohol on the central nervous system (CNS), brain dysfunction in fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) and fetal alcohol effects (FAE) was compared by both epidemiological and experimental studies. The FAS infants exhibited a more severe degree of CNS involvement than the FAE infants. The CNS involvement features were developmental delay and intellectual impairment in both FAS and FAE. The increased risk of low birth weight and CNS involvement were much more significant in women who were heavy drinkers or alcoholics and smoked. The beneficial effect of supplementary zinc on the fetal cerebrum of FAS or FAE rats was limited, never reaching the unexposed control level. One of the most vulnerable structures in the rat fetus exposed to ethanol in utero was the synaptic formation in the hippocampus. The consistent dysmorphogenesis of synapses during early brain development may be associated with the functional impairment of the CNS in FAS and FAE.
We studied the effects--on parkinsonian signs, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and on levodopa response--of acute experimental high-frequency stimulation of the internal pallidum (GPi) during off-drug and on-drug phases. Thirteen quadripolar electrodes were evaluated in 8 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Stimulation of the most ventral contacts, lying at the ventral margin of or just below the GPi, led to pronounced improvement in rigidity and a complete arrest of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The antiakinetic effect of levodopa was also blocked and the patients became severely akinetic. Stimulation of the most dorsal contacts, lying at the dorsal border of the GPi or inside the external pallidum, usually led to moderate improvement of off-drug akinesia and could also induce dyskinesias in some patients. When using an intermediate contact for chronic stimulation, a good compromise between these opposite effects was usually obtained, mimicking the effect of pallidotomy. We conclude that there are at least two different functional zones within the globus pallidus, at the basis of a different pathophysiology of the cardinal symptoms of PD. The opposite effects may explain the variable results of pallidal surgery reported in the literature and may also largely explain the paradox of PD surgery. A possible anatomical basis for these differential functional effects could be a functional somatotopy within the GPi, with the segregation of the pallidofugal fibers from the outer portion of the GPi, on one hand, forming the ventral ansa lenticularis and from the inner portion of the GPi, on the other hand, forming the dorsal lenticular fasciculus.
Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852-1934), Spanish histologist, was the renowned formulator of the &quot;neuron doctrine&quot; and recipient of the 1906 Nobel Prize for Medicine or Physiology for his work on the structure of the nervous system. In contrast to the then well-accepted &quot;reticular theory,&quot; which held that the nervous system is arranged and functions as a continuous network of cellular material, Cajal's neuron doctrine envisioned each nerve cell as an autonomous entity, establishing contact--not continuity--with other nerve cells. Cajal's theory is as well a description fitting of Cajal's own temperament, as emerges from his profound memoirs Recuerdos de Mi Vida (Recollections of My Life). The recollections detail the life of the man known from his boyhood as &quot;capricious,&quot; the term for the goat who lives alone in the hills. For Cajal, this need for solitude and autonomy was reflected in his choice of the adventurer Robinson Crusoe as a childhood hero. Throughout his life, Cajal's desire for independence formed both his social interactions and his scientific pursuits; in his research, he preferred to remain unfettered by the academic &quot;reticulum&quot; of his time. A close reading of his memoirs reveals that the neuron doctrine, which envisions each nerve cell as &quot;free,&quot; is a theory shaped by Cajal's essence, by his solitary nature and unhindered personal spirit.




Benzodiazepine receptor (BZR) agonists and inverse agonists yield generally opposing effects on GABAergic transmission, and the functional consequences of these ligands are often bidirectional. BZR agonists exert anxiolytic effects, whereas the BZR partial inverse agonist FG 7142 has been reported to have anxiogenic actions in a variety of paradigms. In keeping with this literature, we found that the cardioacceleratory defensive response is enhanced by FG 7142, and attenuated by the BZR agonist chlordiazepoxide. In contrast, both compounds attenuated basal and fear-potentiated somatic startle responses. This did not appear to reflect a global reduction of startle reactivity, however, as the cardiac startle response was not significantly altered. These findings support the view that multiple substrates underlie distinct aspects or features of fear and anxiety. The results are consistent with the suggestion that FG 7142 may selectively enhance those aspects of anxiety that depend on cortical-cognitive processing.
This experiment was carried out in order to investigate the involvement of lateral hypothalamus (LH) in electrical self-stimulation of the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were bilaterally implanted with a guide cannula situated above each LH and with two electrodes in the CeA. Self-stimulation was subsequently obtained separately from both right and left electrodes. The LH was then lesioned unilaterally by ibotenic acid (IBO) injection. Eight days later, the effect of this unilateral lesion on self-stimulation of the ipsilateral and contralateral CeA was tested. Then the neurons of the remaining non-lesioned LH side were lesioned with IBO and self-stimulation was tested 15 days after the second lesion. Both unilateral as well as bilateral lesions of LH produced a significant decrease in CeA self-stimulation rates but had no significant effect on the reward effectiveness. The unilateral lesions did not produce any modification of the rate-intensity function in the contralateral CeA. This lesion-induced depression in performance was reversed by treatment with phenobarbital. These results provide clear evidence that the rewarding effects of CeA electrical stimulation do not result from the activation of the LH outputs and that the apparent decrease in CeA self-stimulation may result from the LH lesion-induced increase in the frequency of epileptiform manifestations that occur following amygdaloid stimulation.
The extent to which sex differences in the behavioral effects of frontal injury in the adult rat can be attributed to differential exposure to testosterone (T) during development was investigated. The effects of these factors on brain weight and relative brain size were also examined. At birth, males were gonadectomized (GDX) or not and females were given T or oil injections. In adulthood, all animals were GDX or sham-operated and received either bilateral aspiration lesions of the medial frontal cortex or a sham operation. Rats were tested on the Morris water maze task, the radial arm maze (RAM), and the landmark water task. The effects of frontal injury on performance of the Morris water maze task were greater in rats not exposed to T at birth, there was no effect of neonatal T exposure on performance on the RAM, and on the landmark water task there was a complicated interaction of sex and neonatal T exposure in rats with frontal injury.
For 30 years, the concurrent discrimination learning task has figured prominently in studies used to determine the effects of medial temporal lobe damage in monkeys. However, the findings from these studies have been contradictory. We explored the contribution to concurrent discrimination performance of inadvertent damage to area TE by reexamining the behavioral data and histological material from monkeys with medial temporal lobe lesions previously tested in our laboratory. The amount of inadvertent damage to area TE was more predictive of impaired performance on the concurrent discrimination learning task than was the amount of damage to any medial temporal lobe structure, including the perirhinal cortex. These findings resolve earlier inconsistent findings regarding the concurrent discrimination learning task by demonstrating that performance on this task depends on area TE and not on perirhinal cortex or other medial temporal lobe structures.
Grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus) do not acquire referential English labels when tutored with videotapes in social isolation (Pepperberg, I.M., 1994. Auk 111, 300-313) possibly because of (1) lack of social interaction to direct their attention appropriately or (2) absence of reward for an attempt at a targeted label. To test the first premise, two parrots watched videotapes with trainers who directed the birds' attention to the video monitor. Vocal praise rewarded attempts at a targeted label. To test the second premise, subjects watched videotapes in social isolation with a reward system that, in the absence of social interaction, could furnish the appropriate item after an attempt at the label. Subjects also received live interactive tutoring on a different set of object labels. Birds learned referential labels from live interactive tutors but not from videotapes. Specific aspects of live tutoring appear critical for the acquisition of referential English labels.
Forming categories is a basic cognitive operation allowing animals to attain concepts, i.e. to represent various classes of objects, natural or artificial, physical or social. Categories can also be formed about the relations holding among these objects, notably similarity and identity. Some of the cognitive processes involved in categorisation will be enumerated. Also, special reference will be made to a much neglected area of research, that of social representations. Here, animals conceive the natural class of their conspecifics as well as the relationships established between them in groups. Two types of social categories were mentioned: (1) intraspecies recognition including recognition of individual conspecifics; and (2) representation of dominance hierarchies and of their transitivity in linear orders.

A 54-year-old woman was referred with spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhoea. CT cisternography revealed a defect in the lateral wall of the left sphenoid sinus, with an anteromedial temperosphenoidal encephalocele associated with contrast leakage into the sinus. Subsequent monitoring showed raised intracranial pressure. Transcranial intradural repair of the encephalocele followed by lumboperitoneal shunt for the high pressure abolished the leakage of cerebrospinal fluid.
To determine whether patients with malignant glioma (glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma) had longer survival times, and lower morbidity and mortality if operated on by a surgical neuro-oncologist rather than a general neurosurgeon the outcomes of 236 patients managed within a university surgical neurology department were analysed. Although both surgical morbidity (8.9 versus 11.8%) and mortality (3.6 versus 8.8%) were lower following surgery by the specialist neuro-oncologist neither difference was statistically significant. Crude outcome data suggested patients operated upon by a specialist surgical neuro-oncologist survived longer (p = 0.067). However, after adjustment for case mix (type of tumour, year of treatment, MRC prognostic index) using multiple logistic regression and a hazards model, there was no difference in outcome (p = 0.46, HR 0.884, 95% CI 0.639-1.22). This retrospective study (i) suggests that other outcome measures are required to validate specialist surgical neuro-oncologist treatment of patients with malignant glioma; and (ii) confirms the importance of adjustment for case mix when comparing non-randomized treatment outcomes.
Few data exist regarding the management of severe head injury in non-neurosurgical centres within the UK. We aimed to discover the number of intensive care units admitting head injury patients, the number of patients admitted annually, and the monitoring and treatment methods followed. Questionnaires were sent to the senior nurse and consultant in 263 intensive care units within non-neurosurgical hospitals. The response rate was 78.8%, with at least one response received from 93.2% of hospitals. The severely head injured were routinely admitted in 56.7% of units. Approximately 2100 patients are admitted annually, a mean of 15 per unit. Intracranial pressure monitoring is routine in only 9% of units and 7% are without 24-h facilities for CT, a cause for concern. More encouragingly, 63% of hospitals have access to rehabilitation facilities. Distribution of guidelines to all intensive care units participating in the care of head injury may improve management and outcome.
1. In human U373 MG astrocytoma cells agonist-induced increases in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) are rapidly returned towards prestimulated levels. Examination of the effect of histamine and substance P on [Ca2+]i in thapsigargin-treated cells has allowed a mechanism contributing to this effect to be characterized. 2. Histamine and substance P stimulated [3H]-inositol monophosphate ([3H]-IP1) accumulation in U373 MG cells. Concentration-response curves of [3H]-IP1 accumulation in suspensions of U373 MG cells in HEPES buffer containing 30 mM Li+ yielded best-fit EC50 values of 19.1+/-1.5 microM for histamine and 5.7+/-1.3 nM for substance P. 3. In confluent monolayers of fura-2 loaded U373 MG cells perfusion with 100 microM histamine resulted in a transient 597+/-50 nM increase in [Ca2+]i. The best-fit EC50 for histamine was 4.6+/-2.2 microM. The initial, transient, histamine response was often followed by further small transient increases in [Ca2+]i. 4. Treatment of U373 MG cells with 5 microM thapsigargin, followed by the readdition of 1.8 mM Ca2+ to the perfusion buffer, resulted in a steady-state level of [Ca2+]i 97+/-5 nM above pretreated levels (measured 400 s after readdition of Ca2+). Perfusion of histamine (100 microM, 100 s) caused a rapid decline in the thapsigargin-induced steady state level of [Ca2+]i. This effect of histamine was normally reversible upon washout. The best-fit EC50, for the histamine response was 0.8+/-0.2 microM. Substance P (10 nM, 100s) also caused a reduction in thapsigargin-induced steady-state levels of [Ca2+]i. 5. Neither 100 microM histamine nor 10 nM substance P inhibited the rate of quench of fura-2 fluorescence by Mn2+ in U373 MG cells pretreated with 5 microM thapsigargin, indicating that the depressant effect on steady-state raised [Ca2+]i was probably not due to a block of Ca2+ entry. 6. The depressant effect of histamine on [Ca2+]i was blocked by 1 microM mepyramine, and was partially reduced by pre-incubation with 1 microM staurosporine (61+/-7% reduction) and with Ro 31-8220 (24+/-10% and 50+/-6% reduction by 1 and 10 microM Ro 31-8220, respectively). Pre-incubation with H-89 did not alter the depressant effect of histamine. 7. Neither 1 microM staurosporine nor 10 microM KN-62 inhibited the binding of [3H]-mepyramine to guinea-pig cerebellar membranes, whereas it was reduced by 17+/-1% and 55+/-2% by 1 and 10 microM Ro 31-8220, respectively. However, [3H]-IP1 accumulation stimulated by histamine in U373 MG cells was not inhibited by 1 or 10 microM Ro 31-8220 and in 2 out of 3 experiments there was a significant potentiation of the response to histamine with both concentrations of Ro 31-8220. Staurosporine, 1 microM, similarly potentiated the response to 100 microM histamine in 3 out of 4 experiments. KN-62 (10 microM) did not stimulate histamine-induced [3H]-IP1 accumulation. 8. In HEPES buffer to which no Ca2+ had been added, histamine stimulated a transient 451+/-107 nM increase in [Ca2+]i. Pretreatment with 1 microM and 10 microM Ro 31-8220 did not significantly alter the initial peak response to histamine, but slowed the rate at which histamine-induced increases in [Ca2+]i were returned to prestimulated levels. Pretreatment with KN-62 had no significant effect on the response to histamine, but consistently inhibited the secondary slower phase of the decline in [Ca2+]i. H-89 did not alter the histamine response. 9. The effect of histamine in stimulating Ca2+ extrusion was not confined to U373 MG cells, since 100 microM histamine also caused a rapid decrease in steady-state levels of [Ca2+]i in thapsigargin-treated human HeLa cells. 10. The results indicate that agonists which increase [Ca2+]i via activation of phosphoinositide metabolism can also stimulate a homeostatic mechanism which acts to reduce [Ca2+]i. The balance of the evidence indicates that in U373 MG cells the latter effect most likely involves a PKC-mediated stimulation of a Ca2+-extrusion pump.
In the present study, estrogen receptor (ER)alpha and ER beta genes were found to be differentially expressed in discrete subregions of the rat amygdaloid complex. The amygdala nuclei showing predominant ER alpha mRNA expression included the posterolateral cortical nucleus, amygdala hippocampal area, and lateral dorsolateral nucleus, whereas the amygdala areas with predominant ER beta mRNA expression were the medial anterodorsal and central nuclei. Both ER alpha and ER beta mRNAs were highly expressed in the medial posterodorsal nucleus. In addition to the discrete anatomical expression patterns, there appeared to be a differential regulation by estradiol of the ER alpha and ER beta mRNAs. Two weeks of estradiol (170 microgram total) treatment decreased ER alpha mRNA expression levels in the arcuate, ventromedial hypothalamus, and posterolateral cortical amygdala nucleus, but increased ER beta mRNA in the arcuate. In the medial amygdala nuclei, only ER beta mRNA levels were altered (reduced) by estradiol treatment. These results suggest that estrogen can modulate behaviors and functions mediated by the amygdala and hypothalamus via differentially regulated ER subtypes.
It is established that dopamine (DA) controls the expression of preprodynorphin (PPDYN), preprotachykinin A (PPT-A) and preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNAs in striatal structures. Since cocaine, nicotine and ethanol enhance extracellular DA concentration, we have examined whether their repeated administration produced common changes in the expression of these mRNAs. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry was performed in rats 2 h after a final challenge subsequent to repeated subcutaneous injections (3 X a day) of cocaine (12.5 mg/kg), nicotine (0.4 mg/kg) for 14 days and ethanol (160 mg/kg) for 7 days. In the dorsal striatum, cocaine produced simultaneous PPDYN and PPT-A mRNA increases without PPE mRNA change whereas nicotine and ethanol produced no modification. After cocaine, PPDYN mRNA was preferentially increased in striatal patch compartment. In the nucleus accumbens, the effects were more complex. In cocaine-treated rats, we measured concomitant increases of PPDYN and PPE mRNA in the rostral pole, an isolated induction of PPT-A mRNA signals in the core without any change in the two shell subregions: the cone and the ventral shell. In contrast, after nicotine and ethanol, the ventral shell was the only accumbal subregion which showed a neuropeptide mRNA alteration, nicotine leading to decreased PPDYN mRNA and ethanol to increased PPT-A mRNA contents. The neuropeptide regulation after chronic treatment with these psychostimulant drugs does not strictly conform to a general DA control scheme in the dorsal and the ventral striatum. The cocaine effects can be clearly distinguished from those of nicotine and ethanol in terms of neuropeptide regulation and striatal subregions affected.
Cloning of voltage-gated K+ channels has indicated that these channels constitute a diverse family of genes that have been subclassified into four closely related gene families Kv1-Kv4 (Shaker, Shab, Shaw, Shal). A PCR approach has been used to assess the diversity of K+ channels in the weakly electric fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus, which is a well studied model of sensory processing. Degenerate primers specific for the highly conserved pore and S6 transmembrane domains of the K+ channel families were used to amplify an intronless 124 bp fragment from fish genomic DNA. DNA sequence analysis of a large number of these fragments has identified 19 putative K+ channels, each of which can be classified into one of the four major families. Ten fall into Kv1 class, two in the Kv2 class, five in the Kv3 class and two in the Kv4 class. The results indicate that the duplications that gave rise to multiple genes within each of the K+ channel families predate the divergence of the Actinopterygii and Sarcopterygii lineages (400 million years ago) during early vertebrate evolution.
The serotonergic regulation of neuropeptide and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) mRNA level in the rat basal ganglia was investigated by determining the effects of chronic treatment with the serotonin uptake blocker fluoxetine and the serotonin 5-HT2 agonist (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrobromide (DOI). Fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) induced a reduction of preproenkephalin and GAD65 mRNA levels in the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens core and shell after 5 days of treatment. In addition, GAD65 mRNA levels were reduced in the globus pallidus. These changes appeared to be transient as they were not found after 15 days of fluoxetine treatment. DOI (7 mg/kg), administered for 9 days, induced a decrease of preprodynorphin mRNA levels in the caudate-putamen and the nucleus accumbens core and shell. No regional differentiation in the effects of fluoxetine and DOI was observed. Based on the present results, we propose that an increased 5-HT tone may reduce enkephalin and GABA mRNA levels in striatal regions and in the globus pallidus. Our results further show that preproenkephalin mRNA is not affected by chronic 5-HT2 receptor stimulation, indicating that the fluoxetine-induced decrease in preproenkephalin mRNA levels involves other 5-HT receptors than the 5-HT2 receptor. Preprodynorphin mRNA levels, on the other hand, were found to be reduced after chronic 5-HT2 receptors than stimulation. This observation, together with our previous finding that the 5-HT2 antagonist ritanserin tends to increase preprodynorphin mRNA levels, suggests a 5-HT2-mediated tonic inhibition of preprodynorphin mRNA levels.
Administration of glutamate (100 microM) to primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons for 1 h led to calpain I activation as determined by monitoring the extent of spectrin breakdown with the antibodies designed to specifically recognize the calpain I-mediated spectrin breakdown products. Based on the studies with subtype selective antagonists of glutamate receptors, glutamate caused calpain I activation specifically through the activation of the NMDA receptor. In parallel experiments, the magnitude and the temporal profiles of Ca2+ rise were determined by Fura-2 microfluorimetry. Ca2+ influx through voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels, even though leading to substantial Ca2+ rise, did not by itself activate calpain I. These results indicate that for calpain I activation, the source of Ca1+ influx is more important than the magnitude of Ca2+ rise. Glutamate-mediated calpain I activation was fully blocked by preincubation (30 min) of the cultures with calpain inhibitor I, calpain inhibitor II, or calpeptin (all 10 microM). The presence of calpain inhibitors did not, however, in any way ameliorate the massive excitotoxicity resulting from 16 h exposure to glutamate, indicating that calpain I activation and excitotoxicity are not causally related events. Similarly, preincubation with any of the tested calpain inhibitors was detrimental to the clearance of neuritic from a 10-min exposure to glutamate. Additionally, the presence of calpain inhibitors was detrimental to the clearance of neuritic varicosities resulting from a short-term sublethal exposure to glutamate, suggesting that a physiological level of calpain I activation might actually play an important homeostatic role in the restoration of normal cytoskeletal organization.
The development of neuroimaging methods such as PET, has provided a new impulse to the study of the neural basis of cognitive functions, and has extended the field of inquiry from the analysis of the consequences of brain lesions to the functional investigations of brain activity, either in patients with selective neuropsychological deficits or in normal subjects engaged in cognitive tasks. Specific patterns of hypometabolism in neurological patients are associated with different profiles of memory deficits. [18F]FDG PET studies have confirmed the association of episodic memory with the structures of Papez's circuit and have shown correlations between short-term and semantic memory and the language areas. The identification of anatomo-functional networks involved in specific components of memory function in normal subjects is the aim of several PET activation studies. The results are in agreement with 'neural network' models of the neural basis of memory, as complex functions subserved by multiple interconnected cortical and subcortical structures.
The importance of the behavioural situation, attentional demands of the task, and stimulus-reinforcement contingencies in promoting or permitting experience-dependent neuronal plasticity is argued. Evidence is provided for the specific activation of the locus coeruleus noradrenergic system of the rat by novel stimuli encountered while investigating the environment, as well as during a formal learning situation. Noradrenergic neurons are particularly concerned with changes in the predictive value of the stimulus, when new learning should occur. Noradrenaline, released at LC terminals in target sensory systems, could facilitate shifts in attention, information processing and memory through its well-documented gating and tuning effects and its permissive role in long-term potentiation. Dopamine neurons, which fire persistently to reward during learning, could be involved in maintaining the behavioural response.
It is widely acknowledged that the hippocampal formation has a central function in rodents' spatial memory and navigation. However, recent work has shown that other structures participate in specific spatial processing. That is so for the associative parietal cortex (APC). Although this neocortical region is far less developed in rodents than in humans and non-human primates, APC damage in rodents induces deficits which affect both egocentrically and allocentrically organized spatial behaviours. On the basis of behavioural (following parietal lesions) and neuroanatomical data, we propose that the APC could be at the interface between the level of perception of the physical world (egocentrically organized) and that of representations or maps (allocentrically organized) of this world. Reciprocally, the APC could also be involved in the transformation, in the opposite direction, of computations made on the basis of representations into motor actions necessary for the efficient execution of oriented behaviours within the physical world.

Two recent findings are summarized here that bear on the organization of memory and brain systems. First, the capacity for simple recognition of familiarity (a form of declarative memory) depends on the hippocampal region in both humans and nonhuman primates. Second, probabilistic classification learning (a form of nondeclarative memory akin to habit learning) depends on the caudate nucleus and putamen. These findings are related to the classification of long-term memory and current understanding of the participating brain systems.
Myopathies that occur in the intensive care unit can be divided into preexisting myopathies or newly acquired myopathies that develop in the intensive care unit. Myotonic dystrophy is an example of a preexisting myopathy that may render patients susceptible to acute respiratory failure following surgical procedures and anaesthesia. A group of myopathies that develop within the intensive care unit have been labelled acute necrotizing myopathy of intensive care, thick filament myopathy and acute steroid myopathy. Corticosteroids and nondepolarizing muscle blocking agents may play a role in their development.

1. The magnocellular hypothalamoneurohypophysial system, consisting chiefly of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and their axonal projections to the pituitary neural lobe, has become a model for the study of neuroendocrine cell morphology, function, and plasticity. 2. Decades of research have produced a wealth of knowledge about the physiological conditions that activate this system, the peripheral target tissues affected by its outputs, and its capacity to undergo use-dependent, reversible reorganization. 3. Earlier research on the neural control of this system concentrated largely on the synaptic inputs that influence the activity of these magnocellular neurons and, while that task is still far from completed, methods have now been developed that permit insights to be gained into the control exercised by intrinsic cellular and molecular mechanisms. 4. This article reviews the current state of knowledge of roles played by these intrinsic mechanisms, including influences of intracellular calcium buffering, calcium release from internal stores and intercellular communication through gap junctions, in the control of neuroendocrine cell activity.
1. Magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in the rat hypothalamus adopt a phasic pattern of spike discharge under conditions demanding enhanced vasopressin release, such as during dehydration or hemorrhage. The emergence of phasic firing minimizes the occurrence of secretory fatigue from the axon terminals of MNCs, thereby maximizing vasopressin release from the neurohypophysis. 2. Intracellular and whole-cell recordings from hypothalamic slices or explants in vitro have shown that phasic firing is supported by the presence of a plateau potential which arises from the summation of spike depolarizing afterpotentials (DAPs). Modulatory actions of neurotransmitters on the amplitude of the DAP, therefore, represent possible mechanisms by which the expression of phasic firing may be regulated in vivo. 3. Here we review the basis for phasic firing in MNCs of the rat supraoptic nucleus and present recent findings concerning the direct and indirect mechanisms through which selected neurotransmitters have been found to regulate the amplitude of DAPs.
Process extension was induced in cells of the N18-RE-105 neuroblastoma-retinal hybrid line by toxic agents, including glutamate and the p53-inducing anticancer agents adriamycin and etoposide. Both adriamycin and glutamate activated p53 as measured by a plasmid transfection assay. It was therefore hypothesized that SV40 large T antigen, which binds p53, would interfere with cellular differentiation. To test this hypothesis, the temperature-sensitive form of SV40 large T was transduced into N18-RE-105 cells by retroviral infection. SV40 large T-infected cells became de-differentiated, grew in tightly-packed colonies, lost expression of neurofilament, and lost the ability to differentiate in response to glutamate and adriamycin. The de-differentiating effect of SV40 large T antigen may be due to binding and inactivation of cellular proteins, such as p53, p107, p130, p300, and retinoblastoma protein, which are important in cellular growth and differentiation. It is suggested that p53 may play a role in cellular differentiation, perhaps under unusual circumstances involving stress or cytotoxicity.
The Cochrane Collaboration uses rigorous and widely accepted methods, together with peer-review, to produce systematic reviews of all data of acceptable scientific quality relating to specified aspects of healthcare. Review Groups exist for a number of areas of medicine and surgery, but at present not headache. It is argued that there should be a Cochrane Collaborative Review Group for Headache, and that the International Headache Society should foster its creation. Some principles are set out. The step from establishing the evidence-base to incorporating it in treatment guidelines should be taken circumspectly.
Electroencephalography (EEG), evoked potentials (EP), and electromyography (EMG) techniques are useful tools in the clinical assessment of headache and in understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms of these pathologies. EEG and EP studies in migraine revealed functional abnormalities in cortical electrical activity and in sensory processing. EMG studies resulted in pain syndromes involving nerves or myofascial structures such as tension-type headache and cluster headache. Moreover, it was possible to test the effect of old and new drugs with the help of these neurophysiological techniques. An updated review is reported of the literature.

Neurosurgery is in essence a field of application development for robots, based on multimodal image guidance. Specific motorized tools have already been developed and routinely applied in stereotaxy to position a probe holder or in conventional neurosurgery to hold a microscope oriented towards a given target. The potentialities of these approaches have triggered industrial developments which are now commercially available. These systems use databases, primarily coming from multimodal numerical images from X-ray radiology to magnetic resonance imaging. These spatially encoded data are transferred through digital networks to workstations where images can be processed and surgical procedures are pre-planned, then transferred to the robotic systems to which they are connected. We have been using a stereotaxic robot since 1989 and a microscope robot since 1995 in various surgical routine procedures. The future of these applications rely mainly on the technical progress in informatics, about image recognition to adapt the pre-planning to the actual surgical situation, to correct brain shifts (for instance), about image fusion, integrated knowledge such as brain atlases, as well as virtual reality. The future developments, covering surgical procedure, research and teaching, are sure to be far beyond our wildest expectations.
Microcirculatory vasomotor responses to an alpha-adrenergic agonist and an antagonist were assessed in 11 familial dysautonomia and nine control subjects by laser Doppler flowmetry. Using two iontophoresis machines, blood flow in the midclavicular areas was continuously monitored by two channel laser Doppler flowmeter. Simultaneously, the alpha-antagonist (0.5 mM phentolamine hydrochloride) and a control solution (0.9% saline) were iontophoresed at 200 microA for 15 min. The alpha-agonist (0.5 mM norepinephrine bitartrate) was then iontophoresed (20 microA) to both pretreated areas for progressively longer pulses separated by 3-min observation intervals (15, 30, 60, 90, 120 s). The familial dysautonomia subject group had higher mean baseline perfusion with widely fluctuating baselines, especially on the phentolamine pretreated side (P = 0.03). Saline iontophoresis significantly increased perfusion in the control group, but not in the familial dysautonomia group (ANOVA: P = 0.02 and 0.15, respectively). There was &gt; 100% increase in flow by the end of the saline observation period in seven of nine controls, but in only three of 11 familial dysautonomia subjects. Phentolamine iontophoresis differentiated familial dysautonomia subjects into responders and nonresponders by 7-8 min when all nine control subjects, but only five of 11 familial dysautonomia subjects, had &gt; 200% increase in blood flow. Irrespective of pretreatment type, norepinephrine decreased blood flow in both familial dysautonomia and control groups (ANOVA: P &lt; 0.0001), but the final mean change after saline was greater in the control group, P = 0.02. The final mean changes of flow after phentolamine pretreatment were not different between the two groups and were comparable to the familial dysautonomia group's smaller response after saline pretreatment. Higher baseline perfusion suggests dilation may be intrinsic to familial dysautonomia vasculature. Two populations of familial dysautonomia subjects are noted; those who like controls increase blood flow with iontophoresis of the alpha-antagonist and those who are refractory. In addition, in familial dysautonomia subjects, the microcirculatory constrictive response to alpha-agonist iontophoresis is less than that observed for controls. These data suggest that some familial dysautonomia subjects may have decreased or dysfunctional adrenoceptors as well as decreased innervation.
1. Old rats of the same chronological age are not homogeneous with respect to their circadian temperature rhythm (CTR). Some old rats maintain a robust CTR, comparable with that of young rats, while others have a weakened and unstable CTR. Often, in the latter group, the CTR becomes flat and disappears. In almost all old rats there is a clear decrease in the amplitude of the CTR. 2. The present paper describes several methods that are useful for distinguishing between old rats in different categories. Three patterns can be distinguished: (i) good (there is a clear difference between the daily body temperature (Tb) means in the light and dark, relatively high density (power) at a period of 24 h, low hour-to-hour fluctuation in Tb within a given day (low intradaily variability; IV) and high day-to-day stability in Tb (high interdaily stability; IS)); (ii) unstable (there is a variable difference between daily Tb means in the light and dark, very low density at the 24h period, moderate IV and low IS); and (iii) flat (there is little or no difference or variation in daily Tb means in the light and dark, low or insignificant density at 24 h, highest IV and lowest IS). 3. The importance of these distinctions in old rats is two-fold. First, differences at a behavioural level may reflect fundamental differences in the brain. Second, the degree of deficits in one system, for example in the CTR, may be correlated with deficits in other systems, such as sleep-waking. The methods described in the present paper are useful for obtaining qualitative information on the progressive deterioration of the CTR as animals age.
Using repeated in vivo imaging, we addressed the role of target muscle fibers in the maintenance of frog motor nerve terminals at synaptic sites. Target-deprived nerve terminals were generated by selective and permanent removal of muscle fibers without damage to the innervation. Individual nerve terminals, stained with the dye FM1-43, were imaged before and again during the subsequent 1-9 months of target deprivation and the stability of the nerve terminal arbors over time was determined. Repeated observation of motor nerve terminals showed that nerve terminals were well maintained at synaptic sites during the first 1-2 months after target loss; the original number of nerve terminal segments was retained at 85% of the synaptic sites after muscle damage. After long periods of target deprivation, 6-9 months, loss or retraction of nerve terminal segments resulted in a reduction in the arbor of most but not all nerve terminals. This apparent nerve terminal destabilization was not a result of illumination or irradiation because a similar decrease in the extent of nerve terminal arbors was not observed at control irradiated neuromuscular junctions. The persistence of many complete target-deprived nerve terminal arbors at synaptic sites long after target degeneration suggested that the cues that confer stability to frog motor nerve terminals likely reside external to muscle fibers and may be associated with the synaptic basal lamina or the terminal Schwann cell. Since the arbors of many target-deprived nerve terminals were eventually reduced, the nonmuscle stabilization cues may not persist indefinitely at target-deprived synaptic sites.
Opioid peptides are known to play a role in the function and growth of the mammalian heart. Although some information about gene expression of opioids in the heart is available, there is no data on the cellular location of opioid gene expression during development or in the adult. Using in situ hybridization and rat heart ranging from embryonic day 14 (E14) to adulthood, we have evaluated the distribution of gene expression for proenkephalin, proopiomelanocortin, and prodynorphin. With respect to preproenkephalin mRNA (PPE mRNA), message in the ventricle was abundant from E14 (the first time point examined) until shortly after birth, with a marked reduction noted on postnatal days 5, 10, and 21. Adults displayed considerable message, though less than in preparations of embryonic and neonatal heart. PPE mRNA was detected in epicardial, myocardial, and endocardial cells, as well as the walls of blood vessels, capillaries, and fibroblasts. Preproopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA was only found in adults, and was localized to the myocardium. Message for preprodynorphin could not be observed in the ventricles of developing or adult rats. These results are the first to define the temporal and spatial ontogeny of opioid gene expression with regard to the emergence of cardiac architecture. The data suggest that gene expression for proenkephalin is especially prevalent in embryonic and neonatal rats and may be related to the modulatory activity of the opioid growth factor, [Met5]-enkephalin, on cell proliferation and differentiation. The role of PPE and POMC mRNA in adult rat heart requires elucidation.
The vertebrate hindbrain is subdivided into a series of rhombomeres whose segmental organization serves to pattern the architecture and innervation of the developing head. The zebrafish gene valentino is required cell-autonomously in the development of rhombomeres 5 and 6, and valentino mutants lack visible hindbrain segmentation caudal to the r3/4 boundary (Moens, C. B., Yan, Y.-L., Appel, B., Force, A. G., and Kimmel, C. B. (1996) Development 122, 3981-3990). Here we show that valentino is the zebrafish homologue of the mouse segmentation gene kreisler, which encodes a bZip transcription factor. The valentino gene is expressed in a manner consistent with its proposed role in subdividing rhombomeres 5 and 6 from their common precursor 'proto-segment' in the presumptive hindbrain, a process that we also demonstrate is reflected in the normal order of appearance of rhombomere boundaries. As well as having similar phenotypes with respect to visible hindbrain segmentation and patterns of marker gene expression, valentino and kreisler mutants have similar pharyngeal arch and inner ear defects, consistent with a conserved role for this gene in hindbrain segmentation and in patterning of the head periphery.
The vertebrate spinal cord consists of a large number of different cell types in close proximity to one another. The identities of these cells appear to be specified largely by information acquired from their local environments. We report here that local cell-cell interactions, mediated by zebrafish homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster neurogenic gene, Delta, regulate specification of diverse neuronal types in the ventral spinal cord. We describe identification of a novel zebrafish Delta gene expressed specifically in the nervous system and show, by expressing a dominant negative form of Delta protein in embryos, that Delta proteins mediate lateral inhibition in the zebrafish spinal cord. Furthermore, we find that Delta function is important for specification of a variety of spinal cord neurons, suggesting that lateral inhibition serves to diversify neuronal fate during development of the vertebrate spinal cord.
Muscle glycogen phosphorylase (MGP) transcript and protein levels increase during skeletal muscle development in tandem with the products of other muscle genes responsible for glucose and glycogen metabolism. Previous studies demonstrated that a 269 bp region 5' to exon 1 of MGP is sufficient for developmental regulation in the C2C12 myogenic cell line (Froman et al., 1994). This genomic region (-209 to +60) contains four consensus E box motifs, a CArG-like sequence, and a GC-rich domain. Native MGP transcripts were not detected in pluripotent CH310T1/2 fibroblasts, but low levels of MGP mRNA were measured in CH310T1/2 cells that were stably transfected with MyoD. Three of the E box motifs in the MGP proximal promoter interacted with C2C12 nuclear proteins. However, cotransfection of the MGP promoter with myogenic regulatory factors, including MyoD and myogenin, produced less than 2-fold activation compared with 20-fold activation of the desmin promoter. Mutational analyses of the MGP promoter demonstrated that increased expression in C2C12 myotubes did not require any of the E box motifs or the CArG-like element. A small region (-76 to -68) upstream of GC-rich domain (-64 to -51) significantly reduced promoter activities in both myoblasts and myotubes. The functional studies suggest that MGP is developmentally regulated during myogenesis by alternative pathways that utilize unidentified regulatory elements or ancillary factors.
A decrease in nerve temperature causes a proportional decrease in conduction velocity which, in percentage terms, is equal for all nerve fibers. The absolute decrease in conduction velocity is larger for faster conducting nerve fibers. This results in a compression and a shift to lower values of the conduction velocity distribution and an increase in temporal dispersion. The purpose of this study was to determine if these effects could be detected by a combination of two collision techniques designed to obtain the motor conduction velocity distribution and refractory period distribution. In 12 healthy volunteers we measured the conduction velocity distribution in the median nerve at nerve temperatures of 25 and 40 degrees C. The results showed that our method could detect the predicted changes in conduction velocity distribution and temporal dispersion. We conclude that temperature change is a model that can be used to study temporal dispersion. This may be a first step towards distinguishing between the effects of conduction block and (abnormal) temporal dispersion in demyelinated nerve fibers.
Virtual reality (VR) technology is complex and relies on multidisciplinary knowledge. VR applications are attracting an increasing interest among neuroscientists, in particular in the study of the human brain. Here we present a brief tutorial in which we address aspects of VR methodology that are most relevant to neurophysiology applications. After a brief survey of possible applications to neurophysiology, we discuss the following issues in VR: display technology, visual stimulus presentation techniques, visual spatial resolution and accuracy, devices for real-time interaction with the virtual environment and force-feedback.

This is an appreciation of 3 scientists who made historic contributions toward understanding bio-electrical activity. The discoveries of Galvani and Volta, who were contemporaries two hundred years ago, continue as basic supports in advancing the strength and health of all mankind. They, nevertheless, had political and scientific disagreements that still linger. The third scientist was our contemporary, Alexander Forbes who, throughout most of the 20th century, continued to increase our understanding of electrical activity in the nervous system.
Although ciliary neurotropic factor (CNTF) is a tropic factor in nervous system development and maintenance, peripheral administration of this cytokine also causes severe anorexia and weight loss. The neural mechanism(s) mediating the loss of appetite is not known. As hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a potent orexigenic signal, we tested the hypothesis that CNTF may adversely affect NPYergic signaling in the hypothalamus. Intraperitoneal administration of CNTF (250 microg/kg) daily for 4 days significantly suppressed 24-h food intake in a time-dependent manner and decreased body weight. The loss in body weight was similar to that which occurred in pair-fed (PF) rats. As expected, hypothalamic NPY gene expression, determined by measurement of steady state prepro-NPY messenger RNA by ribonuclease protection assay, significantly increased in PF rats in response to energy imbalance. However, despite a similar loss in body weight, there was no increase in NPY gene expression in CNTF-treated rats. Daily administration of CNTF intracerebroventricularly (0.5 or 5.0 microg/rat) also produced anorexia and body weight loss. In this experiment, negative energy balance produced by both PF and food deprivation augmented hypothalamic NPY gene expression. However, despite reduced intake and loss of body weight, no similar increment in hypothalamic NPY gene expression was observed in CNTF-treated rats. In fact, in rats treated with higher doses of CNTF (5.0 microg/rat), NPY gene expression was reduced below the levels seen in control, freely fed rats. Furthermore, CNTF treatment also markedly decreased NPY-induced feeding. These results suggested that anorexia in CNTF-treated rats may be due to a deficit in NPY supply and possibly in the release and suppression of NPY-induced feeding. The possibility that CNTF-induced anorexia may be caused by increased leptin was next examined. Daily intracerebroventricular injections of leptin (7 microg/rat) decreased food intake, body weight, and hypothalamic NPY gene expression in a manner similar to that seen after CNTF treatment. Leptin administration also suppressed NPY-induced feeding. However, peripheral and central CNTF injections markedly decreased leptin messenger RNA in lipocytes, indicating a deficiency of leptin in these rats; thus, leptin was unlikely to be involved in appetite suppression. Thus, these results show that a two-pronged central action of CNTF, causing diminution in both NPY availability and the NPY-induced feeding response, may underlie the severe anorexia. Further, unlike other members of the cytokine family, suppression of NPYergic signaling in the hypothalamus by CNTF does not involve up-regulation of leptin, but may involve a direct action on hypothalamic NPY neurons or on neural circuits that regulate NPY signaling in the hypothalamus.

Although the cellular mechanisms of pharmacological actions of gabapentin (Neurontin) remain incompletely described, several hypotheses have been proposed. It is possible that different mechanisms account for anticonvulsant, antinociceptive, anxiolytic and neuroprotective activity in animal models. Gabapentin is an amino acid, with a mechanism that differs from those of other anticonvulsant drugs such as phenytoin, carbamazepine or valproate. Radiotracer studies with [14C]gabapentin suggest that gabapentin is rapidly accessible to brain cell cytosol. Several hypotheses of cellular mechanisms have been proposed to explain the pharmacology of gabapentin: 1. Gabapentin crosses several membrane barriers in the body via a specific amino acid transporter (system L) and competes with leucine, isoleucine, valine and phenylalanine for transport. 2. Gabapentin increases the concentration and probably the rate of synthesis of GABA in brain, which may enhance non-vesicular GABA release during seizures. 3. Gabapentin binds with high affinity to a novel binding site in brain tissues that is associated with an auxiliary subunit of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. Recent electrophysiology results suggest that gabapentin may modulate certain types of Ca2+ current. 4. Gabapentin reduces the release of several monoamine neurotransmitters. 5. Electrophysiology suggests that gabapentin inhibits voltage-activated Na+ channels, but other results contradict these findings. 6. Gabapentin increases serotonin concentrations in human whole blood, which may be relevant to neurobehavioral actions. 7. Gabapentin prevents neuronal death in several models including those designed to mimic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This may occur by inhibition of glutamate synthesis by branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase (BCAA-t).
Vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl GABA) is an antiepileptic drug and blocks GABA transaminase activity resulting in elevations in cellular GABA levels in the brain. Nipecotic acid (NPA) promotes release of GABA from neonatal optic nerve astrocytes, resulting in a bicuculline-sensitive depolarization of the optic nerve axons. The NPA-induced depolarization of vigabatrin-treated rats (100 mg/kg, i.p.) more than doubled, suggesting an elevation in free GABA levels; the GABA transporter inhibitor, NO-711 reduced the depolarization. These results are consistent with the known ability of vigabatrin to block the GABA degradation enzyme GABA-transaminase, suggesting that vigabatrin elevates astrocytic GABA levels, thereby favoring greater release of GABA through the GABA transporter.
The cerebellar cortex is subdivided into an elaborate, stereotyped array of transverse zones and parasagittal stripes. It has been speculated that (i) all Purkinje cells derive from 10 to 20 precursors allocated early in embryogenesis and (ii) that pattern formation is based on cell lineage restriction in the founder pool. These hypotheses have been tested by clonal analysis of embryonic stem cell chimeras. Neither speculation is supported: the analysis suggests that Purkinje cells derive from a founder population of &gt; 102 precursors, and that neither cerebellar transverse developmental boundaries nor parasagittal stripes have a clonal origin. We conclude that early lineage restriction plays no role in cerebellar pattern formation.
Gamma frequency field oscillations reflect synchronized synaptic potentials in neuronal populations within the approximately 10-40 ms range. The generation of gamma activity in the hippocampus was investigated by intracellular recording from principal cells and basket cells in urethane anaesthetized rats. The recorded neurones were verified by intracellular injection of biocytin. Gamma frequency field oscillations were nested within the slower theta waves. The phase and amplitude of intracellular gamma were voltage dependent with an almost complete phase reversal at Cl- equilibrium potential in pyramidal cells. Basket cells fired at gamma frequency and were phase-locked to the same phase of the gamma oscillation as pyramidal cells. Current-induced depolarization coupled with synaptically induced inhibition resulted in gamma frequency discharge (30-80 Hz) of pyramidal cells without accommodation. These observations suggest that at least part of the gamma frequency field oscillation reflects rhythmic hyperpolarization of principal cells, brought about by the rhythmically discharging basket neurones. Resonant properties of pyramidal cells might facilitate network synchrony in the gamma frequency range.
In this study, rats were bilaterally implanted with electrodes in the amygdala for chronic recording. Auditory click stimulation evoked in the basolateral nucleus a field potential characterized by three positive components: P1, P2 and P3 (peak latencies around: 10, 20 and 30 ms, respectively) which were each followed by three negative components: N1, N2 and N3 (peak latencies around: 13, 30 and 50 ms, respectively). Animals were divided into three groups (context-same, context-different and control). Following footshock administration, animals were either re-exposed to the same conditioning chamber (context-same group) or placed in a different context (context-different group) for electrophysiological and behavioural (evaluation of freezing response) recordings. The two early positive-negative complexes (P1-N1 and P2-N2) increased in amplitude from 2 min to 24 h following footshock in both context-same and context-different groups. No significant difference was observed between these two groups. The demonstration of significantly larger freezing responses in context-same subjects on exposure to the aversive conditioned environment indicated that this similarity of effects was not due to lack of conditioning of context under the experimental conditions chosen. We conclude that footshock stress produces general long-lasting changes in amygdala auditory field potentials that are not significantly affected by contextual fear conditioning.
Mucosal biopsies from 48 patients with and 9 without amalgam tattoos were analysed with respect to their mercury content, distribution of mercury in the tissue, and histological tissue reactions. The distribution of mercury was assessed by autometallography (AMG), a silver amplification technique. The mercury content was determined by energy dispersive X-ray fluorescence (EDXRF), a multielemental analysis. Mercury was observed in connective tissue where it was confined to fibroblasts and macrophages, in vessel walls and in structures with the histological character of nerve fibres. A correlation was found between the histopathological tissue reaction, the type of mercury deposition, the intensity of the AMG reaction, and the mercury content. Mercury was also found in patients with amalgam dental fillings but without amalgam tattoos.
This study assessed whether stationary auditory information could affect body and head sway (as does visual and haptic information) in sighted and congenitally blind people. Two speakers, one placed adjacent to each ear, significantly stabilized center-of-foot-pressure sway in a tandem Romberg stance, while neither a single speaker in front of subjects nor a head-mounted sonar device reduced center-of-pressure sway. Center-of-pressure sway was reduced to the same level in the two-speaker condition for sighted and blind subjects. Both groups also evidenced reduced head sway in the two-speaker condition, although blind subjects' head sway was significantly larger than that of sighted subjects. The advantage of the two-speaker condition was probably attributable to the nature of distance compared with directional auditory information. The results rule out a deficit model of spatial hearing in blind people and are consistent with one version of a compensation model. Analysis of maximum cross-correlations between center-of-pressure and head sway, and associated time lags suggest that blind and sighted people may use different sensorimotor strategies to achieve stability.
The dendritic tree constitutes more than 93% of the receptive membrane area of a spinal motoneuron, yet little is known about its synaptic inputs. In this study we examined the distribution of glutamate-, GABA- and glycine-like immunoreactivity in boutons apposing dendrites in the L7 spinal cord motor nucleus, by use of postembedding immunohistochemistry on serial sections. We examined 799 boutons apposing 401 cross-sectioned dendrites of different calibre (range 0.2-15 microm), and 14 first-order (stem) dendrites. Thirty-five percent (35%) of the boutons were immunopositive for glutamate and 59% for GABA and/or glycine. Among the latter, 30% showed glycine immunoreactivity only and 24% were immunoreactive for both GABA and glycine. Very few were immunoreactive only for GABA (5%). As few as 6% of the boutons were judged as not enriched for any amino acid analysed. The fine structural characteristics of the boutons were in accordance with previous descriptions. The sample of dendrites was arranged in calibre bins in order to facilitate distribution analysis. Stem dendrites differed from the other bins, with a high total bouton covering (61%) and a high bouton density. Sixty-nine percent of the membrane covering was by glycine- and/or GABA-immunoreactive boutons, whereas 18% was covered by boutons enriched in glutamate. For non-stem dendrites, bouton covering fell from 33% to 12% with decreasing calibre. However, bouton apposition length decreased in parallel, yielding a fairly uniform bouton density among dendrites of different calibre. The lack of correlation between packing density and dendrite calibre was also evident when the sample of dendrites was broken down into subsamples based on content of amino acid immunoreactivity. The latter analysis also revealed that both the relative covering and density of boutons containing inhibitory amino acids (57%; glycine and/or GABA) and glutamate (38%), respectively, did not vary systematically with dendrite calibre. Combined, the data indicate that in non-stem dendrites the proportion of excitatory and inhibition inputs does not change systematically throughout the dendritic arborizations of spinal alpha-motoneurons. Thus, spinal motoneurons can, with respect to the general synaptic architecture, be divided into two main compartments, i.e. the proximal soma-juxtasomatic compartment (including stem dendrites) and the distal dendritic compartment. The proximal domain is under a powerful glycine and/or GABA influence. Finally, based on the data presented here and previously published data, it was calculated that spinal alpha-motoneurons receive in the range of 50-140 x 10(3) synaptic boutons.
Nitric oxide (NO) possibly plays an important role in the events resulting in hyperalgesia. Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) is a key enzyme in the production of NO. In this study, the relationship between NOS and hyperalgesia in a rat chronic arthritis model was tested. Chronic arthritis was induced by injection of incomplete Freund's adjuvant into the knee joint cavity unilaterally. The paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to radiant heat was used to detect secondary thermal hyperalgesia induced by the arthritis. After 1 day the PWL of the arthritic hind-paw decreased and it reached its nadir at 3 days after induction of arthritis. The lumbar and cervical enlargement of the spinal cord were removed in different groups of animals 3, 7, 14, or 21 days after induction of arthritis, and frozen tissue sections were cut. Two series of sections were incubated with polyclonal antibodies to neuronal NOS (nNOS) or to inducible NOS (iNOS). nNOS was found to increase gradually in laminae I-III in the lumbar but not in the cervical enlargement. The change became most obvious 14 days after induction of arthritis as compared to the control animals. Ependymal cells around the central canal of the lumbar enlargement were more densely stained by anti-iNOS after arthritis. A corresponding change was also found in the cervical enlargement. Computer-assisted image analysis revealed that the mean density of the affected areas in the treated group increased significantly compared with the control animals. This study suggests that the expression of both nNOS and iNOS increase following induction of chronic arthritis, which in turn would presumably lead to an increase in the production of NO. This process could be involved in mediation of the secondary thermal hyperalgesia induced by chronic arthritis.
We have developed an in vitro model in which isolated senile plaque (SP) cores are presented to rat microglial cells in culture. Microglia rapidly phagocytosed, broke apart, and cleared SP cores. However, when cocultured with astrocytes, microglial phagocytosis was markedly suppressed, allowing the SPs to persist. Suppression of phagocytosis by astrocytes appears to be a general phenomena since microglia in the presence of astrocytes showed reduced capacity to phagocytose latex beads as well. The astrocyte effect on microglia is related in part to a diffusible factor(s) since astrocyte- but not fibroblast-conditioned media also reduced phagocytosis. These results suggest that while microglia have the capacity to phagocytose and remove SPs, astrocytes which lie in close association to microglia may help prevent the efficient clearance of SP material allowing them to persist in Alzheimer's disease.
Schizophrenia is a neuropsychiatric disorder of unknown etiology associated with subtle changes in brain morphology. The cell recognition molecules (CRMs) neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) and L1 are involved in morphoregulatory events and numerous neurodevelopmental processes. We found a selective increase of 105- to 115-kDa N-CAM in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of patients with schizophrenia while other N-CAM isoforms and L1 proteins were not altered. There was also evidence for an abnormality in CRM expression in schizophrenic patients: concentrations of 200-kDa L1 were strongly correlated with expression of N-CAM isoforms and cleaved L1 proteins in controls, whereas these correlations were absent in patients with schizophrenia. The increase of the 105- to 115-kDa N-CAM isoform in the brains of patients with schizophrenia confirms previous cerebrospinal fluid findings. Increased N-CAM in schizophrenia may result from structural brain abnormalities, from glial processing of N-CAM, or from an aberration in the regulation of N-CAM expression.
We used fluorescence in situ hybridization to characterize the molecular position of the breakpoints in a t(8;13)(p11;q12) reciprocal translocation from a patient with an atypical myeloproliferative disorder. This structural chromosome abnormality is characteristic of this specific disease and occurs often as the only chromosome abnormality in the malignant cells. Yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) analysis has demonstrated that the 8p11 breakpoint lies within a region defined by YAC 959A4 and that the 13q12 breakpoint is spanned by YAC 769F9. Identifying the position of the breakpoints in this rearrangement provides the means to search for candidate genes rearranged by this highly specific structural chromosome abnormality.
Circadian (approximately 24-hr) rhythms in Drosophila melanogaster depend upon cyclic expression of the period (per) and timeless (tim) genes, which encode interacting components of the endogenous clock. The per gene has been isolated from other insects and, more recently, a per ortholog was found in mammals where its expression oscillates in a circadian fashion. We report here the complete sequence of a tim gene from another species, Drosophila virilis. TIM is better conserved than the PER protein is between these two species (76 vs. 54% overall amino acid identity), and putative functional domains, such as the PER interaction domains and the nuclear localization signal, are highly conserved. The acidic domain and the cytoplasmic localization domain, however, are within the least conserved regions. In addition, the initiating methionine in the D. virilis gene lies downstream of the proposed translation start for the original D. melanogaster tim cDNA and corresponds to the one used by D. simulans and D. yakuba. Among the most conserved parts of TIM is a region of unknown function near the N terminus. We show here that deletion of a 32 amino acid segment within this region affects rescue of rhythms in arrhythmic tim01 flies. Flies carrying a full-length tim transgene displayed rhythms with approximately 24-hr periods, indicating that a fully functional clock can be restored in tim01 flies through expression of a tim transgene. Deletion of the segment mentioned above resulted in very long activity rhythms with periods ranging from 30.5 to 48 hr.
In mixed glial cell cultures from cerebral cortices of newborn rats, endotoxin induces nitric oxide (NO) production in microglial cells. Earlier we demonstrated that endotoxin induced NO production by microglial cells is inhibited in the presence of astroglial cells by transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta). Both microglial and astroglial cells produce TGFbeta in a biologically inactive form, which can be activated by plasmin generated by plasminogen activators (PA). In the present paper we describe studies on the mechanism by which glial cells may activate inactive TGFbeta and its potential inhibitory effect on NO production by microglial cells. Inhibition of plasmin increased NO production in endotoxin-treated mixed glial cell cultures. Subsequently, antibodies against tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) increased NO production in endotoxin-treated mixed glial cell cultures while amiloride, an inhibitor for urokinase (uPA), had no effect. We hereby concluded that tPA is the crucial PA involved in plasmin production resulting in inhibition of NO production in mixed glial cell cultures. Zymography and Northern blot analysis of purified astroglial, microglial, and mixed glial cell cultures demonstrated that astroglial cells produce tPA and a plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) and are thereby responsible for the production of plasmin which may activate the inactive TGF in these cultures. In conclusion, astroglial-derived tPA plays a major role in the inhibition of NO production by endotoxin-treated microglial cells through enhanced plasmin production and possible subsequent TGFbeta activation.
The projections to physiologically defined tonotopic regions of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) from the adult rat's superior olivary complex (SOC) and lateral lemniscus were investigated using retrograde tract tracing methods. Iontophoretic injections of the retrograde tracers, Fluoro-Gold (FG) or horseradish peroxidase (HRP), were made into the ICC through a glass micropipette, which also served as a recording electrode to determine the frequency response at the injection site. Injections were made into frequency-specific regions based on the best responses of neurons to contralaterally presented tones between 2 25 kHz. In the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) neurons were labeled both ipsilaterally and contralaterally to the injection site with a larger proportion projecting to the contralateral side. The distribution of labeled cells was concentric, with high frequencies represented along the outer margin and low frequencies represented centrally within DNLL. The lateral superior olive (LSO) was labeled bilaterally, with high frequencies represented medially and low frequencies laterally along the nuclear axis. The projection from the medial superior olive (MSO) was ipsilateral, with high frequencies represented ventrally and low frequencies dorsally. The projection from the superior paraolivary nucleus (SPN) was also largely ipsilateral, with high frequencies represented medially and low frequencies laterally. The intermediate and ventral nuclei of the lateral lemniscus (INLL and VNLL) were also labeled ipsilaterally and exhibited a distribution of tracer that depended on the frequency of the injection site: the low frequency projection was banded but the high frequency projection was more evenly distributed.
These is increasing evidence to suggest that central noradrenergic mechanisms may contribute to the central nervous system manifestations of acute liver failure. To further elucidate this possibility, extracellular brain concentrations of the monoamines, noradrenaline (NA), dopamine (DA), and serotonin, were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection in microdialysates from the extracellular compartment of frontal cortex in rats with acute (ischemic) liver failure at various times during the progression of encephalopathy and brain edema, as well as in obligate control groups of animals. In addition, binding sites for the noradrenergic receptor subtype ligands, [3H]-prazosin (alpha1 sites), [3H]-RX821002 (alpha2 sites), and [125]I-iodopindolol (beta sites), were assessed using quantitative receptor autoradiography in regions of the brains of rats at coma stage of acute liver failure and of control groups of animals. Coma stages of encephalopathy in acute liver failure were associated with selectively increased noradrenaline concentrations (P &lt; .05) and a concomitant selective loss of alpha1 and beta1 sites in frontal cortex and thalamus. These findings add to a growing body of evidence that central noradrenergic function is modified in acute liver failure and suggest that alpha1/beta1 receptor-mediated noradrenergic mechanisms may play a role in the pathogenesis of brain edema and encephalopathy in this condition.
The subcellular localization of the mGlu4a metabotropic glutamate receptor was investigated in rat cerebellum. At the light microscopical level, strong mGlu4a immunoreactivity was found in the molecular layer. A post-embedding immunogold method for electron microscopy revealed gold particles at the presynaptic sites of synapses made by parallel fiber terminals with dendritic spines of Purkinje cells. These observations support electrophysiological evidence indicating an autoreceptor function of mGlu4 receptors at these synapses.
The ultimate aim in the treatment of autoimmune disease is to restore self-tolerance to the autoantigen(s) in question. In lieu of this ideal result, the conversion of a destructive or pathogenic autoimmune response into one of benign autoimmunity would also be highly desirable. In either case the use of the antigenic epitope, which is the target of the destructive immune response, would ideally be employed so as to give specificity to the protection without the need for long-term immunosuppression. This review describes a number of different approaches using various forms, doses, and routes of injection of specific neuroantigen to inhibit the different clinical varieties of autoimmune encephalomyelitis in a number of animal models; all done with the view to translating the findings into the clinic for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. We conclude that any treatment strategy for multiple sclerosis (MS) must have a number of features: it must be clinically acceptable, specific, long-lasting, require only short-term treatment, able to shunt off ongoing disease, and have the potential to prevent or deal with epitope spreading. Few of the approaches we describe fulfill all of these criteria. We suggest that investigations of new adjunctive agents to be used with a specific antigen be pursued, and that currently the use of chimeric proteins or DNA vaccination with or without the new adjunctives may hold the most hope for the future.
Insect acetylcholinesterase is the target site for organophosphorus and carbamate insecticides and point mutations in the Ace gene are associated with resistance in Drosophila melanogaster and Musca domestica. However, little is known of the genetic regulation of insect Ace genes. Here we report the isolation of four different cDNAs from an Aedes Ace locus and identification of the gene promoter. Northern analysis reveals two large (&gt;10 kb) transcripts and one smaller transcript of 4 kb. The region containing the initiation of transcription was localized by sequencing the two 5' most cDNAs and by 5' RACE. The transcription start point was subsequently identified by primer extension and is flanked by a perfect arthropod initiator consensus sequence. The promoter lacks a TATA box but contains several matches to other consensus sequences for eukaryotic transcription factors. In common with the Drosophila Ace gene, there are also multiple potential initiators of translation (ATGs) upstream of the main open reading frame. The structure of the 5' leader and promoter is compared to that found in other insect and vertebrate Ace genes and the possibility that this locus is homologous to one of two Ace loci described in another mosquito, Culex pipiens, is discussed.
Granule cells which relay the mossy fibre afferent system to the cerebellar cortex are generated postnatally in mammals. In their absence, the climbing fibres, i.e. the second afferent system to the cerebellum originating in the inferior olivary nucleus, remain in an immature stage, and substantial elimination of redundant synapses they establish on the Purkinje cells does not occur in the rat between day five (P5) and day fifteen (P15). It is generally assumed that synapse elimination is partly regulated by electrical activity which modulates the competition among afferent fibres for the uptake of a limited amount of trophic factors released by the target. The neurotrophins, whose expression is developmentally regulated in the cerebellum, especially in granule cells, could be this retrograde signal. Using RT-PCR, we studied the expression of their trk receptors in the inferior olivary nucleus of developing and adult rats, and its alteration after eradication of the granule cell precursors by X-irradiation on P5. From P0 to P90, the amount of trkA mRNA is low and remains stable in control rats; the high levels of trkB and C mRNAs detected at P0 markedly decrease in parallel from P5 and reach their minimal values at P15, when the process of synapse elimination is completed in the cerebellum. X-irradiation of the cerebellum decreases the level of expression of the three trks, but a transient upregulation of trkC occurs at P10. The down-regulation of trkB and C expression in the inferior olivary nucleus, contemporary with the altered expression of neurotrophins in the cerebellum, suggest that NT-3 and/or BDNF/NT-4/5 could be involved in the remodelling of olivocerebellar relationships during development. In addition, the transient overexpression of trkC after granule cells eradication is consistent with a paracrin effect exerted on the olivary cells by granule cells release of NT-3, at the time when the climbing fibres invest the growing Purkinje cell dendrites in the molecular layer.
Macrosomatognosia refers to a disorder of the body image in which the patient perceives a part or parts of his body as disproportionately large. Macrosomatognosia has been associated with lesions in the parietal lobe, particularly the right parietal lobe, which integrates perceptual-sensorimotor functions concerned with the body image. It has been observed most commonly in patients with paroxysmal cerebral disorders such as epilepsy and migraine. The Draw-a-Person-Test has been employed in neuropsychological testing to identify disorders of the body image. Three fully medicated elderly Parkinsonian patients who exhibited, on the Draw-a-Person Test, macrosomatognosia involving the upper limbs are presented. In these patients spontaneous drawing of the figure of a man demonstrated disproportionately large arms. Furthermore, it was observed that the arm affected by tremor or, in the case of bilateral tremor, the arm showing the most severe tremor showed the greatest abnormality. This association implies that dopaminergic mechanisms influence neuronal systems in the nondominant right parietal lobe which construct the body image. After receiving a course of treatments with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) in the picotesla flux density applied transcranially, these patients' drawings showed reversal of the macrosomatognosia. These findings demonstrate that transcranial applications of AC pulsed EMFs affect the neuronal systems involved in the construction of the human body image and additionally reverse disorders of the body image in Parkinsonism which are related to right parietal lobe dysfunction.

Sound localization ability has traditionally been studied using either a relative localization task, where thresholds to determine a difference in sound source location is approximately 1-10 degrees, or an absolute localization task, where the range of estimates of the source of a sound are 4-30 degrees. In order to directly relate these two psychophysical methods, we compared the psychometric functions from a relative localization task in a human subject to the same subject's performance on an absolute localization task using three different acoustic stimuli: Gaussian noise, 1-kHz tones, and 4-kHz tones. The results showed that the relative localization threshold was a poor indicator of the range of estimates of the same stimulus in absolute space, however, the width of the relative localization psychometric functions was well correlated with the width of the distribution of estimates made in the absolute localization task. It is concluded that the relative localization psychometric functions, but not threshold, provides a reliable estimate of absolute spatial localization ability in human subjects, and suggested that the same neuronal mechanisms can underlie the psychophysical data using both methods.

The distribution and development of transferrin-positive cells in the pons and cerebellum of human fetuses to adults were examined immunohistochemically, compared with those of ferritin-positive cells. Transferrin was present in oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, and neurons. Transferrin-positive neurons appeared at 18 weeks of gestation in Purkinje cells and the pontine reticular formation. In the pontine nuclei, transferrin-positive neurons appeared at 22 weeks of gestation. On the other hand, transferrin-positive glia also appeared at 18 weeks of gestation in the reticular formation, and at 24 weeks of gestation in the cerebellar white matter and pontine nuclei. Transferrin-positive glia and cells appeared earlier in the reticular formation of the pons than ferritin, but the order of its appearance was similar to that of ferritin and myelination. Because iron is involved in the syntheses and functions of dopamine, serotonin, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), transferrin may be carried for various iron uses from an early fetal stage.
7B2 is a neuroendocrine chaperone interacting with the prohormone convertase PC2 in the regulated secretory pathway. Its gene is located near the Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) region on chromosome 15. In a previous study we were able to show 7B2 immunoreactivity in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) or the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) in only three of five PWS patients. Here we report that in contrast with five other PWS patients, the neurons in the hypothalamic SON and PVN of the two 7B2-immunonegative PWS patients also failed to show any reaction using two antibodies directed against processed vasopressin (VP). On the other hand, even these two cases reacted normally with five antibodies that recognize different parts of the VP precursor. This finding pointed to a processing defect. Indeed, the same patients had no PC2 immunoreactivity in the SON or PVN, whereas PC1 immunoreactivity was only slightly diminished. In conclusion, in the VP neurons of two PWS patients, greatly reduced amounts of 7B2 and PC2 are present, resulting in diminished VP precursor processing.
Pairs of mutually different, spatially overlapping letters were exposed for recognition to groups of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and the age-matched control group. Stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA), medical treatment status (de novo vs. treated), and predominant symptoms (tremor vs. hypokinetic rigidity) were an other main variables. The highly significant main effects of SOA and health status demonstrated slowing of elementary visual recognition operations in Parkinson's disease; the results are based on the experimental method that requires neither fast manual responses nor tracking of the display events by saccadic eye movements. Significant interaction between the temporal order of stimulus exposure and health status showed that impairment due to PD was more pronounced for the first stimulus, including the de novo group. Qualitatively similar recognition functions in the binocular and dichoptic conditions showed that the typical pattern of results--prevalence of S2 over S1 at intermediate SOAs--cannot be attributed to retinal processes and should be originating from central processes. An earlier finding (Bachmann, 1994) that PD patients whose nonspecific thalamic nuclei were stimulated intracranially produced qualitatively unusual recognition functions that should have been the result of stimulation, rather than PD as such.


The present study was undertaken to determine whether polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolism is affected by high glucose levels in cerebral and retinal microvascular endothelial cells. The metabolism of [3-14C]22:5n-3 and [1-14C]18:2n-6 was studied in cells previously cultured for 5 days in normal (5 mM) or high (30 mM) glucose medium. After incubation of retinal endothelial cells with [3-14C]22:5n-3 in the high glucose condition, the formation of labeled 24:6n-3 and 22:6n-3 was increased, and that of labeled 24:5n-3 was decreased, compared with the normal glucose condition. The changes were found for fatty acids esterified in cellular lipids and those released into the medium. After incubation with [1-14C]18:2n-6, levels of all elongation/desaturation products were increased at the expense of the precursor in retinal endothelial cells cultured in high glucose medium. The changes were primarily found for esterified fatty acids, with the release of n-6 fatty acids being minor in both glucose concentrations. By contrast, high glucose levels did not affect the metabolism of [3-14C]22:5n-3 and [1-14C]18:2n-6 in cerebral endothelial cells. The changes in metabolic activity of retinal endothelial cells were not reflected in the fatty acid composition. The present data suggest that high glucose can increase the desaturation process in retinal but not cerebral endothelial cells. This may produce some lipid abnormalities in retinal microvasculature and contribute to altered vascular function observed in diabetic retinopathy.
Effects of neonatal nicotine exposure on the development of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha2, alpha3, alpha4, alpha7, and beta2 subunit mRNAs and the number of nAChR isoforms in rat brain were studied. The mRNA levels for nAChR subunits were measured by ribonuclease protection assay, and the number of nAChR isoforms was measured with (-)-[3H]nicotine, [3H]epibatidine, and alpha-[3H]bungarotoxin ([3H]alpha-Bgt). Pups were divided into two groups: One group received (-)-nicotine treatment (0.1 mg/kg s.c. free base twice per day) during postnatal day (P)1 to P21 and the other during P8 to P16. The period from P8 to P16 was chosen due to persistent changes that occur in brain nAChRs and in the behavior of adult mice that received (-)-nicotine treatment during P10 to P16. (-)-Nicotine exposure from P1 to P21 significantly up-regulated the number of [3H]epibatidine and high-affinity (-)-[3H]nicotine binding sites in most of the brain regions studied but did not influence the number of [3H]alpha-Bgt binding sites. This effect was a transient one: The up-regulated binding sites returned to control level 1 week after withdrawal from nicotine. (-)-Nicotine exposure during P8 to P16 resulted in a significant and long-lasting increase in the number of nAChR isoforms labeled by (-)-[3H]nicotine, but not by [3H]epibatidine, in the cortex, hippocampus, and striatum of adult rat. This treatment converted the low-affinity binding sites of (-)-nicotine into a high-affinity state revealed by the competition studies of (-)-[3H]nicotine/(-)-nicotine. No changes in the mRNA levels of the subunits studied were observed following nicotine treatment during these two periods. These results suggest that the second postnatal week is a critical period during which nicotine treatment can induce permanent effects on the nAChRs in rat brain. The underlying mechanisms involved in the up-regulation of the number of nAChRs observed in this study are posttranscriptional.
Glutamate excitotoxicity is implicated in several neurodegenerative diseases; consequently, considerable effort has been made to elucidate neuroprotective mechanisms against such toxicity. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor desensitisation is one potential mechanism for controlling glutamate-mediated neuronal cell death. Pretreatment of rat cerebellar granule cells with subtoxic concentrations of NMDA caused a marked reduction in the calcium signals generated by subsequent glutamate stimulation, and, furthermore, this receptor desensitisation was coupled to a reduction in glutamate-induced apoptotic-like death. These effects were reduced by either D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, an NMDA receptor antagonist, or cyclosporin A, an inhibitor of calcineurin. Thus, the results support a role for receptor desensitisation in protection from glutamate-mediated apoptotic-like neuronal cell death.
Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) regulates the processing of Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP) into its soluble form (sAPP) and amyloid beta-peptide (A beta). However, little is known about the intermediate steps between PKC activation and modulation of APP metabolism. Using a specific inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase activation (PD 98059), as well as a dominant negative mutant of MAP kinase kinase, we show in various cell lines that stimulation of PKC by phorbol ester rapidly induces sAPP secretion through a mechanism involving activation of the MAP kinase cascade. In PC12-M1 cells, activation of MAP kinase by nerve growth factor was associated with stimulation of sAPP release. Conversely, M1 muscarinic receptor stimulation, which is known to act in part through a PKC-independent pathway, increased sAPP secretion mainly through a MAP kinase-independent pathway. A beta secretion and its regulation by PKC were not affected by PD 98059, supporting the concept of distinct secretory pathways for A beta and sAPP formation.
Ser55 within the head domain of neurofilament light chain (NF-L) is a target for phosphorylation by protein kinase A. To understand further the physiological role(s) of NF-L Ser55 phosphorylation, we generated transgenic mice with a mutant NF-L transgene in which Ser55 was mutated to Asp so as to mimic permanent phosphorylation. Two lines of NF-L(Asp) mice were created and these animals express the transgene in many neurones of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Both transgenic lines display identical, early onset, and robust pathological changes in the brain. These involve the formation of NF-L(Asp)-containing perikaryal neurofilament inclusion bodies and the development of swollen Purkinje cell axons. Development of these pathologies was rapid and fully established in mice as young as 4 weeks of age. The two transgenic lines show no elevation of NF-L, neurofilament middle chain (NF-M), or neurofilament heavy chain (NF-H), and transgenic NF-L(Asp) represents only a minor proportion of total NF-L protein. Because other published transgenic lines expressing higher levels of wild-type NF-L do not exhibit phenotypic changes that in any way resemble those in the NF-L(Asp) mice and because the two different NF-L(Asp) transgenic lines display identical neuropathological changes, it is likely that the pathological alterations observed in the NF-L(Asp) mice are the result of properties of the mutant NF-L. These results support the notion that phosphorylation of Ser55 is a mechanism for regulating neurofilament organisation in vivo.
Immunocytochemical staining with antibodies to the class III intermediate filament protein peripherin reveals discrete subpopulations of neurons and nerve fibres throughout the rat central nervous system. Some of these fibres enter the cerebellar granular and molecular layers. Here we use light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry and confocal fluorescence microscopy to identify the peripherin positive fibres in the molecular layer of the cerebella of various mammals. (1) The peripherin positive fibres in the molecular layer have morphological attributes of climbing fibres, and peripherin positive fibres are also detected in the olivo-cerebellar tract. Furthermore peripherin positive neurons can be seen in the inferior olive, from which climbing fibres originate. (2) The peripherin positive molecular layer fibres rapidly degenerate in rats treated with 3-acetylpyridine (3-AP), a reagent which destroys neurons in the inferior olive, and the time course of degeneration of these mirrors that previously described for 3-AP induced destruction of climbing fibres. (3) Cerebella of other mammal species tested (mouse, rabbit, pig, cow and human) revealed a similar peripherin staining pattern in the cerebellum, including fibres in the molecular layer with the morphology of climbing fibres. (4) We also noted peripherin positive spinocerebellar and vestibulocerebellar mossy fibres in the cerebellar granular layer of folia known to receive these inputs. (5) A subset of perivascular nerve fibres are also peripherin positive. These results show that peripherin is a useful marker for mammalian cerebellar climbing fibres, and that a subset of morphologically distinct cerebellar mossy fibres are also peripherin positive.
It has been reported that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) may regulate its own biosynthesis in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH). Whether this CRF autoregulation is mediated by local circuitry or from extra-PVH CRF neuronal fibers terminating on CRF perikarya within the PVH is unknown. In the present study, we sought to determine the origin(s) of this CRF innervation using retrograde transport of wheat germ-conjugated-gold particles (WGA-apoHRP-Au) combined with immunohistochemistry for CRF. The rats also received colchicine (100 microg, icv) 5-7 days after tracer injection and were perfused 24 h later. Results of retrograde labeling with pressure injections of WGA-apoHRP-Au centered to PVH and subsequent immunohistochemical staining for CRF demonstrated numerous retrogradely labeled CRF neurons in the perifornical hypothalamic nucleus (PeF), the dorsolateral hypothalamic area (DA) (medial and lateral portions) and the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (DMH). Smaller groups of CRF-ir neurons that were retrogradely labeled were found in the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BnST), the Barrington's nucleus (Bar) and the dorsal raph (DR). These CRFergic pathways to the PVH may represent an anatomical substrate underlying the function of the stress-integrative PVH neurons in the autonomic, behavioral and neuroendocrine regulation during the stress response, including CRF autoregulation.
We found a defective suppressor cell function in vitro both in idiopathic chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and in paraproteinemic neuropathy with antibodies to sulfated glucuronyl paragloboside. In the presence of interferon beta, suppressor cell function was normalized. Our results suggest that a decreased suppressor cell function plays a pathogenetic role in dysimmune neuropathies. Interferon beta might represent an adjunctive therapy in CIDP both acting on a defective blood-nerve barrier and normalizing an otherwise defective suppressor cell function.

To evaluate the hypothesis that co-implantation of different rodent glioma cell lines might result in experimental brain tumours that more closely resemble human gliomas the neuropathology and immunocytochemical features of implantation gliomas derived from single cell lines (C6, A15A5, F98), two cell lines admixed 50:50 prior to implantation (C6 + F98 and C6 + A15A5) and three cell lines equally admixed (C6 + A15A5 + F98) was studied in the adult Wistar rat. Tumours grew consistently following implantation of the single and the two admixed cell lines, however tumour growth following triple mix implantation was considerably and consistently impaired. The tumours derived from admixed cell lines showed regional heterogeneity with areas characteristic of both the primary cell lines. Foci of lymphocytic infiltrates, tumoural necrosis, often with pseudopallisading, and peritumoural edema were consistent features of all tumours. Limited parenchymal and more extensive perivascular tumoural invasion was seen predominantly in tumours containing the C6 cell line. There were no significant differences in GFAP, vimentin and HSP70 staining between the mixed tumours, although the pure F98 and A15A5 tumours were, unlike the pure C6 gliomas, S-100 negative. Using PCNA expression as a measure of the tumour proliferation all except the tumours derived from the three cell lines mix, which had a staining index of 7-10%, had focal staining indices in viable tumour of between 40-80%. There was focal positive staining in both perilesional brain and in regions of all tumours for the macrophage markers ED-1 and ED-2. None of the three cell lines stained in vitro for either ED1 and ED2 but all were constitutively positive in vitro for OX-6, a proposed marker for antigen presenting cells. The macrophage and lymphocytic response suggest a vigorous but largely ineffective immunological response had been mounted against all tumours. The consistent failure of the triple mix tumours to grow is unexplained. This work has shown the feasibility of producing 'mixed' cell line experimental gliomas by combining two cell lines at the time of innoculation. However, the relative failure to produce (i) mixed tumours that have properties not inherent to either parent cell line and (ii) implantation glioma with three cell lines suggest there are limits to this approach. Admixture of cell lines at the time of implantation therefore does not make experimental glioma models that more closely resemble natural gliomas, and also has some particular disadvantages. This experimental approach is therefore not recommended for use in the study of tumour biology and in evaluating the effectiveness of novel therapies.
The mammalian Kv4 gene subfamily and its Drosophila Shal counterpart encode proteins that form fast inactivating K+ channels that activate and inactivate at subthreshold potentials and recover from inactivation at a faster rate than other inactivating Kv channels. Taken together, the properties of Kv4 channels compare best with those of low-voltage activating &quot;A-currents&quot; present in the neuronal somatodendritic compartment and widely reported across several types of central and peripheral neurons, as well as the (Ca2+-independent) transient outward potassium conductance of heart cells (Ito). Three distinct genes have been identified that encode mammalian Shal homologs (Kv4. 1, Kv4.2, and Kv4.3), of which the latter two are abundant in rat adult brain and heart tissues. The distribution in the adult rat brain of the mRNA transcripts encoding the three known Kv4 subunits was studied by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Kv4.1 signals are very faint, suggesting that Kv4.1 mRNAs are expressed at very low levels, but Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 transcripts appear to be abundant and each produces a unique pattern of expression. Although there is overlap expression of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 transcripts in several neuronal populations, the dominant feature is one of differential, and sometimes reciprocal expression. For example, Kv4.2 transcripts are the predominant form in the caudate-putamen, pontine nucleus and several nuclei in the medula, whereas the substantia nigra pars compacta, the restrosplenial cortex, the superior colliculus, the raphe, and the amygdala express mainly Kv4.3. Some brain structures contain both Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 mRNAs but each dominates in distinct neuronal subpopulations. For example, in the olfactory bulb Kv4.2 dominates in granule cells and Kv4.3 in periglomerular cells. In the hippocampus Kv4.2 is the most abundant isoform in CA1 pyramidal cells, whereas only Kv4.3 is expressed in interneurons. Both are abundant in CA2-CA3 pyramidal cells and in granule cells of the dentate gyrus, which also express Kv4.1. In the dorsal thalamus strong Kv4.3 signals are seen in several lateral nuclei, whereas medial nuclei express Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 at moderate to low levels. In the cerebellum Kv4.3, but not Kv4.2, is expressed in Purkinje cells and molecular layer interneurons. In the cerebellar granule cell layer, the reciprocity between Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 is observed in subregions of the same neuronal population. In fact, the distribution of Kv4 channel transcripts in the cerebellum defines a new pattern of compartmentation of the cerebellar cortex and the first one involving molecules directly involved in signal processing.
The function of ipsilateral cutaneous reflexes was studied with short trains of stimuli presented pseudorandomly to the superficial peroneal nerve (SP; innervates the top of the foot) during treadmill walking in neurologically intact (NI) subjects and subjects who had had a stroke. Ankle and knee joint angles together with electromyograms (EMG) of tibialis anterior (TA), soleus (SOL), medial gastrocnemius (MG), vastus lateralis (VL), and biceps femoris (BF) muscles were recorded. Net reflex EMG and kinematic responses to stimulation were quantified in each of the 16 parts of the step cycle and responses compared between the stroke and NI subjects. Stimulation strongly suppressed extensor muscles throughout stance in the stroke subjects. TA muscle showed a significant suppression during swing phase that was correlated with reduced ankle dorsiflexion in both stroke and NI subjects. BF reflexes were facilitatory during parts of swing and VL reflexes were suppressive throughout stance in the stroke subjects. There was a significant correlation between BF facilitation and knee flexion during swing, which was stronger in NI subjects. We conclude that only part of the stumble correction to foot dorsum electrical stimulation observed in NI subjects is maintained after stroke, and that new, suppressive responses are seen.
The adaptive plasticity of the spatial organization of the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) has been investigated in intact and canal-plugged primates using 2-h exposure to conflicting visual (optokinetic, OKN) and vestibular rotational stimuli about mutually orthogonal axes (generating torsional VOR + vertical OKN, torsional VOR + horizontal OKN, vertical VOR + horizontal OKN, and horizontal VOR + vertical OKN). Adaptation protocols with 0.5-Hz (+/-18 degrees ) head movements about either an earth-vertical or an earth-horizontal axis induced orthogonal response components as high as 40-70% of those required for ideal adaptation. Orthogonal response gains were highest at the adapting frequency with phase leads present at lower and phase lags present at higher frequencies. Furthermore, the time course of adaptation, as well as orthogonal response dynamics were similar and relatively independent of the particular visual/vestibular stimulus combination. Low-frequency (0. 05 Hz, vestibular stimulus: +/-60 degrees ; optokinetic stimulus: +/-180 degrees ) adaptation protocols with head movements about an earth-vertical axis induced smaller orthogonal response components that did not exceed 20-40% of the head velocity stimulus (i.e., approximately 10% of that required for ideal adaptation). At the same frequency, adaptation with head movements about an earth-horizontal axis generated large orthogonal responses that reached values as high as 100-120% of head velocity after 2 h of adaptation (i.e., approximately 40% of ideal adaptation gains). The particular spatial and temporal response characteristics after low-frequency, earth-horizontal axis adaptation in both intact and canal-plugged animals strongly suggests that the orienting (and perhaps translational) but not inertial (velocity storage) components of the primate otolith-ocular system exhibit spatial adaptability. Due to the particular nested arrangement of the visual and vestibular stimuli, the optic flow pattern exhibited a significant component about the third spatial axis (i.e., orthogonal to the axes of rotation of the head and visual surround) at twice the oscillation frequency. Accordingly, the adapted VOR was characterized consistently by a third response component (orthogonal to both the axes of head and optokinetic drum rotation) at twice the oscillation frequency after earth-horizontal but not after earth-vertical axis 0.05-Hz adaptation. This suggests that the otolith-ocular (but not the semicircular canal-ocular) system can adaptively change its spatial organization at frequencies different from those of the head movement.
The modulation of intracellular pH by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors was investigated in cultured and acutely dissociated rat astrocytes. One minute superfusion of 100 microM (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1, 3-dicarboxcylic acid (ACPD) evoked an alkaline shift of 0.13 +/- 0. 013 (mean +/- SE) and 0.16 +/- 0.03 pH units in cultured (cortical or cerebellar) and acutely dissociated cortical astrocytes, respectively. Alkalinizations were elicited by concentrations of ACPD as low as 1 muM. The ACPD response was mimicked by S-3-hydroxyphenylglycine (3-HPG) and by (s)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenylglycine (4C-3HPG) but was not blocked by alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG) or (RS)-1-aminoindan-1, 5-dicarboxcylic acid (AIDA), features consistent with an mGluR5 receptor-mediated mechanism. The ACPD-evoked alkaline shift was insensitive to amiloride, 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2, 2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS), and the v-type ATPase inhibitors 7-chloro-4-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol (NBD-Cl), bafilomycin, and concanamycin. The alkaline response persisted in Na+- or Cl--free saline, but was reversibly blocked in bicarbonate-free, N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES)-buffered solutions. A bicarbonate-dependent and Na+-independent alkaline shift could also be elicited by either 3 mM caffeine or 1 muM ionomycin. These data suggest that a rise in cytosolic Ca2+ activity is instrumental in triggering the alkalinizing mechanism and that this response is independent of the classic depolarization-induced alkalinization mediated by electrogenic sodium-bicarbonate cotransport.
Activation of neurons in the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) inhibits spinal dorsal horn neurons and produces behavioral antinociception in animals and analgesia in humans. Although dorsal horn regions modulated by PAG activation contain all three opioid receptor classes (mu, delta, and kappa), as well as enkephalinergic interneurons and terminal fields, descending opioid-mediated inhibition of dorsal horn neurons has not been demonstrated. We examined the contribution of dorsal horn mu-opioid receptors to the PAG-elicited descending modulation of nociceptive transmission. Single-unit extracellular recordings were made from rat sacral dorsal horn neurons activated by noxious heating of the tail. Microinjections of bicuculline (BIC) in the ventrolateral PAG led to a 60-80% decrease in the neuronal responses to heat. At the same time, the responses of the same neurons to iontophoretically applied NMDA or kainic acid were not consistently inhibited. The inhibition of heat-evoked responses by PAG BIC was reversed by iontophoretic application of the selective mu-opioid receptor antagonists, D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTOP) and D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP). A similar effect was produced by naloxone; however, naloxone had an excitatory influence on dorsal horn neurons in the absence of PAG-evoked descending inhibition. This is the first demonstration that endogenous opioids acting via spinal mu-opioid receptors contribute to brain stem control of nociceptive spinal dorsal horn neurons. The inhibition appears to result in part from presynaptic inhibition of afferents to dorsal horn neurons.
The nucleus accumbens (NA) has an integrative role in behavior and may mediate addictive and psychotherapeutic drug action. Whole cell recording techniques were used to characterize electrophysiologically and pharmacologically high- and low-threshold voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents in isolated NA neurons. High-threshold Ca2+ currents, which were found in all neurons studied and include both sustained and inactivating components, activated at potentials greater than -50 mV and reached maximal activation at approximately 0 mV. In contrast, low-threshold Ca2+ currents activated at voltages greater than -64 mV with maximal activation occurring at -30 mV. These were observed in 42% of acutely isolated neurons. Further pharmacological characterization of high-threshold Ca2+ currents was attempted using nimodipine (Nim), omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CgTx) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omegaAga), which are thought to identify the L, N, and P/Q subtypes of Ca2+ currents, respectively. Nim (5-10 muM) blocked 18%, omegaCgTx (1-2 muM) blocked 25%, and omegaAga (200 nM) blocked 17% of total Ca2+ current. Nim primarily blocked a sustained high-threshold Ca2+ current in a partially reversible manner. In contrast, omegaCgTx irreversibly blocked both sustained and inactivating components. omegaAga irreversibly blocked only a sustained component. In all three of these Ca2+ channel blockers, plus 5 muM omega-conotoxin-MVIIC to eliminate a small unblocked Q-type Ca2+ current (7%), a toxin-resistant high-threshold Ca2+ current remained that was 32% of total Ca2+ current. This current inactivated much more rapidly than the other high-threshold Ca2+ currents, was depressed in 50 muM Ni2+ and reached maximal activation 5-10 mV negative to the toxin-sensitive high-threshold Ca2+ currents. Thus NA neurons have multiple types of high-threshold Ca2+ currents with a large component being the toxin-resistant &quot;R&quot; component.
Fixation neurons (SCFNs) in the rostral pole of the superior colliculus (SC) and omnipause neurons (OPNs) in the nucleus raphe interpositus (rip) in the pons share similar discharge properties. Both types of neurons discharge tonically during periods of visual fixation and pause for saccadic eye movements, and their activation by electrical stimulation suppresses saccade generation. On the basis of these similarities and the projection from the rostral SC to the rip, it was hypothesized that SCFNs provide a major excitatory input to OPNs. We investigated the role and relationship of SCFNs and OPNs with respect to both fixation behavior and saccade generation by comparing their activity recorded in the same monkeys performing a gap saccade task. In this task, the central fixation point was extinguished 200 ms before the presentation of an eccentric saccadic target, and the discharges of OPNs and SCFNs were contrasted during visual fixation, nonvisual (gap) fixation, and saccade generation. During visual fixation, the mean discharge rate of OPNs was higher and more regular than that of SCFNs. During the gap period, SCFNs decreased their discharge rate before target appearance, whereas no change in discharge rate was observed in OPNs. For both SCFNs and OPNs, the activity level before target appearance was not correlated to saccadic reaction time. In contrast to SCFNs, several OPNs responded with a transient phasic increase in discharge immediately after the target presentation. Before their saccade-related pause, there was a gradual reduction in the activity of SCFNs, whereas OPNs had an abrupt cessation of discharge. SCFNs paused earlier than OPNs, but the OPN pause onset was better synchronized to saccade onset than the SCFN pause onset. OPNs resumed firing after their pause in activity earlier than SCFNs, and the OPN pause end was better synchronized to saccade end than the SCFN pause end. These physiological data reveal differences in the discharge properties of SCFNs and OPNs that are irreconcilable with the hypothesis that the discharge pattern of OPNs reflects simply the excitatory input from SCFNs. It is most likely that additional inputs to OPNs compensate for the reduction in discharge of SCFNs during these periods.
Positron emission tomography in three-dimensional acquisition mode was used to identify the neural populations involved in tactile-visual cross-modal transfer of shape. Eight young male volunteers went through three runs of three different matching conditions: tactile-tactile (TT), tactile-visual (TV), and visual-visual (VV), and a motor control condition. Fifteen spherical ellipsoids were used as stimuli. By subtracting the different matching conditions and calculating the intersections of statistically significant activations, we could identify cortical functional fields involved in the formation of visual and tactile representation of the objects alone and those involved in cross-modal transfer of the shapes of the objects. Fields engaged in representation of visual shape, revealed in VV-control, TV-control and TV-TT, were found bilaterally in the lingual, fusiform, and middle occipital gyri and the cuneus. Fields engaged in the formation of the tactile representation of shape, appearing in TT-control, TV-control and TV-VV, were found in the left postcentral gyrus, left superior parietal lobule, and right cerebellum. Finally, fields active in both TV-VV and TV-TT were considered as those involved in cross-modal transfer of information. One field was found, situated in the right insula-claustrum. This region has been shown to be activated in other studies involving cross-modal transfer of information. The claustrum may play an important role in cross-modal matching, because it receives and gives rise to multimodal cortical projections. We propose here that modality-specific areas can communicate, exchange information, and interact via the claustrum.
To examine the influence of activity-dependent cues on differentiation of primary afferent neurons, we investigated the short- and long-term effects of depolarization and calcium influx on expression of transmitter traits in sensory ganglion cell cultures. We focused on expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a marker for dopaminergic neurons, in developing petrosal ganglion (PG), nodose ganglion, and dorsal root ganglion neurons grown in the presence or absence of depolarizing concentrations of KCl. Exposure to 40 mM KCl increased the proportion of TH-immunoreactive neurons in all three ganglia in a developmentally regulated manner that corresponded to the temporal pattern of dopaminergic expression in vivo. PG neurons, for example, were most responsive to elevated KCl on embryonic day 16.5 (E16.5), the age at which the dopaminergic phenotype is first detectable in vivo. However, KCl was relatively ineffective at increasing TH expression in neonatal PG, indicating a critical period for induction of this phenotype by depolarization. Detailed analysis of TH induction in PG neurons demonstrated that, although N-type calcium channels carried the majority of the high voltage-activated calcium current, only L-type calcium channel blockade inhibited the effect of elevated KCl. Further studies revealed that after removal of high KCl, neurons remained sensitized to subsequent stimulation for &gt;1 week. Specifically, cultures exposed to KCl beginning on E16.5 (the conditioning stimulus), then returned to control medium, and subsequently re-exposed to elevated KCl after 9 d (the test stimulus) contained fourfold more TH-positive neurons than did cultures exposed to the test stimulus alone. Moreover, blockade of L-type calcium channels during the conditioning stimulus completely abolished long-term potentiation of the TH response to elevated KCl. These findings demonstrate a novel role for L-type calcium channels in activity-dependent plasticity of transmitter expression in sensory neurons and indicate that exposure to depolarizing stimuli during early development may alter neuronal response properties at later ages.
The entire deletion of the cysteine string protein (CSP) gene causes a temperature-sensitive (ts) block of evoked neurotransmission in Drosophila. CSP has been found to interact in vitro with the clathrin-uncoating ATPase HSC70, suggesting a potential role of CSP in vesicle recycling. Using FM1-43 imaging, we analyzed whether the ts block of neurotransmission in csp mutants is caused by a defect in vesicle exocytosis or vesicle recycling. We determined that FM1-43-labeled synaptic boutons of csp mutant neuromuscular junctions fail to destain at 32 degrees C after K+ depolarization, and that FM1-43 dye uptake cannot be evoked by K+ stimulation at 32 degrees C. However, when we stimulated dye uptake independent of depolarization by using black widow spider venom (BWSV), we observed endocytotic uptake of FM1-43. This suggests that endocytosis exhibits no primary ts defect. In addition, we found no ts defect of vesicle recycling at 32 degrees C that would correlate with the ts block of neurotransmission. We also discovered that BWSV and the calcium ionophore calcimycin stimulate FM1-43 destaining and quantal release in csp mutants at 32 degrees C when depolarization fails to evoke any response. The wild-type-like, calcimycin-induced response in csp null mutants indicates that some aspect of the depolarization-dependent calcium signaling pathway must be impaired, either calcium entry, calcium action, or both. Collectively, our results indicate that the csp mutation affects calcium secretion coupling of evoked exocytosis but not vesicle recycling. This supports the hypothesis that CSP links synaptic vesicles to calcium secretion coupling.
We have shown previously that the Ca2+ channel beta3 subunit is capable of modulating tonic G-protein inhibition of alpha1A and alpha1B Ca2+ channels expressed in oocytes. Here we determine the modulatory effect of the Ca2+ channel beta3 subunit on M2 muscarinic receptor-activated G-protein inhibition and whether the beta3 subunit modulates the G-protein sensitivity of alpha1A and alpha1B currents equivalently. To compare the relative inhibition by muscarinic activation, we have used successive ACh applications to remove the large tonic inhibition of these channels. We show that the resulting rebound potentiation results entirely from the loss of tonic G-protein inhibition; although the currents are temporarily relieved of tonic inhibition, they are still capable of undergoing inhibition through the muscarinic pathway. Using this rebound protocol, we demonstrate that the inhibition of peak current amplitude produced by M2 receptor activation is similar for alpha1A and alpha1B calcium currents. However, the contribution of the voltage-dependent component of inhibition, characterized by reduced inhibition at very depolarized voltage steps and the relief of inhibition by depolarizing prepulses, was slightly greater for the alpha1B current than for the alpha1A current. After co-expression of the beta3 subunit, the sensitivity to M2 receptor-induced G-protein inhibition was reduced for both alpha1A and alpha1B currents; however, the reduction was significantly greater for alpha1A currents. Additionally, the difference in the voltage dependence of inhibition of alpha1A and alpha1B currents was heightened after co-expression of the Ca2+ channel beta3 subunit. Such differential modulation of sensitivity to G-protein modulation may be important for fine tuning release in neurons that contain both of these Ca2+ channels.
Controlled, continuous intrathecal infusion of baclofen injection relieves severe spasticity for a wide range of patients. This therapy has become a standard treatment option in spasticity management programs. Multidisciplinary teams, coordinated by an experienced neuroscience practitioner, provide treatment in five phases. Experience from clinical trials and commercial use of this treatment provides a guide for others who are initiating this therapy at their facility. Further prospective research is needed to accurately determine best clinical practice guidelines for cost effective use of this therapy.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the United States. Depression following stroke is a major problem as it can increase the morbidity. A greater understanding of the biological and behavioral correlates of stroke and depression enhances the practice of neuroscience nurses interacting with stroke patients. There is an ongoing debate as to whether patients with left or right-sided lesions have higher rates of depression. Current research suggests neurochemical correlates of stroke and depression; however, behavioral problems do relate, to a large extent, to the different behavioral manifestations seen in left and right-sided lesions. Furthermore, these biological and behavioral correlates have important implications for assessment and treatment modalities.
The effect of energetic metabolism compromise, obtained by chemical induction of hypoglycaemia (glucose deprivation), hypoxia (mitochondrial respiratory chain inhibition), and ischaemia (hypoglycaemia plus hypoxia), on glutamate toxicity was analyzed on PC12 cells. The respiratory status of these cells, measured by the MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assay, was significantly decreased after metabolic inhibition induced by ischaemia, but it was not affected by both hypoglycaemia and hypoxia. Under hypoglycaemia, but not under hypoxia, ATP levels were significantly reduced (from 12.67+/-0.48 to 5.38+/-1.41 nmol/mg protein). However, ischaemic-like conditions greatly potentiated the decline of ATP levels (95% decrease) observed after hypoglycaemia. The influence of metabolic inhibition on glutamate-induced cytotoxicity was also analyzed. When the cells were preincubated under conditions that deplete ATP (hypoglycaemia and ischaemia), the inhibition of MTT reduction, measured after glutamate incubation, was potentiated. This effect could be reverted when vitamin E and idebenone were present during the induction of metabolic inhibition. The ATP levels above which glutamate susceptibility was enhanced were also determined. These results indicate that glutamate toxicity on PC12 cells, which occurs by a mechanism independent of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation, can be enhanced by the depletion of intracellular ATP upon metabolic stress; it is dependent on the extent of ATP depletion and seems to involve the generation of free radicals. It can be concluded that under ischaemic conditions, the deleterious effects of glutamate can be potentiated by the energetic compromise associated with this pathologic situation.
The influences of noradrenaline on the modulation of learning and memory functions, as well as synaptic plasticity, e.g., long-term potentiation (LTP), via beta-adrenoceptors are well documented, whereas the role of alpha1-adrenoceptors has not been studied extensively. Therefore, the effects of alpha1-agonists (ST 587 and methoxamine) on the induction of LTP were examined in the CA1 area of the hippocampus in vitro. Submaximal LTP in extracellular excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) was induced with theta burst stimulation using 4 bursts. The effects of a beta-agonist, isoproterenol, on synaptic potentiation were studied as a comparison in this preparation. At a concentration of 1 microM, ST 587 slightly increased the magnitude of potentiation in EPSPs (measured 30 min after stimulation) compared to a control pathway potentiated 30 min before drug infusion, whereas a lower concentration (0.3 microM) was not effective. Methoxamine did not induce any increase in the amount of submaximal LTP at concentrations of 0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 microM. Isoproterenol (1.5 microM) increased the amount of LTP when measured 30 min after stimulation, and also transiently increased synaptic transmission, measured both in the slope and amplitude of the field EPSP in the prepotentiated control pathway. Thus, the present results indicate that (1) alpha1-adrenoceptors have only a minor role in hippocampal synaptic plasticity in the CA1 area, but (2) the synaptic plasticity in the CA1 area of the hippocampus assessed by induction and early maintenance of LTP in vitro can be modulated through beta-adrenoceptors.

A mouse model of spinal cord injury (SCI) could further increase our basic understanding of the mechanisms involved in injury and recovery by taking advantage of naturally-occurring and genetically engineered mutations available in mice. We have, therefore, investigated whether methods used to produce and evaluate graded experimental contusive SCI in the rat could be modified to produce a mouse model of traumatic SCI. C57BL6 mice were anesthetized with 2,2,2-tribromoethanol and a restricted laminectomy performed at the T8 vertebral level. The spinal column was stabilized and a weight drop technique used to produce contusive injury. Experimental groups were distinguished by the amount of weight or the height from which the weight was dropped onto an impounder resting on the dura (1 g x 2.5 cm, 2 g x 2.5 cm, 3 g x 2.5 cm, and 3 g x 5.0 cm). Functional deficits over time were examined up to 28 days after SCI by testing hindlimb reflex responses and coordinated motor function. Chronic lesion histopathology was evaluated by light microscopy and analyzed with morphometric techniques. All groups demonstrated profound functional deficits after injury followed by gradual recovery. Recovery correlated with the weight dropped and percent of white matter spared that was 41.3+/-6.0% (mean +/- SEM) in the 2 g x 2.5 cm group and 24.3+/-5.0% in the 3 g x 2.5 cm group. A replicate experiment confirmed reproducibility of the injury. This new mouse model of contusive SCI could pave the way for in vivo studies of the effect of genetic modifications produced by specific mutations on injury and recovery processes after spinal cord trauma.
Human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells were transfected with cDNA encoding the human beta4 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor subunit in pairwise combination with human alpha2, alpha3 or alpha4 subunits. Cell lines A2B4, A3B4.2 and A4B4 were identified that stably express mRNA and protein corresponding to alpha2 and beta4, to alpha3 and beta4 and to alpha4 and beta4 subunits, respectively. Specific binding of [3H]epibatidine was detected in A2B4, A3B4.2 and A4B4 cells with Kd (mean +/- S.D. in pM) values of 42 +/- 10, 230 +/- 12 and 187 +/- 29 and with Bmax (fmol/mg protein) values of 1104 +/- 338, 2010 +/- 184 and 3683 +/- 1450, respectively. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in each cell line demonstrated that (-)nicotine (Nic), ACh, cytisine (Cyt) and 1, 1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide (DMPP) elicit transient inward currents. The current-voltage (I-V) relation of these currents showed strong inward rectification. Pharmacological characterization of agonist-induced elevations of intracellular free Ca++ concentration revealed a distinct rank order of agonist potency for each subunit combination as follows: alpha2beta4, (+)epibatidine (Epi) &gt; Cyt &gt; suberyldicholine (Sub) = Nic = DMPP; alpha3beta4, Epi &gt; DMPP = Cyt = Nic = Sub; alpha4beta4, Epi &gt; Cyt = Sub &gt; Nic &gt; DMPP. The noncompetitive antagonists mecamylamine and d-tubocurarine did not display subtype selectivity. In contrast, the Kb value for the competitive antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE) was highest at alpha3beta4 compared with alpha2beta4 or alpha4beta4 receptors. These data illustrate that the A2B4, A3B4.2 and A4B4 stable cell lines are powerful tools for examining the functional and pharmacological properties of human alpha2beta4, alpha3beta4 and alpha4beta4 neuronal nicotinic receptors.
Previous research has identified a norepinephrine (NE) transporter in brush-border membranes from human placental syncytiotrophoblastic cells. In the present study, we used the selective ligand [3H]nisoxetine to demonstrate the presence of an NE transporter in rat placental membranes, determine the binding characteristics of the transporter and ascertain its localization by means of in vitro film and dry-emulsion autoradiography. Additional membrane binding studies were performed with [3H]GBR 12935 to determine whether a dopamine transporter also was present in rat placenta. Saturation analyses carried out on washed membrane fractions from whole rat placentas at gestational day 20 showed saturable [3H]nisoxetine binding (mean Kd = 1.00 nM, Bmax = 1.24 pmol/mg of protein) but no saturable binding of [3H]GBR 12935. When various monoamine uptake inhibitors were tested for their potency to inhibit placental [3H]nisoxetine binding, the results supported the conclusion that the radioligand was labeling an NE transporter. Autoradiographic studies showed the presence of [3H]nisoxetine binding in all three cellular zones of the rat placenta: the decidua, junctional zone and labyrinth. Binding was greatest in the junctional zone, particularly in the giant trophoblastic cells. These findings indicate the presence of a high density of NE transporters in the late-gestation rat placenta. Catecholamine uptake probably has a multifunctional role in placental physiology, and blockade of the NE transporter by certain drugs such as cocaine may therefore contribute to the adverse effects of such compounds on pregnancy outcome and offspring development.
Sigma receptors are located in limbic areas, including the nucleus accumbens, where increased dopamine levels have been linked to psychosis and reinforcement. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been named as a possible endogenous ligand for a subpopulation of sigma receptors on the basis of its ability to compete for sigma receptor binding. Using a superfusion system, we found that NPY enhanced N-methyl-D-asparate-stimulated [3H]dopamine release in rat nucleus accumbens, whereas the prototypical sigma agonist (+)pentazocine inhibited release. However, four sigma antagonists, one of which is sigma1 selective, as well as a Y receptor antagonist, all reversed the enhancement by NPY and the inhibition by (+)pentazocine. A sigma2-selective antagonist had no effect on either NPY-mediated enhancement or (+)pentazocine-mediated inhibition. [Leu31,Pro34]NPY and NPY13-36 also enhanced release, but the effects were not reversed by sigma antagonists. Peptide YY did not mimic the effect of NPY. Our findings are consistent with the potential role of NPY as an endogenous ligand for a subtype of sigma receptor with characteristics different from Y1, Y2 and Y3 receptors but sensitive to Ac-[3-(2,6-dichlorobenzyl)Tyr27,D-Thr32NPY-(27-36)amide. Our findings suggest a role for NPY, via sigma receptors, in the regulation of dopamine levels in areas of brain critical to psychosis and reinforcement.
YM872 ([2,3-dioxo-7-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-6-nitro-1,2,3, 4-tetrahydro-1-quinoxalinyl]-acetic acid monohydrate), a selective, potent and highly water-soluble competitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist, was investigated for its neuroprotective effect against focal cerebral ischemia in halothane-anesthetized cats. Cats were subjected to permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery for 6 h, then sacrificed and examined histologically. The electroencephalogram and cerebral blood flow were monitored. Intravenous infusion of YM872 starting 10 min after the onset of ischemia at a rate of 2 mg/kg/h for 6 h markedly reduced the volume of ischemic damage by 61% (from 2604 +/- 202 mm3 of the cerebral hemisphere in saline-treated cats to 1025 +/- 277 mm3 in YM872-treated cats; P &lt; .01), as assessed in 12 stereotaxically determined coronal sections. No significant differences were observed between YM872- and saline-treated cats concerning physiological variables including brain temperature. No precipitation of YM872 in the kidney was seen in any YM872-treated animal. The present data further support the notion that the AMPA receptor plays an important role in the progression of focal ischemic damage in a gyrencephalic model. This evidence for the neuroprotective efficacy of YM872 suggests its therapeutic potential in the treatment of acute stroke in humans.
1. Whole cell patch clamp recordings of neurons in slices of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) were made in order to assess their electrophysiological and morphological heterogeneity. This assessment was accomplished by (i) quantification of intrinsic membrane properties recorded in current clamp mode, (ii) studying frequency distributions of these properties, (iii) grouping of cells based on visual inspection of data records, and (iv) use of cluster analysis methods. 2. Marked heterogeneity was found in the resting membrane potential, input resistance, time constant, rate of frequency adaptation, size of rebound depolarization (low-threshold Ca2+ potential) and regularity of firing. The frequency distribution of these membrane properties deviated significantly from a normal distribution. Other parameters, including spike amplitude and width, amplitude and rising slope of the spike after-hyperpolarization (AHP) and amplitude of the spike train AHP, showed considerable variability as well but generally obeyed a normal distribution. 3. Visual inspection of the data led to partitioning of cells into three clusters, viz. cluster I characterized by monophasic spike AHPs and irregular firing in the frequency range from 1.5 to 5.0 Hz; cluster II with biphasic spike AHPs and regular firing in the same range; and cluster III with large rebound depolarizations and biphasic spike AHPs. In a post hoc analysis, these clusters also appeared to differ in other membrane properties. This grouping was confirmed by hierarchical tree clustering and multidimensional scaling. 4. The light microscopic properties of recorded neurons were studied by biocytin labelling. Neurons had monopolar, bipolar or multipolar branching patterns and were often varicose. Axons sometimes originated from distal dendritic segments and usually branched into multiple collaterals. Many cells with extra-SCN projections also possessed intranuclear axon collaterals. We found no morphological differences between clusters except that cluster III neurons possessed more axon collaterals than cluster I or II cells. 5. These results suggest that SCN neurons are heterogeneous in some basic as well as active membrane properties and can be partitioned into at least three clusters. Cluster I and II cells fire spontaneously in a regular and irregular mode, respectively, and sustain prolonged spike trains. In contrast, cluster III cells have low firing rates but may adopt a burst-like firing mode when receiving appropriate input. While all clusters transmit output to target cells within and outside SCN, cluster III cells in particular are suggested to affect excitability of large numbers of SCN neurons by their extensive local network of axon collaterals.
By analogy with supraspinal and spinal inhibitory controls of pain, it was hypothesized that an opioid mechanism could be involved in the bulbar inhibitory control of the electrodermal activity. This activity was evoked as skin potential responses on the footpads of 13 cats by the central tegmental field stimulation (control responses) and inhibited by the simultaneous stimulation of bulbar reticular formation (experimental responses). Then, naloxone, an opioid peptide antagonist, was injected intravenously or intrathecally and its effects were analyzed on both control and experimental responses. Intravenous injections of naloxone increased significantly the amplitude of experimental responses from 6 to 12 min after the injection and had no effect on the amplitude of control responses. Intrathecal injections of naloxone induced significant increases of amplitude of experimental responses from 6 to 42 min after the injection. These results showed that a spinal opioid peptide link could be involved in bulbar inhibition mechanisms of electrodermal activity.
Although AMPA receptors are known to be widely involved in excitatory synaptic neurotransmission at the spinal level, very little is known about their role in modulating motor activity in mammals. In curarized decerebrate or spinalized rabbit preparations, fictive locomotion was monitored on hindlimb nerves after either activation or blockade of AMPA receptors. In decerebrate preparations, the administration of the antagonist, NBQX (3.5 mg/kg i.p.) or the agonist, AMPA (0.5 mg/kg i.v.) produced, in both cases, a depression of locomotor activities induced by stimulation of cutaneous afferents (evoked locomotor activity). This potent effect was transient with AMPA (recovery after 20 min) and followed by the occurrence of spontaneous locomotor sequences, while no recovery was observed with NBQX treatment. In spinal preparations where a continuous 'spontaneous' locomotor activity resulted from the pharmacological activation of noradrenergic descending pathways (nialamide-DOPA pretreatment), the same drugs injected at higher doses (5 mg/kg NBQX i.p. and 1 mg/kg AMPA i.v.) only weakly affected the frequency of 'spontaneous' and evoked locomotor bursts while they exerted inhibitory and facilitatory effects on the burst amplitude respectively. The results suggest that AMPA receptors are involved at spinal level: 1) in direct mediation of cutaneous afferent excitatory effects on the posterior locomotor generators (pLG); 2) in indirect mediation of a supraspinal descending inhibition controlling, likely presynaptically, the cutaneous afferent activation; and 3) in transmission to motoneurons of the output signals from the pLG. Finally, tight spinal interactions between potent descending noradrenergic pathways and spinal AMPA neurotransmission were disclosed.
Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) induces immune-mediated demyelination after intracerebral inoculation of the virus into susceptible mouse strains. We isolated from a TMEV BeAn 8386 viral stock, a low-pathogenic variant which requires greater than a 10,000-fold increase in viral inoculation for the manifestation of detectable clinical signs. Intracerebral inoculation of this variant virus induced a strong, long-lasting, protective immunity from the demyelinating disease caused by pathogenic TMEV. The levels of antibodies to the whole virus as well as to the major linear epitopes were similar in mice infected with either the variant or wild-type virus. However, persistence of the variant virus in the central nervous system (CNS) of mice was significantly lower than that of the pathogenic virus. In addition, the T-cell response to the predominant VP1 (VP1(233-250)) epitope in mice infected with the variant virus was significantly weaker than that in mice infected with the parent virus, while similar T-cell responses were induced against another predominant epitope (VP2(74-86)). Further analyses indicated that a change of lysine to arginine at position 244 of VP1, which is the only amino acid difference in the P1 region, is responsible for such differential T-cell recognition. Thus, the difference in the T-cell reactivity to this VP1 region as well as the low level of viral persistence in the CNS may account for the low pathogenicity of this spontaneous variant virus.
MR acoustic, or sound, noise due to gradient pulsing has been one of the problems in MRI, both in patient scanning as well as in many areas of psychiatric and neuroscience research, such as brain fMRI. Especially in brain fMRI, sound noise is one of the serious noise sources that obscures the small signals obtainable from the subtle changes occurring in oxygenation status in the cortex and blood capillaries. Therefore, we have studied the effects of acoustic, or sound, noise arising in fMR imaging of the auditory, motor, and visual cortices. The results show that the effects of acoustic noise on motor and visual responses are opposite. That is, for motor activity, there is an increased total motor activation, whereas for visual stimulation, the corresponding (visual) cortical activity is diminished substantially when the subject is exposed to a loud acoustic sound. Although the current observations are preliminary and require more experimental confirmation, it seems that the observed acoustic-noise effects on brain functions, such as in the motor and visual cortices, are new observations and could have significant consequences in data observation and interpretation in future fMRI studies.
A search for genes regulated by the LlM/homeodomain transcription factor islet-1 during development identified the novel mouse gene punc (putative neuronal cell adhesion molecule). Punc is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, exhibits a novel configuration of four immunoglobulin domains and two fibronectin-type III repeats, and resembles proteins involved in axon guidance. Punc expression in the embryo occurs in restricted patterns in both the nervous system and limb mesoderm. A sharp decrease in punc expression after embryonic day 11.5 suggests a function for punc early in mouse embryogenesis.
The purpose of this paper is to present a model for removing antidromically activated afferent input from cervically elicited neurogenic motor evoked potentials (nMEPs). nMEPs have recently been used clinically, purportedly for monitoring spinal cord motor function, during spine surgery. However, the nMEP response may be due, in part or in whole, to neural signals travelling through sensory rather than motor pathways. This complicates nMEP interpretation and may lead to false conclusions about the status of motor tracts and postoperative motor function. Moreover, transcranial stimulation techniques may also contain similar afferent contamination. Here I suggest a protocol for intraoperative use that should effectively remove such afferent contamination via an afferent action potential collision technique.
Several studies have characterized the upstream regulatory region of c-fos, and identified cis-acting elements termed the cyclic AMP (cAMP) response elements (CREs) that are critical for c-fos transcription in response to a variety of extracellular stimuli. Although several transcription factors can bind to CREs in vitro, the identity of the transcription factor(s) that activates the c-fos promoter via the CRE in vivo remains unclear. To help identify the trans-acting factors that regulate stimulus-dependent transcription of c-fos via the CREs, dominant-negative (D-N) inhibitor proteins that function by preventing DNA binding of B-ZIP proteins in a dimerization domain-dependent fashion were developed. A D-N inhibitor of CREB, termed A-CREB, was constructed by fusing a designed acidic amphipathic extension onto the N terminus of the CREB leucine zipper domain. The acidic extension of A-CREB interacts with the basic region of CREB forming a coiled-coil extension of the leucine zipper and thus prevents the basic region of wild-type CREB from binding to DNA. Other D-N inhibitors generated in a similar manner with the dimerization domains of Fos, Jun, C/EBP, ATF-2, or VBP did not block CREB DNA binding activity, nor did they inhibit transcriptional activation of a minimal promoter containing a single CRE in PC12 cells. A-CREB inhibited activation of CRE-mediated transcription evoked by three distinct stimuli: forskolin, which increases intracellular cAMP; membrane depolarization, which promotes Ca2+ influx; and nerve growth factor (NGF). A-CREB completely inhibited cAMP-mediated, but only partially inhibited Ca2+- and NGF-mediated, transcription of a reporter gene containing 750 bp of the native c-fos promoter. Moreover, glutamate induction of c-fos expression in primary cortical neurons was dependent on CREB. In contrast, induction of c-fos transcription by UV light was not inhibited by A-CREB. Lastly, A-CREB attenuated NGF induction of morphological differentiation in PC12 cells. These results suggest that CREB or its closely related family members are general mediators of stimulus-dependent transcription of c-fos and are required for at least some of the long-term actions of NGF.
The two most common subtypes of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease are CMT1A and CMTX1. To determine whether these different genetic entities display different morphological phenotypes we compared sural nerve biopsies of CMT1A patients due to PMP22 duplication with biopsies of CMTX1 patients with proven Connexin32 mutations. In CMT1A nerve biopsies we found a severe reduction in myelinated fiber density, hypermyelination as well as demyelination, and a high percentage of onion bulb formations. CMTX1 nerve biopsies showed significant differences: a higher myelinated fiber density, thinner myelin sheaths, more cluster formations, and only few onion bulb formations. Teased fibers studies in CMT1A patients showed features of demyelination and/or remyelination in almost all fibers. In contrast, teased fibers of CMTX1 patients were uniformly thinly myelinated with 5-10% active axonal degeneration and 15% segmental demyelination. Median nerve motor conduction velocities were significantly faster in CMTX1 patients (31.6+/-5.5 m/s) than in CMT1A patients (18.2+/-6.9 m/s). The possible roles of PMP22 and Connexin32 in the pathogenesis of CMT are discussed.
Neuronal precursor cells are widespread in the forebrain ventricular/subventricular zone, and may provide a cellular substrate for brain repair. Clonal lines derived from single progenitors can become progressively less representative of their parental precursors with time and passage in vitro. We have developed an alternative strategy for the isolation and enrichment of precursor cells, by fluorescence-activated cell sorting of forebrain cells transfected with the gene for green fluorescent protein, driven by the neuronal T alpha 1 tubulin promoter. Using this approach, neural precursors and young neurons can be identified and selectively harvested from a variety of samples, including both avian and mammalian forebrains at different developmental stages.
Autosomal dominant oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is an adult-onset disease with a world-wide distribution. It usually presents in the sixth decade with progressive swallowing difficulties (dysphagia), eyelid drooping (ptosis) and proximal limb weakness. Unique nuclear filament inclusions in skeletal muscle fibres are its pathological hallmark. We isolated the poly(A) binding protein 2 gene (PABP2) from a 217-kb candidate interval on chromosome 14q11 (B.B. et al., manuscript submitted). A (GCG)6 repeat encoding a polyalanine tract located at the N terminus of the protein was expanded to (GCG)8-13 in the 144 OPMD families screened. More severe phenotypes were observed in compound heterozygotes for the (GCG)9 mutation and a (GCG)7 allele that is found in 2% of the population, whereas homozygosity for the (GCG)7 allele leads to autosomal recessive OPMD. Thus the (GCG)7 allele is an example of a polymorphism which can act either as a modifier of a dominant phenotype or as a recessive mutation. Pathological expansions of the polyalanine tract may cause mutated PABP2 oligomers to accumulate as filament inclusions in nuclei.
Intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is used to treat acute stroke because of its thrombolytic activity and its ability to restore circulation to the brain. However, this protease also promotes neurodegeneration after intracerebral injection of excitotoxins such as glutamate, and neuronal damage after a cerebral infarct is thought to be mediated by excitotoxins. To investigate the effects of tPA on cerebral viability during ischemia/reperfusion, we occluded the middle cerebral artery in wild-type and tPA-deficient mice with an intravascular filament. This procedure allowed us to examine the role of tPA in ischemia, independent of its effect as a thrombolytic agent. tPA-deficient mice exhibited approximately 50% smaller cerebral infarcts than wild-type mice. Intravenous injection of tPA into tPA-/- or wild-type mice produced larger infarcts, indicating that tPA can increase stroke-induced injury. Since tPA promotes desirable (thrombolytic) as well as undesirable (neurotoxic) outcomes during stroke, future therapies should be aimed at countering the excitotoxic damage of tPA to afford even better neuroprotection after an acute cerebral infarct.
The ability to measure the effects of local alterations in blood flow, blood volume and oxygenation by nuclear magnetic resonance has stimulated a surge of activity in functional MRI of many organs, particularly in its application to cognitive neuroscience. However, the exact description of these effects in terms of the interrelations between the MRI signal changes and the basic physiological parameters has remained an elusive goal. We here present this fundamental theory for spin-echo signal changes in perfused tissue and validate it in vivo in the cat brain by using the physiological alteration of hypoxic hypoxia. These experiments show that high-resolution absolute blood volume images can be obtained by using hemoglobin as a natural intravascular contrast agent. The theory also correctly predicts the magnitude of spin-echo MRI signal intensity changes on brain activation and thereby provides a sound physiological basis for these types of studies.

We investigated the effects of pregnenolone sulfate (PS) on the [Ca2+]i increase induced by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) using fluorescence imaging. PS inhibited the 50 microM GABA-induced increase in [Ca2+]i in a dose-dependent manner with an IC50 of 30 microM. The inhibitory effect of PS was apparent within 5 min and was in a non-competitive manner, suggesting that PS may act directly to the membrane level but indirectly to the GABA binding sites. Our previous study has already shown that the GABA-induced Ca2+ increase involves GABAA receptors and the similar pathway to a high K(+)-induced Ca2+ response (Takebayashi et al., 1996). Because 50 microM of PS could not inhibit a 25 mM K(+)-induced Ca2+ increase, it seems likely that the site of the inhibitory action of PS on the GABA-induced Ca2+ increase may be independent of the pathway of the high K(+)-induced Ca2+ response, but rather at GABAA receptor complex. In contrast, PS potentiated the 50 microM NMDA-induced increase in [Ca2+]i in a dose-dependent manner. The magnitude of the NMDA response was approximately doubled in the presence of 100 microM of PS. However, PS did not affect the acetylcholine(Ach)-induced increase in [Ca2+]i. Furthermore, corticosterone had little effect on the GABA- and NMDA-induced Ca2+ increases, indicating that the alteration of the Ca2+ response is specific for PS. In conclusion, it is suggested that PS modulates differentially [Ca2+]i increase induced by GABA and NMDA.
In this study, the use of neurochemical markers in patients with aseptic and tuberculous meningitis has been investigated. The cerebrospinal fluid levels of amino acids, nitrite (a metabolite of nitric oxide), vitamin B12 and homocysteine were quantitated in both groups of patients. Among the amino acids, aspartic acid and glutamic acid both excitatory amino acid, GABA, glycine and tryptophan were all significantly increased in both patient groups whereas decreased level of taurine and increased level of phenylalanine were only found in patients with tuberculous meningitis. The levels of nitrite and its precursor arginine were significantly higher in patients with tuberculous meningitis whereas unchanged levels were found in patients with aseptic meningitis. A significantly increased homocysteine level and a decreased level of vitamin B12 were found only in patients with tuberculous meningitis whereas unchanged levels were found in patients with aseptic meningitis. This indicates that patients with tuberculous meningitis are particularly prone to vitamin B12 deficiency resulting into increased level of HC, and involvement of free radical showing the importance of these biological markers for promoting the possibility for the design of therapeutic approach.
Recently, dantrolene has been reported to affect the central nervous system in addition to peripheral targets such as skeletal muscle. We examined effects of dantrolene on K(+)- and caffeine-induced dopamine release in rat striatum using in vivo microdialysis. Perfusion with KCl via the dialysis probe for 20 min induced immediate increase in DA release. Either chelation of extracellular calcium or addition of dantrolene for 120 min preceded reapplication of 100 mM KCl for 20 min. Calcium chelation attenuated the increase in DA release induced by KCl. Application of dantrolene enhanced the KCl-induced increase in DA release, but this effect disappeared at 100 microM. Caffeine caused a dose-dependent increase in dopamine release, independently of extracellular calcium. Treatment with 100 microM dantrolene for 120 min reduced the increase in DA release induced by caffeine. These findings that dantrolene modulates dopamine release in rat striatum indicate that conventionally administered dantrolene is likely to act on the central nervous system.
Brain imaging data are generally used to determine which brain regions are most active in an experimental paradigm or in a group of subjects. Theoretical considerations suggest that it would also be of interest to know which set of brain regions are most interactive in a given task or group of subjects. A subset of regions that are much more strongly interactive among themselves than with the rest of the brain is called here a functional cluster. Functional clustering can be assessed by calculating for each subset of brain regions a measure, the cluster index, obtained by dividing the statistical dependence within the subset by that between the subset and rest of the brain. A cluster index value near 1 indicates a homogeneous system, while a high cluster index indicates that a subset of brain regions forms a distinct functional cluster. Within a functional cluster, individual brain regions are ranked at the center or at the periphery according to their statistical dependence with the rest of that cluster. The applicability of this approach has been tested on PET data obtained from normal and schizophrenic subjects performing a set of cognitive tasks. Analysis of the data reveals evidence of functional clustering. A comparative evaluation of which regions are more peripheral or more central suggests distinct differences between the two groups of subjects. We consider the applicability of this analysis to data obtained with imaging modalities offering higher temporal resolution than PET.

Depression is common in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Clinicoanatomic studies in focal brain injuries and functional imaging studies both in primary depression and in depression secondary to neurologic diseases have demonstrated involvement of the frontal lobe. Frontal involvement has not been established in the depression of AD. We studied the correlation between focal brain metabolic abnormalities and depression in AD. In 53 patients with probable AD of minimal to moderate disability, we assessed the severity of depression using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory and correlated the depression score with regional cerebral glucose metabolism determined by 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose and PET. Depression was present in 19 patients (36%). The depression score correlated significantly with normalized glucose metabolic rates in the bilateral superior frontal and left anterior cingulate cortices. These results indicated an association between depression and decreased activity in the frontal lobe in AD and support frontal involvement, especially in the left side, in depression, irrespective of disease etiology.
Analysis of the Drosophila lark gene indicates that it encodes an RNA-binding protein that functions as a regulatory element of the circadian clock output pathway controlling adult eclosion. We now demonstrate that the lark RNA-binding protein oscillates in abundance during the circadian cycle; importantly, the phasing of the lark rhythm is consistent with gene-dosage studies, which indicate that the protein behaves as a repressor molecule. The lark protein rhythm persists in constant conditions (continuous darkness and constant temperature) and is eliminated by period gene null mutations, confirming that it is under clock control and suggesting that it acts as an output mechanism that mediates the temporal regulation of adult eclosion. We also show that lark protein oscillates in abundance within a defined group of neuropeptide (CCAP) -containing neurons of the ventral nervous system (VNS), which in other insects are thought to comprise cellular elements of the clock output pathway regulating eclosion.
The semaphorins comprise a large family of conserved glycoproteins, several members of which have been shown to function in repulsive neuronal growth cone guidance. We show here that Drosophila Semaphorin I (Sema I), a transmembrane semaphorin expressed on embryonic motor and CNS axons, is required for correct guidance of motor axons and for the formation of CNS pathways. In mutant embryos lacking Sema I, motor axons stall and fail to defasciculate at specific choice points where normally they would project to their muscle targets. In addition, a specific CNS fascicle fails to form correctly in these embryos. Rescue and ectopic expression experiments show that Sema I is required in neurons to mediate axon guidance decisions. These studies further suggest that like secreted semaphorins, transmembrane semaphorins can function as repulsive guidance cues for specific axon guidance events during neurodevelopment.

We report a 7-year-old boy with serologic evidence of active Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection who developed transient unilateral hypoglossal nerve palsy, with complete recovery within 21 days. This is, to our knowledge, the youngest reported patient with isolated hypoglossal nerve palsy in the context of EBV infection. Acute EBV infection should be considered early in the evaluation of children with twelfth nerve palsy in order to avoid extensive ancillary testing.
To clarify the involvement of immunophilin ligands in the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of dyskinesia, we examined the effects of repeated administration of cyclosporin A (CsA) on rat dyskinesia induced by repeated injection of iminodipropionitrile (IDPN 100 mg/kg, i.p., for 7 days). The addition of CsA treatment (5 mg/kg, s.c., 1 h before each IDPN injection) exacerbated IDPN-induced dyskinesia. In the group treated with both CsA and IDPN, the concentration of dopamine was significantly increased in the striatum and nucleus accumbens compared with the group treated with IDPN alone. Furthermore, in the electrophoretic mobility shift assay, the injection of CsA + IDPN increased binding activities of transcription factors to the TPA (12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate)-responsive element (TRE) and to the cAMP response element (CRE) in the striatum and nucleus accumbens, compared with those in rats treated with IDPN alone. The levels of D1-receptor mRNA in the striatum were significantly decreased in the IDPN-treated rats but were at the control level in the rats given CsA + IDPN. These findings suggest that the behavioral aggravation of the IDPN-induced dyskinesia caused by CsA administration may be due to the acceleration of the pre- and post-synaptic dopaminegic systems via activation of transcription factors which bind upstream to tyrosine hydroxylase and D1-receptor genes, and that the immunophilin binding agents such as CsA are involved in this aggravated dyskinesia.
The length changes of the cat soleus muscle have been examined in isotony within closed cycles of the stimulation rate change. Successive stimuli were applied in a cycle to five filaments of the preliminary dissected L7-S1 ventral roots (method of distributed stimulation), maximal rate did not exceed 80-90/s (16-18/s per single filament). At the beginning of a slow linear increase in the rate a muscle began shortening rather quickly, the rate changes without muscle reaction consisted of 5.91 +/- 0.28/s (mean +/- S.E.M.). A substantially linear movement was observed during increase of the input rate up to 40-50/s (i.e. 8-10/s per filament), a further rate increment could evoke a somewhat slowing of the shortening velocity with a distinctive infection of the rate-length curve. During a significant part of the rate decrease phase no movement was seen, the rate range with the absence of muscle lengthening was 29.93 +/- 1.57/s. After such a pronounced period of length fixation, a muscle began to elongate, the steady-state velocity at this part of the movement trajectory was invariably higher as compared with shortening velocity at the leading edge of the cycle. The striking feature of a powerful length clamping seen in active muscle at the phase of rate decrease preceded by previous rate increment allows us to suppose that this strongly non-linear behaviour of muscle might be a main reason for the existence of powerful dynamic components in efferent activity every time when muscle should shorten against external load in a ramp-and-hold fashion. We used the following experimental paradigm to check the assumption. Stimulation began with regular rate of 15/s; then, after transition from isometry to isotony and cessation of movement transients, the rate was raised linearly; after reaching a peak value of 50-90/s, it decreased linearly or exponentially, being afterwards fixed at several different levels between the maximal and initial values of the rate. It was demonstrated that such pattern of stimulation could be effective for a linear transition between two equilibrium lengths, provided that corresponding parameters in modulation signal were chosen in an optimal way. Duration and amplitude of the leading edge of the dynamic component seemed to completely define amplitude and velocity of the ramp phase of movement, parameters of decay to the final steady rate were, on the other hand, important for efficacy of the length clamping at hold phase. It was concluded that hysteresis effects of muscle contraction seemed to be an extremely important nonlinear property of muscle dynamics in producing any transition movements between two steady-states. Thus, oversimplified muscle models, like the spring model based on the isometric length-tension dependencies, seem to be incorrect. Possible mechanisms for the muscle hysteresis and its role in motor control are discussed.
Neurohemal organs of the lobster Homarus americanus contain isoforms of the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone, which differ by the third amino acid (phenylalanyl) residue that is either in the L- or in the D-configuration. Polyclonal antisera have been raised in rabbit against synthetic octapeptides with the sequence corresponding to the N-terminal part of the L- or D-phenylalanine-containing isoforms. Their specificity was shown by immunoassays, indicating that they discriminate the isoforms of the lobster hyperglycemic neuropeptides. It was demonstrated that the two major forms of the crayfish Orconectes limosus hyperglycemic hormone also correspond to peptide isomers containing the L- or D-phenylalanyl residue. The cellular distribution of the isoforms among the neurosecreting cells of the major neuroendocrine complex in lobster and crayfish has been studied by immunohistochemistry. Every hyperglycemic hormone-containing cell was labelled with the anti-L antisera while only some of them were visualized with the anti-D antisera. These results constitute the first observation of peptide isomerization at the cellular level and suggest that the isomerization process occurs in specialized neuroendocrine cells.
The release of excitatory amino acids from Schwann cell cultures in the rat was monitored using high-performance liquid chromatography. The basal concentration of glutamate and aspartate was 33 +/- 4 nM (mean +/- S.E.M., n = 12) and 8 +/- 1 nM (mean +/- S.E.M., n = 12), respectively. ATP (100 microM) caused a receptor-mediated increase in release of glutamate and aspartate from Schwann cell cultures. Bath application of adenosine (100 microM) was without effect on release of excitatory amino acids suggesting involvement of P2 receptors. Suramin, a competitive antagonist at P2 receptors, prevented the response to ATP. The release of excitatory amino acids evoked by ATP was not abolished in calcium-depleted saline. Pretreatment of the Schwann cultures with 50 microM 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N'N'-tetracetic acid-acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM) abolished the effect of ATP. ATP-evoked release of glutamate from cultured Schwann cells was significantly reduced by thapsigargin (1 microM), an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-ATPase of the Ca2+ pump of internal stores. U73122, a selective inhibitor of receptor-coupled phospholipase C-dependent processes, abolished stimulatory effect of ATP suggesting that ATP's action is mediated through an inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate-sensitive calcium store. The action of ATP was not blocked by L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate, an inhibitor of the electrogenic glutamate transporter, nor was it blocked in Na(+)-free medium, and glutamate release was not stimulated by a depolarizing stimulus, suggesting that ATP-evoked release of glutamate from Schwann cells is not due to the reversal of the glutamate uptake. An anion transport blocker, furosemide, reduced ATP-induced glutamate release. These results suggest that ATP-stimulated glutamate and aspartate release from Schwann cells may be through a calcium-dependent furosemide-sensitive mechanism.
This paper investigates the vulnerability of astrocytes to oxidative injury as a function of age in culture in mice. Primary murine cortical astrocyte cultures of different ages were exposed to H2O2, combined oxygen-glucose deprivation or glucose deprivation. Astrocytes became more vulnerable to damage from each injury paradigm with age, showing transitions between 15 and 22 days. Both the antioxidant glutathione and superoxide dismutase activity increased after 30 days in culture, while catalase activity did not change up to 34 days. When the decrease in glutathione with injury was measured, young cells showed no change with H2O2 and decreases of &lt; 20% after oxygen-glucose deprivation or glucose deprivation, while older cultures lost &gt; 50% of their glutathione with the same insults. Since iron can be a catalyst for hydroxyl radical formation, we stained cultures and found both iron staining and ferritin immunoreactivity increased with age. Increased iron correlated with protection by deferoxamine against H2O2 injury. The three injury paradigms each had a unique pattern of protection by antioxidants. Dimethylthiourea, a hydrophilic antioxidant, protected from all three insults. Trolox, a lipophilic antioxidant, protected older astrocytes from oxygen-glucose deprivation and glucose deprivation. Deferoxamine provided near complete protection from H2O2, partial protection from oxygen-glucose deprivation and no protection from glucose deprivation. As evidence of increasing oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation resulting from oxygen-glucose deprivation increased with age, assessed with cis-parinaric acid. The increasing sensitivity of ageing astrocytes to oxidative injury occurs while antioxidant defenses are maintained. Increased sensitivity to H2O2 or oxygen-glucose deprivation correlates with iron accumulation.
Intracellular recording, dye filling and immunohistochemistry were used to investigate neurons of the proximal duodenum of the guinea-pig. Recordings were made from neurons of the myenteric plexus in the presence of nicardipine to quell muscle contractions, using microelectrodes that contained the marker substance Neurobiotin. Preparations were subsequently processed histochemically to reveal nerve cell shapes and immunoreactivity for calbindin, calretinin or nitric oxide synthase. Neurons were distinguished by their shapes and axonal projections as Dogiel type II, Dogiel type I, filamentous descending interneurons and small filamentous neurons. Dogiel type II cells had large cell bodies and multiple axon processes. They each had a broad action potential (mean half-width, 2.9 ms) and a prominent inflection (hump) on the falling phase of the action potential. The majority (70%) of Dogiel type II cells were AH neurons, defined by their having a prolonged hyperpolarizing potential that followed a soma action potential and lasted more than 2 s. Fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials were not recorded from Dogiel type II neurons. Two thirds of Dogiel type II neurons fired phasically in response to intracellularly injected 500 ms depolarizing current pulses and one-third fired tonically. Calbindin immunoreactivity occurred in 70% of Dogiel type II neurons. Dogiel type I neurons had lamellar dendrites and a single axon. They had brief action potentials (mean half-width, 1.7 ms) with no, or a slight hump. They responded to fibre tract stimulation with fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Only 2/21 exhibited a prolonged hyperpolarization following action potentials. The majority of Dogiel type I neurons thus belong to the S neuron category. Nine Dogiel type I neurons fired phasically in response to 500 ms depolarizing current pulses, while 12 fired tonically. Filamentous descending interneurons had long, branching filamentous dendrites and a single anally-projecting axon which gave rise to varicose branches in myenteric ganglia. Action potential characteristics of filamentous interneurons ranged between those of Dogiel type II and type I neurons. Small neurons. Small neurons with short filamentous, or few simple dendrites were also characterized. They had single axons, which could be traced either locally to the circular muscle, or to the longitudinal muscle. None of 12 filamentous interneurons or of 10 small filamentous neurons exhibited a prolonged post-spike hyperpolarization, whereas fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from a majority. It is concluded that the morphological types of neuron that are encountered in the ileum also occur in the duodenum, but the electrophysiological characteristics of the neurons are more variable for each morphological class. Thus, it is not always possible to predict the morphology of myenteric neurons in the duodenum from their electrophysiological properties. Part of the electrophysiological variability appears to be due to duodenal neurons being more excitable than ileal neurons.
Several lines of clinical evidence suggest that myoclonus is caused by a reduction of serotonin in the brain and hyperactivity of the inferior olive. We determined whether a change in serotonin content within the olivocerebellar system accompanied a predisposition to myoclonus and investigated the necessity of the inferior olive for a myoclonic seizure. The experiments employed the genetically epilepsy-prone rat that exhibits a profound myoclonic seizure in response to an auditory stimulus. We found that these animals demonstrated a significant reduction in the serotonergic innervation of the inferior olive without a significant change in the serotonergic innervation at any other level of the olivocerebellar circuit. The deficit in olivary serotonin was verified physiologically and pharmacologically by a reduced sensitivity of the genetically epilepsy-prone rat to the tremorogenic effect of harmaline, which is known to produce tremor through a mechanism that requires serotonergic innervation of the inferior olive. We quantified the timing of the myoclonic seizure of the genetically epilepsy-prone rat and found that its large amplitude 2-6 Hz clonus was always preceded by 9-10 Hz tremor that was synchronized among limbs. Ablation of the inferior olive by 3-acetylpyridine abolished the myoclonic seizure. The specificity of the deficit in olivary serotonin, the timing of the seizure, and the demonstration of the necessity of the inferior olive for myoclonus suggest that pathological inferior olivary activity contributes to the genesis of a myoclonic seizure.
Many neurotropic virus infections have been shown to be virulent in neonatal and suckling mice but avirulent in weaned mice. The neurotropic alphavirus Semliki Forest virus is a well-studied example of this and importantly the age-related change in neurovirulence of this virus has been shown to be independent of specific immune responses. During the first two postnatal weeks many major physiological changes including axonogenesis, synaptogenesis and myelination occur within the rodent CNS. To investigate whether these changes affect virus replication, spread and virulence we have studied the course of infection in the mouse olfactory system. The olfactory system is well-characterized with regard to its development and neuroanatomy and represents an important route of entry of many neurotropic viruses. Following Semliki Forest virus infection, mice younger than 14 days-of-age died from a fulminant panencephalitis, whilst those 15 days and older survived and cleared the infection. Microscopic examination of brains from mice inoculated intranasally either bilaterally or unilaterally and stained by in situ hybridization to detect viral RNA revealed spread of infection along neurites in a circuit-specific manner. Spread in the main olfactory bulb and to primary, secondary and tertiary olfactory connections was observed. In neonatal mice virus rapidly spread throughout the olfactory system and the temporal progress of the infection correlated with the known connectivity patterns of this system. Both anterograde and retrograde axonal spread were observed. During the first three postnatal weeks the rate and extent of virus spread decreased with increasing age. Spread of infection between specific structures was closely related to neuronal maturation. As olfactory system connections matured transmission of virus was curtailed. In mice inoculated at six weeks or six months-of-age infection was minimal in and rarely observed beyond the continually renewed olfactory nerve layer. The ability of this virus to replicate and, or spread in the CNS is clearly linked to neuronal maturation.
The choline analogue, ethylcholine mustard azirinium ion (AF64A), has been proposed as a selective neurotoxin that produces degeneration of central cholinergic neurons. However, the mechanisms of action and the specificity or non-specificity of this toxin are still undefined. In this study, we have investigated the effects of AF64A, in comparison with kainic acid, on cholinergic neurons of the mesopontine formation (pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei), a neuronal population also expressing nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of nitric oxide. We used choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry as a marker of acetylcholine activity, and nitric oxide synthase immunohistochemistry and NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry as markers of nitric oxide synthase activity. Our results show that the injection of low doses of AF64A produces: (1) an area of cavitation in the injection site of pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (local non-specific effect), and (2) a transient decrease in choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in choline acetyltransferase-nitric oxide synthase neurons in both the ipsilateral laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and the perilesional area of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, while their morphology and nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity remain unaltered (post-diffusion specific effect). These findings indicate that the loss of choline-related enzymatic activity is not necessarily associated with degeneration of cholinergic neurons, and that the recovery of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity may arise from neurons whose activity is diminished during the first postinjection weeks. Taking into account that AF64A is a suitable tool to develop a reversible model of neurological disorders related to cholinergic deficit, further efforts should be directed toward elimination of its local non-specific effect.
The localization of GABAA receptors was studied by immunohistochemistry in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the rat using a monoclonal antibody (bd17) against the beta-subunit. The pattern of distribution was compared with that of GABA-immunoreactive axons and nerve terminals. Positive staining for GABAA receptors was confined to regions near the surface of neuronal somata and their processes. The highest density of positive staining for GABAA receptors was seen in the central part of the rostral nucleus tractus solitarii where GABA-positive terminals were also rather dense. At both intermediate and caudal levels of the nucleus tractus solitarii, a moderate density of positive staining for GABAA receptors was located in the ventrolateral part, including the ventrolateral subnucleus. In these regions, the density of GABA-positive terminals was low. In the medial nucleus tractus solitarii, including the medial subnucleus, very little or no positive staining for GABAA receptors was detected, although many GABA-positive terminals were observed. The results suggest that the central part of the rostral nucleus tractus solitarii is controlled by the GABAergic system via GABAA receptors, but in the medial subnucleus of the nucleus tractus solitarii the GABA neurons appear to act via receptors that are not detectable by the antibody used.
Angiotensin II and angiotensin III in the brain exert their various effects by acting on two pharmacologically well-defined receptors, the type-1 (AT1) and the type-2 (AT2) receptors. Receptor binding autoradiography has revealed the dominant presence of AT1 in brain nuclei involved in cardiovascular, body fluid and neuroendocrine control. The cloning of the AT1 complementary DNA has revealed the existence of two receptor subtypes in rodents, AT1A and AT1B. Using specific riboprobes for in situ hybridization, we have previously shown that the AT1A messenger RNA is predominantly expressed in the rat forebrain; in contrast the AT1B subtype predominates in the anterior pituitary. Using a similar technical approach, the aim of the present study was to establish the precise anatomical localization of cells synthetising the AT1A receptor in the adult rat brain. High AT1A messenger RNA expression was found in the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis, the median preoptic nucleus, the subfornical organ, the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus, the parvocellular parts of the paraventricular nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract and the area postrema, in agreement with previous autoradiographic studies, describing a high density of AT1 binding sites in these nuclei. In addition, AT1A messenger RNA expression was detected in several brain areas, where no AT1 binding was reported previously. Thus, we identify strong expression of AT1A messenger RNA expression in scattered cells of the lateral parts of the preoptic region, the lateral hypothalamus and several brainstem nuclei. In none of these structures was the AT1B messenger RNA detectable at the microscopic level. In conclusion, it is suggested that angiotensins may exert their central effects on body fluid and cardiovascular homeostasis mainly via the AT1A receptor subtype.
The involvement of muscarinic autoreceptors in the regulation of hippocampal acetylcholine levels during acetylcholinesterase inhibition was examined by perfusing the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine bromide (10, 100 or 1000 nM) alone and in the presence of the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine methylnitrate (10 microM), in resting and behaviourally-activated animals. In resting animals, local perfusion of neostigmine caused a dose-dependent increase in acetylcholine levels. Coadministration of atropine did not affect basal levels in the presence of 10 nM neostigmine, but increased acetylcholine levels approximately four and 11-fold in the presence of 100 nM and 1000 nM neostigmine, respectively. In animals which were behaviourally activated by handling, acetylcholine levels increased two- to three-fold in the presence of all neostigmine concentrations. However, the handling-induced increase in acetylcholine levels was somewhat smaller with 1000 nM neostigmine as compared to 10 nM neostigmine. Atropine had no effect on handling-induced acetylcholine output in the presence of 10 nM neostigmine, but caused greater and longer increases in the presence of 100 nM and 1000 nM neostigmine. These data indicate that acetylcholine levels are greatly reduced by autoinhibition at higher levels of acetylcholine esterase inhibition. The handling-evoked increase in acetylcholine levels is only moderately affected by the level of acetylcholinesterase inhibition, despite the participation of autoreceptors in the handling effect at higher levels of acetylcholinesterase inhibition.
Immunohistochemical studies have demonstrated that following global forebrain ischaemia the selective neuronal loss that occurs in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus is accompanied by a reactive astrocytosis, characterized by increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein, and activation of microglia. In this study the spatial changes in glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA levels in the hippocampus have been mapped four, eight, 12, 16 and 20 days following 10 min of global forebrain ischaemia in the rat and related to changes in [3H]PK11195 binding to peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, a putative marker of activated microglia. Recent studies have suggested that the imidazoline-I2-receptor, one of a class of non-adrenergic receptors related to, but structurally and functionally distinct from alpha 2-adrenoceptors, may have a functional role in controlling the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein. To explore this possibility further we have also mapped changes in imidazoline-I2-receptor and alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding sites. Following transient ischaemia there was a marked, biphasic increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA levels throughout the vulnerable CA1 region of the hippocampus, peaking four days after ischaemia and then increasing gradually during the remainder of the study period. There was also a sustained increase in [3H]PK11195 binding, however, in contrast to the initial increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA levels that peaked four days after ischaemia the density of [3H]PK11195 binding increased rapidly in all strata of the CA1 region over the first eight days and then increased more slowly throughout days 12 to 20. Despite the marked increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA levels there was no concomitant alteration in imidazoline-I2-receptor binding sites detected using the specific radioligand, [3H]2-(2-benzofuranyl)-2-imidazoline, although alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding was decreased at eight days after ischaemia and did not recover. The time-course and biphasic nature of the changes in the astrocytic marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA, in the hippocampus following ischaemia may reflect different functions of glial fibrillary acidic protein-reactive astrocytes in the post-ischaemic period. Differences in temporal expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA and [3H]PK11195 binding support the proposed localization of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors on activated microglia, as distinct from reactive astrocytes. There was no evidence in the present study that imidazoline-I2-receptors are functionally linked to glial fibrillary acidic protein expression as the reactive astrocytosis in the hippocampus following ischaemia was not associated with changes in imidazoline-I2-receptor binding site density.
Global cerebral ischemia leads morphologically to selective neuronal damage in the CA1 sector of the hippocampus and in the striatum and functionally to a deficit in spatial learning and memory in the water maze. The results of earlier studies which examined the relationship between neuronal damage and the deficits in the water maze were not clear cut. It has been observed, however, that neuroprotection reduces both the deficits in the water maze as well as the neuronal damage. The present study therefore approached the relationship between the neuronal damage and the deficits in water maze using pharmacological means. Global cerebral ischemia was induced in male Wistar rats by four-vessel occlusion for 20 min. Ischemic rats were treated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dextromethorphan, 50 mg/kg, with the calcium antagonist levemopamil, 30 mg/kg, with the radical scavenger EPC-K1, 10 mg/kg, or with solvent. Treatment with dextromethorphan or levemopamil reduced the deficit in spatial learning by limiting the increase in swim distance due to ischemia. Both substances also reduced the deficit in spatial memory by minimizing the ischemia-induced reduction in time spent in the quadrant of the former platform position during the probe trial. EPC-K1 had no influence on the ischemia-induced behavioural changes. Group comparisons demonstrated that the swim speed and the percentage of the swimming path along the sidewall were affected neither by ischemia nor by any of the treatments. Histological examination revealed neuronal damage in the hippocampus and in the striatum in all of the ischemic rats. Treatment with dextromethorphan or levemopamil reduced the hippocampal damage by 32% and 36%, respectively. In addition, dextromethorphan diminished the striatal damage about 78%. Correlation analysis demonstrated a correlation between the cumulative swim distance of all 20 escape trials and hippocampal damage (r = 0.65, P &lt; 0.001) but not between swim distance and striatal damage (r = 0.14, P = 0.364). No correlation was found between quadrant time of the probe trial and either hippocampal damage (r = -0.21, P = 0.19) or striatal damage (r = -0.02, P = 0.889). The average percentage of the swimming path along the side wall related to the hippocampal damage (r = 0.28, P = 0.035) but not to the striatal damage (r = 0.05, P = 0.381). With respect to the average swim speed a correlation to striatal damage was observed (r = -0.69, P &lt; 0.001) but not to hippocampal damage (r = -0.15, P = 0.168). These results clearly demonstrate that using the pharmacological approach it is possible to uncover certain correlations between functional deficits in the water maze and neuronal damage which are both due to global cerebral ischemia.
Systemic nicotine enhances burst firing of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area and dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens, mainly via stimulation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the ventral tegmental area. Given that both the neuronal activity of mesolimbic dopamine neurons and terminal dopamine release are regulated by excitatory amino acid inputs to the ventral tegmental area and that nicotine facilitates glutamatergic transmission in brain, we investigated the putative role of ionotropic glutamate receptors within the ventral tegmental area for the effects of nicotine on dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens using microdialysis, with one probe implanted in the ventral tegmental area for drug application and another in the ipsilateral nucleus accumbens for measuring dopamine, in awake rats. Systemic nicotine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) and infusion of nicotine (1.0 mM) into the ventral tegmental area increased dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens. Intrategmental infusion of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (0.1 mM) or N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.3 mM) increased accumbal dopamine release; these effects were antagonized by concomitant infusion of a selective antagonist at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (0.3 mM), and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (0.3 mM), respectively. Infusion of either antagonist (0.3 or 1.0 mM) into the ventral tegmental area did not affect basal dopamine levels, whereas infusion of 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, but not 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, starting 40 min before nicotine injection dose-dependently attenuated the nicotine-induced increase in accumbal dopamine release. Concurrent intrategmental infusion of 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and nicotine decreased nicotine-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. These results indicate that the stimulatory action of nicotine on the mesolimbic dopamine system is to a considerable extent mediated via stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors within the ventral tegmental area.
In situ hybridization was combined with FluoroGold retrograde labelling to determine the distribution of messenger RNAs for the D1 dopamine receptor, D2 dopamine receptor, beta-preprotachykinin or preproenkephalin in the neurons projecting from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum and the ventral tegmental area. Neurons were quantified in both the core and the shell of the nucleus accumbens to estimate the proportion of neurons projecting to the ventral pallidum or ventral tegmental area that contain transcripts for D1 receptors, D2 receptors, beta-preprotachykinin or preproenkephalin. Following the deposition of FluoroGold into the central ventral pallidum, both the core and the shell of the nucleus accumbens were retrogradely labelled, while deposits into the ventral tegmental area selectively labelled cells in the shell. A high percentage of nucleus accumbens neurons innervating the ventral tegmental area expressed messenger RNAs for D1 receptors (72%) and beta-preprotachykinin (62%), while less than 3% of the neurons contained messenger RNAs for preproenkephalin or D2 receptors. The neurons projecting to the ventral pallidum did not show the discrete distribution of transcripts as was observed in the accumbens-ventral tegmental area projection. Preproenkephalin messenger RNA was identified in 46% of the neurons innervating the ventral pallidum, and D2 receptor messenger RNA was found in approximately 40% of the cells. A large minority of neurons projecting from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum also expressed messenger RNAs for D1 receptors (37%) and beta-preprotachykinin (35%). While a higher percentage of D1 receptor, and beta-preprotachykinin messenger RNA expressing cells were located in the shell than in the core of the nucleus accumbens, the percentage tended to be higher in the core for cells expressing D2 receptors or preproenkephalin messenger RNA. These data indicate that messenger RNAs for D2 receptors and enkephalin are selectively expressed in the accumbens-pallidal projection while transcripts encoding D1 receptors and substance P are contained in the efferent projections to both the ventral pallidum and ventral tegmental area. The presence of D1 receptor and beta-preprotachykinin messenger RNAs in both mesencephalic and pallidal projections contrasts output from the striatum where the expression of D1 receptor and beta-preprotachykinin messenger RNAs is primarily restricted to the mesencephalic projection.
Many neurotransmitter receptors that interact with pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins, including the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor, can modulate both voltage-dependent calcium channels and G protein-coupled inwardly-rectifying K+ channels. Serotonergic neurons of the medulla oblongata (nucleus raphe obscurus and nucleus raphe pallidus), which provide a major projection to sympathetic and motor output systems, receive a catecholaminergic input and express alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. Therefore, we tested the effects of norepinephrine on voltage-dependent calcium channels and G protein-coupled inwardly-rectifying K+ channels in neonatal raphe neurons using whole-cell recording in a brainstem slice preparation. Calcium channel currents were inhibited by norepinephrine in the majority of raphe neurons tested (88%) and in all identified tryptophan hydroxylase-immunoreactive (i.e. serotonergic) neurons. When tested in the same neurons, the magnitude of calcium current inhibition by norepinephrine (approximately 25%) was less than that induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine (approximately 50%). The norepinephrine-induced calcium current inhibition was mediated by alpha 2-adrenergic receptors; it was mimicked by UK 14304, an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonist and blocked by idazoxan, an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, but not affected by prazosin or propanolol (alpha 1 and beta adrenergic antagonists, respectively). Calcium current inhibition by norepinephrine was essentially eliminated following application of omega-Conotoxin GVIA and omega-Agatoxin IVA, indicating that norepinephrine modulated N- and P/Q-type calcium channels predominantly. Calcium current inhibition by norepinephrine was voltage-dependent and mediated by pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. Thus, as expected, alpha 2-adrenergic receptor activation inhibited N- and P/Q-type calcium currents in medullary raphe neurons via pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. In parallel experiments, however, we found that norepinephrine had no effect on G protein-coupled inwardly-rectifying K+ channels in any raphe neurons tested, despite the robust activation of those channels in the same neurons by 5-hydroxytryptamine. Together, these data indicate that alpha 2-adrenergic receptors can modulate N- and P/Q-type calcium channels in caudal medullary raphe neurons but do not couple to the G protein-coupled inwardly-rectifying K+ channels which are also present in those cells. This is in contrast to the effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor activation in caudal raphe neurons, and indicates a degree of specificity in the signalling by different pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein-coupled receptors to voltage-dependent calcium channels and G protein-coupled inwardly-rectifying K+ channels even within the same cell system.
In situ hybridization studies have revealed high levels of protease (thrombin)-activated receptor-1 messenger RNA in the mesencephalon of rats, suggesting that dopaminergic neurons are a target for thrombin's actions. We have evaluated the effect of thrombin receptor activation, either by thrombin or by thrombin receptor agonist peptide, a 14 amino acid agonist of protease-activated receptor-1, on tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. Pure cultures of rat mesencephalic neurons or co-cultures of mesencephalic neurons and glial cells were treated with either thrombin or thrombin receptor agonist peptide the day after plating. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell counting, [3H]dopamine uptake and morphometric analysis were performed on day 5. Thrombin and thrombin receptor agonist peptide influenced neurite elongation, branching and the number of primary, secondary and tertiary neurites of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. In pure cultures, the most significant effects of thrombin and thrombin receptor agonist peptide were to delay branching and to increase the centrifugal growth of neurites without affecting the total neuritic length. Thrombin (up to 10 nM) and thrombin receptor agonist peptide did not affect the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons or [3H]dopamine uptake. Neurotrophin-4 also influenced the morphology of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. The increase of neuritic length initiated by this neurotrophin is complementary to the radial elongation induced by protease-activated receptor-1 activation. When neurons were cultured in the presence of glial cells, the effects of thrombin and thrombin receptor agonist peptide on most of these parameters were larger than those observed with pure cultures. Thus, thrombin is able to initiate a complex remodelling of the architecture of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons through the activation of protease-activated receptor-1. These results provide further support for the involvement of protease-activated receptor-1 activation in the development and differentiation of the central nervous system.
Antibodies raised to phosphorylated forms of tyrosine hydroxylase, the first and rate-limiting enzyme in the catecholamine biosynthesis, were applied in immunohistochemical studies on rat brain slices incubated in vitro with a phosphodiesterase inhibitor (3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, IBMX) and on forskolin on formalin-perfused rat brains. Four antisera/antibodies were used: polyclonal rabbit antisera to (i) tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylated at serine 40 (THS40p antiserum), (ii) tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylated at serine 19 (THS19p antiserum), (iii) the native enzyme (pan-tyrosine hydroxylase antiserum), and mouse monoclonal antibody to (iv) native tyrosine hydroxylase. In the in vitro studies THS40p-like immunoreactivity was not observed unless slices were treated with IBMX-forskolin after which a dense fibre network was found in the striatum, and immunoreactive cell bodies were found in the ventral mesencephalon, especially in the ventral tegmental area. Although these cells were pan-tyrosine hydroxylase-positive, several of them were not stained with the tyrosine hydroxylase-monoclonal antibody. Moreover, there was a marked reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase-monoclonal antibody-immunoreactive fibres in drug-treated slices, suggesting that this tyrosine hydroxylase-monoclonal antibody does not recognize the serine 40-phosphorylated form of tyrosine hydroxylase. Treated slices did not show any THS40p-immunoreactive cell bodies in the dopaminergic A11 cell group and only a few, weakly fluorescent neurons were observed in locus coeruleus. However, a sparse fibre plexus was observed in locus coeruleus, possibly reflecting epinephrine fibres. In the perfused brains THS40p-like immunoreactivity could be visualized in some dopamine neurons in the ventral mesencephalon, especially the A10 area, and in noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons, whereas THS19p-like immunoreactivity was found in all catecholamine groups studied, similar to the results obtained with the pan-tyrosine hydroxylase antiserum and the tyrosine hydroxylase-monoclonal antibody. In forebrain areas known to be innervated by mesencephalic dopamine neurons, no THS40p-positive fibres were observed, whereas THS19p-immunoreactive fibres were found in subregions of the striatum, olfactory tubercle and nucleus accumbens, essentially overlapping with dopamine fibres previously shown to contain cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity. The present results suggests that antibodies directed against phosphorylated forms of tyrosine hydroxylase can be used to evaluate the state of tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation in individual neuronal cell bodies and processes both in vitro and in vivo.
High resolution immunogold cytochemistry was used to investigate the subcellular distribution of protein kinase C gamma and delta in Purkinje cells of the rat cerebellum. Postembedding incubation with an antibody raised to a peptide sequence near the C-terminus of protein kinase C gamma resulted in strong labelling along the dendrosomatic plasma membrane. A quantitative analysis indicated that this labelling reflected the existence of two pools of protein kinase C gamma; one membrane associated pool and one cytoplasmic pool located within 50 nm of the plasma membrane. The labelling along the plasma membrane showed a pronounced and abrupt increase when moving from the cell body into the axon initial segment. Gold particles signalling protein kinase C gamma were also enriched in putative Purkinje axon terminals in the dentate nucleus. The only organelle showing a consistent immunolabelling for protein kinase C gamma was the Golgi apparatus where the gold particles were restricted to the trans face. Protein kinase C gamma immunoreactivity also occurred in the Purkinje cell spines, with an enrichment in or near the postsynaptic density. Antibodies to protein kinase C delta produced a very different labelling pattern in the Purkinje cells. Most of the gold particles were associated with rough endoplasmic reticulum, particularly with those cisternae that were located close to the nucleus or in the nuclear indentations. No significant protein kinase C delta immunolabelling was detected at the plasma membrane or in Purkinje cell spines. The present data point to a highly specific compartmentation of the two major protein kinase C isozymes in Purkinje cells and suggest that these isozymes act on different substrates and hence have different regulatory functions within these neurons.
Previous studies have suggested that intracerebroventricular kainic acid injections alter brain anatomy and neurochemistry in a manner similar to what is observed in schizophrenic patients. Disturbances in sensory information processing are one of the major symptoms of schizophrenia. Thus, the present experiments were designed to evaluate the hypothesis that hippocampal damage, induced by administration of kainic acid, would alter the processing of auditory stimuli in a paired-click paradigm. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted for surface recording of auditory evoked potentials. At the time of electrode implantation, the rats also received bilateral injections of either kainic acid or the vehicle solution. In vehicle-treated rats, the midlatency N40 component of the auditory evoked potential was diminished in amplitude by approximately 60% in response to the second of a pair of clicks delivered 0.5 s apart. By contrast, no reduction of the N40 wave evoked by the second click was observed in kainate-treated rats. Further, administration of haloperidol, a prototypical neuroleptic agent, did not improve this auditory processing dysfunction in kainate-treated animals. Loss of auditory filtering in the paired-click paradigm and a lack of response to haloperidol in this test are typically observed in schizophrenic humans. Thus, the present results demonstrate that kainate-lesioned rats possess a functional schizophrenia-like abnormality, further reinforcing the utility of this model system for studying the basic neurobiology of schizophrenia-induced sensory processing deficits.
We have re-examined whether N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play a specific role in experience-dependent plasticity in kitten visual cortex. A specific antagonist of this glutamate receptor subtype, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, was directly and continuously infused into kitten striate cortex for one week concurrently with monocular lid suture. In the hemisphere infused with 50 mM antagonist, we found the usual shift in ocular dominance toward the open eye with only a few binocular cells remaining. The changes were accompanied by an extremely high incidence (38%) of abnormal cells lacking orientation selectivity across different ocular dominance groups. In kitten cortex infused with 10 mM antagonist concurrently with monocular deprivation for a week, recording from a drug-affected region near the infusion centre, we again found the U-shaped ocular dominance distribution with the high incidence of non-selective cells. In antagonist-infused, otherwise normal striate cortex of adult cats, we found that the proportion of binocular cells decreased by one-half in two cellular populations: one recorded during the continuous infusion of 10 mM antagonist under general anaesthesia and paralysis, and the other about two days after stopping the infusion. We also established that in vivo concentrations of chronically infused 10 mM antagonist decreased, not near-exponentially, but linearly with increasing distance from the infusion site. Thus, the effects of a directly and continuously infused, concentrated antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on receptive-field properties of visuocortical cells are complex. The present findings strongly suggest that the antagonist effects in the developing cortex may be due primarily to blockade of normal synaptic transmission rather than specific disruption of an experience-dependent mechanism underlying ocular dominance plasticity.
We describe the cellular mechanisms that underlie the generation of the K-complex, a major grapho-element of sleep electroencephalogram in humans. First we demonstrate the similarity between K-complexes recorded during natural sleep and under ketamine-xylazine anaesthesia in cats. Thereafter, we show by means of multi-site cellular and field potential recordings that K-complexes are rhythmic at frequencies of less than 1 Hz (mainly 0.5-0.9 Hz) and that they are synchronously distributed over the whole cortical surface as well as transferred to the thalamus. The surface K-complex reverses its polarity at a cortical depth of about 0.3 mm. At the cortical depth, the K-complex is made of a sharp and high-amplitude negative deflection that reflects cellular depolarization, often preceded by a smaller-amplitude, positive slow-wave reflecting cellular hyperpolarization. The sharp component of the K-complex may lead to a spindle sequence and/or to fast (mainly 20-50 Hz) oscillations. K-complexes appear spontaneously or triggered by cortical or thalamic stimulation, and they arise within cortical networks. We suggest that K-complexes, either in isolation or followed by a brief sequence of spindle waves, are the expression of the spontaneously occurring, cortically generated slow oscillation.
Distribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like immunoreactivity was investigated in the adult rat brain using two types of antibodies against peptides, V2 and V4, unique to the brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Western blot analysis showed that both antibodies specifically bound brain-derived neurotrophic factor, but not other neurotrophins, and that they recognized identical molecules of 18,000 mol. wt, but not the 14,500 mol. wt mass of mature form, in extracts from the rat hippocampus. Both antibodies recognized an identical precursor form (30,000 mol. wt) in lysates of COS7 cells transfected with brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene. These indicated that both antibodies predominantly recognized identical precursor protein(s) or its derivative(s) probably because of their much higher amounts than the amount of mature protein. Immunochemical studies showed that anti-V2 predominantly stained the cytoplasm of cells; whereas the anti-V4 bound to the nucleus, suggesting that the tertiary structure of immunoreactive molecules changed depending on their location. Cell populations with the immunoreactivity were similar in most brain sections stained with either anti-V2 or anti-V4 antibodies. These results suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor-like immunoreactivity distributes, in most cases, in neurons responding to brain-derived neurotrophic factor and in neurons expressing abundant brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. These, taken together with other results concerning distributions of messenger RNAs of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and TrkB, provide additional information to elucidate the function of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the rat central nervous system.
We examined the effects of nerve growth factor on the regulation of intracellular calcium levels of superior cervical ganglion neurons in terms of postnatal maturation and ageing. Rat superior cervical ganglion neurons from three age groups (neonatal: 0 to one-day-old, young adult: three to six-month-old, and aged: more than 24-month-old) were dissociated and cultured in the presence or absence of 100 ng/ml of nerve growth factor. Intracellular free calcium levels ([Ca2+]i) were measured using the fura-2 microfluorometry. Nerve growth factor treatment increased the resting [Ca2+]i of neonatal neurons, although it had no effect on those of mature and aged neurons. We further examined the effects of nerve growth factor on the transient increase of [Ca2+]i induced by methacholine (0.1 mM), caffeine (20 mM) or high-potassium medium (40 mM K+). Nerve growth factor pre-treatment significantly increased the population of neonatal superior cervical ganglion neurons which responded to methacholine, whereas almost all young adult and aged neurons responded to methacholine regardless of pre-treatment of nerve growth factor. Caffeine induced a cyclic alteration of [Ca2+]i (oscillation) in 45% of the neonatal superior cervical ganglion neurons when they were maintained without nerve growth factor, but nerve growth factor treatment suppressed the oscillation to 10% of neurons. In contrast to neonatal neurons, all of the young adult and aged neurons showed only a transient increase of [Ca2+]i in response to caffeine independent of nerve growth factor treatment. There was no significant effect of nerve growth factor on K+ depolarization-induced [Ca2+]i elevations at any of the ages studied. Nerve growth factor did not substantially alter the pattern of the transients induced by these three agents. Our results indicate that exogenous nerve growth factor is necessary to maintain normal acetylcholine receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i responses as well as Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release from intracellular calcium storage in neonatal superior cervical ganglion neurons. In mature superior cervical ganglion neurons, Ca2+ homeostasis becomes independent of exogenous nerve growth factor, and Ca2+ homeostasis and its independency are well preserved in aged neurons.
By virtue of its capacity to prevent apoptosis the protooncogene bcl-2 is believed to play a crucial role in CNS development. Studies in rodents have shown that the anti-apoptosis Bcl-2 protein is widely expressed during CNS development, but undergoes a marked down-regulation during maturation and is present only at low concentrations in adult CNS. In contrast, current data suggest that Bcl-2 protein in adult monkey brain results from microglial expression. In the present immunohistochemical study, however, numerous subsets of Bcl-2-immunoreactive neurons were encountered in the amygdala, hippocampus, hypothalamus, limbic cortices and striatum of squirrel monkeys. Of particular interest was the presence in the basal portion of the amygdala and adjoining piriform cortex of numerous intensely immunoreactive cells with long and thick immunopositive processes that ran into the ventral amygdalofugal pathway. At striatal level Bcl-2-positive neurons were strictly confined to calbindin-poor striosomes, which are specifically innervated by limbic cortices. This study has provided the first evidence for the occurrence of Bcl-2 in mature monkey brain. It has further shown that this protein is preferentially expressed in limbic structures in primate forebrain. The sustained expression of this anti-apoptosis protein may protect limbic system neurons from various injuries or neurodegeneration. It may also be involved in the functional and structural changes that occur throughout adulthood in some regions of the primate limbic system.
Electrotonic responses recorded extra- or intracellularly from peripheral nerve preparations show a &quot;sag&quot; to hyperpolarizing current pulses. The biophysical nature of this &quot;inward rectification&quot; is still under discussion since the phenomenon has not been noted at voltage-clamped single nerve fibres, and since Cs+, which reduces inward rectification, is not a specific ion channel blocker. In this study, we found that low micromolar concentrations of ZD 7288, a specific blocker of the hyperpolarization-activated cationic current (Ih) in the soma of central mammalian neurons, result in a complete block of inward rectification in the electrotonic responses of isolated rat spinal dorsal roots. In addition, ZD 7288 enhanced the activity-dependent slowing of conduction seen in compound C fibre action potentials of isolated rat vagus nerves and augmented the post-tetanic hyperpolarization following trains of action potentials in unmyelinated and myelinated axons. The data suggest that ZD 7288 is a potent blocker and a useful research tool for the study of hyperpolarization-activated inward rectification (Ih) of peripheral nerve preparations.
We generated neurotropic herpes simplex type 1 viruses expressing human placental alkaline phosphatase and studied the utility of this enzyme as a marker of infected neurons. The neurotropism of these viruses was assessed by their ability to infect sympathetic preganglionic neurons after adrenal injection in hamsters. The transneuronal transfer of these viruses was examined by their ability to cross the peripheral synapse from the kidney to renal preganglionic neurons or to cross the central synapse from the adrenal gland to the medulla oblongata. Finally, we injected an alkaline phosphatase-expressing herpes simplex virus into the adrenal gland and a beta-galactosidase-expressing herpes simplex virus (US5gal) into the muscular wall of the small intestine to label two neural circuits in one animal and to assess the feasibility of a dual-virus labelling system. The alkaline phosphatase gene was inserted into the glycoprotein J locus or the virus-induced host shut-off locus in the herpes simplex genome to create viruses which replicate (gJHAP HSV or vhsHAP HSV) or into the thymidine kinase locus to generate a virus that does not replicate in neurons in vivo (TK- HAP HSV). Each of the three viruses was retrogradely transported from the adrenal gland of hamsters to sympathetic preganglionic neurons, suggesting that the neurotropism of these viruses was maintained. gJHAP HSV travelled transneuronally from the kidney to sympathorenal preganglionic neurons and from the adrenal gland to neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Neuronal infection with alkaline phosphatase-expressing virus could be identified using histochemistry but detailed morphology of these neurons was not revealed. However, staining by anti-herpes simplex virus immunoperoxidase demonstrated that they had normal morphology. Identification of two distinct neural circuits in one animal was achieved with our dual-virus labelling system. The nonreplicating TK- HAP HSV was used in combination with US5gal to identify intestinal and adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons. The beta-galactosidase-expressing intestinal neurons were labelled bilaterally in the nucleus intermediolateralis, pars principalis, and alkaline phosphatase-expressing adrenal neurons were found ipsilaterally. Some clusters of sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the nucleus intermediolateralis, pars principalis contained mostly intestinal sympathetic preganglionic neurons and a few adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons. In other areas, the opposite pattern occurred. About 3-7% of the labelled sympathetic preganglionic neurons were double-labelled by both markers. The distinct and crisp morphology and dendritic processes of neurons stained by beta-galactosidase histochemistry contrasted with the partial staining of neurons by alkaline phosphatase, revealing beta-galactosidase as a better marker of infected neurons. In conclusion, alkaline phosphatase-expressing herpes simplex viruses are yet neurotropic after insertion of this marker enzyme into any of three different loci of the herpes simplex genome. One replicating alkaline phosphatase-expressing virus travelled transneuronally. These alkaline phosphatase-expressing herpes simplex virus can be used together with beta-galactosidase-expressing herpes simplex viruses to determine the target specificity of sympathetic preganglionic neurons controlling visceral organs or can be used to express two different recombinant genes in two targeted neuronal populations. This study suggests that sympathetic preganglionic neurons controlling the intestine and adrenal gland are almost completely distinct.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide in sensory primary afferent neurons has an excitatory effect on postsynaptic neurons and potentiates the effect of substance P in the rat spinal dorsal horn. It has been established that calcitonin gene-related peptide expression in dorsal root ganglion neurons is depressed, and the effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide on dorsal horn neurons is attenuated, following peripheral nerve injury. We report here that a subpopulation of injured dorsal root ganglion neurons show increased expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide. Using in situ hybridization and the retrograde tracer, FluoroGold, we detected an increased number of medium- to large-sized rat dorsal root ganglion neurons projecting to the gracile nucleus that expressed alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA following spinal nerve transection. Immunohistochemistry revealed a significant increase in calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the gracile nucleus and in laminae III-IV of the spinal dorsal horn. These results indicate that a subpopulation of dorsal root ganglion neurons express alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA in response to peripheral nerve injury, and transport this peptide to the gracile nucleus and to laminae III-IV of the spinal dorsal horn. The increase of the excitatory neuropeptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, in sites of primary afferent termination may affect the excitability of postsynaptic neurons, and have a role in neuronal plasticity following peripheral nerve injury.
Using immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy, the localization and regulation of delta-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity were studied in dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord of normal rat and monkey, and after peripheral axotomy. Delta-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was observed in many small dorsal root ganglion neurons, and in the rat most of them contained substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. At the ultrastructural level, delta-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was localized in the Golgi complex, on the membrane of the large dense-core vesicles and on the membrane of and/or inside a type of large vesicle with an interior of low electron density. The latter vesicles were often in contact with multivesicular bodies. In the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord, most delta-opioid receptor-positive nerve fibers contain substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide, both in rat and monkey. Also, in these nerve endings delta-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was found on the membrane of large dense-core vesicles and on the membrane of, or in, the lucent vesicles. Occasionally, delta-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity was observed on the plasmalemma of the terminals, particularly when the vesicles were in exocytotic contact with the plasmalemma. Peripheral axotomy induced a decrease in delta-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity both in cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglia and in terminals in the dorsal horn. These data suggest that the delta-opioid receptor may be a constituent of the membrane of large dense-core vesicles storing and releasing neuropeptides. It is suggested that upon exocytotic release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide from large dense-core vesicles, there is a transient modification of the surface of the primary afferent terminals which leads to exposure of the receptor protein so that enkephalin released from adjacent terminals can activate the receptor. The decrease in delta-opioid receptors after axotomy indicates that delta-opioid receptor-mediated inhibitory effects are attenuated at the spinal level both in the rat and monkey.
Compartmentalization of brain ascorbate and glutathione between neurons and glia has been a source of controversy. To address this question, we determined the ascorbate and glutathione contents of brain tissue with defined, but varying, densities of neurons and glia. In developing rat cortex and hippocampus, glutathione content rose during gliogenesis, while ascorbate fell. By contrast, ascorbate, but not glutathione, increased markedly during granule cell proliferation and maturation in the developing cerebellum. Similarly, in tissue from adult cerebral cortex of species with distinct neuron densities, ascorbate content increased linearly with increasing neuron density in the order: human&lt;rabbit&lt;guinea-pig&lt;rat&lt;mouse, whereas glutathione was relatively constant. These data suggest that ascorbate predominates in neurons, whereas glutathione is slightly predominant in glia. Quantitative analysis of ascorbate and glutathione contents in these studies combined with appropriate intra- and extracellular volume fraction data permitted calculation of concentrations of ascorbate in neurons (10 mM) and glia (0.9 mM), and glutathione in neurons (2.5 mM) and glia (3.8 mM). The relative accuracy of these values was confirmed by their use in a model that reliably predicted changes in ascorbate and glutathione levels in rat cortex during the first three postnatal weeks and into adulthood. These findings not only provide new information about the intracellular composition of neurons and glia, but also have implications for understanding the roles of ascorbate and glutathione in normal brain function, as well as neuron and glia involvement in disease states linked to oxidative stress.
In order to develop another selective marker for cholinergic cell bodies and fibres, we have raised a highly specific polyclonal antibody against a peptide derived from the C-terminus of a recently cloned putative vesicular acetylcholine transporter. This antibody recognizes the vesicular acetylcholine transporter protein on western blots of membranes from transfected monkey fibroblast COS cells as well as from various rat brain regions but not from untransfected COS cells or rat liver. In separate mapping studies, the antibody was found to stain cell bodies and fibres in all of the regions of the nervous system known to be cholinergic, including (i) the various nuclei of the basal nuclear complex and their projections to the hippocampus, amygdala, and cerebral cortex, (ii) the caudate-putamen nucleus, accumbens nucleus, olfactory tubercle, and islands of Calleja complex, (iii) the medial habenula, (iv) the mesopontine cholinergic complex and its projections to the thalamus, extrapyramidal motor nuclei, basal forebrain, cingulate cortex, raphe and reticular nuclei, and some cranial nerve nuclei, and (v) the somatic motor and autonomic nuclei of the cranial and spinal nerves. In many of these cholinergic neurons, it is possible to detect immunoreactivity for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter in proximal portions of processes and their branches, as well as in numerous puncta in close association with them. Some of these puncta are large and surround cell bodies and processes of neurons in several regions, including the somatic motor neurons of cranial nerve nuclei in the brainstem and in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. Double immunofluorescence studies indicated that neurons positive for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter also stained for the biosynthetic enzyme of acetylcholine, choline acetyltransferase. We conclude that antibody against the C-terminus of the putative vesicular acetylcholine transporter provides another marker for cholinergic neurons that, unlike in situ hybridization procedures, labels terminals as well as cell bodies. Therefore this antibody has the potential to reveal changes in number and morphology of cholinergic cell bodies and their terminal varicosities that occur in both physiologic and pathologic conditions.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors were characterized in acutely dissociated medial septum/nucleus of diagonal band neurons from one- to four-month- and 24-26-month-old male Fischer 344 rats. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were used to study glutamate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced currents. Pharmacological properties of these ionotropic receptors were studied across different age groups by comparing concentration response curves and EC50 for agonist-induced currents, as well as dissociation constants (Kb) for competitive receptor antagonists. Our results suggest that non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on medial septum/nucleus of diagonal band neurons were predominantly of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate type and display biophysical and pharmacological properties similar to other central neurons. However, peak alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate-induced currents were enhanced in aged (35.0+/-4.4 pA/pF) compared to young cells (16.2+/-1.7 pA/pF, P&lt;0.005), and the EC50 shifted to the right (4.4+/-0.6 in young compared to 8.8+/-1.3 microM in aged, P&lt;0.05). The Kb for 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione inhibition of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate-induced currents likewise shifted to the right (0.16+/-0.02 in young and 0.29+/-0.04 microM in aged, P&lt;0.05) suggesting an age-related decrease in affinity for alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors. N-Methyl-D-aspartate-induced currents were generated in standard physiological solutions with the addition of 1 microM glycine and the removal of Mg2+. The N-methyl-D-aspartate responses were predictably modulated by magnesium and glycine, and were antagonized by the competitive antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. No age-related change in N-methyl-D-aspartate maximum, EC50, magnesium sensitivity, glycine sensitivity or Kb for 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid was observed. Overall, our results suggest that ionotropic glutamate receptors in the medial septum/nucleus of diagonal band have a similar pharmacological profile compared to glutamate receptors in other brain regions. More importantly, these data suggest that while medial septum/nucleus of diagonal band cells maintain N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors during ageing, a significant increase in current density and decrease in receptor affinity for alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors, during this same time period, may provide a mechanism for age-related changes in neuronal plasticity and excitotoxicity in the basal forebrain.
In rats, most neurons in layer III of the medial entorhinal cortex are exquisitely vulnerable to prolonged seizure activity. These neurons have also been shown to die preferentially in the entorhinal cortex of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. This lesion can be duplicated in rats by a focal injection of the indirect excitotoxin aminooxyacetic acid into the entorhinal cortex. The present study was designed to examine the neuropathological consequences of an intra-entorhinal aminooxyacetic acid injection at various time-points with a sensitive silver staining method for the visualization of damaged neurons. After 3 h, affected cells with prominently stained processes were readily observed in the transition zone of the hippocampal CA1 field and the subiculum, but no silver-stained neurons were seen in the entorhinal cortex. Less consistently, damaged neurons were observed in the presubiculum, in the temporal and perirhinal cortices and in the lateral amygdaloid nucleus. At 6 h after an aminooxyacetic acid injection, numerous silver-stained neurons, which were typically devoid of processes, were also seen in layer III of the medial entorhinal cortex. This pattern of neurodegeneration remained similar at 12 and 24 h following the aminooxyacetic acid injection, though many silver-stained neurons were noted in layer II of the lateral entorhinal cortex as well. Notably, at five days, silver-stained neurons had disappeared. Instead, dendritic arbors, debris of degenerated neurons and reactive glial cells were present in lesioned brain regions. These data demonstrate the chronology and the extent of neuronal damage following an intra-entorhinal injection of aminooxyacetic acid. The results suggest that a detailed examination of the temporal sequence of neuronal death in the entorhinal cortex and in extra-entorhinal areas is likely to benefit our understanding of the pathophysiology of temporal lobe epilepsy.
It is well established that some neuroanatomical tracers may be taken up by local axonal terminals and transported to distant axonal collaterals (e.g., transganglionic transport in dorsal root ganglion cells). However, such collateral-collateral transport of tracers has not been systematically examined in the central nervous system. We addressed this issue with four neuronal tracers--biocytin, biotinylated dextran amine, cholera toxin B subunit, and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin--in the cerebellar cortex. Labelling of distant axonal collaterals in the cerebellar cortex (indication of collateral-collateral transport) was seen after focal iontophoretic microinjections of each of the four tracers. However, collateral-collateral transport properties differed among these tracers. Injection of biocytin or Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin in the cerebellar cortex yielded distant collateral labelling only in parallel fibres. In contrast, injection of biotinylated dextran amine or cholera toxin B subunit produced distant collateral labelling of climbing fibres and mossy fibres, as well as parallel fibres. The present study is the first systematic examination of collateral-collateral transport following injection of anterograde tracers in brain. Such collateral-collateral transport may produce false-positive conclusions regarding neural connections when using these tracers for anterograde transport. However, this property may also be used as a tool to determine areas that are innervated by common distant afferents. In addition, these results may indicate a novel mode of chemical communication in the nervous system.
We mapped the distribution of CB1 and CB2 receptor messenger RNAs in the developing rat to gain insight into how cannabinoids may affect embryogenesis. In situ hybridization histochemistry studies were done using riboprobes specific for CB1 or CB2 receptor messenger RNAs. We found that CB1 and CB2 receptor messenger RNAs are expressed in the placental cone and in the smooth muscle of the maternal uterus at the earliest gestational periods studied [from eight days of gestation (E8) through E12]. In the embryo, as early as E11, CB1 receptor messenger RNA is expressed in some cells of the neural tube and, at later embryological stages (from E15 to E21), in several distinct structures within the central nervous system. In addition, high levels of CB1 receptor messenger RNA were also found in areas of the peripheral nervous system such as the sympathetic and parasympathetic ganglia, in the retina and in the enteric ganglia of the gastrointestinal tract. In addition to neural structures, high levels of the CB1 receptor messenger RNA were also present in two endocrine organs, the thyroid gland and the adrenal gland. On the other hand, CB2 receptor messenger RNA is expressed exclusively in the liver of the embryo as early as E13. The region-specific expression of CB1 and CB2 receptor messenger RNAs suggests that these receptors have a functional role during embryogenesis.
Prefrontal cerebral cortical areas display decreased expression of several transcription factor/immediate-early genes, including c-fos, during amphetamine withdrawal. Antisense strategies can help to test possible roles for this prefrontal c-fos down-regulation in the behavioural correlates of amphetamine withdrawal. Medial prefrontal cortical injections delivering 1.7 nmoles of anti c-fos oligonucleotides revealed an approximately 3 h half-life for phosphothioate and a 15 min half-life for phosphodiester oligonucleotides. Antisense phosphothioates complementary to the c-fos translational start site reduced levels of c-Fos protein, while exerting modest and variable effects on c-fos messenger RNA levels. Neither missense phosphorothioate nor antisense phosphodiester oligonucleotides significantly reduced levels of either c-fos messenger RNA or protein. Animals injected with anti c-fos phosphothioate oligonucleotides into the medial prefrontal cortex displayed marked reductions in linear locomotor activity and repetitive movements measured in a novel environment, effects not seen when missense oligonucleotides were used or when animals were accustomed to the activity monitor prior to antisense oligonucleotide injection. Behavioural changes produced by prefrontal cortical injections of c-fos antisense oligonucleotides closely mimic alterations recorded during amphetamine withdrawal. Prefrontal c-fos could thus conceivably play roles in the neurobiological underpinnings of psychostimulant withdrawal and of responses to stressors such as exposure to novel environments.
The present study determined the effect of bilateral lesions of specific cortical or thalamic nuclei that provide excitatory amino acid afferents to the nucleus accumbens (i.e. the dorsal prefrontal cortex, ventral prefrontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus and periventricular thalamus) on the expression of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization. Lesions of these nuclei were made during a three-week withdrawal period following repeated daily injections of cocaine or saline. The results indicate that dorsal prefrontal cortex lesions block the expression of behavioral sensitization to cocaine, while ventral prefrontal cortex, fimbria fornix, amygdala and thalamic lesions have no effect. A subsequent microdialysis experiment was performed in order to evaluate the effect of dorsal prefrontal cortex lesions on glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens core of cocaine- and saline-pretreated rats. The systemic injection of cocaine produced a significant increase in extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens core among animals with a sham surgery; this effect was blocked by a bilateral lesion of the dorsal prefrontal cortex. Taken together, these results indicate that the dorsal prefrontal cortex, which provides excitatory amino acid input selectively to the core region of the nucleus accumbens, enhances the expression of behavioral sensitization to cocaine by increasing glutamate transmission in this subnucleus.
Although human D1 and D5 dopamine receptors are encoded by distinct genes and share only 50% sequence homology at the amino acid level, their pharmacological properties are identical. Using a selective D1 receptor photoaffinity radioligand, (+/-)-7-[125I]iodo-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-(4-azidophenyl)-2,3,4,5-tetrahyd ro-1H-3-benzazepine ([125I]MAB), we have further probed the molecular properties of these receptors in transfected GH4C1 rat pituitary cells. Under reversible, non-covalent binding conditions, [125I]MAB bound to both the D1 and the D5 receptors with identical affinities, dopaminergic selectivity and stereospecificity. Upon photoactivation of the bound [125I]MAB, the label was incorporated into a approximately 64,000 mol. wt protein corresponding to the D1 dopamine receptor. However, there was no specific photoincorporation of the ligand observed in D5 receptors. The lack of [125I]MAB photolabeling of D5 receptors was independent of the cell line chosen, since similar results were obtained using other transfected cells. The data suggest that although both D1 and D5 receptors share structurally similar binding sites, the protein domains around the sites are different. Thus, although there are currently no specific compounds which bind preferentially to D1 or D5 receptors, these receptors can be distinguished from one another by the inability of [125I]MAB to photolabel D5, but not D1, receptors. Such selective targeting of a specific receptor may be useful in understanding the functional importance and/or interaction between closely related members of the same receptor family when co-expressed in the same cell.
The genetically dystonic rat exhibits a motor syndrome that closely resembles the human disease, generalized idiopathic dystonia. Although in humans dystonia is often the result of pathology in the basal ganglia, previous studies have revealed electrophysiological abnormalities and alterations in glutamate decarboxylase, the synthetic enzyme for GABA, in the cerebellum of dystonic rats. In this study, we further characterized the alterations in cerebellar GABAergic transmission in these mutants by examining the expression of the messenger RNA encoding glutamate decarboxylase (67000 mol. wt) with in situ hybridization histochemistry at the single cell level in Purkinje cells and neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei. Glutamate decarboxylase (67000 mol. wt) messenger RNA levels were increased in the Purkinje cells and decreased in the deep cerebellar nuclei of dystonic rats compared to control littermates, suggesting opposite changes in GABAergic transmission in Purkinje cells and in their target neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei. In contrast, levels of glutamate decarboxylase (67000 mol. wt) messenger RNA in the pallidum, and of enkephalin messenger RNA in the striatum, were unaffected in dystonic rats. The data indicate that both the Purkinje cells and GABAergic neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei are the site of significant functional abnormality in the dystonic rat.
During histogenesis of the neocortex, Cajal Retzius cells in the marginal zone express the glycoprotein reelin which is developmentally regulated and involved in the formation of the inside out mode of cortical layering. Cajal Retzius cells are also present in the developing hippocampus. There, inhibition of reelin by blocking with CR-50, an antibody which recognizes the N-terminus of this protein, leads to abnormal development of layer-specific connections. Here we report the developmental distribution pattern of reelin expressing neurons in the rat hippocampal formation using CR-50 immunocytochemistry. Labelled Cajal Retzius cells were located near the hippocampal fissure in neonate rats. Many of these cells were still present in the adult. From postnatal day 4 on, neurons in other layers were stained with the CR-50 antibody. In adult rats immunopositive neurons were found in all hippocampal subfields and in the entorhinal cortex. These observations indicate that in the rat hippocampal formation reelin is expressed in different neuronal types during development and in adulthood. Moreover, Cajal Retzius cells in the marginal zone near the hippocampal fissure are still found in adult animals.
We investigated the effects of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (25 microM) on the synaptic potentials recorded extracellularly and intracellularly from the CA3 area of immature hippocampal slices of the rat (postnatal days 10-20). In control conditions, carbachol reduced the amplitude of evoked synaptic responses (n=8) and did not induce any spontaneous synchronous activity (n=12); the depressant effect of carbachol was mimicked by acetylcholine (100 microM, in eserine 10 microM, n=5) and was reversed by the muscarinic antagonist atropine (1 microM, n=2). The GABA(A)-receptor antagonist bicuculline (10 microM) enhanced the amplitude and duration of the evoked synaptic responses and induced infrequent (0.016-0.045 Hz) spontaneous synchronous discharges in 23/37 of the slices. Application of carbachol in the presence of bicuculline reduced the amplitude of the evoked synaptic responses (n=21) and in addition induced synchronous discharges with rates of occurrence 0.075-0.225 Hz, in 64/68 slices. Both effects were mimicked by acetylcholine and eserine, and antagonized by atropine. The specific muscarinic antagonists pirenzepine (M1-type), tripitramine (M2-type), 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide (M3-type) and tropicamide (M4-type) (all tested at 0.1-1 microM) reversibly reduced the frequency of synchronous carbachol-induced discharges. In addition, these discharges were reversibly blocked by high Ca2+ perfusion medium (7 mM CaCl2, n=4) and by the glutamate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10 microM, n=7). Synchronous epileptiform discharges were recorded from both CA1 and CA3 areas in intact slices (n=3), but only from CA3 following disruption of the CA1-CA3 synaptic connections (n=3). These experiments suggest that activation of muscarinic receptors during blockade of GABA(A)-mediated potentials, may enhance synchronous epileptiform activity in immature (postnatal days 10-20) hippocampus, through activation of local excitatory circuits and that endogenous acetylcholine may be sufficient to play this role.
In the present study, the connectivity between two subcortical nuclei involved in hippocampal theta activity, the supramammillary nucleus and the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca complex, was examined. Targets of the supramammillary afferents in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca complex were identified by combining anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin with immunostaining for putative postsynaptic neurons, i.e. for parvalbumin and choline acetyltransferase that are known to label the GABAergic and cholinergic neurons, respectively, of the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca complex. Double retrograde transport experiments using the tracers horseradish peroxidase and wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated colloidal gold were employed to identify supramammillary neurons that project both to the hippocampus and the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca complex. Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin injections into the supramammillary nucleus of the rat resulted in dense fibre and terminal labelling in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca complex. Labelled terminals formed asymmetric synapses mainly on distal dendrites of medial septal neurons. Proximal dendrites and somata were rarely contacted. The supramammillary afferents showed no target selectivity for a particular cell type; they innervated both cholinergic and GABAergic cells. Occasionally, perisomatic, basket-like terminals of supramammillary origin were found around parvalbumin-containing neurons. Double-retrograde experiments revealed that at least 25% of the supramammillo-hippocampal cells also projected to the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca. These data suggest that the nucleus, known to modulate the hippocampal electrical activity directly by the supramammillo-hippocampal pathway, also has the potential for an indirect action via the innervation of both the GABAergic and cholinergic septohippocampal neurons. This dual modulation may originate, at least in part, from the same population of supramammillary neurons.
The recent demonstration of hemopexin synthesis in the adult rat sciatic nerve and its accumulation after injury has raised the question of the possible role of this acute phase protein during the process of nerve repair. To gain insight into its function, we have compared the distribution of both hemopexin and its messenger RNA in the peripheral and the central nervous systems. We find that hemopexin is present in all types of peripheral nerves and ganglia, confined to the extracellular matrix and basement membranes of the endoneurium, blood vessels and connective tissues. After injury, hemopexin messenger RNA is overexpressed by Schwann cells, fibroblasts and invading macrophages. The content in hemopexin protein increases in all nerves studied, without changes in localization. Therefore, hemopexin does not appear to be associated with the fate of myelin or with the regeneration of a particular type of nerve fibre. In the central nervous system, hemopexin messenger RNA cannot be detected and the protein is only found in basement membranes of the vascular system (capillaries, meninges and choroid plexus). Furthermore, hemopexin and its messenger RNA remain absent from the distal part of the injured optic nerves. Our results further support the idea that hemopexin plays specific roles during nerve repair, and that it may be associated with the endoneurial extracellular matrix.
This study shows that glycosaminoglycans promote muscle reinnervation following neonatal sciatic nerve injury. Such an effect appears to be mediated by insulin-like growth factor-1. The glycosaminoglycan moiety of proteoglycans is a constituent of the basal lamina active on nerve regeneration by means of the interaction with laminin and with several growth factors. We have previously shown that supplementation of glycosaminoglycans affects neuronal degeneration and regeneration. In this study we report that following neonatal lesion of the rat sciatic nerve glycosaminoglycan treatment promoted extensor digitorum longus muscle reinnervation with consequent improvement of muscle morphology. In saline-treated rats, reinnervation was only partial and there was a marked muscle fibre atrophy. In addition glycosaminoglycan treatment of lesioned rats increased insulin-like growth factor-I messenger RNA and protein in the reinnervated muscle, and insulin-like growth factor-I and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 plasma levels. Similarly, treatment of nerve lesioned rats with insulin-like growth factor-I promoted muscle reinnervation and prevention of muscle fibre atrophy, higher levels of insulin-like growth factor-I in the reinnervated muscle and of insulin-like growth factor-I and insulin-like growth factor binding proteins in plasma. These data suggest that glycosaminoglycans are potent stimulants of muscle reinnervation and that their effects may be mediated by increased levels of insulin-like growth factor-I.
Stimulated astrocytes specifically release large amounts of high-mobility group 1 protein into the extracellular medium. The identity of the released protein has been established on the basis of its biological activity on murine erythroleukaemia cells and by its immunoreactivity against a specific monoclonal antibody. High-mobility group 1 protein also plays an essential role in differentiation of LAN-5 neuroblastoma cells which, following stimulation with retinoic acid, express high-mobility group 1 protein on to the external surface of the plasma membrane. In retinoic acid-induced LAN-5 cells, high-mobility group 1 protein is not secreted but is accumulated in a membrane-bound form, particularly at the level of neurite outgrowths. These cells can also be induced to differentiate by high-mobility group 1 protein coated on the surface of the cell culture vessels. The specific function of the protein in this process is indicated by inhibition of cell differentiation by an anti-high-mobility group 1 protein antibody. The data are consistent with a role of high-mobility group 1 protein in promoting cell-cell interactions and in the development of nerve tissues.
Cyclic AMP-dependent kinases have been suggested to constitute signal transduction pathways involved in the regulation of neuronal development and survival. The present study examined whether elevated levels of cyclic AMP exhibit trophic activities on rat striatal neurons grown under serum-free culture conditions. Treatment with dibutyryl cyclic AMP, a permeable cyclic AMP, increased GABA uptake and immunocytochemically detectable levels of proteins such as c-Fos and calbindin-D28k. Neuronal survival was promoted by dibutyryl cyclic AMP only in lower density cultures. Chronic exposure of neurons to dibutyryl cyclic AMP enhanced the morphological development of calbindin-D28k-positive neurons. Furthermore, pretreatment with dibutyryl cyclic AMP afforded neuroprotection against N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced excitotoxicity. The dibutyryl cyclic AMP-induced trophic effects above were blocked by adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphothioate, a specific inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent kinases. We also examined whether cyclic AMP is involved in trophic effects provided by membrane depolarization induced by high K+ and growth factors such as basic fibroblast growth factor and insulin-like growth factor-1. Depolarization, but not the growth factors, increased intracellular levels of cyclic AMP. Adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphothioate diminished depolarization increases in GABA uptake, whereas it did not affect the trophic effect of the growth factors. Co-treatment with the growth factors and dibutyryl cyclic AMP produced additive effects on both increases in GABA uptake and neuroprotection against excitotoxicity. The present results indicate that cyclic AMP-dependent kinases play roles in mediating differentiation and survival of developing striatal neurons. Signalling pathways activated by either basic fibroblast growth factor or insulin-like growth factor-1 are independent of those involving cyclic AMP. In contrast, depolarization-induced trophic effects are mediated, at least in part, by cyclic AMP-dependent pathways. Protective actions of dibutyryl cyclic AMP against excitotoxic injury as well as the additive effects with the growth factors are of potential interest in the experimental therapy of acute or chronic neurodegenerative diseases.
Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C is a key enzyme in signal transduction. We have previously demonstrated that an isozyme of phospholipase C, phospholipase C-delta1, accumulates aberrantly in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we examined the property of phospholipase C isozymes in human brains using the methods of chromatofocusing and gel filtration chromatography, and investigated their changes in Alzheimer's disease brains. The chromatofocusing profile of human brain phospholipase C activity on a Mono P HR column demonstrated that phospholipase C-gamma1, exhibiting an isoelectric point value of 5.2, and phospholipase C-delta1, exhibiting isoelectric point values of 5.2 and 4.6, are partly overlapped in their elution. In contrast, the elution profiles of control and Alzheimer's disease brain phospholipase C on Superdex 200 pg column gel filtration chromatography indicated that phospholipase C-gamma1 and phospholipase C-delta1 can be separated with the elution position having a molecular weight of about 240,000 and 140,000, respectively, in the human brain. Using this gel filtration chromatography it was revealed that the phospholipase C-gamma1 activity was significantly decreased and the phospholipase C-delta1 activity was significantly increased in Alzheimer's disease brains compared with controls. These results suggest that the phospholipase C isozymes are differentially involved in Alzheimer's disease.
Histamine is known to be a neurotransmitter in the brain, but it has not been clearly implicated in major diseases. All histaminergic neurons reside in the posterior hypothalamus and innervate most brain areas, which is compatible with the concept that histamine is involved in general central regulatory mechanisms. A sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic fluorimetric method was used to measure histamine contents in post mortem Alzheimer brains and age-matched controls. The cellular storage sites and distribution of histaminergic nerve fibers were examined with a specific immunohistochemical method. The histamine content was significantly reduced in the hypothalamus (42% of control value), hippocampus (43%) and temporal cortex (53%) of Alzheimer brains. Differences in other cortical areas, putamen and substantia nigra were not significant. Histamine-containing nerve fibers were found in the hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus and subiculum of both Alzheimer brains and controls. No histamine-containing mast cells were seen in these temporal structures. Histamine in the human temporal lobe is stored in nerve fibers originating from the posterior hypothalamus, and not in mast cells. Decrease in brain histamine may contribute to the cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease directly or through the cholinergic system. Development of drugs that penetrate the blood brain barrier and increase histaminergic activity might be beneficial in Alzheimer's disease.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive dementia characterized by a pronounced neurodegeneration in the entorhinal cortex, hippocampal CA1, and subiculum. Excitatory amino acid receptor-mediated excitotoxicity is postulated to play a role in the neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. The present study investigated immunocytochemical localization of excitatory amino acid receptor subunits in the hippocampus of twelve Alzheimer's disease and eleven controls, matched for age, sex and post mortem interval. Immunocytochemistry with antibodies specific for glutamate receptors GluR1, GluR2(4) (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid), GluR5/6/7 (kainate) and NR1 (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor subunits demonstrated that virtually all projection neurons in all subfields contained subunits from each receptor class. However, regional differences in immunoreactivity were apparent in Alzheimer's disease vs normal human brain. In the vulnerable regions (i.e. CA1) immunolabelling of GluR1, GluR2(4), GluR5/6/7 and NR1 was reduced, presumably due to cell loss. In contrast, GluR2(4) immunolabelling appeared to be increased in the inner portion of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. In addition to cellular labelling, GluR1, GluR2(4) and NR1 immunolabelling revealed a novel pathological structure in 12 of 12 Alzheimer's disease, but none of the control brains. The lesions were juxtacellular clusters of granular immunoreactivity in the neuropil of the pyramidal cell layer. Ultrastructural analysis revealed these to be cellular processes containing dense vesicles and flocculent material with immunolabelling localized to plasma and vesicular membranes. They were not specifically associated with amyloid fibrils and did not contain paired helical filaments and they were also distinct from granulovacuolar degeneration. Several structures contained Hirano body filaments indicating that the dystrophic processes were most likely dendritic in origin. Additional studies are needed to determine the pathogenesis of these lesions, which could provide an additional index of dendritic deterioration in Alzheimer's disease.
The level of synaptotagmin I or II in developing spinal neurons was increased by injection of synaptotagmin messenger RNA into early blastomeres of Xenopus embryos. The effect of overexpression of synaptotagmin on synaptic function was assayed in Xenopus nerve-muscle cultures within two days after injection. At neuromuscular synapses made by synaptotagmin-overexpressing neurons, the frequency of miniature postsynaptic currents was markedly reduced, while their mean amplitude was unchanged, as compared to those of control neurons in the same culture. The amplitude of evoked postsynaptic currents elicited by low-frequency test stimuli was not affected by overexpression. However, synapses made by synaptotagmin-overexpressing neurons exhibited significantly higher paired-pulse facilitation and reduced tetanus-induced depression of the synaptic response, and there was also an increased number of synaptic vesicles at regions 100-300 nm from the plasmalemma at such synapses. These results show that synaptotagmins can exert an inhibitory action on the spontaneous exocytosis of synaptic vesicles. The effects on short-term plasticity suggest that synaptotagmin may facilitate vesicular supply for the evoked release during higher frequency transmission.
We have examined the relationship between brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene expression in the hippocampus and memory retention as well as long-term potentiation of rats. One-way inhibitory avoidance learning was adopted as the behavioural paradigm. Results revealed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus were markedly increased at 1 h, 3 h and 6 h post-training in rats showing good retention performance when compared with the poor retention controls. Direct injection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor antisense oligonucleotide into the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus before memory consolidation takes place markedly impaired retention performance in rats. It also significantly decreased brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA level in the dentate gyrus. The same antisense treatment also markedly reduced the amplitude and slope of excitatory postsynaptic potential as well as the brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA level in the dentate gyrus. These results suggest that hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene expression plays an important role in the memory consolidation process and in the expression of long-term potentiation in rats. These results provide the first evidence to relate brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene expression and memory function in vertebrates. It further suggests that brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene expression is involved in behavioural plasticity.




We review our recent studies of cerebellar neuronal organization, emphasizing that consideration of organizational features of cerebellar circuitry represents a necessary step toward the understanding of how the cerebellum does what it does, in terms of both its internal information processing and its interaction with other motor structures.

The treatment of neuropathic pain with opioid analgesics is a matter of controversy among clinicians and clinician scientists. Although neuropathic pain is usually believed to be only slightly responsive to opioids, several studies show that satisfactory analgesia can be obtained if adequate doses are administered. In the present study, we tested the effectiveness of buprenorphine in 21 patients soon after thoracic surgery (nociceptive postoperative pain) and 1 month after surgery in the same 21 patients who developed postthoracotomy neuropathic pain with a burning, electrical and shooting quality. According to a double-blind randomized study, the analgesic dose (AD) of buprenorphine needed to reduce the long-term neuropathic pain by 50% (AD50) was calculated and compared to the AD50 in the immediate postoperative period. We found that long-term neuropathic pain could be adequately reduced by buprenorphine. However, the AD50 in neuropathic pain was significantly higher relative to the AD50 in the short-term postoperative pain, indicating a lower responsiveness of neuropathic pain to opioids. We also found a strict relationship between the short-term and long-term AD50, characterized by a saturating effect. In fact, if the AD50 soon after surgery was low, the AD50 increase in the long-term neuropathic pain was threefold. By contrast, if the AD50 soon after surgery was high, the AD50 in neuropathic pain was only slightly increased. This suggests that, though neuropathic pain is indeed less sensitive to opioids, in some neuropathic patients a large amount of opioid resistance is already present in other painful conditions.
Recent evidence suggests that central pain, i.e., pain due to central nervous system damage, may be due to a deranged neurotransmission between the sensory thalamus and sensory cortical areas. Central pain can be controlled either by opposing glutamate neurotransmission or potentiating GABAergic transmission. It is speculated that a relative hypofunction of the GABAergic inhibition both at thalamic and cortical levels leads to a sectorial excitatory hypertonus in those same areas. A blend of the two should mark each patient. A pharmacological dissection approach is provided that should optimize the treatment, up to now globally poor, of central pain.

The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of interstimulus interval (ISI) on ethanol-induced place aversion in rats. Six groups of rats initially received four pairings of a distinctive floor stimulus (CS+) with ethanol (1 g/kg, I.P.) and four pairings of a different floor stimulus (CS-) with saline. Groups -30, -15, -10, -5, 0, and 5 were injected 30, 15, 10, 5, or 0 min before, or 5 min after exposure to the 5 min CS, respectively. After testing for place aversion, all groups were exposed to an additional set of conditioning trials using a higher dose of ethanol (1.5 g/kg). During the first test, only groups 0 and -15 exhibited conditioned place aversion. However, during the second test, all groups showed conditioned aversion except group -30. The results suggest that ethanol's aversive effects dissipate by 30 min postinjection or that it is more difficult to associate those effects with short-duration external stimuli at long backward intervals. In contrast to recent findings with mice, the direction of ethanol-induced place conditioning was not altered in rats exposed to different ISIs.


A principal components factor analysis (with varimax rotation) was performed on the Millon Adolescent Personality Scale Base Rate scores of 335 adolescent psychiatric inpatients. A four-factor solution was obtained (accounting for 84.1% of the variance), which was similar to that obtained by Millon, et al, for the normative sample. Confirmatory factor analyses, however, using data obtained from computer generated random responses to the test, also fit the inpatient and normative sample data very well. The factor structure of the Millon Adolescent Personality Inventory therefore was inferred to be driven by the considerable item-scale overlap that characterizes the test.
Nicotine has been shown to be a potent stimulus for the secretion of the stress-responsive hormones, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and prolactin. This paper reviews the findings by our laboratory and others that demonstrate the polysynaptic pathways involved in the neuroendocrine responses to systemic nicotine. It will focus primarily on the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the effect of nicotine on ACTH secretion, with supplementary information on prolactin secretion, where relevant. Data are presented demonstrating that nicotine acts via a central mechanism to stimulate indirectly the release of ACTH from the anterior pituitary corticotropes. Nicotine does not appear to act directly at the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), the site of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons crucial to the regulation of ACTH. However, brainstem catecholaminergic regions projecting to the PVN showed a regionally selective and dose-dependent sensitivity to nicotine, particularly the noradrenergic/adrenergic nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). A reduction in the modulatory effect of these catecholamines (by neurotoxic lesion, synthetic enzyme inhibitors or adrenergic receptor antagonists) resulted in an inhibition of nicotine-stimulated ACTH secretion. In addition, blockade of nicotinic cholinergic receptors (NAchRs) in the brainstem by the antagonist, mecamylamine, resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in norepinephrine (NE) release from terminals in the PVN, and a concomitant reduction in plasma ACTH. The differential sensitivity of these receptors to the nicotinic agonists, cytisine and nicotine, reflects the heterogeneity of the NAchR subtypes involved. The desensitization characteristics of the neuroendocrine responses to both acute and chronic nicotine exposure are indicative of an alteration in these NAchRs.
Behavioral sensitization to the psychomotor stimulant effects of some drugs can be quite persistent, lasting for weeks to months after cessation of drug exposure. We investigated the duration of sensitization to the locomotor stimulant effects of 2.0 g/kg ethanol (EtOH) and determined whether repeated EtOH administration would lead to alterations in blood EtOH clearance rates. Female mice were injected (IP) daily for up to 10 consecutive days with saline or EtOH. Baseline activity and acute EtOH locomotor responses were evaluated in Omnitech automated activity monitors (10-min test), with horizontal distance traveled as the measure of locomotion. Locomotor activity response to EtOH was reevaluated immediately after the final daily EtOH injection, and at 5-day intervals during which no EtOH was administered. Tail blood samples for determination of blood ethanol concentrations (BECs) were collected from EtOH-treated mice at the end of activity sessions. Sensitization lasted for up to 29 days, and in two of three of the behavioral sensitization studies, repeated EtOH treatment resulted in elevated BECs. There was no significant effect of repeated EtOH exposure on EtOH clearance rate in a study involving no behavioral testing. The demonstration of persistent behavioral sensitization may imply a lasting hypersensitivity of certain neural pathways to EtOH, thus increasing the reinforcing value of EtOH and the probability of relapse to EtOH drinking after abstinence.
The effects of two doses of caffeine (1.5 and 3 mg/kg) on various aspects of visual selective attention were investigated in 24 healthy human subjects. Specific task conditions were compared to provide measures of selectivity for a location in the visual field, of distractibility, of selectivity among response alternatives, and of strategic influences. In two out of three tasks, caffeine speeded responses significantly. However, these effects did not differ across conditions within-task, so there was no indication that they were to due to (a) specific effect(s) on one or more of the attentional sub-functions. The results suggest that the beneficial effects of caffeine in low-load conditions cannot be attributed to reduced distractibility or increased suppression of task-irrelevant response tendencies.
Electrophysiological studies using chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats were performed to elucidate the role of serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptors in the regulation of neuronal activity of nucleus accumbens (Acc) neurons receiving input from the parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus (Pf). Extracellular neuronal activities were recorded in Acc using a glass microelectrode attached along a seven-barreled micropipette, each barrel of which was filled with dopamine, 5-HT, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT: 5-HT1A agonist) hydrobromide, 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl]-piperazine (NAN-190: 5-HT1A antagonist) hydrobromide, glutamate and 2 M NaCl. These drugs were microiontophoretically applied to the immediate vicinity of the target neuron. Spikes elicited by Pf stimulation were inhibited by iontophoretically applied dopamine, 5-HT and 8-OH-DPAT in a dose-dependent manner. In these neurons, firing induced by iontophoretic application of glutamate was also suppressed by dopamine, 5-HT and 8-OH-DPAT. The 5-HT or 8-OH-DPAT-induced inhibitions of the glutamate-induced firing were antagonized by concomitant application of NAN-190. These findings suggest that the dopamine-sensitive Acc neurons receiving input from Pf are inhibited by 5-HT via 5-HT1A receptors located on postsynaptic Acc neurons.
Radioimmunoassay (RIA) was used to determine the changes of the immunoreactivity (ir) of somatostatin (SOM) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the spinal perfusate of rat induced by electroacupuncture (EA) of different frequencies. The frequency of EA was chosen to be 2, 15 and 100 Hz and the spinal perfusate was collected in three periods of 30 min before, during and after EA. The results indicate: (1) low frequency EA (2 Hz) increased the spinal SOM-ir level by 39% (P &lt; 0.05) but decreased that of CGRP-ir by 47% (P &lt; 0.05); (2) conversely, 15 Hz EA decreased spinal fluid SOM-ir level by 37% (P &lt; 0.05) but increased that of CGRP-ir by 92% (P &lt; 0.05); (3) 100 Hz EA behaved like 15 Hz in inhibiting SOM-ir level (P &lt; 0.01), but without effect on CGRP-ir. The above results show that specific frequency is required for peripheral electrical stimulation to activate or suppress the release of spinal neuropeptides SOM and CGRP, a fact that may have clinical implications.
To examine the relationship between short-term memory deficit and severity of the dementia in Alzheimer's disease, free recall of word lists was investigated. Twenty-seven patients with diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease according to NINCDS ADRDA criteria, and twelve age-matched controls participated in the study. Patients were divided into two subgroups: fourteen mild and thirteen moderate dementia by Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR). To evaluate short-term and long-term memory components separately, two measures were used: recency effect in the serial-position free-recall curve, and intra-trial retention interval developed by Tulving and Colotla (1970). Mildly demented patients showed a long-term memory deficit with almost normal short-term memory, but moderate ones showed an overall reduction in both measures. These results suggest that memory disorder in Alzheimer's disease changes not only quantitatively but also qualitatively with the progress of dementia, and short-term memory is relatively preserved in the early stage of the disease.
Non-REM sleep deprivation and REM sleep deprivation both lead to specific rebounds, suggesting that these states fulfil physiological needs. In view of impaired performance after sleep deprivation, a recovery function of sleep seems likely. The timing of this recovery is restricted to a narrow time interval within the 24 hour day, i.e. the night. Generally, nocturnal sleep in humans is considered a consequence of the impact of the circadian pacemaker in the hypothalamus on sleep propensity. The interaction between the homeostatic recovery process and the circadian pacemaker has been modelled in the two-process model of sleep regulation. This model is used as a starting point in the present review. A series of refinements and several alternative models are discussed, both with respect to the quality of fit of theory and data, as well as with respect to the concepts behind the models.




The first and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) biosynthesis is GTP cyclohydrolase (GTPCH). BH4 serves as the essential cofactor for aromatic L-amino acid hydroxylases, such as tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), as well as for nitric oxide synthase (NOS). We hypothesized that to provide access to the cofactor, a close association exists between BH4-synthesizing and BH4-dependent enzymes, and we determined the relationship among GTPCH, neuronal NOS (nNOS), and TH in rat brain and adrenal gland using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Analyses of adjacent sections revealed specific localization of GTPCH in TH-containing cells of the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, hypothalamus, locus ceruleus, and adrenal medulla, and also in TPH-containing cells of the dorsal raphe nucleus and pineal gland. Thus, BH4 can be synthesized in all monoaminergic cells and is readily available for the enzymes requiring it. In contrast, analysis of adjacent sections showed that nNOS was not colocalized with GTPCH. Scattered nNOS-positive cells were found in the cortex, striatum, cerebellum, and olfactory bulb, all areas that receive monoaminergic innervation. The absence of GTPCH in nNOS cells suggests that nitric oxide-producing cells may either obtain biopterin from monoamine-containing processes which terminate in close proximity, or take up biopterin released into the blood. Double labelling of the same section for TH and nNOS revealed the TH nerve terminals connecting with the nNOS-positive cell bodies, suggesting the possibility that the BH4-containing nerve terminals may directly donate this cofactor to the nNOS-containing cells.
Although relatively few in number, cognitive neuroscience studies of reasoning have two general implications for cognitive theories of deduction. First, an important distinction among these theories is whether they focus on the effect of personally relevant content on the processes and representations underlying deductive reasoning. Evidence is reviewed indicating that there is a neuroanatomical basis for both content-independent and content-dependent theories of deduction. Clinical and neuroimaging studies appear to show that content-independent reasoning is mediated by the left hemisphere, whereas content-dependent reasoning is mediated by regions in the right hemisphere and the bilateral ventromedial frontal cortex. In normal subjects, reasoning is likely to be based on contributions from both hemispheres. Second, clinical evidence indicates that the visuospatial processes used in deductive reasoning are mediated by the posterior areas of the left hemisphere, and that verbal and visuospatial reasoning representations overlap at the neuroanatomical level. This finding weighs against the claims of mental-model theory that deduction involves a significant nonverbal component. Further investigation, particularly with contemporary neuroimaging methods, is needed to test these preliminary conclusions.

Our appreciation of the relationship between synaptic structure and function, and in particular our understanding of quantal synaptic transmission, is derived from classical studies on the neuromuscular junction. However, physiological studies of quantal transmission at mammalian CNS synapses have produced a variety of results, and thus no consensus of opinion has emerged. This variability could be due, in part, to experimental and analytical limitations or to differences in the structural and functional features of central synapses, or both. Some of the experimental limitations have recently been overcome by the use of novel preparations that permit direct measurement of quantal synaptic events in the CNS. Although these studies reveal similarities between the synaptic mechanisms of the neuromuscular junction and CNS synapses, important differences and specializations are also evident. The purpose of this review is to highlight the structural and functional diversity of synapses in the mammalian CNS, and to discuss the potential relevance of structural features to synaptic function.
The treatment of patients with malignant gliomas is palliative and encompasses surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Outcome measures have demonstrated improvement in both survival and neurologic performance in patients undergoing complete or near-complete tumor resection. After surgery, involved-field radiotherapy (radiotherapy administered to the tumor and to the tissue in a 3-cm radius surrounding the tumor) has been shown to further improve survival rates when given in a total dose of 6000-6500 cGy. Survival is further improved by the coadministration of the chemoradiopotentiator hydroxycarbamide (hydroxyurea). The role of adjuvant or boost stereotactic radiotherapy is unclear, despite its frequent use. In addition, adjuvant chemotherapy has been shown to improve survival rates in approximately one-quarter of patients with glioblastoma multiforme and in the majority of patients with anaplastic astrocytoma. No a priori method exists, however, to predict which patient will benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy. As a consequence, all physiological young patients with good performance status or limited neurologic disability are treated with chemotherapy. The best results of adjuvant chemotherapy are achieved with a nitrosourea chemotherapy, either carmustine (BCNU) or a combination of procarbazine and lomustine (CCNU) and vincristine, known as PCV-3 therapy. Salvage chemotherapy is reserved for patients with tumor progression, some of whom benefit from a re-operation. Occasional patients with recurrent gliomas may be palliated by stereotactic radiotherapy.
Multiple genetic polymorphisms of the human dopamine D4 receptor (hD4R) have been identified including a 12 bp repeat in exon 1 associated with a psychotic condition called delusional disorder. Competition binding assays revealed minor pharmacological differences between the recombinant A1 (normal) and A2 (delusional) proteins with respect to quinpirole and the antipsychotic clozapine, however no functional differences were detected for receptor activation by dopamine, epinephrine, or norepinephrine. Our results suggest that this polymorphism may only confer susceptibility to delusional disorder in combination with other genetic or environmental factors.
The loss of dentate gyrus (DG) granular cells after removal of the rat adrenal glands (ADX) is mediated by a process that is apoptotic in nature. The present study was initiated to compare changes in the immunocytochemical distribution of the cell-cycle regulatory protein cyclin D1, which has been implicated in apoptosis, with the loss of DG granular cells after ADX. Our data indicate that cyclin D1-immunoreactivity (cyclin D1-ir) is enhanced in the rat dentate gyrus after adrenalectomy. The enhanced cyclin D1-ir shows a close relationship, both in time and space, with granular cell loss in the rat dentate gyrus that occurs after adrenalectomy. However, the enhanced cyclin D1-immunoreactivity was present in microglia and radial glia rather than in the dentate gyrus granular cells. This suggests that cyclin D1 is not directly involved in apoptosis of granular cells in the rat dentate gyrus after adrenalectomy.
The nitric oxide (NO) donors, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), 1-[2-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl)amino]diazen-1-ium+ ++-1,2-diolate] (DETA NONOate), and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP) produce a dose-dependent increase in cell death in a catecholaminergic cell line (CATH.a) derived from the central nervous system. Cell death is associated with a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential. Dopamine also induced cell death of CATH.a cells and this was potentiated by concentrations of SNP which alone did not produce cell death. Hemoglobin, a scavenger of NO radicals, blocked SNP- and SNAP-induced cell death. Catalase and superoxide dismutase, enzymes that metabolize H2O2 and superoxide, respectively, did not inhibit SNP- or SNAP-induced cell death. These data indicate that NO donors produce cell death in CATH.a cells through a mechanism related to the production of NO and the loss of the mitochondrial membrane potential but unrelated to the production of H2O2.

Inactivation of the klotho (kl) gene in mice results in multiple disorders that resemble human aging. The mouse kl gene encodes a novel single-pass membrane protein with homology to beta-glucosidases. In this study, we have isolated a human homologue of the kl gene and determined its gene structure. The human kl gene is composed of 5 exons and ranges over 50 kb on chromosome 13q12. We have further identified two transcripts that encode a membrane or secreted protein. These transcripts arise from a single kl gene through alternative RNA splicing. Expression of the putative secreted form predominates over that of the membrane form. The present study provides fundamental information necessary for further analyses of the human kl gene and its functions.
The level of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rat was measured at approximately weekly intervals after STZ induction, using an ELISA assay technique. In addition, the area profiles of L6-S1, and L1-L2 dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRG), labelled by fast blue dye injected into the bladder, were measured at the same weekly intervals. Compared to control animals, the levels of NGF rose rapidly to a maximum at one week and then slowly declined over the next three weeks. The areas of the DRGs increased to a peak after which they also started to decline. The peak increase in DRG area profiles was delayed relative to the peak level of bladder NGF. The data suggest that bladder NGF is transported retrogradely to the DRG neurons where it transforms the cell economy to cause an increase in size.
The expression of c-Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) and chronic Fos-related antigen-like immunoreactivity (FRALI) accompanying behavioral sensitization to amphetamine was assessed in male rat striatum. Animals were treated for four days with amphetamine (A; 5 mg/kg) or vehicle (V) and challenged with A or V on the fifth day. The number of FLI-positive cells in the striatum was enhanced in V-A and A-A groups as compared to control (V-V), while the number of FRALI-positive cells in the striatum was enhanced in the A-V and A-A groups as compared to control. These results suggest that the absence of a decrease in the number of striatal FLI-positive cells accompanying chronic amphetamine treatment is not due to antibody cross-reactivity with chronic FRAs, and that behavioral sensitization to amphetamine is not accompanied by a change in the number of striatal cells expressing c-Fos.
The amplitude of the acoustic startle reflex can be modulated by exposure to aversive stimuli or other conditions which evoke a state of fear. The neurotransmitters involved in this modulation are currently being investigated. Unilateral local infusion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH; 0, 10, 20, 40 and 80 ng) into the nucleus reticularis pontis caudalis (PnC), an obligatory synapse in the acoustic startle reflex, significantly elevated startle amplitude in a dose-dependent manner. The facilitation of startle began immediately following infusion, reached asymptote approximately 20-25 min later, and persisted throughout the remaining 60 min test session. This CRH-enhanced startle effect was blocked by infusion of the CRH antagonist, alpha-helical CRH9-41, immediately prior to CRH infusion. These results support an involvement of CRH at the level of the PnC in modulating the acoustic startle reflex.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor is one pathway through which excessive influx of calcium has been suggested to trigger ischemia-induced delayed neuronal death. NMDA receptors are heterooligomeric complexes comprised of both NR1 and NR2A-D subunits, in various combinations. NR2B-containing NMDA complexes exhibit larger, more prolonged conductances than those lacking this subunit. We tested the ability of the non-competitive, NR2B-selective NMDA antagonist eliprodil to (a) protect synaptic transmission in in vitro hippocampal slices from hypoxia, and (b) reduce ischemic delayed neuronal death in hippocampal organotypic slice cultures. Eliprodil markedly improved the recovery of Schaffer collateral-CA1 excitatory postsynaptic potentials following a 15 min hypoxic insult, with an EC50 of approximately 0.5 microM. In contrast to this functional protection, eliprodil did not reduce delayed death of CA1 pyramidal neurons in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures treated with severe hypoxia plus hypoglycemia, though it did potently protect CA3 pyramidal neurons in the same cultures. These data indicate that NMDA receptors containing NR2B subunits may play a role in long-term recovery of hippocampal synaptic function following ischemia/hypoxia. Furthermore, the selective protection of CA3, but not CA1, pyramidal neurons suggests that NR2B-containing NMDA receptors may preferentially contribute to an excitotoxic component of ischemia-induced delayed neuronal death.
The present experiments were undertaken to explore whether exaggeration of ischemic brain damage by preischemic hyperglycemia is due to lack of capillary patency in the postischemic period. Normo- and hyperglycemic rats were exposed to 10 min of forebrain ischemia. Histopathological changes were evaluated after 6 and 16-18 h of recovery by light microscopy, and capillary patency was assessed at the same time points by a double-staining technique, depicting perfused and morphologically identifiable capillaries. The results demonstrate that some neuronal damage was detectable after 6 h of recirculation which was aggravated after 16-18 h of recirculation in hyperglycemic rats. In contrast, the degree of capillary patency was similar in normo- and hyperglycemic rats. In both groups the perfusion marker, Evans blue, perfused about 95% of all capillaries when injected 10 s before decapitation. Since preischemic hyperglycemia exaggerates brain damage without cessation of capillary perfusion the primary targets of hyperglycemic brain damage may not be capillaries but neurons or glial cells.
All insect brains contain mushroom-shaped neural bodies which are implicated in associative learning. Here we show that the mushroom bodies of the locust brain have a remarkable and hitherto undescribed neural organisation consisting of six tubular structures in which bundles of axons are enclosed by cylindrical walls of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) expressing processes. A dynamic temporo-spatial simulation shows that the tubular organization allows NO to attain and maintain locally elevated concentrations within highly structured domains in the CNS. A diffusible gaseous signalling molecule such as NO can therefore selectively affect computational processes occurring in discrete parallel channels of information flow in the brain. The implications of this are discussed in relation to the role of NO in a compartmental model of the mushroom bodies and more generally in the context of the targetting of diffusible messenger molecules in the brain.
To investigate whether sublethal ischemia preserves neuronal function otherwise lost after stroke, anesthesized rabbits were subjected to clamping of abdominal aorta to cause lumbar spinal cord ischemia. An occlusion period of 12.5 min was followed 12 or 48 h later by a second occlusion for 30 min. When scored 24 h later for hindlimb function on a 0-6 scale, the rabbits that underwent tolerizing ischemia 12 h before infarction had better motor function (n = 7; 4.29+/-0.21,p &lt; 0.0001) than sham-operated controls (n = 7; 1.00+/-0.27), but those infarcted at 48 h had mixed outcomes (n = 5; 2.20+/-0.21, ns). In correlation, the proportion of neurons with histological evidence of damage was lower in the tolerized rabbits (0.15+/-0.04) than in sham-operated controls (0.74+/-0.09, p &lt; 0.001). We conclude that ischemic tolerance also improves neurological function of infarcted spinal cord and could be studied for clinical application.
Single neuron activity was recorded in monkey motor cortex during the execution of pointing movements in six directions. The amount of prior information was manipulated by varying the range of precued directions. A distribution of neural population activation was constructed in the space of movement directions. This population representation of movement direction was preshaped by the precue. Peak location and width reflected the precued range of movement directions. From this preshaped form, the population representation evolved continuously in time and gradually in parameter space toward a more sharply peaked distribution centered on the parameter value specified by the response signal. A theoretical model of motor programming generated a similar temporal evolution of an activation field representing movement direction.
Retinal gamma-aminobutyric acid type C (GABA[C]) receptors are believed to consist of rho subunits. The pharmacological properties of GABA(C) receptors appear to vary among different species. Since the mouse is an important model for gene targeting and behavioral studies, this study was aimed at cloning rho subunits in the mouse. Here we report the isolation of two full length cDNAs corresponding to mouse rho1 and rho2 subunits. In contrast to the rat, both subunits in mouse are able to form homomeric receptors, but only rho2 receptors are insensitive to picrotoxinin. Mouse rho1 and rho2 also co-assemble to form heteromeric receptors. These findings form the basis for further study on GABA(C) receptors using the mouse model.
Rodents with striatal C6 glioma were given carboplatin (65 mg kg(-1) in a 10 mg ml(-1) solution, i.v.) after pretreatment with the NO modulating agents 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), bradykinin or dexamethasone, to determine whether platinum disposition in the glioma and normal brain was altered. There was no significant change in mean glioma platinum disposition after 3 days of dexamethasone (32+/-9.7 microg/g). Treatment with SIN-1 (45.1+/-14.2 microg/g), L-NAME (42.9+/-4.9 microg/g) and bradykinin (45.7+/-11.3 microg/g) all resulted in increased tumour platinum concentration compared with controls (29+/-5.5 microg/g) but these results were not statistically significant. Dexamethasone significantly (p &lt; 0.05) reduced the platinum concentration in normal brain but the other agents had no effect. Although glioma platinum concentration could be increased by some agents that alter tissue NO levels, the patterns of response were unpredictable and the magnitude (approximately 50%) of the increased platinum disposition is unlikely to be biologically significant.
NMDA receptors, a class of glutamate-gated cation channels with high Ca2+ conductance, mediate fast transmission and plasticity of central excitatory synapses. We show here that gene-targeted mice expressing NMDA receptors without the large intracellular C-terminal domain of any one of three NR2 subunits phenotypically resemble mice made deficient in that particular subunit. Mice expressing the NR2B subunit in a C-terminally truncated form (NR2B(deltaC/deltaC) mice) die perinatally. NR2A(deltaC/deltaC) mice are viable but exhibit impaired synaptic plasticity and contextual memory. These and NR2C(deltaC/deltaC) mice display deficits in motor coordination. C-terminal truncation of NR2 subunits does not interfere with the formation of gateable receptor channels that can be synaptically activated. Thus, the phenotypes of our mutants appear to reflect defective intracellular signaling.
Previous studies of neuronal oscillations in sensorimotor cortex in humans and primates have observed rhythmic 15-30 Hz activity, which is correlated with motor output. In humans, this work has been limited to magnetic recordings. In the present study we investigate if similar results can be obtained using electroencephalography (EEG). EEG recordings were made from over the sensorimotor cortex of five adult subjects who performed repeated periods of maintained wrist extension and flexion. Coherence analysis between EEG and electromyogram (EMG) recordings from these muscles revealed correlation in the 15-30 Hz range, with a synchronous correlation structure which matches that previously observed in humans and in paired cortical recordings from primates. We conclude that EEG is equally efficient at investigating functional aspects of these cortical rhythms during voluntary movement in humans.
The behavioral phenomenon of blocking indicates that the informational relationship between the conditioned stimulus and the unconditioned stimulus is essential in classical conditioning. The eyeblink conditioning paradigm is used to describe a neural mechanism that mediates blocking. Disrupting inhibition of the inferior olive, a structure that conveys unconditioned stimulus information (airpuff) to the cerebellum prevented blocking in rabbits. Recordings of cerebellar neuronal activity show that the inferior olive input to the cerebellum becomes suppressed as learning occurs. These results suggest that the inferior olive becomes functionally inhibited by the cerebellum during conditioning, and that this negative feedback process might be the neural mechanism mediating blocking.
The role of experience in the development of the cerebral cortex has long been controversial. Patterned visual experience in the cat begins when the eyes open about a week after birth. Cortical maps for orientation and ocular dominance in the primary visual cortex of cats were found to be present by 2 weeks. Early pattern vision appeared unimportant because these cortical maps developed identically until nearly 3 weeks of age, whether or not the eyes were open. The nave maps were powerfully dominated by the contralateral eye, and experience was needed for responses to the other eye to become strong, a process unlikely to be strictly Hebbian. With continued visual deprivation, responses to both eyes deteriorated, with a time course parallel to the well-known critical period of cortical plasticity. The basic structure of cortical maps is therefore innate, but experience is essential for specific features of these maps, as well as for maintaining the responsiveness and selectivity of cortical neurons.

The classical, genomic mechanisms of steroid hormone action cannot account for their rapid cellular effects. Membrane-bound steroid receptors have been partially characterized, but many rapid steroid effects occur in the absence of steroid-protein binding. Although it has been proposed that these effects could be due to steroid-induced biophysical alterations of the cell membrane, only indirect supporting evidence for this hypothesis has been forthcoming. In the present study, the ability of cortisol and estradiol (E2), natural steroids of different lipophilicity, to induce alterations in a model membrane (lecithin) bilayer was examined directly by small-angle X-ray diffraction under physiologic-like conditions. Within minutes, both steroids partitioned to distinct sites in the membrane. With increasing membrane cholesterol content, cortisol was displaced toward the polar headgroup region of the phospholipid bilayer, whereas E2 was displaced in the opposite direction, toward the nonpolar hydrocarbon core. Membrane-based partition coefficients (Kp[mem]) for both steroids (&gt;100:1) were highest at those cholesterol concentrations that displaced the steroids toward the headgroup region (high cholesterol for cortisol; low for E2). Both steroids, when located in the headgroup region, increased overall bilayer width by 3-4 A, a change that could modulate the structure and function of integral membrane proteins independent from steroid effects on the genome.
The present study examined changes in GluR1 subunits after kainic acid (KA) treatment of organotypic hippocampal cultures. Immunoblots labeled with antibodies directed at the C-terminal domain of GluR1 revealed a large decrease in GluR1 immunoreactivity at 6 h and 24 h, while immunoblots labeled with antibodies directed at the N-terminal domain indicated that KA treatment produced changes in structure but not amount of GluR1 protein. Changes in GluR1 subunits were significantly reduced by the calpain inhibitor, calpeptin. These results indicate that KA-induced changes in GluR1 properties are mediated by calpain activation.
Sympathetic outflow is regulated by a direct pathway of the rostral ventrolateral reticular formation (rvlm) to the thoracic spinal cord. For the first time, a dual retrograde/anterograde transport technique was used to demonstrate by light microscopy, potential disynaptic pathways from the rvlm to the thoracic spinal cord in the rat. An anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was injected into the rvlm and a retrograde tracer, FluoroGold (FG) deposited into the upper thoracic spinal cord in the same animal. Rostral ventrolateral medullary efferents labeled with BDA were apposed to thoracic reticulospinal neurons labeled with FG in the ventrolateral tegmentum, ipsilateral and contralateral to the injection site in the rvlm. Suggestive evidence was obtained of synaptic interactions with neuronal somata and proximal dendrites. The results support the idea that the rvlm projects to the thoracic cord via disynaptic, intrareticular pathways paralleling the well established monosynaptic projection.
The present study examined the behavioral effects of dopamine receptor agonists, antagonists, or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist in rats with a unilateral excitotoxic lesion of the globus pallidus (GP). After the unilateral GP lesions were made by injections of the ibotenic acid, drugs were systemically given and the elicited behaviors were quantitatively assessed. Systemic administration of haloperidol, but not SCH23390, dose-dependently induced contraversive dystonic posturing in unilateral GP-lesioned rats. On the other hand, systemic administration of quinpirole, but not SKF38393, induced ipsiversive circling. MK-801, only when given at a high dose, unilateral GP-lesioned rat, the D2 receptor agonist and antagonist caused ipsiversive and contraversive posturing or circling, respectively. Since the rotational behavior is induced on the basis of asymmetry of the basal ganglia output activity, there must be a marked difference between the GP ablation and the administration of D2 receptor blockade on the basal ganglia output activity, supporting a speculation that overactivity of the basal ganglia under dopamine depletion is not solely a result of the disinhibition from the inhibitory GP efferents. The present unilateral GP-lesion model appears to be a useful one for the pharmacobehavioral investigation of D2-mediated mechanisms.
Fluoxetine has been reported to suppress food intake in animal models of feeding. Fluoxetine increases extracellular serotonin in the brain. 5HT1A autoreceptors regulate synaptic levels of serotonin. A combination of a 5HT1A receptor antagonist and fluoxetine has been previously reported to enhance extracellular levels of serotonin over what is obtained with fluoxetine alone. Thus, a combination of fluoxetine and a 5HT1A antagonist could enhance the ability of fluoxetine to suppress appetite. Fluoxetine was tested in a model of feeding, in which CD-1 mice were trained to drink sweetened condensed milk. Fluoxetine was found to attenuate milk drinking, in a dose-dependent manner, at doses greater than 10 mg/kg, i.p. A 10 mg/kg dose of fluoxetine, which was ineffective by itself, was then combined either with 5-hydroxytryptophan (5HTP), a serotonin precursor, or with S(-) pindolol, a 5HT1A/beta adrenergic receptor antagonist or with LY206130, a more selective 5HT1A receptor antagonist. These treatment paradigms resulted in significant attenuation of the consumption of sweetened condensed milk. Since fluoxetine has been shown to be useful in the treatment of eating disorders and to promote weight loss in obese humans, although at doses greater than those required for the treatment of depression, a combination of fluoxetine with a 5HT1A receptor antagonist could be of clinical utility in the treatment of eating disorders and obesity.
The anterior pituitary is known to be regulated by hypothalamic hormones via the portal system. However, our recent studies have demonstrated the presence of a substantial amount of substance P (SP)-, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)- and galanin (GAL)- immunoreactive (ir) nerve fibers with numerous varicosities in the anterior pituitaries of the Macaca mulatta monkey. The present study investigated the relationship of the GAL-ir nerve fibers to the glandular cells. The M. mulatta monkeys were used and sections of the anterior pituitary were double immunostained. GAL-ir nerve fibers and/or varicosities were found in proximity to contact directly with corticotropes, somatotropes, lactotropes, gonadotropes and thyrotropes without any exception. These findings indicate that a direct neural factor may be involved in the regulation of adenohypophyseal secretion.
We investigated the effect of tetrahydroaminoacridine, a cholinesterase inhibitor and D-cycloserine (a partial glycine-B agonist of the NMDA receptor complex) on the defect of water maze spatial navigation in rats induced by aging. Tetrahydroaminoacridine (3 mg/kg, i.p.) or D-cycloserine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) enhanced acquisition of the water maze task. A combination of subthreshold doses of tetrahydroaminoacridine (1 mg/kg) and D-cycloserine (3 mg/kg) improved water maze acquisition, but a combination of lower subthreshold doses (tetrahydroaminoacridine 0.3 mg/kg + D-cycloserine 1 mg/kg) was ineffective. Consolidation in water maze test was not improved by tetrahydroaminoacridine (3 mg/kg) and/or D-cycloserine (10 mg/kg). The results suggest that tetrahydroaminoacridine and D-cycloserine synergistically enhance acquisition of spatial navigation in aged rats.
In earlier studies we found up-regulation of promoter P3 transcription and total igf2 expression with concomitant down-regulation of h19 expression in human hepatoblastoma (HB). In this study, we investigated the methylation status of these 2 genes and their abnormal regulation in 7 hepatoblastomas and 5 normal counterpart tissues. A specific part of the P3 region of igf2 was de-methylated in tumors with up-regulation of the promoter activity. A site-specific DNA hypermethylation in the h19 5'-region was found in tumor tissues with concomitant down-regulation of this gene. Therefore, abnormal methylation was found to be correlated with altered regulation of igf2 and h19 expression in human hepatoblastoma and may be involved in the genesis of this tumor.
The spinal segments of origin of the sympathetic preganglionic neurones (SPNs) influencing the activity of sympathetic postganglionic neurones innervating the tail have been studied using a neurophysiological approach. Activity was recorded from the ventral collector nerve that carries 70% of the sympathetic fibres innervating targets within the tail and provides 80% of the innervation of the caudal ventral artery. When recording activity from the ventral collector nerve at the tail base, the largest responses were evoked following electrical stimulation within spinal segments lumbar (L) 1 and 2 and smaller responses from thoracic (T) 13 (n = 5). Although similar responses to those recorded from the tail base were elicited from spinal segments L1 and L2, when activity was recorded from mid-tail only minimal responses were evoked from T13 (n = 6). On average robust responses were never elicited following stimulation beyond these segments. Responses had latencies compatible with conduction over C-fibre axons and were absent following ganglionic blockade. It is concluded that SPNs influencing the tail circulation reside mainly in L1 and L2 spinal segments and there is also a substantial but lesser contribution arising from segment T13.

Immunological suppression of the immune-cell system by means of cyclosporin-A was performed at a stage corresponding to microtumor development in the ethyl-nitrosourea (ENU) model of neurocarcinogenesis. The results that we have obtained suggest that this immunological manipulation is related to the appearance of extraneural undifferentiated tumors, suggesting that the immune-cell system is effective in immunocompetent rodents for providing extraneural ENU carcinogenesis.
c-Fos is one of the transcription factors contributing to the regulation of the downstream gene expression. Administration of dopamine D1 receptor agonist or D2 receptor antagonist have been known to induce c-Fos expressions in striatal projection neurons. We examined the effects of unilateral ablation of the globus pallidus (GP) on apomorphine- or haloperidol-induced expression of c-Fos in the striatum. Haloperidol induced a high level of c-Fos expression in the striatal neurons, predominantly those in the dorsal part, and the unilateral GP lesion caused by ibotenic acid increased the number of neurons exhibiting haloperidol-induced c-Fos expression in the striatum on the side with the GP lesion by about 2- or 3-fold. On the other hand, the unilateral GP lesion had no significant effect on the apomorphine-induced c-Fos expression in the striatal neurons. The present study provides evidence indicating that the activity of GP neurons may have an inhibitory influence on the induction of the immediate early genes by haloperidol in the striatal neurons, suggesting a function of the pallido-striatal feedback loops which have been identified anatomically.
A double-label immunofluorescence technique was used to demonstrate the co-localization of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) and gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) in individual neurons and processes of the chameleon brain. Co-localization was limited to a small population of cells in the dorsomedial tegmentum; in other regions of the brain, neurons were observed to be either CCK-8-immunopositive or GnRH-immunopositive but never both. However, double-labeled fibers and terminals were found to be distributed at a low density throughout the thalamus, the medial hypothalamus, the tegmentum and the spinal cord. These data provide the first indication for the co-localization of CCK-8 and GnRH, whose functional significance remains to be established. ON
Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophic factor that is relatively highly expressed in developing and adult brain. Whereas clinical determinations of nerve growth factor (NGF) in human serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in different conditions have been undertaken there are no reports on levels of BDNF in human CSF. Here we show that BDNF is increased in CSF of neonatal children suffering from asphyxia which is characterised by periods of brain hypoxic-ischemia. In contrast to BDNF, levels of CSF NGF were largely decreased in these children. The present results show that BDNF can be detected in human CSF and that the levels increase following hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. As suggested by animal studies the increased BDNF might counteract neuronal damage observed in these patients following asphyxia.
The novel antiepileptic agent gabapentin (Neurontin) binds with high affinity to the alpha 2 delta subunit of a voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel. We report here a simple purification scheme for detergent-solubilized alpha 2 delta subunits from porcine brain. This involves sequential chromatography on Q-Sepharose, Cu(2+)-charged iminodiacetic acid-Sepharose, wheat germ lectin-agarose, and Mono Q. The purified protein was essentially homogeneous by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with a subunit Mr of 145,000. Using [3H] gabapentin as the radiolabeled tracer and (S)-3-isobutyl gamma-aminobutyric acid to define nonspecific binding, the overall purification factor was 2760-fold and the apparent yield 26.6%. We also developed and validated a novel binding assay for alpha 2 delta Ca2+ channel subunits using the ligand pair L-[3H]leucine/L-isoleucine. Even in binding assays of crude brain membrane fractions, [3H]leucine proved to be remarkably stable and specific for the alpha 2 delta Ca2+ channel subunit. [3H]Leucine offers several advantages over custom-labeled [3H]gabapentin: it has a higher specific activity, is relatively inexpensive, and is available from commercial sources.
Recent evidence suggests that 'autapses' - synapses made by a neuron with itself - are much more common in the brain than previously thought, leading to the possibility that they are more than just curiosities and may have a real physiological role.
NMDA receptors are excitatory neurotransmitter receptors critical for synaptic plasticity and neuronal development in the mammalian brain. These receptors are found highly concentrated in the postsynaptic membrane of glutamatergic synapses. To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying NMDA receptor localization, we used the yeast two-hybrid system to identify proteins expressed in the brain that interact with the NMDA receptor subunit NR1. Here we report that the 68 kDa neurofilament subunit NF-L directly interacts with the NR1 subunit. This interaction occurs between the cytoplasmic C-terminal domain of NR1 and the rod domain of NF-L. However, NR1 splice variants lacking the first C-terminal exon cassette (C1) failed to associate with NF-L. Immunogold electron microscopy revealed a preferential localization of NR1 at the ends of in vitro-assembled neurofilaments. Overexpression of C1 cassette-containing NR1 constructs in fibroblast cells disrupted the assembly of recombinant neurofilaments. In addition, NR1 and NF-L cofractionated in detergent-treated rat brain synaptic plasma membranes. Furthermore, NR1 and NF-L colocalize in the dendrites and growth cones of cultured hippocampal neurons. These results demonstrate the splice variant-specific association of NR1 with neurofilaments and suggest a possible mechanism for anchoring or localizing NMDA receptors in the neuronal plasma membrane.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is an important model for examining synaptic mechanisms of learning and memory. A key question is whether the enhanced synaptic transmission occurring with LTP involves the addition of new synapses, the enlargement of existing synapses, or a redistribution in synaptic weight among synapses. Two experimental designs were used to address this question. In the first experimental design three conditions were evaluated across hippocampal slices maintained in vitro, including slices with LTP analyzed at 2 hr post-tetanus, slices tetanized in the presence of APV, and control slices receiving test stimulation only. In the second experimental design independent LTP and control (low-frequency stimulation) sites were examined. Synapse density was estimated by an unbiased volume sampling procedure. Synapse size was computed by three-dimensional reconstruction from serial electron microscopy (EM). Serial EM also was used to compute synapse number per unit length of dendrite. In both experimental designs there were no significant effects of LTP on total synapse number, on the distribution of different types of synapses (thin, mushroom, stubby, or branched dendritic spines and macular, perforated, or segmented postsynaptic densities), on the frequency of shaft synapses, nor on the relative proportion of single or multiple synapse axonal boutons. There was also no increase in synapse size. These results suggest that LTP does not cause an overall formation of new synapses nor an enlargement of synapses at 2 hr post-tetanus in hippocampal area CA1, and these results support the hypothesis that LTP could involve a redistribution of synaptic weights among existing synapses.
Transient ischemia leads to changes in synaptic efficacy and results in selective neuronal damage during the postischemic phase, although the mechanisms are not fully understood. The protein composition and ultrastructure of postsynaptic densities (PSDs) were studied by using a rat transient ischemic model. We found that a brief ischemic episode induced a marked accumulation in PSDs of the protein assembly ATPases, N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein, and heat-shock cognate protein-70 as well as the BDNF receptor (trkB) and protein kinases, as determined by protein microsequencing. The changes in PSD composition were accompanied by a 2.5-fold increase in the yield of PSD protein relative to controls. Biochemical modification of PSDs correlated well with an increase in PSD thickness observed in vivo by electron microscopy. We conclude that a brief ischemic episode modifies the molecular composition and ultrastructure of synapses by assembly of proteins to the postsynaptic density, which may underlie observed changes in synaptic function and selective neuronal damage.
In the past decade, considerable progress has been made in the understanding of the biology of rodent oligodendrocyte precursor cells and their role in the generation of oligodendrocytes in the developing and adult rodent CNS. Much less is known about human oligodendrocyte lineage cells and about the reasons for the failure of the regeneration of the oligodendrocyte population during chronic stages of multiple sclerosis (MS). In particular, the fate of the oligodendrocyte precursor population in MS has remained elusive. The present study examined the possibility that oligodendrocyte regeneration ultimately fails because of the local destruction of both oligodendrocytes and their precursor cells. Analysis of chronic stage MS tissue suggested that this is not the case, because all chronic MS lesions studied contained significant numbers of oligodendrocyte precursor cells, identified as process-bearing cells that bound the O4 antibody but not antibodies to GalC and GFAP. The oligodendrocyte precursor cells appeared, however, to be relatively quiescent, because none expressed the nuclear proliferation antigen recognized by the Ki-67 antibody, and because most lesions lacked myelinating oligodendrocytes in their centers. Thus, it appears that the regeneration of the oligodendrocyte population fails during chronic stages of MS because of the inability of oligodendrocyte precursor cells to proliferate and differentiate rather than because of the local destruction of all oligodendrocyte lineage cells. The identification of ways of stimulating the endogenous oligodendrocyte precursor population to expand and generate remyelinating cells may represent an alternative to transplantation of oligodendrocyte lineage cells to promote myelin repair in MS.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a recently discovered neuropeptide which is present both in the central and peripheral nervous system of adult rats. Here we show that PACAP is also expressed by dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons of embryonic and newborn rats. To characterize the effects of PACAP on dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, dissociated cultures were established and incubated in the absence or presence of this neuropeptide. The results show that PACAP increases the survival of cultured DRG neurons, and the effect was comparable to that of nerve growth factor (NGF). In DRG explants, PACAP induces the immunoreactivity for the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). PACAP also promoted the outgrowth of neurites in the DRG cultures. The present results show that PACAP acts as a trophic factor for DRG neurons and that it is able to modulate the expression of another neuropeptide in the ganglia. The presence of PACAP in normal DRG and after nerve lesions suggests that PACAP acts in a autocrine/paracrine manner possibly in conjunction with other neurotrophic factors such as nerve growth factor.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is known to be widely expressed in neuronal cells, and enriched in the central and peripheral synaptic sites. Although it has been proposed that APP functions in synaptogenesis, no direct evidence has yet been reported. In this study we investigated the involvement of APP in functional synapse formation by monitoring spontaneous oscillations of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in cultured hippocampal neurons. As more and more neurons form synapses with each other during the culture period, increasing numbers of neuronal cells show synchronized spontaneous oscillations of [Ca2+]i. The number of neurons that showed synchronized spontaneous oscillations of [Ca2+]i was significantly lower when cultured in the presence of monoclonal antibody 22C11 against the N-terminal portion of APP. Moreover, incubation with excess amounts of the secretory form of APP or the N-terminal fragment of APP also inhibited the increase in number of neurons with synchronized spontaneous oscillations of [Ca2+]i. The addition of monoclonal antibody 22C11 or secretory form of APP did not, however, affect MAP-2-positive neurite outgrowth. These findings suggest that APP play a role in functional synapse formation during CNS development.
Transforming growth factors-beta (TGF-betas), activins, and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) comprise an evolutionarily well-conserved group of proteins controlling a number of cell differentiation, cell growth, and morphogentic processes during development. The superfamily of TGFbeta-related genes include over 25 members in mammals several of which are expressed in the growing nervous system and serve important functions in regionalizing the early CNS. Cultured nerve cells show different responses to these factors. Recent developments have revealed that TGFbetas, activins, and BMPs selectively signal to the responding cells via different hetero-oligomeric complexes of type I and type II serine/threonine kinase receptors. The adult brain exhibits specific expression patterns of some of these receptors suggesting neuronal functions not only during development but also in the mature brain. In particular, the brain is expressing high levels of bone morphogenetic protein receptor type II (BMPR-II), activin receptor type I (ActR-I), and activin receptor type IIA (ActR-II). This indicates that osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1/BMP-7), BMP-2, and BMP-4 as well as activins may serve functions for brain neurons. Expression of the receptors partially overlaps in populations of neurons and has been shown to be regulated by brain lesions. This suggests that brain neurons may use receptors BMPR-II and ActR-I to sense the presence of BMPs. This may form a system parallel to the neurotrophin Trk tyrosine kinase receptors regulating neuroplasticity and brain repair. The presence of BMPs in brain is not well studied, but preliminary in situ data indicate that the BMP relatives growth/differentiation factor (GDF)-1 and GDF-10 are distinctly but differentially expressed at high levels in neurons expressing BMPR-II and ActR-I. The receptors mediating responses to these two GDFs remain, however, to be defined. Finally, recent data show that the signal from the activated type I serine/threonine kinase receptor is directly transduced to the nucleus by Smad proteins that become incorporated into transcriptional complexes. Preliminary in situ hybridization observations demonstrate the existence of different Smad mRNAs. It is concluded that BMPs and their signaling systems may comprise a novel pathway for control of neural activity and offer means for pharmacological interventions rescuing brain neurons.
Embryonic ventral midbrains from GFAP-lacZ transgenic mice were xenografted into the dopamine-depleted striata of adult rats. This transgenic line harbors a nuclear-targeted bacterial beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) reporter gene under transcriptional control of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter sequence. Five weeks post-transplantation, graft-derived astrocytes and dopaminergic neurons were visualized by dual immunocytochemistry for beta-gal and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), respectively. This report describes the advantages associated with the use of GFAP-lacZ transgenic mice to study astrocyte fate in embryonic neural grafts.
Previous studies of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits in adult mammalian and avian brains have demonstrated a spatially restricted distribution of these subunits; little, however, is known about the nAChR subunit developmental distribution. The present study demonstrated a transient pattern of distribution of the neuronal nAChR subunit, alpha7, in the developing chick cerebellum by using immunohistochemical techniques. This transient distribution may suggest a critical period for the development of the cholinergic system in the cerebellum.
We have employed a collagen-gel co-culture system to evaluate the influence of the hindbrain floor-plate on initial axon outgrowth from the cochlear nucleus. After 2 days in vitro, cochlear nucleus explants exhibited directed outgrowth towards co-cultured floor-plate explants. Comparisons with co-cultures of cochlear nucleus/forebrain or cochlear nucleus/midbrain explants or with cochlear nucleus explants cultured alone suggest that the floor-plate has a specific chemoattractant effect on the outgrowth of the pioneer fibers of the hindbrain auditory commissure. Fiber outgrowth was not directed towards a recombinant source of the chemoattractant molecule netrin suggesting that floor-plate-directed outgrowth in the cochlear nucleus is not solely dependent on netrin. In the present report, we present evidence for the first time that the floor-plate is a chemotropic source in pathfinding of second-order auditory fibers from the cochlear nucleus in the hindbrain.
Embryonic ventral midbrains from GFAP-lacZ transgenic mice were xenografted into the dopamine-depleted striata of adult rats. This transgenic line harbors a nuclear-targeted bacterial beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) reporter gene under transcriptional control of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter sequence. Five weeks post-transplantation, graft-derived astrocytes and dopaminergic neurons were visualized by dual immunocytochemistry for beta-gal and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), respectively. This report describes the advantages associated with the use of GFAP-lacZ transgenic mice to study astrocyte fate in embryonic neural grafts.
Previous studies of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits in adult mammalian and avian brains have demonstrated a spatially restricted distribution of these subunits; little, however, is known about the nAChR subunit developmental distribution. The present study demonstrated a transient pattern of distribution of the neuronal nAChR subunit, alpha7, in the developing chick cerebellum by using immunohistochemical techniques. This transient distribution may suggest a critical period for the development of the cholinergic system in the cerebellum.
Imidazoline (I) receptors have been implicated in the regulation of arterial blood pressure and behavior although their distribution in the central nervous system (CNS) remains in question. Presumptive I- receptor sites were detected in the rat central nervous system with a polyclonal antibody to an imidazoline receptor protein (IRP) with binding characteristics of the native receptor. IRP-like immunoreactivity (LI) was detected in neurons and glia by light and electron microscopy. Spinal cord: processes were heavily labeled in superficial laminae I and II of the dorsal horn, lateral-cervical and -spinal nuclei and sympathetic cell column. Medulla: label was concentrated in the area postrema, rostral, subpostremal and central subnuclei of nucleus tractus solitarii, spinal trigeminal nucleus caudalis, and inferior olivary subnuclei. Visceromotor neurons in the dorsal vagal and ambigual nuclei were surrounded by high concentrations of immunoreactive processes. In reticular formation, label was light, though predominant in the intermediate reticular zone and ventrolateral medulla. Pons: label was detected in the neuropil of the periventricular gray, concentrated in the dorsal- and external-lateral subnuclei of lateral parabrachial nucleus, and present intracellularly in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. Midbrain: IRP-LI was most heavily concentrated in the interpeduncular nucleus, nuclei interfascicularis and rostral-linearis, the subcommissural organ, central gray, and in glia surrounding the cerebral aqueduct. Diencephalon: high densities were detected in the medial habenular nucleus, nucleus paraventricularis thalami, other midline-intralaminar thalamic nuclei, the supramammillary and mediobasal hypothalamic nuclei. In the median eminence, immunolabeled processes were restricted to the lamina interna and lateral subependymal zone. Telencephalon: IRP-LI was concentrated in the central amygdaloid nucleus, bed nucleus of stria terminalis and globus pallidus, followed by moderate labeling of the medial amygdaloid nucleus, amygdalostriatal zone and caudoputamen, the hilus of the dentate gyrus, and stratum lacunosum-moleculare of field CA1 of Ammon's horn. The subfornical organ and organum vasculosum lamina terminalis were filled with diffuse granular immunoreactivity. Ultrastructural studies identified IRP-LI within glia and neurons including presynaptic processes. I-receptor(s) localize to a highly restricted network of neurons in the CNS and circumventricular regions lying outside of the blood-brain barrier. Putative imidazoline receptors have a unique distribution pattern, show partial overlap with alpha 2 adrenoreceptors and are heavily represented in sensory processing centers and the visceral nervous system.
Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), the dominant inhibitory neurotransmitter in brain, is involved in the developmental regulation of LHRH secretion. Morphological studies in rodents have demonstrated that LHRH neurons are innervated by GABA-containing processes, suggesting that LHRH secretion is under direct transsynaptic GABAergic control. While GABA acts through two different receptors, GABAA and GABAB, to exert its effects, it appears that GABAA receptors are able to mediate both inhibitory and stimulatory effects of GABA on LHRH neurons. GABAA receptors are heterooligomeric ligand-gated anion channels that exhibit a diverse array of functional and pharmacological properties. This diversity is determined by the structural heterogeneity of the receptors, which are assembled from the combination of different classes of subunits with multiple isoforms. Although several studies have described the effect of GABAA receptor stimulation on LHRH and/or gonadotropin release in prepubertal animals, nothing is known about the receptor subunits that may be expressed in LHRH neurons at this phase in development. Double immunohistofluorescence followed by confocal laser microscopy revealed that subsets of prepubertal LHRH neurons are endowed with alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 2/3, and gamma 2 GABAA receptor subunits. Combined immunohistochemistry for LHRH neurons and in situ hybridization for GABAA subunit mRNAs confirmed that the genes encoding the alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 3 and gamma 2 subunits, but not the gamma 1 subunit, are expressed in LHRH neurons. Notwithstanding the relative insensitivity of these methods, both the immunohistochemical and hybridization histochemical approaches employed indicate that only a fraction of LHRH neurons are endowed with GABAA receptors. This arrangement suggests that those LHRH neurons bearing the appropriate GABAA receptors are responsible for either the entire secretory response to direct GABAergic inputs or for its initiation.
Isoflurane anesthesia exhibits stereoselectivity, and a corresponding stereoselectivity ((+)-&gt;(-)-isomer) has been reported at GABA(A) receptors in vitro. The objective of the present study was to determine if the positive modulatory actions of halothane at GABA(A) receptors exhibited a similar stereoselectivity. Both (R)- and (S)-halothane ((+)- and (-)- isomers, respectively) enhanced [3H]flunitrazepam binding to brain membranes in a concentration dependent manner without a significant difference in either potency (EC50) or efficacy (Emax). While both (R)- and (S)-halothane enhanced [3H]muscimol binding, the potency of the (+)-isomer was slightly greater than the corresponding (-)-isomer (0.91 +/- 0.17 versus 1.45 +/- 0.04% atmospheres, respectively (P &lt; 0.02)). Thus, subtle structural differences between inhalational anesthetics can have a significant impact on the degree of stereoselectivity at the receptor level and may provide insights for the development of more specific drugs.
We have studied the origin and extent of axons within layer I of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) of rats by using retrograde and anterograde tracers with an emphasis on reciprocal connections to layer I of SI from ipsilateral cortical areas that are the target of SI projections. Small crystals of 1,1',dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) labeled horizontal axons projecting in all directions within layer I, which extended for up to 4 mm with numerous terminal branches. Applications of horseradish peroxidase, Diamidino yellow, or fast blue to the pial surface of SI labeled a characteristic pattern of neurons below the application site that excluded neurons in layer IV of the barrel fields, unless the dye penetrated deeper than layer II. This provided a control for the effective depth of the layer I dye applications. Retrograde transport from layer I of SI was traced to the primary motor area, the lateral parietal areas, including the secondary somatosensory (SII) and agranular insular cortex ipsilaterally, as well as the homotopic areas of SI contralaterally. Injections of the anterograde tracer dextran amine at the same site as the SI surface application labeled dense fiber terminations in middle layers of these same secondary areas in the primary motor cortex (MI) or SII in the midst of cells labeled by retrograde transport from layer I of SI. Injections of dextran amine into these secondary cortical areas labeled fibers that coursed through deep layers to SI, where they ascended to layer I. These reciprocal corticocortical inputs to SI were concentrated in layer I, where they branched and extended horizontally across several SI barrels.
The mGluR1 metabotropic glutamate receptor is a G-protein-coupled receptor that exists as different C-terminal splice variants. When expressed in mammalian cells, the mGluR1 splice variants exhibit diverse transduction mechanisms and also slightly differ in their apparent agonist affinities. In the present study, we used an affinity-purified antiserum, specifically reactive to the mGluRlb splice variant, in combination with a highly sensitive preembedding immunocytochemical method for light microscopy to investigate the distribution of this receptor in the rat hypothalamus. An intense immunoreactivity for mGluRlb was observed in distinct hypothalamic nuclei. Thus, neuronal cell bodies and dendrites were stained in the preoptic area, suprachiasmatic nucleus, dorsal hypothalamus, lateral hypothalamus, dorsomedial nucleus, tuberomammilary nucleus, and lateral mammilary body. The ventromedial nucleus exhibited neuropil immunostaining but neuronal cell bodies were not labeled. Strong mGluRlb immunoreactivity was observed in magnocellular neurons of the neuroendocrine supraoptic, paraventricular, and arcuate nuclei. Also, neuronal cell bodies were heavily labeled in the retrochiasmatic nucleus, anterior commissural nucleus, and periventricular nucleus. These immunocytochemical observations, together with previous studies, suggest that mGluRlb is coexpressed with other class I mGluRs in some nuclei throughout the hypothalamus. However, mGluRlb is so far the only receptor of this class strongly expressed in the supraoptic, paraventricular, and arcuate nuclei, which might have relevant implications in the physiological control of the neuroendocrine hypothalamic-pituitary system.


Fetal brain tissue fragments containing the suprachiasmatic nucleus were infected with an adenoviral vector containing the marker gene LacZ encoding for beta-galactosidase, and subsequently cultured or transplanted in the third ventricle of SCN-lesioned adult Wistar rats. In previous studies we optimized the infection procedure and characterized the immunological response directed against the viral vector in this model. The present study reports on beta-gal expression for at least 7 months in neuronal and glial cells. Maturation of the transplanted fetal SCN with respect to immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and C-terminal propressophysin was not hampered by the viral infection.
The cerebral cortex of Alzheimer's and Down syndrome patients is characterized by the presence of protein deposits in neurofibrillary tangles, neuritic plaques, and neuropil threads. These structures were shown to contain forms of beta amyloid precursor protein and ubiquitin-B that are aberrant (+1 proteins) in the carboxyl terminus. The +1 proteins were not found in young control patients, whereas the presence of ubiquitin-B+1 in elderly control patients may indicate early stages of neurodegeneration. The two species of +1 proteins displayed cellular colocalization, suggesting a common origin, operating at the transcriptional level or by posttranscriptional editing of RNA. This type of transcript mutation is likely an important factor in the widely occurring nonfamilial early- and late-onset forms of Alzheimer's disease.
Candidate mammalian odorant receptors were first cloned some 6 years ago. The physiological function of these receptors in initiating transduction in olfactory receptor neurons remains to be established. Here, a recombinant adenovirus was used to drive expression of a particular receptor gene in an increased number of sensory neurons in the rat olfactory epithelium. Electrophysiological recording showed that increased expression of a single gene led to greater sensitivity to a small subset of odorants.
Vasculitis is inflammation of blood vessel walls, which produces dysfunction in both the peripheral and central nervous system (CNS). Cerebral ischemia is the major cause for neurological manifestations of CNS vasculitis. Unfortunately, a universally accepted classification of vasculitis has not emerged. Vasculitis affecting the CNS alone is referred to as primary angiitis of the CNS; secondary vasculitis occurs in association with a variety of conditions, including infections, drug abuse, lymphoproliferative disease and connective tissue diseases. The pathogenesis of vasculitis includes different immunological mechanisms. Recently, anti-neutrophil cytoplasmatic antibody (ANCA) has been demonstrated to play an active role in the immunopathogenesis of the vasculitis. Diagnosis of vasculitis depends on a combination of clinical, radiographic and pathologic features. A wide spectrum of clinical features may occur. The most typical clinical picture of CNS vasculitis is troke, encephalopathy or seizures. Assays for ANCA, serum cytokines, antibodies to endothelial cell antigens have been reported to be useful in diagnosing or monitoring the disease activity. The gold standard in diagnosis is confirmation of vasculitis in a biopsy specimen. Angiography may suggest the diagnosis but no abnormalities are pathognomonic. Ideally, the therapy of each vasculitis would focus on the specific immunologic mechanism causing the disease. Such specific interventions are not yet available. In general the most important approaches induce global immunosuppression. The goal of therapy, however, is to prevent recurrence of disease.
In most multicellular organisms direct cell-cell communication is mediated by the intercellular channels of gap junctions. These channels allow the exchange of ions and molecules that are believed to be essential for cell signalling during development and in some differentiated tissues. Proteins called connexins, which are products of a multigene family, are the structural components of vertebrate gap junctions. Surprisingly, molecular homologues of the connexins have not been described in any invertebrate. A separate gene family, which includes the Drosophila genes shaking-B and l(1)ogre, and the Caenorhabditis elegans genes unc-7 and eat-5, encodes transmembrane proteins with a predicted structure similar to that of the connexins. shaking-B and eat-5 are required for the formation of functional gap junctions. To test directly whether Shaking-B is a channel protein, we expressed it in paired Xenopus oocytes. Here we show that Shaking-B localizes to the membrane, and that its presence induces the formation of functional intercellular channels. To our knowledge, this is the first structural component of an invertebrate gap junction to be characterized.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is a decapeptide widely known for its role in regulating reproduction by serving as a signal from the hypothalamus to pituitary gonadotropes. In addition to hypothalamic GnRH (GnRH-I), a second GnRH form (pGln-His-Trp-Ser-His-Gly-Trp-Tyr-Pro-Gly; GnRH-II) with unknown function has been localized to the midbrain of many vertebrates. We show here that a gene encoding GnRH-II is expressed in humans and is located on chromosome 20p13, distinct from the GnRH-I gene that is on 8p21-p11.2. The GnRH-II genomic and mRNA structures parallel those of GnRH-I. However, in contrast to GnRH-I, GnRH-II is expressed at significantly higher levels outside the brain (up to 30x), particularly in the kidney, bone marrow, and prostate. The widespread expression of GnRH-II suggests it may have multiple functions. Molecular phylogenetic analysis shows that this second gene is likely the result of a duplication before the appearance of vertebrates, and predicts the existence of a third GnRH form in humans and other vertebrates.
Anatomical studies and stimulation studies in the decerebrate animal have suggested that the muscle atonia of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is mediated by a projection from cholinoceptive glutamatergic neurons in the pons to the nucleus magnocellularis (NMC) of medulla. This model suggests that glutamate release in NMC should be enhanced in REM sleep. In the present study, glutamate release across the sleep-wake cycle in NMC was measured by in vivo microdialysis. We found that glutamate release in NMC was significantly higher (p = 0.0252) during REM sleep than during wakefulness (W). Glutamate release during REM sleep was not elevated either in nucleus paramedianus (NPM) or in the pontine inhibitory area (PIA) regions where cholinergic stimulation suppresses muscle tone. Acetylcholine (ACh) microinjection into PIA enhanced glutamate release in NMC. These results support the hypothesis that a glutamatergic pathway from PIA to NMC is responsible for the suppression of muscle tone in REM sleep.
The cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) was electrically stimulated for 1 h in anesthetized rats and the middle cerebral artery occluded at various times thereafter. Stimulation of the FN but not dentate nucleus reduced the volume of the focal infarction to 50%. Protection persisted for 10 but disappeared by 30 d. Intrinsic neuronal pathways which function to condition central neurogenic neuroprotection can protect the brain from ischemic injury by processes independent of cerebral blood flow.
Anatomical studies and stimulation studies in the decerebrate animal have suggested that the muscle atonia of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is mediated by a projection from cholinoceptive glutamatergic neurons in the pons to the nucleus magnocellularis (NMC) of medulla. This model suggests that glutamate release in NMC should be enhanced in REM sleep. In the present study, glutamate release across the sleep-wake cycle in NMC was measured by in vivo microdialysis. We found that glutamate release in NMC was significantly higher (p=0.0252) during REM sleep than during wakefulness (W). Glutamate release during REM sleep was not elevated either in nucleus paramedianus (NPM) or in the pontine inhibitory area (PIA) regions where cholinergic stimulation suppresses muscle tone. Acetylcholine (ACh) microinjection into PIA enhanced glutamate release in NMC. These results support the hypothesis that a glutamatergic pathway from PIA to NMC is responsible for the suppression of muscle tone in REM sleep.
The cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN) was electrically stimulated for 1 h in anesthetized rats and the middle cerebral artery occluded at various times thereafter. Stimulation of the FN but not dentate nucleus reduced the volume of the focal infarction to 50%. Protection persisted for 10 but disappeared by 30 d. Intrinsic neuronal pathways which function to condition central neurogenic neuroprotection can protect the brain from ischemic injury by processes independent of cerebral blood flow.
In five alert chronically-prepared cats we studied the response to sinusoidal 3-D whole body rotation of well-isolated vestibular nucleus neurons which were tested for monosynaptic input from the vestibular labyrinth, direct projection to the oculomotor nucleus and, in some cases, inhibition from cerebellar flocculus stimulation. Neurons directly inhibited by flocculus stimulation had significantly greater horizontal-vertical semicircular canal signal convergence than did neurons not inhibited by flocculus stimulation.
Substance P (SP) N-terminal fragments are known to alter nociception when injected intrathecally or when released in response to capsaicin. However, it is not known whether a sufficient concentration of SP N-terminal metabolites accumulate during noxious stimulation to modulate nociception. To test this, we examined the effect of the SP(1-7) antagonist, D-SP(1-7), injected intrathecally in mice, on two nociceptive assays that are differentially affected by exogenous SP(1-7): acetic acid-induced writhing that is inhibited and formalin-induced behaviors that are enhanced by SP(1-7). One nmol of D-SP(1-7) is sufficient to block the acute (30 min) antinociceptive effects of SP(1-7) on writhing. When injected alone at much higher doses (10-100 nmol), D-SP(1-7) inhibited writhing. In the formalin assay, SP(1-7) had no acute effect (30 min) on responses during Phase 1 at any dose tested, but D-SP(1-7) increased responses 5 min after injection of low (2-1000 pmol), but not high doses (10 and 100 nmol). Twenty-four hours after injection of SP(1-7), writhing was inhibited and formalin responses were increased. D-SP(1-7) prevented these effects of SP(1-7) but had no effect when injected alone, indicating that there is no tonic SP N-terminal activity in mice not exposed to noxious stimuli. Thus, acetic acid and formalin each induce endogenous SP N-terminal activity, respectively, producing a pro-nociceptive effect that is relatively insensitive to D-SP(1-7) and antinociception that is very sensitive to inhibition by D-SP(1-7).
Chronic reductions in cerebral blood flow associated with aging and progressive neurodegenerative disorders can precipitate cognitive failure. To assess whether chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency elicits neuronal apoptosis, apoptotic cell death in the hippocampus was quantitated in a rat model of permanent carotid occlusion. Bilateral carotid artery occlusion (2VO) was shown to induce apoptotic morphology and DNA strand breaks in hippocampal neurons 2 and 27 weeks after ligation. The rate of pyramidal cell apoptosis was higher at chronic (27 weeks) compared to sub-chronic (2 weeks) time points. 2VO-induced apoptosis resulted in a decrease in total pyramidal cell number at 27 weeks but not at earlier time points, indicating progressive neuronal loss. Working and reference memory errors in the radial arm maze were strongly correlated with the number of apoptotic neurons in CA1 but not CA3 pyramidal cell fields. These data provide the first indication that apoptotic loss of pyramidal neurons may play a role in memory impairment associated with clinical conditions of chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency.
We explored the relationship between cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau levels as indirect markers of tau-related pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and EEG slowing, a typical neurophysiological finding in the disease. A positive correlation between CSF tau levels and ratio of alpha/delta global field power was found in 14 AD patients (r = 0.65, p = 0.01). This relationship was better approximated by polynomial fit of 2nd degree (p = 0.002). A subgroup of AD patients (n = 7) with higher tau levels and shorter duration of illness showed a strong relationship between CSF tau levels and alpha/theta (r = 0.83, p = 0.02), and alpha/delta (r = 0.87, p = 0.01) ratios of the global field power. There were no significant correlations between EEG slowing and CSF tau levels in 12 patients with mild cognitive dysfunction or in 14 healthy control subjects. That a strong inverse linear correlation exists in AD patients with higher levels of tau and shorter duration of illness may imply that with longer illness duration CSF tau levels decrease due to neuronal death.
Induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus is associated with changes in expression of a variety of different proteins and is thought to be the mechanism which underlies synaptic plasticity. The 25 kDa synaptosomal-associated protein (SNAP-25) is a presynaptic protein which is involved in neurotransmitter exocytosis at the nerve terminal. Two isoforms of SNAP-25 have so far been identified (a and b) which differ in their distribution and developmental regulation. Using in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that the mRNA levels of the two isoforms of this protein are increased 2 h after the induction of LTP in granule cells of the dentate gyrus following high frequency stimulation of the perforant path in vivo. These observations further demonstrate the involvement of both isoforms of SNAP-25 in functional synaptic plasticity, although their exact roles have yet to be fully determined.

The acceptability and efficacy of phenobarbital treatment for childhood epilepsy was evaluated in 94 children from rural India with partial and generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy. Children were randomly assigned to receive wither 1.5 mg/kg of phenobarbital daily for 2 weeks, followed by a maintenance dose of 3.0 mg/kg daily, or 2.5 mg/kg daily of phenytoin, followed by a maintenance dose of 5.0 mg/kg daily for a total of 12 months. Behavioral side effects were assessed through use of the Conners parent rating scale for children 6 years of age and above and by the preschool behavioral screening questionnaire for younger children. The mean log-transformed scores on the behavior rating scales did not differ significantly between the phenobarbital and phenytoin groups. The frequency of behavioral problems was 30% in both treatment groups. The odds ratio for behavioral problems in the phenobarbital versus phenytoin groups was 0.51 (95% confidence interval, 0.16-1.59). Behavioral problems were more common among children with cerebral impairments, those under 5 years of age, and girls. Both study drugs were equally effective and 65% of children were seizure-free in the final quarter of treatment. These findings suggest that concerns about phenobarbital-related behavioral side effects may not be valid in developing countries and that this drug is an effective, acceptable anti-epileptic for rural Indian children.
The present study was designed to determine if cannabinoids share with other drugs of abuse the ability to stimulate mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons and if this effect is mediated by cannabinoid receptors. To this end, the effects of the prototypical cannabinoid, delta9 tetrahydrocannabinol (-)-trans-(6aR,10aR)-6a,7,8,10a-tetrahydro-6,6,9-trimethyl- 3-pentyl-6H-dibenzo[b,d]pyran-1-ol, and the two highly potent synthetic cannabinoids, (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(4-morpholinyl)-methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-d e]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl, +(1-naphtalenyl)methanone WIN 55,212-2 and (-)-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl]-4-(3-hydroxypropyl )-cicloexan-1-ol CP 55,940, on the spontaneous discharge rate of meso-accumbens dopamine (A10 dopamine) neurons were studied in rats. The intravenous administration of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, WIN 55,212-2 and CP 55,940 (0.0625-1.0 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent increase in the spontaneous firing of A10 dopamine neurons both in non-anesthetized and anesthetized rats, with a maximal percent increase of 120, 187 and 155 in non-anesthetized and 33, 102 and 52, respectively, in anesthetized rats. The stimulant response to cannabinoids was suppressed by the specific cannabinoid receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-me thyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide SR 141716A, indicating a cannabinoid receptor-mediated effect. These findings support the contention that cannabinoids regulate mesolimbic dopamine transmission and may help to explain the addictive properties of marijuana.
Periods of chronic undernutrition and short periods of fasting suppress pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion and upregulate hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY), the orexigenic peptide. The effect of suppression of NPY upregulation with ciliary neurotropic factor (CNTF), a cytokine, and leptin, an adipocyte hormone, on pituitary LH secretion was evaluated in fasted rats. In the first experiment, daily injection of CNTF (0.2 nmol) intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) for 4 days drastically reduced food intake and body weight gain similar to the weight loss seen in pair-fed rats. Food deprivation (FD) also decreased body weight. Despite drastic loss in body weight, plasma LH was reduced in FD and pair-fed rats, but not in CNTF-treated rats. In the second experiment, FD rats received either control vehicle, CNTF (0.2 nmol) or leptin (0.2 nmol) daily for 4 days. FD increased steady state levels of preproNPY mRNA in the hypothalamus over the control freely-fed rats. However, both CNTF and leptin suppressed hypothalamic gene expression and significantly attenuated LH suppression in response to FD. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that the upregulation of hypothalamic NPY system may underlie diminution in pituitary gonadotropin secretion and that the NPYergic pathway may serve as a communication bridge between the neural processes that regulate reproduction and those that maintain energy balance.
Degradation of synthetic human beta-endorphin by a human plasma proteinase was studied with high-performance liquid chromatography in combination with mass spectrometry. The peptide was metabolized at a rate of 25 pmol/min to the major fragments beta-endorphin (1-19) and (20-31), the latter reported as a potent inhibitor of morphine- and beta-endorphin-induced analgesia in mice. The proteinase responsible for this process was classified as a metal-dependent serine proteinase and was effectively inactivated by phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. Identification of the products formed during the enzymatic reaction was performed by liquid chromatography on-line with electrospray mass spectrometry, using a reversed-phase or a novel size-exclusion column capable of separating molecules between 0.1-7 kilodaltons. Peptide sequences were verified by tandem mass spectrometry experiments. The conversion of beta-endorphin may have physiological implications in the mechanism of pain. The obtained data suggest that several precautions should be considered during recovery and measurement of beta-endorphin in plasma by immunological techniques. The applied strategy may also be useful for studying metabolism of various peptidergic compounds with potential pharmacological significance.
Examination of neuropeptide families can provide information about phyletic relationships and evolutionary processes. In this article the oxytocin/vasopressin family, growth hormone releasing factor (GRF) superfamily and the substance P/tachykinin family have been considered in detail because they have been isolated from an extraordinarily diverse array of species from several vertebrate classes and invertebrate phyla. More important is that the nucleotide sequence of mRNA or cDNA encoding many of these peptides has been determined, which has allowed evolutionary distances to be estimated based on the DNA mutation rate. The origin of a given family lies in a primordial gene that arose many millions of years ago, and through time, exon duplication and insertion, gene duplication, point mutation and exon loss, the family developed into the forms that are now recognised. For example, in birds, GRF and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) are encoded by the same gene, which probably arose as a result of exon duplication and tandem insertion of the ancestral GRF gene. In mammals GRF is the sole product on one gene, and PACAP is the product of a gene that also produces PACAP-related peptide (PRP), which is homologous to GRF. Thus it appears that between birds and mammals the GRF/PACAP gene duplicated: exon loss gave rise to the mammalian GRF gene, while mutation led to the formation of the mammalian PRP/PACAP gene. The neuropeptide Y superfamily is considered briefly, as is cionin, which is an invertebrate peptide that is closely related to the mammalian gastrin/cholecystokinin family.
Developing axons reach their final targets as a result of a series of axonal projections to successive intermediate targets. Long-range chemoattraction by intermediate targets plays a key role in this process. Growing axons, however, do not stall at the intermediate targets, where the chemoattractant concentration is expected to be maximal. Commissural axons in the metencephalon, initially attracted by a chemoattractant released from the floor plate, were shown to lose responsiveness to the chemoattractant when they crossed the floor plate in vitro. Such changes in axon responsiveness to chemoattractants may enable developing axons to continue to navigate toward their final destinations.
When the adult mouse cerebellum is perfusion-fixed with 70% ethanol, paraffin-embedded, sectioned, and the sections are rehydrated, the granular layer wrinkles into an elaborate array of blebs. In the posterior lobe vermis these blebs are seen in both transverse and sagittal sections, are symmetrical about the midline, reproducible between neighboring sections and between individuals, and bear a constant relationship to the Purkinje cell bands as revealed by zebrin II immunocytochemistry. The data suggest that blebs represent individual cytoarchitectonic units and thus that the mouse cerebellum is subdivided into several thousand modules, each comprising &gt;10(2) Purkinje cells and their associated interneurons and glial cells.
Since the first French flight in space in 1982, the CNES has developed a wide range of instruments, especially in the field of Neurosciences. The design of these instruments has considerably evolved from rather simple equipment up to much more sophisticated tools that are being specially tailored for these missions. Four major phases can be identified: -a simple adaptation of an echographe leading to the first neurosciences experiments (the ARAGATZ'88 mission), -the ILLUSIONS and VIMINAL instruments used during the ANTARES'92 and ALTAIR'93 missions, -the COGNILAB instrument developed for the CASSIOPEE'96 mission, to be re-used in 1997 and in 1999, -a preliminary design of the 1999 mission payload, including virtual reality concepts, in a modular design to adapt to the European COF. Aside from the evolution of scientific requirements, the experience gained during the flights led to progressive improvements in the different technical parts, including visual system, body restraint systems, accessories, such as a force feedback joystick, computer and software, etc. This paper describes the technical evolutions in the CNES Neurosciences program.
Neurolab is a NASA Spacelab mission with multinational cooperative participation that is dedicated to research on the nervous system. The nervous systems of all animal species have evolved in a one-g environment and are functionally influenced by the presence of gravity. The absence of gravity presents a unique opportunity to gain new insights into basic neurologic functions as well as an enhanced understanding of physiological and behavioral responses mediated by the nervous system. The primary goal of Neurolab is to expand our understanding of how the nervous system develops, functions in, and adapts to microgravity space flight. Twenty-six peer reviewed investigations using human and nonhuman test subjects were assigned to one of eight science discipline teams. Individual and integrated experiments within these teams have been designed to collect a wide range of physiological and behavior data in flight as well as pre- and postflight. Information from these investigations will be applicable to enhancing the well being and performance of future long duration space travelers, will contribute to our understanding of normal and pathological functioning of the nervous system, and may be applied by the medical community to enhance the health of humans on Earth.
The European Space Agency contributes to the Neurolab mission through the delivery of the ESA Developed Elements for Neurolab (EDEN). Those elements include one set supporting the Autonomic Nervous System experiment and one set supporting the Neurovestibular (so-called ATLAS) experiment. This second set is called the Visual and Vestibular Investigation System (VVIS). This paper describes the main characteristics of the VVIS and its various subsystems. The scientific objectives and operational constraints of the ATLAS experiment to be carried out with this equipment during Neurolab are presented to underline the correspondence between the VVIS design and the scientific requirements. Further scientific and technical perspectives for the VVIS, particularly within the scope of the International Space station, are also proposed.
Five participants were tested on their ability to produce accurate and regular inter-response intervals in the 350 to 530 ms time range. Three of them were members of the French-Russian CASSIOPEE 96 spaceflight mission, and the other two were control subjects tested on the ground. During spaceflight, the target inter-response intervals were increasingly undershot and the timing became more variable (less regular). The increase in the timing variability was mostly attributable to the internal timekeeping processes rather than those involved in motor execution. The results are discussed with reference to the physiological mechanisms possibly underlying the timing of fast serial movements.
Complex objects are better recognized under a specific orientation. When presented upside down, a face, even very familiar, is recognized with greater difficulty than when presented upright (&quot;Inversion effect&quot;). Up to now it was not possible to decide whether the direction provided by gravity or the one provided by the retina and the body constitutes the spatial reference involved in this &quot;Inversion effect&quot;. Three cosmonautes learned photographed faces on the ground and had to recognize them both on ground and on flight. Other photographed faces were learned in flight and where presented for recognition on flight. Results show that the Inversion effect is still present on flight for faces that have been learned on ground as well as for those learned on flight. Persistence of the inversion effect in 0-G shows that gravity is not involved as a spatial reference in recognition of faces. Learning and recognition performances of faces learned in flight were significantly lower than performances for faces learned on ground. A possible role of gravity in configural processing, but not in the Inversion effect, is suggested.
The goal of this research is more precise description of adaptation to sensory rearrangements, including microgravity, by development of improved procedures for assessing spatial orientation perception. Thirty-six subjects reported perceived self-motion following exposure to complex inertial-visual motion. Twelve subjects were assigned to each of 3 perceptual reporting procedures: (a) animation movie selection, (b) written report selection and (c) verbal report generation. The question addressed was: do reports produced by these procedures differ with respect to complexity and reliability? Following repeated (within-day and across-day) exposures to 4 different &quot;motion profiles,&quot; subjects either (a) selected movies presented on a laptop computer, or (b) selected written descriptions from a booklet, or (c) generated self-motion verbal descriptions that corresponded most closely with their motion experience. One &quot;complexity&quot; and 2 reliability &quot;scores&quot; were calculated. Contrary to expectations, reliability and complexity scores were essentially equivalent for the animation movie selection and written report selection procedures. Verbal report generation subjects exhibited less complexity than did subjects in the other conditions and their reports were often ambiguous. The results suggest that, when selecting from carefully written descriptions and following appropriate training, people may be better able to describe their self-motion experience with words than is usually believed.

By disturbing steroid hormone balances in the fetus, the anticonvulsant drugs phenobarbital and phenytoin may affect certain aspects of cognitive functioning. In order to test this hypothesis, we studied hormone related cognitive functioning in 72 men and 75 women who had been prenatally exposed to these drugs and equal numbers of matched control subjects. The groups did not differ on word fluency, dichotic listening and a Water Level Test. On Card Rotations, however, anticonvulsant-exposed males and females obtained significantly lower scores than control subjects. These results suggest that in both males and females prenatal exposure to phenobarbital and phenytoin may affect holistic spatial processing.


We investigated the cause of poor outcome in patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) who did not respond as expected after shunt surgery. Two methods were used to evaluate shunts: radionuclide shunt patency study, or continuous ICP monitoring. 33/52 shunted patients (64%) from 1989 to 1995 had poor outcome, and 28/52 (54%) were investigated. Of those investigated, 9/28 (32%) were never better, and 19/28 (68%) were initially better then worse. Of 9 patients who were never better, ineffective shunt function was seen in 7; 5 had shunt revision (2 declined), and 1 improved. Of 19 patients who were initially better then worse, 15 had ineffective shunts; 15 underwent shunt revision, and 13 improved. Poor clinical outcome occurred in two-thirds of all patients after shunt surgery for NPH, but a potentially treatable cause (i.e. obstruction of the shunt or a shunt system that was patent but did not adequately correct the CSF circulatory disorder) was found in nearly 80% (22/28) of those investigated. The predominant cause of ineffective shunt function was obstruction of the peritoneal catheter. Clinical recovery occurred in 70% (14/20) of patients who had shunt revision surgery. We conclude that ineffective shunt function is a frequent cause of poor outcome after shunt surgery to treat NPH that should be sought and treated. These results have implications for longitudinal studies of the diagnosis and treatment of NPH. The effect of unrecognized shunt ineffectiveness on prior studies is unknown. Future studies should be designed to confirm that shunts are functioning before the diagnosis of NPH is considered incorrect.
To identify features on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans that are associated with unstable intracranial pressure (ICP) and outcome after CSF shunting in patients with NPH, we reviewed MRI scans of 17 patients who had continuous ICP monitoring performed prior to ventriculo-peritoneal shunt insertion. We evaluated the association between periventricular/deep white matter lesion burden, focal impingement of the corpus callosum, aqueductal CSF flow void, and B-waves with outcome after shunting. The change in neurological function between pre- and post CSF shunting evaluation was scored according to a standard scale (range -3 or +3). Patients were divided into those with clinical improvement (score &gt; 0) or without improvement (score &lt; or = 0) after shunt surgery. Focal impingement of the corpus callosum was more frequent in patients who improved after CSF shunting compared to those without improvement (8 of 13 vs 0 of 4, p = 0.05). Patients with focal impingement of corpus callosum had more B-wave time than those without impingement (60.5% vs 24.7%, p = 0.02). Focal impingement of corpus callosum on MRI may be associated with unstable intracranial pressure in patients with NPH and may be useful in identifying patients who will benefit from CSF shunting.
We evaluated 86 patients for possible normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) by: 1) CSF pressure (Pcsf) monitoring and analysis for percent of time with A or B-waves, and 2) controlled CSF drainage for 3 days via a lumbar subarachnoid catheter. Clinical outcome after CSF drainage and shunt surgery was assessed as change of clinical exam, with grades of none, minor, moderate, or marked change. For outcome analysis in 47 patients after shunt surgery, NPH was defined as moderate or marked clinical improvement. We assessed the diagnostic discrimination of percent-of-time thresholds of A and B-waves for 38 patients. At 10%, sensitivity for NPH is 91%, specificity is 13%, positive predictive value (PPV) is 62%, and the false positive rate is 38%. At the 25% threshold, sensitivity is 78%, specificity is 40%, PPV is 67%, false positive rate is 33%, and the false negative rate is 22%. For CSF drainage (threshold of minor improvement or better), the sensitivity is 97%, specificity is 60%, PPV is 84%, negative predictive value (NPV) is 90%, and the false negative rate is 3%. We conclude: 1) clinical response to controlled CSF drainage accurately predicts the outcome after shunt surgery in patients suspected of having NPH, and 2) A or B-waves poorly predict which patients will respond to shunt surgery. Three days of CSF drainage seems to encompass critical thresholds of CSF volume removal or duration of Pcsf reduction necessary for neuronal function to begin returning and symptoms to begin resolving in patients with NPH.

Brief intense clicks cause short-latency cervical muscles microcontractions which are supposed to be of vestibular origin. Averaging these microcontractions allows myogenic vestibular evoked potentials (MVEP) to be obtained. MVEP from the trapezius muscles were investigated in normal subjects, cochleovestibular nerve-damaged patients and patients with a vestibular or a cochlear lesion. Muscular responses were recorded on right and left trapezius by averaging from surface electrodes following right and left monaural 100 dB hearing level click stimulation. In normal subjects, responses to monaural stimuli were bilateral, of equal amplitude and latency in left and right trapezia. Normal response consisted of four consecutive waves, labelled p13, n23, p32 and n40 according to their polarity (p, positive; n, negative) and mean peak latency in msec. In total unilateral cochleovestibular damaged patients, auditory stimulation of the affected side gave no MVEP either ipsilateral or contralateral to the stimulation. In the case of selective cochlear lesion, stimulation of the affected side gave MVEP which was present on ipsilateral and contralateral trapezius muscles. The four successive waves were present with a normal latency; however, amplitude was lower than that obtained after stimulation of the healthy ear. In the case of selective vestibular lesion, the four waves of MVEP were again present with normal latency but with reduced amplitude. Responses were present on both the ipsilateral and contralateral trapezius muscle. It is concluded that normal MVEP recorded on the trapezius muscles are bilateral and consist of four waves, the amplitude of which could depend on the simultaneous stimulation of both cochlear and vestibular afferents. In the case of unilateral cochlear and/or vestibular impairments responses were present on both ipsilateral and contralateral trapezius muscles. Latencies had normal values but amplitudes were reduced. MEVP recorded on trapezius muscles were absent in the case of total cochleovestibular damage.

This report presents the results of neural transplantation experiments that were designed either to study neural developmental phenomena or to appraise the possible restorative capacity of grafts. The first part of the report deals with the findings of transplantation studies that were performed in newborn recipient rats in an attempt to determine the importance of extrinsic or intrinsic factors in the process of areal cortical differentiation. More precisely, we examined the extent to which extrinsic signals drive the pattern of efferent connections of neurons residing in different cortical areas. In the first experiment, we examined the general distribution pattern of efferents arising from homotopic as compared to heterotopic transplants of embryonic cortical tissue placed into the frontal cortex of newborn rats. Our findings indicated that embryonic occipital neurons transplanted heterotopically into the sensorimotor cortex: (a) only rarely contacted normal targets of the motor cortex, (b) systematically projected towards normal targets of the visual cortex, and (c) distributed fibers to structures normally receiving fibers from both the motor and visual cortex, either exclusively into the visual corticorecipient zone of the structure or into both the visual and motor corticorecipient zones. In the second experiment, we attempted to assess the densities of the spinal projections arising from homotopic or heterotopic transplants implanted into the frontal or occipital cortex of newborn rats. We provided evidence that transplants of embryonic neocortical neurons of frontal origin developed and maintained a spinal cord projection whatever their rostrocaudal position within the host neocortex, whereas transplants of occipital origin did not maintain a significant spinal cord projection in adulthood. Finally, in the third experiment, we analyzed the laminar and tangential distribution of the tectal projections developed by transplants of embryonic occipital cortex placed into the primary or secondary subdivisions of the occipital cortex of newborn rats. Abnormalities in the laminar and/or tangential organization of the tectal distribution of the transplant efferents were systematically found. Using these different transplantation paradigms, we provided increasing evidence that, in their heterotopic location, the embryonic neurons retain some of the developmental characteristics corresponding to their embryonic cortical site of origin. Our findings strongly suggested, therefore, that there is an early specification of neocortical neurons to develop area-specific efferents. In conclusion, converging lines of evidence suggest that regional differences in the neuroepithelium are predetermined early in development, thus leading to cerebral cortex parcellation, as hypothesized by Rakic (1988). In the second part of the report, we describe the results of a series of experiments dealing with the consequences of grafting embryonic cortex into the damaged cortex of adult rats. These effects were examined from an anatomical, metabolic, behavioral, and electrophysiological point of views. The experiments were conducted using either the frontal or the visual cortex as models to appraise the functional integration of the grafts into the motor or visual circuits, respectively. The first study was undertaken to examine the capacity of transplants of embryonic frontal neocortical tissue placed into the frontal cortex of an adult recipient to develop efferents into the host CNS. The results indicated that transplants of fetal neocortex placed into adult CNS had the capacity to develop efferents which seemed to grow over significant distances within the host corpus callosum but, in most cases, failed to penetrate deeply into the gray matter. The density of the efferent projections was, however, far weaker than that seen in newborn hosts. In the second study, the 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) technique was used to examine the functional integration of hom
To understand the biological basis of memory is one of the most exciting frontiers of science. Single unit recording is a powerful method to investigate neuronal correlates of various brain functions such as memory in awake animals. Anatomical, neuropsychological, and neurophysiological evidence indicates that the IT has an important role not only for synthesizing the analyzed visual attribute into a unique configuration, but also for the storehouse of visual memory in humans and primates. We performed single unit recordings in the primate IT, and found neuronal correlates of visual long-term memory: the IT neurons could reflect learned associative relations among stimuli. The findings reviewed here support the hypothesis that the IT is a region of the brain where visual perception meets memory and imagery.




Vasopressin-immunoreactive fibers have been visualized in the area of spinal lateral horn cells, including spinal sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs). The presence and nature of vasopressin receptors on 125 neurons in this area were addressed using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques in transverse spinal cord slice preparations from neonatal rat (11-21 days). Local pressure applications of Arg-vasopressin (AVP, 1 microM) induced a slow-onset membrane depolarization accompanied by spike discharges and membrane oscillations. In voltage-clamp, applications of AVP (10 nM-1 microM) induced a reversible, tetrodotoxin-resistant and dose-dependent inward current in 90% of tested cells. This effect was blocked by a V1 receptor antagonist [D-(CH2)5 Tyr (Me)-AVP], whereas a V2 receptor agonist [desamino-(D-Arg8)-vasopressin] was ineffective. Both the amplitude and duration of the AVP effect were significantly modified after intracellular dialysis of non-hydrolysable G-protein modulators. I-V relationships, examined in 75 cells, suggested two conductances. In 36 cells the net AVP current reversed approximately -102 mV, was associated with a decrease in membrane conductance and yielded linear I-V plots, suggesting mediation through closure of a resting potassium conductance. In a further 26 cells the I-V lines remained almost parallel in the voltage range used in this study (-130 to -40 mV), while the membrane conductance was decreased in a majority of these cells. In the remaining 13 cells the net AVP current was estimated to reverse approximately -30 mV and was associated with a small increase in membrane conductance, suggesting mediation through opening of a nonselective cationic conductance. These data indicate that the majority of SPNs and other lateral horn cells possess functional G-protein-coupled V1-type vasopressin receptors in the neonatal spinal cord. In the adult spinal cord, some of these receptors are likely to participate in CNS regulation of autonomic nervous system function.
The transient outward current (ITO) in magnocellular neurosecretory cells was studied using whole cell patch clamp recordings made from supraoptic neurons acutely isolated from the adult rat. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, depolarizing steps applied from a negative holding potential evoked a rapidly activating and inactivating outward current followed by a slowly activating and sustained outward current. The ITO was unaffected by tetraethylammonium (TEA), but was blocked by 4-aminopyridine. The ITO evoked by depolarization from negative potentials in the presence of 40 mM TEA was not different from that revealed by digital subtraction of current traces recorded with and without a negative conditioning prepulse in control solutions. Tail current analysis during perfusion of media containing different external [K+] indicated that ITO is selective for K+ ions. Exposure to Ca(2+)-free solutions containing divalent inorganic cations such as Cd2+ and Ni2+ could cause shifts in voltage-dependency and, thereby, reduce the amplitude of ITO recorded at fixed submaximal potentials, The maximal ITO achievable under these conditions, however, was reduced compared to control. Moreover, the ITO was also reduced by application of organic Ca2+ channel antagonists such as nifedipine and omega-conotoxin GVIA, indicating that a component of the ITO is somehow dependent on Ca2+ influx.
Oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP), two neuronally synthesized nonapeptides, are made in the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of mammals and released into their blood, eventually to have profound hormonal actions on peripheral tissues. In the rat both OT and VP neurons fire slowly and irregularly under conditions of low demand for peptide release, but natural or artificial depolarizing stimuli result in differential patterns of activity: either regular continuous firing, strongly associated with OT cells, or phasic bursting, characteristic of VP neurons. Recently published findings offer an explanation for the dominant presence of certain Ca(2+)-dependent membrane potentials that typically lead to phasic firing in VP neurons. Mechanisms of excitability involved in the differential activities of the two cell types, as well as of the same cell type under different physiological conditions, include such factors as Ca2+ binding proteins, voltage- and ligand-gated ion channels, release of Ca2+ from internal stores and gap junctional conductances. The evidence for these factors is reviewed here.
Vasopressin (VP) levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) change in response to physiological stimuli and under various pathological conditions. The sources of CSF VP have yet to be clarified, however. In the present study, we provide evidence indicating that VP is synthesized in the choroid plexus, the primary site of CSF formation. All experiments were performed on adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The presence of VP mRNA in choroid plexus epithelium was demonstrated by in situ hybridization histochemistry using the 35S-labeled riboprobe that was complementary to cDNA fragment of rat VP encoding the C-terminus part of proVP. In situ hybridization findings were confirmed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Immunohistochemistry for VP-associated neurophysin (VP-NP), a polypeptide component of proVP, revealed subapical accumulation of VP-NP-immunopositive product in choroidal epithelial cells. Immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting of choroidal protein extracts with anti-VP-NP antibody demonstrated the presence of a approximately 10-kD polypeptide that was also detected in hypothalamus. We hypothesize that the choroid plexus-derived VP exerts autocrine and/or paracrine effects on tissues near the CSF system.
The transcription factors that confer high level expression and regulate the genes encoding neurohypophysial hormones are largely unknown. A number of different approaches have been taken to identify these factors and to elucidate molecular mechanisms of physiological gene regulation. In this chapter two transcription factor families are considered: homeodomain proteins and nuclear receptors. Their identification in the hypothalamus and actions on the OT gene are addressed here.
We compared the virus-binding activity and receptor-functionality of the receptor proteins isolated from mouse hepatitis virus (MHV)-susceptible BALB/c mice (MHVR1) and MHV-resistant SJL mice (MHVR2). By using a soluble receptor protein which lacked the transmembrane and intracytoplasmic domains, virus overlay protein blot assay and neutralization tests showed that MHVR1 bound to JHM cl-2 virus with 300-500 times higher efficiency than to MHVR2. MHVR1 was revealed to have 10-30 fold higher receptor-functionality than MHVR2 when examined by measuring virus-binding to the receptor expressed on the cell surface. These findings suggested that the differences in susceptibility between BALB/c and SJL mice may depend upon the genotype of the MHV receptor.
Murine coronavirus mutants resistant to neutralization with soluble receptors were isolated to study the receptor-binding site on the S proteins since such mutants were expected to have mutations in an important site for receptor-binding. We have isolated five soluble receptor-resistant (srr) mutants which had mutations of a single amino acid at 3 different positions in S protein. Srr mutant 11 with an amino acid change at position 65 (Leu to His) in the S1 subunit showed an extremely reduced binding by virus overlay protein blot assay. However srr mutants with a mutation at 1114 (Leu to Phe) (srr mutants 3, 4 and 7) or 1163 (Cys to Phe) (srr mutant 18) in the S2 subunit had receptor-binding activity similar to that of wild type cl-2. These results suggest that an amino acid at position 62 located in a conserved region among MHV strains is in particular important for receptor binding. We also discuss why srr mutants with a mutation in S2 showed high resistance to neutralization by soluble receptor, irrespective of their binding to MHV receptors.




When second year medical students were less successful than expected in solving an OSCE neurologic case, a subsequent performance-based assessment was modified to permit testing of four hypotheses related to knowledge application, ability decay over time, skill performance, and case complexity. Two cohorts of second year medical students were presented with neurologic cases in the context of performance-based assessment. Although many students demonstrated that they had the requisite knowledge, few were able to access the knowledge in less structured testing formats. Students had the skills necessary to conduct a physical examination but were unable to appropriately focus the examination. Case complexity also was related to some performance domains. There was evidence of knowledge and skill decay over time. In summary, it is apparent that multiple factors influence students' performance and are important considerations in designing performance assessments to evaluate competence.







There is a deep belief that we can attain not only a neuroscience of consciousness but a neuroscience of human consciousness. It is as if something terribly new and complex happens as the brain enlarges to its human form. Whatever this is, it triggers our capacity for self-reflection, for ennui, and for lingering moments, I would like to propose a simple, three-step suggestion. First, we should focus on what we mean when we talk about conscious experience. It is merely the awareness we have of our capacities as a species, but not the capacities themselves--only the awareness or feelings we have about them. The brain is clearly not a general purpose computing device but is a collection of circuits devoted to quite specific capacities. This is true for all brains, but what is wonderful about the human brain is that we have untold numbers of these capacities. We have more than the chimp, which has more than the monkey, which has more than the cat, which runs circles around the rat. Because we have so many specialized systems and because they can frequently do things they were not designed to do, it appears our brains have a single, general computing device. But we do not. Thus, step 1 requires that we recognize we are a collection of adaptations and, furthermore, we recognize the distinction between a species' capacities and its feelings about those capacities. Now consider step 2. Can there be any doubt that a rat at the moment of copulation is as sensorially fulfilled as a human? Of course it is. Do you think a cat does not enjoy a good piece of cod? Of course it does. Or, a monkey does not enjoy a spectacular swing? Again, it has to be true. Each species is aware of its special capacities. So, what is human consciousness? It is the very same awareness, save for the fact that we can be aware of so much more, so many wonderful things. A circuit--perhaps a single system or one duplicated over and over again--is associated with each brain capacity. The more systems a brain possesses, the greater the awareness of capacities. Think of the variations in capacity within our own species; they are not unlike the vast differences between species. Years of split-brain research have informed us that the left hemisphere has many more mental capacities than the right one. The left is capable of logical feats that the right hemisphere cannot manage. Although the right has capacities such as facial recognition systems, it is a distant second with problem-solving skills. In short, the right hemisphere's level of awareness is limited. It knows precious little about a lot of things, but the limits to human capacity are everywhere in the population. No one need be offended to realize that just as someone with normal intelligence can understand Ohm's law, others, like yours truly, are clueless about Kepler's laws. I am ignorant about them and will remain so. I am unable to be aware about what they mean for the universe. The circuits that enable me to understand these things are not present in my brain. By emphasizing specialized circuits that arise from natural selection, we see that the brain is not a unified neural net that supports a general problem-solving device. With this being understood, we can concentrate on the possibility that smaller, more manageable circuits produce awareness of a species' capacities. Holding fast to the notion of a unified neural net means we can understand human conscious experience only by figuring out the interactions of billions of neurons. That task is hopeless. My scheme is not. Hence step 3. The very same split-brain research that exposed shocking differences between the two hemispheres also showed that the human left hemisphere has the interpreter. The left brain interpreter's job is to interpret our behavior and our responses, whether cognitive or emotional, to environmental challenges. It constantly establishes a running narrative of our actions, emotions, thoughts, and dreams. It is the glue that keeps our


It is clear that in coming years, many interesting new compounds will emerge from these and other strategies for drug discovery. In previous strategies of anticonvulsant discovery, whole-animal models of seizures were utilized from the initial stages; however, with the newer strategies, it will become necessary to select promising drug targets for clinical trials in epilepsy that have well-defined molecular targets of action but poorly defined actions in various animal seizure models. The new pharmaceutical discovery technologies of mass screening, cloned drug targets, and combinatorial chemistry will assist in the efficient discovery of novel drug candidates. Incidentally, these techniques also will minimize the use of large numbers of living laboratory animals for anticonvulsant drug screening.















A goal of this part is to examine the functional impact of catecholaminergic systems on CNS function as it relates to normal and pathological states. The participants achieve their objectives individually by relating their high-quality work on this expansive topic, while maintaining a focus on the functional implications of their findings. Nonetheless, despite the necessarily broad nature of the topics presented, there is a remarkable degree of convergence of information. Several subthemes have emerged as a consequence of considering this work in its entirety. First is the importance of examining neurotransmitter effects, not in isolation, but in terms of interactions with other neurotransmitter systems. History has shown that a limited focus often produces confusing or inconsistent results, which become increasingly clear on consideration of the state of the organism. Second is the importance of examining pharmacological and pathophysiological interactions in light of the anatomy of the system and how developmental influences can alter this relationship. Such very general considerations have been found to provide an essential ingredient in understanding the nature of catecholamine function within this complex system.











Maintenance of posture and production of functional, coordinated movement demand integration of sensory feedback with spinal and supra-spinal circuitry to produce adaptive motor control in altered gravity (G). To investigate neuroplastic processes leading to optimal performance in altered G we have studied motor control in adult rats using a battery of motor function tests following chronic exposure to various treatments (hyper-G, hindlimb suspension, chemical distruction of hair cells, space flight). These treatments differentially affect muscle fibers, vestibular receptors, and behavioral compensations and, in consequence, differentially disrupt air righting, swimming, posture and gait. The time-course of recovery from these disruptions varies depending on the function tested and the duration and type of treatment. These studies, with others (e.g., D'Amelio et al. in this volume), indicate that adaptation to altered gravity involves alterations in multiple sensory-motor systems that change at different rates. We propose that the use of parallel studies under different altered G conditions will most efficiently lead to an understanding of the modifications in central (neural) and peripheral (sensory and neuromuscular) systems that underlie sensory-motor adaptation in active, intact individuals.
The &quot;slow&quot; antigravity muscle adductor longus was studied in rats after 14 days of spaceflight (SF). The techniques employed included standard methods for light microscopy, neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy. Light and electron microscopy revealed myofiber atrophy, segmental necrosis and regenerative myofibers. Regenerative myofibers were N-CAM immunoreactive (N-CAM-IR). The neuromuscular junctions showed axon terminals with a decrease or absence of synaptic vesicles, degenerative changes, vacant axonal spaces and changes suggestive of axonal sprouting. No alterations of muscle spindles was seen either by light or electron microscopy. These observations suggest that muscle regeneration and denervation and synaptic remodeling at the level of the neuromuscular junction may take place during spaceflight. In a separate study, GABA immunoreactivity (GABA-IR) was evaluated at the level of the hindlimb representation of the rat somatosensory cortex after 14 days of hindlimb unloading by tail suspension (&quot;simulated&quot; microgravity). A reduction in number of GABA-immunoreactive cells with respect to the control animals was observed in layer Va and Vb. GABA-IR terminals were also reduced in the same layers, particularly those terminals surrounding the soma and apical dendrites of pyramidal cells in layer Vb. On the basis of previous morphological and behavioral studies of the neuromuscular system after spaceflight and hindlimb suspension it is suggested that after limb unloading there are alterations of afferent signaling and feedback information from intramuscular receptors to the cerebral cortex due to modifications in the reflex organization of hindlimb muscle groups. We propose that the changes observed in GABA immunoreactivity of cells and terminals is an expression of changes in their modulatory activity to compensate for the alterations in the afferent information.


Inbred animal strains provide an opportunity to study genetic factors in alcoholism in the absence of environmental factors. Although the concentration of methionine enkephalin (Met-enkephalin) in whole brain has been implicated in the consumption of ethanol, it has not been studied in the brains of alcohol withdrawal seizure-prone (WSP) and withdrawal seizure-resistant (WSR) mice. We compared these concentrations with the levels of preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA and with the activity of peptide transport system-1 (PTS-1), a brain-to-blood transport system for Met-enkephalin that is affected by ethanol. The concentrations of Met-enkephalin were significantly greater in WSP mice than in WSR mice, whereas synthesis of Met-enkephalin, as reflected by PPE mRNA levels, and transport out of the brain by PTS-1 was not different. These results support a direct link between elevated concentrations of Met-enkephalin in whole brain and proneness to withdrawal-induced seizures. We suggest that the inverse relationship between the consumption of ethanol and proneness to seizures in inbred mice can be explained through their opposite relationships to Met-enkephalin.
Forty kidney-transplanted patients with hypertriglyceridemia, under treatment with cyclosporine alone or associated with other immunosuppressive drugs, were treated with gemfibrozil. This drug, for a long-term treatment (ranging from 4 to 6 months), was able to decrease hypertriglyceridemia and did not modify either polyclonal (P) and monoclonal (M) cyclosporine blood levels or P/M ratio. These data seem to exclude an effect of gemfibrozil on cyclosporine blood concentrations. Therefore, the use of gemfibrozil in kidney-transplanted patients does not require modifications of cyclosporine dose.

Vocalizations used by birds for territory defense, mate attraction, or both are often referred to as a given species' song. Birdsong refers to the often complex vocalizations produced most frequently by males of species that are members of the songbird order (passeriformes). Unlike most species-typical vocalizations produced by nonhuman animals, some songbird vocalizations are learned. Studies of birdsong learning, production, and perception address issues of fundamental interest to psychologists and others interested in behavior and its physiological underpinnings and provide the basis for this review. This article highlights recent advances in knowledge as illustrations of the utility of birdsong as an arena for significant new developments in experimental psychology and behavioral neuroscience.
We have explored the role of excitatory amino acids in the increased dopamine (DA) release that occurs in the neostriatum during stress-induced behavioral activation. Studies were performed in awake, freely moving rats, using in vivo microdialysis. Extracellular DA was used as a measure of DA release; extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) after inhibition of DOPA decarboxylase provided a measure of apparent DA synthesis. Mild stress increased the synthesis and release of DA in striatum. DA synthesis and release also were enhanced by the intra-striatal infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), an agonist at NMDA receptors, and kainic acid, an agonist at the DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)/kainate site. Stress-induced increase in DA synthesis was attenuated by co-infusion of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), antagonists of NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptors, respectively. In contrast, intrastriatal APV, CNQX, or kynurenic acid (a non-selective ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonist) did not block the stress-induced increase in DA release. Stress-induced increase in DA release was, however, blocked by administration of tetrodotoxin along the nigrostriatal DA projection. It also was attenuated when APV was infused into substantia nigra. Thus, glutamate may act via ionotropic receptors within striatum to regulate DA synthesis, whereas glutamate may influence DA release via an action on receptors in substantia nigra. However, our method for monitoring DA synthesis lowers extracellular DA and this may permit the appearance of an intra-striatal glutamatergic influence by reducing a local inhibitory influence of DA. If so, under conditions of low extracellular DA glutamate may influence DA release, as well as DA synthesis, by an intrastriatal action. Such conditions might occur during prolonged severe stress and/or DA neuron degeneration. These results may have implications for the impact of glutamate antagonists on the ability of patients with Parkinson's disease to tolerate stress.
Motor behaviour relies on complex neurochemical interactions in the basal ganglia, in particular the striatum. Antagonistic influences in this region are exerted by afferent projections from, on the one hand, the ventral mesencephalon, utilizing dopamine as a transmitter, and, on the other hand, from the cerebral cortex, signalling by the excitatory amino acid glutamate. The activity in both these neuronal populations appears to be regulated by the neuropeptide cholecystokinin. This article concentrates on interactions between cholecystokinin and glutamate, summarizing some recent morphological, biochemical and behavioural findings. It is suggested that cholecystokinin, acting via the cholecystokininB receptor, potentiates the glutamatergic excitatory input to the striatum.
The aim of the present study was to improve our knowledge of the synaptic organization of one major motor loop, the thalamo-fronto-striate system. We examined, within the motor and sensorimotor (Fr1-3, FL, HL) cortices, the organization of the synaptic articulation between thalamic terminals and fronto-striatal neurons. An anterograde tracer (Phaseolus vulgaris leuco-agglutinin) was used to label the fibers from the ventrolateral (VL) thalamic nucleus and a retrograde tracer (subunit b of the cholera toxin) was employed to label the neurons of the frontal cortex projecting to the dorso-lateral quadrant of the caudate-putamen. Our findings indicated that anterogradely labeled fibers arising from the VL formed appositions, presumably synaptic contacts, with retrogradely labeled corticostriate neurons within layer V and, to a lesser degree, within layer III of the frontal cortex. These direct contacts were axo-somatic or axo-dendritic. These findings suggest that some aspects of the motor control mediated by the thalamo-fronto-striate loop could be partly achieved by monosynaptic circuits.
A 50-year-old man presented spontaneous internal carotid artery dissection with ischemic stroke. He had a history of deep venous thrombosis, and an activated protein C resistance due to factor V Leiden mutation was documented. He showed no other vascular risk factor. This unusual case puts the question whether this coagulation defect may be related to the stroke occurrence.
Functional brain imaging techniques, which permit noninvasive measures of neurophysiology and neuroreceptor binding, are powerful and sensitive tools for research aimed at elucidating the pathophysiology of major depression. The application of these technologies in depression research has produced several studies of resting cerebral blood flow (BF) and glucose metabolism in subjects imaged during various phases of illness and treatment. This review examines these data and the principles relevant to their interpretation and discusses the insights they provide into the anatomical correlates of depression. Within the anatomical networks implicated in emotional processing by other types of evidence, these BF and metabolic data demonstrate that major depression is associated with reversible, mood state-dependent, neurophysiological abnormalities in some structures and irreversible, trait-like abnormalities in other structures. In some of the regions in which trait-like abnormalities appear, abnormal metabolic activity appears at least partly related to the anatomical abnormalities identified in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of depression.
Recent evidence suggests that ethanol abuse produces its diverse effects on the brain to a substantial degree by disrupting the function of the major excitatory neurotransmitter, glutamate. Ethanol, at concentrations associated with behavioral effects in humans, inhibits the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, which mediates the post-synaptic excitatory effects of glutamate. Tolerance to ethanol results in up-regulation of the NMDA receptor so that abrupt withdrawal produces a hyperexcitable state that leads to seizures, delerium tremens, and excitotoxic neuronal death. Ethanol's inhibition of the NMDA receptor in the fetal brain likely contributes to the CNS manifestations of fetal alcohol syndrome. Therapeutic strategies aimed at correcting glutamatergic dysregulation in alcoholism need to be explored.
Chronic pain is an emotional experience and is defined as pain lasting greater than six months. It is important to understand the neurophysiology of pain in order to treat it. Nociceptors in the periphery travel to the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord while secondary and tertiary afferents transmit information from the dorsal horn to the brain. Modification of pain information may take place in these ascending pathways or in descending pathways. Treatment of chronic pain is most successful when it is approached in a multidisciplinary fashion with the focus not only on treatment of underlying etiology, but also on the secondary impacts of pain on the patient's life. The management of chronic pain requires special expertise. Most of the experts in chronic pain assessment and management organize themselves into pain treatment centers. These centers vary widely in their approach to the problem. The most sophisticated is a multidisciplinary center that is university-based and includes teaching and research. Treatment of chronic pain includes a variety of medications, psychological support, and rehabilitation. Multidisciplinary pain management is also an integral part of the palliative care and hospice concept used to treat cancer pain.
The newly defined field of cognitive neuroscience attempts to draw together the study of all brain mechanisms that underlie our mental life. Historically, the major sensory pathways have provided the most trustworthy insights into how the brain supports cognitive functions such as perception, attention, and short-term memory. The links between neural activity and perception, in particular, have been studied revealingly in recent decades. Here we review the striking progress in this area, giving particular emphasis to the kinds of neural events that underlie the perceptual judgments of conscious observers.
Mutations in the human genes for the adhesion molecules Po, L1, and merosin cause severe abnormalities in nervous system development. Po and merosin are required for normal myelination in the nervous system, and L1 is essential for development of major axon pathways such as the corticospinal tract and corpus callosum. While mutations that lead to a loss of the adhesive function of these molecules produce severe phenotypes, mutations that disrupt intracellular signals or intracellular interactions are also deleterious. Geneticists have found that more than one clinical syndrome can be caused by mutations in each of these adhesion molecules, confirming that these proteins are multifunctional. This review focuses on identifying common mechanisms by which mutations in adhesion molecules alter neural development.
Marijuana has been in use for over 4000 years as a therapeutic and as a recreational drug. Within the past decade, two cannabinoid receptor types have been identified, their signal transduction characterized, and an endogenous lipid agonist isolated from mammalian tissues. The CB1 cannabinoid receptor is widely distributed in mammalian tissues, with the highest concentrations found in brain neurons. CB1 receptors are coupled to modulation of adenylate cyclase and ion channels. The CB2 receptor is found in cells of the immune system and is coupled to inhibition of adenylate cyclase. Both receptor types selectively bind delta 9-THC, the active principle in marijuana, and anandamide (arachidonylethanolamide), an endogenous cannabimimetic eicosanoid. Progress is being made in the development of novel agonists and antagonists with receptor subtype selectivity, mice with genetic deletion of the cannabinoid receptors, and receptor-specific antibodies, which should help in providing a better understanding of the physiological role of the cannabinoid receptors.
Mounting evidence suggests that cognitive dysfunction developing as a result of HIV-1 infection is mediated at least in part by generation of excitotoxins and free radicals in the brain. This syndrome is currently designated HIV-1-associated cognitive/motor complex, was originally termed the AIDS Dementia Complex, and for simplicity, is called AIDS dementia in this review. Recently, brains of patients with AIDS have been shown to manifest neuronal injury and apoptotic-like cell death. How can HIV-1 result in neuronal damage if neurons themselves are only rarely, if ever, infected by the virus? Experiments from several different laboratories have lent support to the existence of HIV- and immune-related toxins in a variety of in vitro and in vivo paradigms. In one recently defined pathway to neuronal injury, HIV-infected macrophages and microglia, or immune-activated macrophages and astrocytes (activated by the shed HIV-1 envelope protein, gp120, or other viral proteins and cytokines), appear to secrete excitants and neurotoxins. These substances may include arachidonic acid, platelet-activating factor, free radicals (NO. and O2.-), glutamate, quinolinate, cysteine, amines, and as yet unidentified factors emanating from stimulated macrophages and reactive astrocytes. A final common pathway for neuronal susceptibility is operative, similar to that observed in stroke and several neurodegenerative diseases. This mechanism involves excessive activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-operated channels, with resultant excessive influx of Ca2+ and the generation of free radicals, leading to neuronal damage. With the very recent development of clinically tolerated NMDA antagonists, there is hope for future pharmacological intervention.
This review discusses recent data regarding the different types of voltage-gated Na+, Ca2+, and K+ channels in dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons and their function for synaptic integration and plasticity. Na+ and Ca2+ channels are uniformly distributed throughout the dendrites, although Na+ channels in the soma and proximal dendrites differ in their inactivation properties from Na+ channels in more distal regions. Also, different regions of the neuron express different subtypes of Ca2+ channels. K+ channels are unevenly distributed, with the distal dendrites expressing a more than fivefold greater density of a transient A-type K+ channel than proximal regions. These K+ channels exert profound control over the excitability of the pyramidal neurons and the spread of synaptic potentials throughout the dendrites. The ways in which the active properties of dendrites may contribute toward the induction and maintenance of long-term synaptic plasticity are discussed.
Perceptual learning involves relatively long-lasting changes to an organism's perceptual system that improve its ability to respond to its environment. Four mechanisms of perceptual learning are discussed: attention weighting, imprinting, differentiation, and unitization. By attention weighting, perception becomes adapted to tasks and environments by increasing the attention paid to important dimensions and features. By imprinting, receptors are developed that are specialized for stimuli or parts of stimuli. By differentiation, stimuli that were once indistinguishable become psychologically separated. By unitization, tasks that originally required detection of several parts are accomplished by detecting a single constructed unit representing a complex configuration. Research from cognitive psychology, psychophysics, neuroscience, expert/novice differences, development, computer science, and cross-cultural differences is described that relates to these mechanisms. The locus, limits, and applications of perceptual learning are also discussed.
Numerous empirical and theoretical observations point to the constructive nature of human memory. This paper reviews contemporary research pertaining to two major types of memory distortions that illustrate such constructive processes: (a) false recognition and (b) intrusions and confabulations. A general integrative framework that outlines the types of problems that the human memory system must solve in order to produce mainly accurate representations of past experience is first described. This constructive memory framework (CMF) emphasizes processes that operate at encoding (initially binding distributed features of an episode together as a coherent trace; ensuring sufficient pattern separation of similar episodes) and also at retrieval (formation of a sufficiently focused retrieval description with which to query memory; postretrieval monitoring and verification). The framework is applied to findings from four different areas of research: cognitive studies of young adults, neuropsychological investigations of brain-damaged patients, neuroimaging studies, and studies of cognitive aging.
Developments in personality-social psychology, in social cognition, and in cognitive neuroscience have led to an emerging conception of personality dynamics and dispositions that builds on diverse contributions from the past three decades. Recent findings demonstrating a previously neglected but basic type of personality stability allow a reconceptualization of classic issues in personality and social psychology. It reconstrues the nature and role of situations and links contextually sensitive processing dynamics to stable dispositions. It thus facilitates the reconciliation within a unitary framework of dispositional (trait) and processing (social cognitive-affective-dynamic) approaches that have long been separated. Given their history, however, the realization of this promise remains to be seen.
Current knowledge is summarized about long-term memory systems of the human brain, with memory systems defined as specific neural networks that support specific mnemonic processes. The summary integrates convergent evidence from neuropsychological studies of patients with brain lesions and from functional neuroimaging studies using positron emission tomography (PET) or functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Evidence is reviewed about the specific roles of hippocampal and parahippocampal regions, the amygdala, the basal ganglia, and various neocortical areas in declarative memory. Evidence is also reviewed about which brain regions mediate specific kinds of procedural memory, including sensorimotor, perceptual, and cognitive skill learning; perceptual and conceptual repetition priming; and several forms of conditioning. Findings are discussed in terms of the functional neural architecture of normal memory, age-related changes in memory performance, and neurological conditions that affect memory such as amnesia. Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease.
In order to confirm the efficacy and safety of posatirelin (L-pyro-2-aminoadipyl-L-leucyl-L-prolinamide), a synthetic peptide having cholinergic, catecholaminergic and neurotrophic activities, a multicentre, double-blind, controlled study versus placebo was planned in elderly patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, according to National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke/Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke/Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) criteria, respectively. The trial consisted of a 2-week run-in phase with placebo administered once a day orally, followed by a double-blind period of 3 months, with posatirelin or placebo administered once a day intramuscularly. Efficacy was assessed using the Gottfries-Brne-Steen (GBS) Rating Scale (primary variable) and the Rey Memory Test (secondary variable). Laboratory tests, vital signs and adverse events were monitored. A total of 360 patients were randomized, the intent-to-treat sample (ITT) being made up of 357 patients and the per protocol sample (PP) of 260 patients. Both pragmatic and explanatory analyses showed significant differences between treatment groups in the GBS Rating Scale and the Rey Memory Test, with no difference in the two types of dementia. No difference between treatments was observed in safety variables, the incidence of adverse events in the posatirelin group being 7.3%. The study confirms previous results showing that treatment with posatirelin can improve cognitive and functional abilities of patients suffering from degenerative or vascular dementia.


Functional magnetic resonance imaging has become an invaluable tool for cognitive neuroscience, despite the fact that many of the physiological mechanisms giving rise to the effect are not well understood. We review the known biochemical and physiological basis of the technique and discuss how, within the noted limits, one might fully exploit the spatial and temporal resolution that is intrinsic to the very high magnetic fields that we use for human studies. This noninvasive brain mapping technique relies on the changes in blood oxygenation, blood volume, and blood flow, and we discuss some of the issues influencing the effects of these hemodynamic parameters on image intensity.
Of primary central nervous system tumors treated each year, the majority are glioma, followed by meningioma and then pituitary adenoma. While the use of magnetic resonance (MR) and computed tomographic imaging is well established in the diagnosis and management of such tumors, these techniques have a limited role in determining the metabolic state, either prior to or following therapy. Multinuclear MR spectroscopy, on the other hand, provides information on tumor metabolism and the effect of therapy on tumor viability. This paper reviews MR spectroscopic studies performed on patients with central nervous system tumors and discusses the impact that such studies have had on tumor diagnosis and management.
Chronic activation of NMDA receptors by glutamate is toxic to cultured neurons. The extensive Ca2+ entry accompanying receptor activation is largely accumulated by the intracellular mitochondria, with resultant effects on mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP synthesis, glycolysis, reactive oxygen species generation and ultimately failure of cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis and cell death. Each of these parameters is inter-related and in this review we describe attempts to separate out each factor to establish the sequence of events following NMDA-receptor activation. The conclusion is that mitochondrial Ca2+ accumulation is a key event in glutamate excitotoxicity, and that cells maintained by glycolysis in the absence of a mitochondrial membrane potential are highly resistant to glutamate excitotoxicity.










Enrique Egaa-Barahona. Born Santiago, Chile, 10 March 1912. Deceased Santiago, Chile, 23 November 1997. MD, University of Chile, 1936. Rockefeller Foundation Fellow at Harvard University Medical School, 1940-1944. Professor of Pathophysiology, 1963; Director, Institute of Experimental Medicine, Faculty of medicine, University of Chile. Author of a Textbook on General Pathophysiology (1963) and of many scientific articles in Chilean and American medical journals. Strong supporter of evidence-based medicine as well as of medical education by involving students in short research projects.
The synthesis of a series of 2,4-disubstituted morpholines is described and their affinities at human dopamine receptors reported. The orally bioavailable 7-azaindole compound 11 has nanomolar affinity at the hD4 receptor with &gt; 1000-fold selectivity over the hD2 receptor.
1 Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and NPY receptors are most abundant in the hippocampal formation where they modulate cognitive functions. Expression of NPY receptors in rat cultured primary hippocampal cells was investigated in the present study by use of combined molecular, pharmacological and immunohistochemical approaches, including the cloning of the rat Y2 receptor described here for the first time. 2 More than 70% of the hippocampal neurones were endowed with [125I]-[Leu31,Pro34]PYY Y1-like receptor silver grain accumulations and Y1 receptor immunostaining. These radio- and immuno-labelling signals were distributed over cell bodies and processes of bipolar, stellate and pyramidal-like neuronal cells, as confirmed by neurone-specific enolase and MAP-2 staining. 3 Competition binding profiles revealed that specific [125I]-[Leu31,Pro34]PYY binding was competitively displaced according to a ligand selectivity pattern prototypical of the Y1 receptor sub-type with [Leu31,Pro34]substituted NPY/PYY analogues &gt; C-terminal fragments = pancreatic polypeptides, with the non-peptide antagonist BIBP3226 being most potent. This profile excludes the possible labelling by [125I]-[Leu31,Pro34]PYY of the newly cloned Y4, Y5 and Y6 receptors. 4 The expression of the genuine Y1 receptor was confirmed by RT-PCR in hippocampal cultures. In contrast, negligible levels of Y2-like/[125I]-PYY3-36 binding were detected in these cultures in spite of the presence of its mRNA, as characterized by RT-PCR. The expression of both the Y1 and the Y2 receptor mRNAs was also noted in normal embryonic hippocampal tissues showing that signals expressed in cultured neurones were also present in utero. 5 Taken together, these results suggest that the Y1 receptor subtype may be of critical importance in the normal functioning of the rat hippocampus, especially during brain development and maturation.


Developmental processes present several problems for identifying homologies and analyzing their evolution. Most evolutionary techniques approach homologies from either a taxonomic or a molecular perspective. Approaches that can accommodate many problems of developmental evolution are not well developed. Developmental process and evolutionary lineage complexity lead to a number of largely unappreciated conceptual and analytic problems. Developmental processes can evolve by duplication or diversification. Each process is in a hierarchy of super- and subprocesses. As they evolve, process components may be exchanged with or acquired by those of other processes. Because they do not fit into standard analytic procedures, these situations (including reticulate or reticulate-appearing lineages, partial homologues, iterative features, and the tracing of nontaxonomic and nonmolecular evolutionary lineages) are often ignored or considered illegitimate. Biology's disdain for the dichotomously branching phylogenetic lineages that are the basis of standard analytic approaches is ignored at the risk of making falsely negative homology evaluations. I will present an approach that can accommodate analyses of these situations. The use of nontaxonomic and nonmolecular lineages provides a way to structure comparisons between other entities, as taxonomic lineages structure comparisons among potential homologues. From an informational point of view, any entity (either a structure or process) with an evolutionary history is a potential homologue with a potential evolutionary lineage. Comparing lineages of interacting entities can reveal topological incongruences among them. Methods that identify reticulated taxonomic and molecular lineages should also apply to other lineages. Partial homologues, resulting from reticulated lineages, can be handled in several possible ways. Analytically, such an entity can be treated as a partial homologue, a novel feature, an independent sub-unit, or a unitary feature homologous to the major contributor of its inherited features.
The time course of cell differentiation and the presence of histochemically defined areas in brainstem auditory nuclei were examined in developing bullfrogs, Rana catesbeiana, using cresyl violet staining and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry. In the medulla, the dorsolateral nucleus (DLN) can be seen as a distinct structure in its adult location only at Gosner stage 40 and beyond. The majority of cells in the DLN are not fully differentiated until late metamorphic climax (stages 45-46) and early postmetamorphosis. The more ventral vestibular nucleus differentiates earlier (stage 37) than the DLN. Adult-like organization of auditory nuclei in the torus semicircularis (TS) of the midbrain cannot be reliably discerned until metamorphic climax stages. Cellular masses in the brainstem reveal AChE from the earliest stage examined (stage 27) but the intensity of staining differs among cell groups. Staining intensity in the DLN is at a peak in recently metamorphosed froglets. The time course of cell differentiation in the DLN precedes slightly or is coincident with the increased, transient presence of AChE. Staining of the superior olive stabilizes at a moderate level in early postmetamorphic stages. Ventral regions of the principal nucleus in the TS stain more intensely than dorsal regions beginning at stage 40. This dorsal-ventral gradient in staining persists in adult stages. There is a transient decline in staining of the laminar nucleus in metamorphic climax stages. Staining intensity in the magnocellular nucleus peaks during stages 40-46 and in early postmetamorphic froglets and then declines in adults, paralleling the pattern seen in the DLN. These data suggest that metamorphic climax and early froglet periods are an important developmental window for major differentiation and maturational events in the auditory brainstem.
The small-celled part of the medial cortex (Cxms) in lizards is comparable to the hippocampal area dentata in mammals. As in mammals, most of the afferents to this cortical area are arranged in sharply delimited laminae. In reptiles this lamination pattern is species-specific. In the lizard Tupinambis nigropunctatus projections from the multisensory dorsolateral thalamic nucleus (Dla) terminate in the middle one-third of the outer plexiform layer throughout the whole rostrocaudal extent of Cxms. In Podarcis hispanica the thalamic projections terminate not only in the middle one-third of Cxms but also in the inner plexiform layer. To find out whether the species-related variation of thalamic projections to Cxms is a solitary phenomenon or is related to variations of other afferents of Cxms, we studied the relationships between the thalamic and cholinergic projections from the basal telencephalon in the medial cortex of three lizard families: the Lacertidae, the Teiidae and the Gekkonidae. In the gekkonid lizards Gekko gecko and Eublepharius macularius, Dla projections were studied with the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin. Projections were found in only the rostral one-third of Cxms where the fibers terminate in the superficial half of the outer plexiform layer and in the deep half of the inner plexiform layer. From acetylcholinesterase staining in the Cxms of representatives of these three lizard families, it appeared that the main cholinergic afferents terminate in the same subregions and the same laminae as the Dla projections. Therefore, there seems to be a close association between thalamic and cholinergic afferents in the Cxms of lizards, irrespective of their precise location in the cortex of the various species. This suggests a functional relationship between these two afferents of the dentate area in lizards.
The changes in microtubule-associated protein 5 (MAP5) expression in the cerebellum with olivocerebellar degeneration (OCD) were investigated by means of immunohistochemical method, compared with gestational age-matched controls. In controls of 24-33 postmenstrual weeks, the molecular layer was diffusely immunoreactive. However, in cases of olivocerebellar degeneration (25-35 postmenstrual weeks), MAP5 immunoreactivity was reduced in the inner half of the molecular layer, especially in a portion where Purkinje cells were absent. The ratio of the density in the outer half of the molecular layer to that in the inner half was also determined with an image analyzer, and increased significantly in Purkinje cell-negative areas. Because MAP5 was believed to be expressed mainly on growing axons in the early fetal period, the reduction of MAP5 immunoreactivity in OCD cases suggested that normal interaction of Purkinje cells and climbing fibers is vulnerable to ischemia and hypoxia in developing stage and that retrograde transynaptic degeneration of the inferior olivary nuclei is secondarily induced.
This single case study investigated the use of Conversation Analysis (CA) in assessing pragmatic language difficulties after closed head injury (CHI). The aim was to see if CA captures the types of communication breakdown observed after CHI and whether results from CA can be directly related to scores on formal tests more typically applied after CHI. The results suggested that CA was a sensitive tool for identifying and investigating pragmatic deficits in this case. It facilitated an exploration of whether language impairments identified on formal tests manifest themselves in functional communication; it revealed how different interlocutors adapt to these language difficulties in conversation and also explained why some conversational partners were more successful than others. Considered together, formal test results and CA insights facilitated an in-depth analysis into the precise nature of the communicative impairments of the speaker in this exploratory study, suggesting that CA is a promising approach to the assessment of pragmatic impairments in the CHI population.
Nineteen patients with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy who underwent anterior temporal lobectomy were given a highly specific memory battery (23 tests) pre- and post- (1 week; 1, 2, and 6 months; 1 and 2 years) resection. Sixteen of 23 tests revealed that memory performance of temporal lobe epilepsy patients was worse than normal controls prior to surgery (p &lt; .001), while the most profound differences were seen in the remembering and generation of inferences from connected discourse. Almost no differences were observed in delayed nonmatching to sample tasks (recognition without language task). MRI results revealed that anterior, middle, and posterior hippocampal abnormality was extensive in 12 of 19 patients, and 12 also showed medial temporal lobe abnormalities and volume loss. Hippocampal damage was negatively correlated with extended delay memory performance for connected discourse: worse performance was associated with greater damage. Few differences in less complex memory performance were observed pre-postsurgery. While ordinary recognition functions were preserved, results demonstrated that dominant medial temporal lobe structures appeared heavily involved in language-generated memory, and hippocampus is heavily implicated in both simple and complex language.
Lysosomal storage disorders are rare, inborn errors of metabolism characterized by intralysosomal accumulation of unmetabolized compounds. The brain is commonly a central focus of the disease process and children and animals affected by these disorders often exhibit progressively severe neurological abnormalities. Although most storage diseases result from loss of activity of a single enzyme responsible for a single catabolic step in a single organelle, the lysosome, the overall features of the resulting disease belies this simple beginning. These are enormously complex disorders with metabolic and functional consequences that go far beyond the lysosome and impact both soma-dendritic and axonal domains of neurons in highly neuron type-specific ways. Cellular pathological changes include growth of ectopic dendrites and new synaptic connections and formation of enlargements in axons far distant from the lysosomal defect. Other storage diseases exhibit neuron death, also occurring in a cell-selective manner. The functional links between known molecular genetic and enzyme defects and changes in neuronal integrity remain largely unknown. Future studies on the biology of lysosomal storage diseases affecting the brain can be anticipated to provide insights not only into these pathogenic mechanisms, but also into the role of lysosomes and related organelles in normal neuron function.
Rats were subjected to bilateral carotid artery occlusion (2-VO) or sham occlusion (No-VO) and tested 12 weeks for visuo-spatial memory (VSM) function. After 14 weeks, 2-VO rats (N = 4) showing severe visuo-spatial memory impairment were given dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)-fructose 1,6-diphosphate (FDP) i.p. for seven days and retested on the water maze. After DMSO-FDP, a 54% improvement in their VSM was seen which nearly reached control No-VO values. Untreated 2-VO (N = 4) and No-VO (N = 8) rats showed no significant changes in their VSM. DMSO-FDP treatment was discontinued and rats were retested on the water maze but improvement was lost and VSM function regressed to pretreatment levels. Immunohistochemical examination showed minimal neuronal damage in all 2-VO rats and slight loss of microtubule associated protein-2. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunostaining increase was observed only in untreated 2-VO rats. The results indicate that a DMSO-FDP combination improves VSM secondary to chronic brain hypoperfusion.
The effects of partial metabolic inhibition (induced by 2 h exposure to low concentrations of cyanide (NaCN)) on the glutamate receptor agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)-induced excitotoxicity and elevation of free cytoplasmic Ca2+ levels ([Ca2+]i) were studied in glucose-deprived primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells. Co-application of AMPA plus NaCN caused a marked increase of cell death, with morphological features of both necrotic and apoptotic cell death as estimated by the capacity of cultured cerebellar granule cells to metabolize 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide into formazan (MTT method), and by measuring the amount of DNA fragmentation in neurons using an ELISA test for histone-bound DNA fragments, respectively. Cell morphology was assessed by confocal microscopy of propidium iodide-stained cultures. No toxic effects were observed when AMPA or a low concentration of NaCN (0.1-0.3 mM; in the presence of NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801; 10 microM) were applied alone. The neurotoxic actions induced by AMPA plus NaCN were preceded and accompanied by a significant elevation of [Ca2+]i, as well as by depletion of neuronal ATP stores. The marked enhancement in the functional responsiveness of AMPA receptors in energetically compromised neurons suggests that at least under certain conditions AMPA receptors may play an important role in excitotoxic processes which might be of relevance for the slowly developing neuronal death seen in several neurodegenerative diseases.
Cholinergic structures in the cranial nerve motor nuclei and ventral and lateral horns of the spinal cord of the monkey, Macaca fuscata, were investigated immunohistochemically with a monoclonal antibody against monkey choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). ChAT-immunoreactive perikarya and dendrites were present in the oculomotor, trochlear, abducent, trigeminal motor, facial and hypoglossal nuclei, nucleus of Edinger-Westphal, nucleus ambiguus, dorsal nucleus of the vagus, lamina IX of the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spinal cords, and intermediolateral nucleus of the thoracic spinal cord. The neuropil of the trigeminal motor, facial and hypoglossal nuclei, nucleus ambiguus and lamina IX of the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spinal cords contained many ChAT-positive bouton-like structures and they were seemingly in contact with perikarya and dendrites of motoneurons, suggesting that motoneurons in these nuclei are cholinoceptive as well as cholinergic. The oculomotor, trochlear and abducent nuclei, nucleus of Edinger-Westphal, dorsal nucleus of the vagus and intermediolateral nucleus of the thoracic spinal cord contained a small number of ChAT-immunoreactive bouton-like structures, but they did not contact with perikarya and dendrites of ChAT-positive neurons. These observations suggest that the organization of the motor nuclei is complex, at least regarding the cholinoceptivity.
Considerable attention has been given to the association of the D3 dopamine receptor subtype and limbic function based on the abundant localization of D3 receptor sites and mRNA expression in the islands of Calleja and nucleus accumbens in experimental animals. Though most human anatomical studies have focused on the role of D3 receptors in limited brain structures, detailed information about the overall anatomical organization of the D3 receptor in the human brain is still, however, not available. In the current study, we examined the anatomical distribution of D3 receptor mRNA expression at different levels of the human brain in whole hemisphere horizontal cryosections using in situ hybridization. This approach made it possible to establish for the first time the wide and heterogenous expression of the D3 receptor gene throughout the human brain. As expected, the most abundant D3 mRNA expression levels were found in the islands of Calleja and discrete cell cluster populations within the ventral striatum/nucleus accumbens region. High levels were also evident within the dentate gyrus and striate cortex. Low to moderate D3 mRNA expression levels were apparent in most brain areas including all other cortical regions (highest in the anterior cingulate/subcallosal gyrus), caudate nucleus, putamen, anterior and medial thalamic nucleus, mammillary body, amygdala, hippocampal CA region, lateral geniculate body, substantia nigra pars compacta, locus coeruleus, and raphe nuclei. While the current anatomical map of D3 receptor mRNA expression in the human brain does confirm previous reports that D3 receptors may play important roles in limbic-related functions such as emotion and cognition, the findings also suggest other non-limbic functions for D3 mRNA-expressing cell populations such as processing of motor and sensory information.
The ability of the confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) to visualize in one focal plane the fluorescence associated with multiple markers renders this instrument extremely valuable for the study of co-localization of various markers in the somata and cellular processes of neurons. In the present protocol we deal with the question whether or not co-localization exists in neurons of two different neuronal markers. The conventionally used method towards answering this type of question is double-immunofluorescence microscopy. Fundamental to this approach, independent from whether the preparations are observed in a normal fluorescence microscope or in a CLSM, is that each of the applied fluorescent labels should not chemically interact with the other label or inadvertently be visible through the illumination/filter setup designed for the other fluorophore. In the field of double-label CLSM, three types of approach are distinguished: the single-laser, two-color approach, the two-laser, two-color approach, and the time-resolved approach (Brismar and Ulfhake, 1997). Each type of approach has its own advantages and disadvantages. In the instrument in our institute (a Zeiss LSM 410), combinations of fluorophores like fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) and tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate (TRITC) are less useful, since TRITC produces a detectable signal in the FITC illumination/filter setup. Instead of experimenting with filter sets we have chosen to take two measures to eliminate this problem. Our first measure is to use fluorophores whose absorption/emission spectra overlap as little as possible. We have selected among the recently developed carbocyanine fluorophores one fluorescing in the visible range (Cy2) (green, in the same range as FITC and with much better resistance to fading than FITC; cf. Hrtig et al., 1996), and another fluorescing in the near infrared range (Cy5, infrared; cf. Mesce et al., 1993). Our second measure to ensure excellent signal separation is the adoption of a two-laser, two-color approach. Co-localization of the calcium binding protein, calretinin, and a neurotransmitter, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), in interneurons in the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampus of the rat was used as the principal test model. We compare the above two-laser, two-color approach with a single-laser, two-color CLSM approach using as markers Cy2 and the red fluorophore, Texas Red (physical characteristics resembling TRITC). In this paper considerable attention is paid to control experiments to verify the reliability of the staining procedure. The results show that our two-laser, two-color CLSM approach produces a complete and unambiguous separation of the fluorescent labels, Cy2 and Cy5. We are currently using this method to determine the degree of co-localization of neurochemical substances in CNS neurons.
Formalin fixation, the chemical process in which formaldehyde binds to cells and tissues, is widely used to preserve human brain specimens from autolytic decomposition. Ultrastructure of cellular and mitochondrial membranes is markedly altered by vesiculation, but this does not interfere with diagnostic evaluation of neurohistology by light microscopy. Serious difficulties are encountered, however, when immunocytochemical staining is attempted. Antigens that are immunoreactive in unfixed frozen sections and protein extracts appear to be concealed or destroyed in formalin-fixed tissues. In dilute aqueous solution, formaldehyde is in equilibrium with methylene glycol and its polymeric hydrates, the balance by far in favor of methylene glyco. Carbonylic formaldehyde is a reactive electrophilic species well known for crosslinking functional groups in tissue proteins, nucleic acids, and polysaccharides. Some of its methylene crosslinks are readily hydrolyzed. Others are stable and irreversible. During immunostaining reactions, intra- and inter-molecular links between macromolecules limit antibody permeation of tissue sections, alter protein secondary structure, and reduce accessibility of antigenic determinants . Accordingly, immunoreactivity is diminished for many antigens. Tissues are rapidly penetrated by methylene glycol, but formaldehyde binding to cellular constituents is relatively slow, increasing progressively until equilibrium is reached. In addition, prolonged storage in formalin may result in acidification of human brain specimens. Low pH favors dissociation of methylene glycol into formaldehyde, further reducing both classical staining and antigen detectability. Various procedures have been devised to counter the antigen masking effects of formaldehyde. Examples include pretreatment of tissue sections with proteases, formic acid, or ultrasound. Recently, heating of mounted sections in ionic salt solution by microwave energy was found to restore many antigens. Theory and practice of microwave antigen retrieval are covered extensively in the handbook Microwave Cookbook for Microscopists. A concise overview of microwave methods in the neurosciences has been published, and clinical applications have been reviewed. In this context, it should be noted that fresh tissues may be stabilized for immunocytochemistry by reversible, non-chemical binding processes such as cryosectioning after microwave treatment and freeze-drying. Thus, it may be possible to enhance immunostaining for some antigens by microwave irradiation of unfixed as well as fixed specimens. Parameters to be optimized for microwave retrieval of specific antigens include temperature, irradiation time, tissue buffer composition, salt concentration, and pH. Temperature, irradiation time, and pH are key variables. With this in mind, an optimal method was developed for retrieval of a wide variety of antigens in human brain tissues. Typical microwave protocols employ elevated temperatures that may reach 100 degrees C, where denaturation causes irreversible uncoiling and disruption of protein secondary and tertiary structures. Under these conditions, stable covalent bonds securing methylene crosslinks between polypeptides remain intact, but more reactive links formed by Schiff bases may be hydrolyzed. Resultant conformational changes presumably expose buried loops of continuous amino acids and protruding regions, increasing accessibility of their epitopes. Protein denaturation seems to be a reasonable explanation for the effects of microwaves on antigen retrieval. This idea is supported by the observation that denaturing solutions such as 6 M urea increase immunoreactivity of some antigens. Still, the molecular basis of these effects remains unresolved, in part due to the complex chemistry of formaldehyde reactions with tissue constituents. Indeed, some methylene bridges between similar groups such as NH2 and NH may be hydrolyzed by washing fixed tissues in distilled wa
The significance of guanine nucleotides and nucleosides in neurodegenerative disorders is suggested by recent reports that these molecules enhance neurite branching and astrocyte proliferation. The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of increased dopamine metabolism, produced by 5-day treatment of rabbits with reserpine (2 mg/kg) or levodopa (LD) (50 mg/kg), on striatal concentrations of guanosine, guanine, and their metabolites. Reserpine treatment decreased striatal guanosine by 41% and increased guanine by 50%, while LD decreased guanosine by 48% (all p &lt; 0.01 vs. vehicle-treated controls). LD also increased guanine by 22% (not statistically significant). Xanthine and uric acid concentrations were unchanged. Because of the neurotrophic properties of guanosine and guanine, changes in striatal concentrations of these purines secondary to increased dopamine (DA) turnover may have relevance for survival of remaining dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD).
Histopathological effects of the artemisinin antimalarial, beta-arteether, were evaluated in rats. Arteether (3.125-12.5 mg/kg/day, IM, in sesame oil) was administered for 7 consecutive days. Seven days following the last injection, histological evaluation of the brainstem was performed. Rats treated with 12.5 mg/kg showed significant neuropathology, including chromatolysis, in the nucleus trapezoideus and nucleus superior olive. To a lesser extent, neuropathology was present in the nucleus ruber. Mild neuropathology was also detected in other brainstem regions examined. Although no statistically significant neuropathology was found for the groups treated with 6.25 mg/kg/day and 3.125 mg/kg/day, substantial neuropathology was observed in a single rat in each of these treatment conditions. These results confirm and extend previous studies demonstrating brainstem neurotoxicity from artemisinin antimalarials. Furthermore, these results suggest that, in rats, brainstem auditory pathways may be particularly vulnerable. Early detection of arteether neuropathology may, therefore, require examination of auditory functions.
This article describes the construction of a functional quadruple fluid swivel with low propensity to leaking and low resistance to rotation. It was obtained through the addition of a fourth channel and some modifications performed on the rotary unit of a triple channel fluid swivel recently described. Those modifications included alterations of the Touhey-Borst adapter (Becton-Dickinson), and the development of a new method of fixation of the rotary tubes to the rotary unit of the swivel using nuts and screws. With those improvements the former swivel was transformed in a still more versatile device that can be used in experimental designs requiring the use of this relatively high number of channels. It can be used, for instance, in simultaneous off-line brain microdialysis of up to four different areas or on-line brain microdialysis in two areas; in push-pull perfusions of two brain regions; in studies determining the neuropharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of any compound and combining continuous drug infusion through one channel, double brain microdialysis to describe the distribution characteristics of the drug into the central nervous system as well as to monitor the neurochemical modifications induced by the drug, and continuous plasma sampling to know the plasma pharmacokinetics of the drug. These and several other methods used in neuroscience research can also be combined using the swivel described here.
In vitro brainstem spinal cord preparations isolated from newborn rats were used to separately test the effects of modifications of FCO2 and pH of artificial cerebrospinal fluid on the frequency and amplitude of spinal respiratory activity recorded from C2-C8 ventral roots. Different substances such as L-glutamic acid (3 x 10[-3] M), N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (5 x 5 x 10[-6] M), amphetamine (6 mg/100 ml), 5-hydroxytryptophane (10[-3] M), or modified K+ (10[-3] M) were tested for their capacity to elicit stable changes in spinal respiratory activity over a long time period (more than 30 min) and with high frequency of occurrence, i.e., in at least 50% of the cases. None of the above drugs were found to be suitable for the investigation of the chemosensitivity of the spinal respiratory generator (sRG) because they were only able to maintain spinal respiratory activity for around 15 min. Given these data, the previously used procedure of activation through initial deep diethyl ether anaesthesia of newborn rats was employed [3] to test the chemosensitivity of the sRG because this treatment resulted in the maintenance of spinal respiratory activity with a regular pattern for 30 min, even if it occurred in only 25% of the preparations. After an increase in FCO2 from 5 to 7% (at constant pH 7.4), a significant (p &lt; 0.05) enhancement of the mean frequency was observed on spinal respiratory bursting in both brainstem spinal cord and isolated spinal cord preparations. The changes in burst amplitude, however, were quite variable from one experiment to the other. At constant FCO2 (5%), a decrease in pH from 7.4 to 7.2 enhanced spinal respiratory frequency on brainstem spinal cord or isolated spinal cord preparations, while an increase in pH from 7.4 to 7.6 decreased it. Under these pH conditions, we did not observe any reproducible variations in spinal burst amplitude. From these results, we conclude that this spinal generator is chemosensitive to both CO2 and [H+], suggesting that it belongs to the respiratory system. Our data provide evidence for the existence of spinal CO2 and/or H+ chemoreceptors.
Following brain injury, there is a reduction of intra- and extracellular levels of magnesium (Mg++), which may contribute to the severity of the lesion-induced behavioral impairments. Injections of magnesium prior to or after brain injury attenuate these behavioral impairments. The present study extends these findings by manipulating the number of injections and the time period between the injections and the time of injury. Rats were given either two or five daily preoperative injections of MgCl2 (1 mmol/kg, i.p.), or saline (1 ml/kg, i.p.) with the final injection given 24 h prior to electrolytic lesions of the somatic sensorimotor cortex (SMC). Following SMC lesions the rats exhibited contralateral deficits in forelimb placing and locomotor placing. Rats treated with either two or five preoperative injections of MgCl2 showed a reduction in the initial magnitude of the contralateral deficits and an accelerated rate of recovery compared to saline-treated rats. In addition, analysis of striatal atrophy revealed that MgCl2 treatment prevented atrophy in the ipsilateral posterior striatum compared to rats treated with saline. These data suggest that preoperative injections of MgCl2 produce facilitation of sensorimotor recovery and reduce subcortical atrophy. Moreover, to observe the beneficial effects of MgCl2, the timing of injections need not be tied to the period immediately around the brain injury. The present data may indicate that daily supplements of magnesium may partially protect against some of the deleterious effects of brain injury.
It has been proposed that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) belongs to the group of cytokines causing fever in response to infectious and inflammatory noxae. The present investigation was undertaken in the conscious cat to verify whether CNTF (human type, hCNTF) is pyrogenic when given either intravenously (i.v.) or intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) and correlate at the same time body temperature with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of prostaglandin (PG) E2 (i.e., the putative fever mediator in brain) and thromboxane (TX) B2 (the stable TXA2 byproduct) in untreated vs. treated animals. hCNTF (10 microg/kg i.v.; 1 microg i.c.v.) caused fever by both routes and the increase in body temperature was associated with an upward change in CSF PGE2. Conversely, CSF TXB2 showed no elevation. Similarly unaffected was CSF TXB2 by human interleukin 6 (hIL-6, 1 microg i.c.v.), a cytokine with known pyrogenic and PGE2-promoting actions sharing the signal-transducing mechanism with hCNTF. We conclude that CNTF lends itself to a role in the pathogenesis of fever. The modest PGE2 elevation relatively to other cytokines, specifically hIL-1, is ascribed to the fact that CNTF activates the inducible isoform of arachidonate cyclooxygenase, which is constitutively expressed in brain, without concomitantly promoting the formation of new enzyme.
The distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) glutamate receptor subunits was examined in the hippocampus and temporal cortex of adult ovariectomized female rhesus macaques, some of which received estradiol replacement. In situ hybridization revealed a generalized overlap of NR1, GluR1, and GluR2 subunit mRNAs, but no effect due to estradiol treatment. However, regional differences in expression were noted for each subunit.
It has been widely hypothesized that the ovarian steroids, estrogen (E) and progesterone (P), act on serotonin neurons to modulate mood and increase prolactin secretion in women. However, information is needed on the molecular consequences of ovarian hormone action in serotonin neurons. This study examined the effect of E and P on the expression of mRNA for the serotonin re-uptake transporter (SERT) in monkeys using in situ hybridization and a 253 bp human SERT cRNA probe. Monkeys (n=5 animals/group) were ovariectomized and hysterectomized (spayed) and then untreated (control), or treated, with E for 28 days (E treated) or treated with E for 28 days and supplemented with P for the last 14 days of the E regimen (E+P treated). Densitometric analysis of autoradiographs with gray-level thresholding was performed at five levels of the dorsal and median raphe. The number of pixels exceeding background in defined areas was obtained (pixel number). The average pixel number for spayed, E- and E+P-treated groups was 22 280+/-3517, 15 227+/-1714, and 14 827+/-2042, respectively, in the combined dorsal and median raphe. In the E- and E+P-treated groups compared to the control group, there was a 32% and 33% decrease in SERT mRNA signal represented by pixel number (ANOVA, P&lt;0.05). Hence, E- and E+P-treated groups were significantly less than the control group, but they were not different from one another. Also, there were significantly fewer SERT mRNA-positive cells in the dorsal raphe of E- and E+P-treated groups (ANOVA, P&lt;0.001). Therefore E, with or without P, reduces SERT mRNA expression. These results suggest that the ability of P to increase prolactin secretion in E-primed monkeys does not involve an action at the level of SERT gene transcription. Hence, the mechanism by which the CNS transduces the action of P on prolactin secretion remains to be elucidated. However, these data suggest that one action of E replacement therapy in postmenopausal women may be to decrease expression of the SERT gene.
The secreted form of beta-amyloid precursor protein (sAPP) has been reported to exert various biological activities in cultured neurons. The signal transduction mechanisms underlying these physiological functions of sAPP remain unclear. We now report that treatment of neural cells with the secreted form of APP695 (sAPP695) leads to dose- and time-dependent increase in phosphorylation of the endogenous substrates with a molecular mass of 80, 57 and 43 kDa. Pretreatment of cells with protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor H-7 reduced phosphorylation of the 80- and 43-kDa proteins in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of sAPP695 on the phosphorylation is mimicked by phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA). Downregulation of PKC by prolonged treatment of cells with PMA abolished sAPP695-enhanced phosphorylation of the 80- and 43-kDa proteins, indicating PKC is involved in the sAPP695-enhanced phosphorylation of these proteins in the cells. We also suggest that the 80- and 43-kDa proteins phosphorylated by sAPP695-stimulation are the major PKC substrates myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate and growth-associated protein-43. Furthermore, we demonstrate that tyrosine phosphorylation of phospholipase Cgamma1 and formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate were increased by sAPP695-stimulation. These observations suggest that sAPP695 induces the activation of the signaling pathways through a stimulation of phosphoinositide-PKC cascade.

The separation of signal and noise is an important problem in the analysis of EEG and MEG data. Furthermore, many source localisation strategies need the number of independent signal components as input parameter (e.g., dipole fit, multiple signal classification). Information criteria offer a relatively objective way to separate the space spanned by the principal components of the data covariance matrix into a signal and a noise part. Eighteen such criteria were extensively tested by simulations. They differ with respect to the statistical model of the data, the assumptions on the noise, and the correction term. In the simulations, different dipole sources were used to generate EEG, which was then distorted by Gaussian correlated or uncorrelated noise. The noise level, the accuracy of the noise covariance matrix used by the criteria, the numbers of channels and time samples, and the stochastic or deterministic nature of the source waveforms were varied. The performance of the criteria was very variable. For each criterion, limits for the noise level and the relative inaccuracy of the noise covariance matrix could be established. Taking more channels or time steps did increase the criteria's ability to tolerate noise, but at the same time, made them more vulnerable to inaccuracies in the (estimated) noise covariance matrices. Out of the eighteen criteria investigated, we recommend two criteria that are best suited for the cases of (1) high noise and accurate covariances and (2) low noise and less accurate covariances.
The neurological and neuropsychological complications of vascular and orthopedic surgery can be prevented by the early detection of the ischemic penumbra, that is, the stage at which the ischemic nervous structures are no more functional, but still alive and salvageable by reperfusion. This can be achieved by intraoperative neuromonitoring of the electroencephalogram and evoked potentials. We illustrate how these techniques led to improvement of the surgical strategy and patient outcome in carotid endarterectomies, descending aorta surgery and surgery performed under deep hypothermic circulatory arrest.
The antioxidative effects of grape seed proanthocyanidins (GSPC) were studied in three in-vitro models in which polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in aqueous solution and mice liver or brain microsomes were used as oxidative substrates, and UV-C irradiation as the pro-oxidant system. Analysis of UV-C induced lipid peroxidation was carried out by two methods: gas liquid chromatography of residual PUFAs and release of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARs) measured by TBA reaction. Results indicate that PUFAs are more radiosensitive when incorporated in single component micelles than in mixed component micelles or microsomes. In every case, PUFA peroxidation was inhibited by low concentrations of GSPC (2 mg/L) while epigallocatecin (EGC) and epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) monomers, at an equivalent level of epicatechin, exhibited no efficacy in our experimental conditions. This latter effect might be explained by a synergistic action of flavan-3-ol monomers, dimers and oligomers contained in the grape seed extract.

The focus of the present review is to present recent studies of the mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. The main questions in circadian neuroscience are: how many oscillators are implicated, how are their daily oscillations generated and synchronized to the external environment and how does the central clock send timed signals to the whole organism. The review is introduced by a presentation of circadian system properties and by a description of the responses to manipulations of the main entraining factor, i.e. the light-dark cycle. The anatomy of the SCN and its major afferents from the retina (glutamate, Substance P), raphe (serotonin) and intergeniculate leaflet (neuropeptide Y) of the thalamus are presented with a special emphasis on the interaction of these inputs with the circadian timekeeping mechanism. The arguments related to the issue of whether the retina contain an endogenous oscillator are exposed. What is known of the endogenous mechanism(s) of this small structure containing 10,000 or so &quot;self-oscillating neurons&quot; is reviewed through: i) the anatomical distribution and functional significance of clock-peptides (VIP, PHI, GRP, VP or SS), ii) the putative involvement of the SCN astrocytic population in coordinating neuronal activities, iii) the various aspects of cellular activity (electrical activity, energy metabolism, protein or peptide synthesis) and iv) the participation of immediate early genes in light-driven phase shifts. The present understanding of molecular timekeeping mechanism is exposed in light of the growing list of candidate clock-genes described within the SCN as well as in peripheral tissues of mammals and also in the clock-systems of phylogenetically lower species. Efferents from the SCN are also discussed with an interest toward understanding how the central circadian information is transmitted to the rest of the brain in order to impulse or/and coordinate the numerous rhythmic activities of the organism. Finally, cellular disturbances in peptide expression or content, reduction in the amplitude of a given functional index or even astrocytic proliferation are viewed along the line of pathologies observed with aging.
To characterize the breakpoint in a neuroblastoma patient with a constitutional rearrangement we have constructed a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) contig extending approximately 6 Mbp in the chromosome 1p22 region that spans the D1S435 and D1S236 loci. This contig has been confirmed by the coincidence of a number of markers in different overlapping YACs. For several of these YACs the overlap was demonstrated following the isolation and sequencing of end clones from which STS markers were generated. The majority of the YACs have been shown not to be chimeric either through the analysis of somatic cell hybrids or fluorescence in situ hybridization. Following the establishment of the contig we have been able to construct a physical map of the region that incorporates six STS and three newly assigned eSTS markers. The generation of this physical map has allowed the reordering of markers in the genetic linkage map for 1p. The physical order is; tel-D1S435-D1S188-D1S424-D1S236-D1D415- D1S420. With the reordering of D1S435 we have been able to join this contig with another reported previously, thereby generating a well characterized 15 Mbp YAC contig in the 1p22-31 region. The 6 Mbp contig described here spans the chromosome 1 constitutional translocation break-point seen in a patient with a t(1;10)(p22;q21) and who had a stage 4S neuroblastoma. YAC fragmentation has been used to define a 200 Kb region within this contig containing the 1p22 breakpoint. Restriction enzyme analysis demonstrates that there are three NotI sites in this region, one of which lies close to the translocation breakpoint site.
In time-lapse video recordings of hippocampal neurons in culture, we have identified previously uncharacterized structures, nicknamed &quot;waves,&quot; that exhibit lamellipodial activity closely resembling that of growth cones, but which periodically emerge at the base of axons and travel distally at an average rate of 3 microm/min. In electron micrographs of identified waves, the cortical region of the axon appears expanded to either side, forming lamellipodia like those at growth cones. No other gross differences were noted in the ultrastructural features of the axon shaft at the site of a wave. Immunocytochemistry revealed that waves contain a marked concentration of F-actin, GAP-43, cortactin, and ezrin or a related protein, constituents that are also concentrated in growth cones. Treatment with the actin-disrupting agent cytochalasin B caused a reversible collapse of lamellipodia and cessation of the forward movement of individual waves along the axon, indicating that their anterograde transport is dependent on intact actin filaments. Treatment with the microtubule-depolymerizing agent nocodazole led to a rapid disorganization of wave structure and a subsequent suppression of wave activity that may reflect a role of microtubules in actin organization. The results suggest that actin and other cytoskeletal components concentrated in growth cones may be transported together as growth-cone-like structures from the cell body to the axon tip via an actin-dependent mechanism.
The hair bundle, the hair cell's sensory organelle, transduces acoustical or vestibular stimulation into a change in membrane potential. The actin-based stereociliary processes of the hair bundle contain a number of myosin isoforms that may be important to the bundle's function. One of these isoforms, myosin Ibeta, has been proposed to constitute an adaptation motor controlling sensitivity of the hair bundle to mechanical displacement. To gain insight into myosin Ibeta's function, its distribution within the hair bundle was examined. A polyclonal antibody was produced that recognizes a protein surface loop within the head domain of myosin Ibeta. This antibody was used to localize myosin Ibeta in the hair cell by indirect-immunofluorescence microscopy and indirect-immunoelectron microscopy. Within the hair bundle, myosin Ibeta immunoreactivity was located along the sides of the stereociliary actin core, concentrated in the distal two-thirds of the stereocilia. Within the hair cell soma, myosin Ibeta immunoreactivity was located throughout the cytoplasm exclusive of the cuticular plate.
One novel method to deliver trophic factor locally in the CNS is to mix it into fibrin glue. In the present studies, [125I]-labeled GDNF-containing fibrin glue balls were used to determine binding and spread of the trophic factor. First, the binding of different concentrations of [125I]-labeled GDNF in fibrin glue was determined in vitro. Within the six concentrations used (from 200 nM to 0.004 nM, 0 M as control), there was a strong linear correlation between the [125I]-GDNF concentration and the recovered radioactivity (r = 0.992). The mean bound radioactivity in 16 samples with 4 nM [125I]-GDNF was 71262 +/- 2710 CPM, and accounted for 89.8% of the mean initial count of free [125I]-GDNF (79369 +/- 3499 CPM). Second, [125I]-GDNF-containing glue balls were implanted into the anterior chamber of adult rats. The implanted fibrin glue balls decreased in size with time, but could still be identified on the irises 2 wk after implantation. Radioactivity was concentrated at the implantation sites in the early stages with a distribution in the surrounding iris tissue, which became separated into focal radioactive spots at the third week. Counts of radioactivity were significantly higher in the [125I]-GDNF glue ball-implanted irises than controls until 14 days after implantation. A study of the [125I] decay over time using least-squares linear regression demonstrated first-order kinetics (r = -0.98, p &lt;0.02) with k = 0.0091 and T 1/2 = 76 h. Finally, [125I]-GDNF-containing glue balls were implanted in the spinal cord of adult rats. Radioactivity was concentrated at the implantation sites in the early stages and was later distributed more widely in the surrounding thoracic cord. The [125I]-GDNF-containing glue degraded over time and became a porous meshwork with decreasing radioactivity at the later time points. Radioactivity in the spinal cords subjected to implantation of [125I]-GDNF-containing glue balls was higher than in controls for 14 days. Study of the [125I] decay by time with least-squares linear regression demonstrated first-order kinetics (r = -0.97, p = 0.001) with T 1/2 = 75.6 h. We conclude that the trophic factor GDNF becomes bound in the fibrin glue matrix from which it is gradually released. Our results suggest that fibrin glue is an effective substrate for keeping a trophic factor localized in situ for a finite period, protected from the circulation, surrounding aqueous humor or CSF.
Therapies in current use for episodic tension-type headache (ETTH) are often unsatisfactory. Few trials have been conducted to demonstrate efficacy of any of them. This multicenter placebo-controlled randomized parallel-groups study compared the analgesic efficacy of single oral doses of ketoprofen 25 mg and acetaminophen 1000 mg as outpatient treatment of 1 attack of ETTH. Efficacy was assessed by patients as pain relief on a diary-entered 7-point categorical scale. A total of 457 patients treated 348 attacks, 330 of which were evaluable. There were no serious adverse events (AEs); gastrointestinal AEs were most common on all treatments. Total relief from pain after 2 h was recorded by 16% of patients on placebo, 28% on ketoprofen, and 22% on acetaminophen. Worthwhile effect or total relief (all other responses were regarded as treatment failures) were recorded by 36% on placebo, 70% on ketoprofen (p &lt; 0.001), 61% on acetaminophen (p &lt; 0.001). The difference between ketoprofen and acetaminophen was not significant (p = 0.24). Various secondary efficacy measures confirmed superiority of both active treatments over placebo, with some trends for slightly better outcome on ketoprofen that on acetaminophen. This study demonstrates that ketoprofen is an effective alternative to standard therapy in ETTH.
Brain imaging studies have shown that episodic encoding into long-term memory preferentially activates the left prefrontal cortex and retrieval activates the right prefrontal cortex. However, it is unclear to what degree verbal analysis contributes to the left prefrontal activation during encoding. The present study was designed to avoid verbal analysis during encoding by using abstract pictures and computer-generated sounds which were difficult to code verbally. Sounds and pictures were grouped into six stimulus-stimulus pairs. When the sound from a pair was presented, the subjects were instructed to recall and visualize the associated picture. After 2.0 s the associated picture and another picture appeared on the screen and the subjects were required to identify the associated picture. Feedback about the choice was then given. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with [15O]butanol and positron emission tomography (PET) in 10 subjects during initial training on the paired-associates task (encoding scan) and after 35 min of training (retrieval scan). Performance during the encoding scan was 59% correct and during the retrieval scan 98% correct, with a mean reaction time of 709 ms during retrieval. The rCBF was also measured during a control condition without any instruction to encode or retrieve. Compared with retrieval, encoding showed significant activation of the posterior part of the right middle frontal gyrus, the right inferior parietal cortex, the cingulate cortex, the left inferior parietal cortex and the left inferior and middle temporal gyri. The rCBF increase during encoding was strongly correlated with the rate of encoding. Retrieval was compared with both encoding and control. In none of these comparisons was there any prefrontal activation. The lack of prefrontal activation during near-perfect performance of the retrieval task suggests that the prefrontal cortex is not necessarily active when retrieval is fast and accurate, or what might be called automatic. Encoding was not associated with more activation of the left than the right prefrontal cortex. This result presents a limitation to the generality of left prefrontal activation during episodic encoding, which has been found in several previous brain imaging studies. Differences between studies in the relative activation of left and right prefrontal cortex during encoding and retrieval might be due to differences in paradigms, the type of stimulus used, and the demand for working memory and verbal analysis.
Asymmetries in the size of cortical regions are regularly associated with functional lateralization. Assessment of cortical asymmetry is often confounded by measurement artifact and a lack of information about the normal variance of asymmetry in regions that are functionally symmetric. In order to measure hemispheric asymmetries in the surface area of cortical gyri, magnetic resonance (MR) images were acquired from 10 normal, right-handed males. Computer representations of the cortical surface in all 20 hemispheres were reconstructed from the images by first creating a white matter model and then 'inflating' it to approximate the cortical surface. The advantage of this approach is that it accurately models the deep sulci as well as the cortical surface. Surface area measurements of the whole hemisphere, the postcentral and the cingulate gyrus were collected from each subject. For each region an asymmetry score was computed based on the difference in the surface area of the left and right regions. Many subjects showed asymmetries in these two gyri; however, the mean asymmetry scores were never significantly asymmetric. The large variability of individual asymmetry scores indicates that cortical asymmetries may be present even in the absence of clear functional asymmetry. An understanding of the degree of asymmetry in structures that do not show clear functional lateralization is critical for interpreting data gathered from cortical regions that are functionally asymmetric.
The aim of this study was to explore elements of the maturational and cortical hypoarousal models in adolescent ADHD, by examining EEG activity in a rest eyes open condition, in 26 adolescent unmedicated ADHD males and 26 age and sex matched normal controls. ADHD adolescents were found to have increased anterior EEG absolute theta activity and reduced posterior relative beta activity compared with controls. These results lend some support to the continuation of a maturational lag and reduced cortical arousal in adolescent ADHD. These measures need to be further explored using concomitant EEG with electrodermal measures of arousal.
Annexin-1, a calcium-dependent phospholipid binding protein, has been shown to act as an endogenous central neuroprotectant, notably against cerebral ischaemic damage. In the present study we extend these findings to an animal model of multiple sclerosis, EAE, and report that endogenous annexin-1 is expressed in ED1+ macrophages and resident astrocytes localized within the lesions in the central nervous system (CNS). Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of an NH2-terminal fragment spanning amino acids 1-188 of annexin-1 after the onset of the clinical symptoms significantly reduced both the neurological severity as well as weight loss of mild EAE. Immunoneutralization of endogenous brain annexin-1 failed to exacerbate the clinical features of EAE. Thus, although the role of endogenous annexin-1 in the pathogenesis of EAE remains to be determined, our findings suggest that annexin-1 may be of therapeutic benefit to the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
Preparing for a retrospective study of senile degeneration in schizophrenia, we had occasion to explore the suitability of an old collection formalin-fixed brains and paraffin blocks for study by modern staining methods. Tissue that had been in formalin for 50 years was embedded in paraffin. Sections were then stained with thioflavine S and with immunoperoxidase stains using Alz 50 and antibodies to paired helical filaments, ubiquitin, and beta-amyloid. In all 4 cases that had originally (50 years earlier) received neuropathologic diagnoses of Alzheimer's disease, large numbers of neocortical senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles were clearly demonstrated by thioflavine S stain and by immunohistochemistry for paired helical filaments, ubiquitin, and beta-amyloid. In each of 4 other cases, in which the original neuropathologic examination had not revealed Alzheimer's disease, no plaques or tangles were observed. Immunoreactivity with Alz 50 was completely absent after 50 years in formalin. Examination of additional cases of Alzheimer's disease revealed that Alz 50 immunoreactivity was well preserved after 10 years in formalin and completely absent after 30 years in formalin. Alzheimer's disease tissue stored in paraffin for 30 years was clearly stained by all modalities. We conclude that immunohistochemical identification of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles is practical even after decades of storage in formalin or paraffin. The applicability of techniques that did not exist when these specimens were collected indicates that the systematic, permanent retention of formalin-fixed material may yield unanticipated future benefits.
A patient with SSPE who had prominent diffuse white matter hypodensities on CT scan indicating central white matter demyelination and nerve conduction abnormalities suggestive of peripheral neuropathy is reported. Diagnosis was established by demonstration of elevated CSF measles antibody titers and presence of virus antigen and nucleocapsid in peripheral nerve. To our knowledge, this is the first report of demonstration of measles virus nucleocapsides and antigen in the peripheral nerve in SSPE.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major neurologic disorder that distinctively and selectively affects movement and--by extension--the motor system. A large body of evidence has been accumulated over the years showing that movement disorders of PD are also due to sensory disturbances that affect sensorimotor integration. The aim of this review is to discuss the possible contribution of neurophysiologic techniques in evaluating the functionality of sensorimotor integration mechanisms in PD. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) are an appropriate functional approach for the evaluation of sensory processes in the human brain. SEPs from the frontal scalp sites are considered markers of the functionality of a cortico-subcortico-cortical loop that includes the basal ganglia as well as the premotor and supplementary motor areas. Over the years, it has been demonstrated that PD patients--especially in the early stages of the disease--show a severely depressed frontal responsiveness to sensory stimuli as tested via SEPs. The transient recovery of frontal SEP amplitude after apomorphine, a potent dopamine agonist drug, is a good and specific predictor of the clinical response of PD patients to L-dopa therapy.
1. In human sympathetic denervation due to primary autonomic failure, food and exercise in combination may produce a cumulative blood pressure lowering effect due to simultaneous splanchnic and skeletal muscle dilatation unopposed by corrective cardiovascular reflexes. We studied 12 patients with autonomic failure during and after 9 min of supine exercise, when fasted and after a liquid meal. Standing blood pressure was also measured before and after exercise. 2. When fasted, blood pressure fell during exercise from 162 +/- 7/92 +/- 4 to 129 +/- 9/70 +/- 5 mmHg (mean arterial pressure by 22 +/- 5%), P &lt; 0.0005. After the meal, blood pressure fell from 159 +/- 8/88 +/- 6 to 129 +/- 6/70 +/- 4 mmHg (mean arterial pressure by 22 +/- 3%), P &lt; 0.0001, and further during exercise to 123 +/- 6/61 +/- 3 mmHg (mean arterial pressure by 9 +/- 3%), P &lt; 0.01. The stroke distance-heart rate product, an index of cardiac output, did not change after the meal. During exercise, changes in the stroke distance-heart rate product were greater when fasted. 3. Resting forearm and calf vascular resistance were higher when fasted. Calf vascular resistance fell further after exercise when fasted. Resting superior mesenteric artery vascular resistance was lower when fed; 0.19 +/- 0.02 compared with 0.32 +/- 0.06, P &lt; 0.05. After exercise, superior mesenteric artery vascular resistance had risen by 82%, to 0.53 +/- 0.12, P &lt; 0.05 (fasted) and by 47%, to 0.29 +/- 0.05, P &lt; 0.05 (fed). 4. On standing, absolute levels of blood pressure were higher when fasted [83 +/- 7/52 +/- 7 compared with 71 +/- 2/41 +/- 3 (fed), each P &lt; 0.05]. Subjects were more symptomatic on standing post-exercise when fed. 5. In human sympathetic denervation, exercise in the fed state lowered blood pressure further than when fasted and worsened symptoms of postural hypotension.
The use of quality of life (QOL) measures in epilepsy research is relatively recent compared with that in other chronic conditions such as coronary heart disease and diabetes. However, in recent years much research has been undertaken to develop and validate QOL measures for use in various groups of people with epilepsy, including children, the elderly, and newly diagnosed patients. QOL measures are now available for use in both clinical trials and primary care. The Liverpool Group is one of the leading research teams in this field and is probably best known for developing the Liverpool Seizure Severity Scale. However, the group has also developed a number of other QOL measures, with an emphasis on keeping the measures appropriate, practical, and responsive, and always considering the burden to patients. This review describes some of the measures the Liverpool Group has developed, outlines their application in clinical trials of a number of aspects of antiepileptic drugs, and details the importance of some of the findings. The diversity of the group's approach and of its involvement in assessing the QOL of people with epilepsy are emphasized.

Psychological studies of categorization often assume that all concepts are of the same general kind, and are operated on by the same kind of categorization process. In this paper, we argue against this unitary view, and for the existence of qualitatively different categorization processes. In particular, we focus on the distinction between categorizing an item by: (a) applying a category-defining rule to the item vs. (b) determining the similarity of that item to remembered exemplars of a category. We begin by characterizing rule application and similarity computations as strategies of categorization. Next, we review experimental studies that have used artificial categories and shown that differences in instructions or time pressure can lead to either rule-based categorization or similarity-based categorization. Then we consider studies that have used natural concepts and again demonstrated that categorization can be done by either rule application or similarity calculations. Lastly, we take up evidence from cognitive neuroscience relevant to the rule vs. similarity issue. There is some indirect evidence from brain-damaged patients for neurological differences between categorization based on rules vs. that based on similarity (with the former involving frontal regions, and the latter relying more on posterior areas). For more direct evidence, we present the results of a recent neuroimaging experiment, which indicates that different neural circuits are involved when people categorize items on the basis of a rule as compared with when they categorize the same items on the basis of similarity.
Discrimination of 'prey' (bars elongated in the direction of movement; W- or H-orientation) and 'non-prey' (bars perpendicular to the direction of movement; A- or V-orientation) stimuli in freely moving amphibians is velocity-invariant. Whether or not this phenomenon is present in cells belonging to a general decision making neuronal process remains questionable. Present investigations report the effect of the angular velocity of the stimulus on the discrimination function of class R3 (transient ON-OFF) retinal ganglion cells. The main conclusions of this work are the following: (1) irrespective of the angular velocity, class R3 neurons always prefer vertically (A-) to horizontally (W-) oriented stripes as long as the stimulus length remains inferior to the receptive field size; (2) this preference for small A-stimuli is best expressed when stimuli are moved at V = 7.6 degrees/s; (3) a preference reversal is induced by stripes longer than the receptive field via a dual process involving both spatial and temporal mechanisms; (4) this preference reversal is velocity-dependent: the longer the bar, the faster the velocity should be.
This article provides a basic introduction into two commonly used behavioral paradigms used for the assessment of the reinforcing and rewarding effects of drugs in experimental animals. Behavioral as well as neurochemical data regarding the neural basis of opiate reward are then critically reviewed in order to evaluate the neuroanatomical and neurochemical substrates mediating the primary and conditioned reinforcing effects of opiates as well as current hypotheses of drug-induced reward and aversion.
The observation that the free radical nitric oxide (NO) acts as a cell signaling molecule in key physiological processes such as regulation of blood pressure and immunological host-defense responses is probably one of the most important and exciting findings made in biology in the last decade. Likewise, in the brain NO has been implicated in a number of fundamental processes, including memory formation, sexual behavior and the control of cerebral blood flow. This has radically altered the accepted dogma of brain physiology and has placed NO at the center stage of neuroscience research. Evidence suggests that some of the actions of NO in the brain may be intimately linked to those of the classic excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. The historical view that aberrations in glutamate signal transduction may underlie central neurodegeneration following, for example, cerebral ischemia, has implicated NO, by default, as a potential mediator of neuronal death. Indeed, with the advent of potent and specific compounds that interact with NO synthesizing (NOS) enzymes and with the NO signaling cascade, there is now ample evidence to suggest that NO can mediate neurodegeneration, although its involvement is paradoxical. Its cerebrovascular effects may act to limit ischemic damage by preserving tissue perfusion and preventing platelet aggregation, while NO produced in the parenchyma, either directly following the ischemic insult or at a later stage as part of a neuroinflammatory response, may be deleterious to the outcome of ischemia. Nonetheless, significant efforts are made into the potential therapeutic use of chemical NO donors and specific NOS inhibitors in the treatment of cerebral ischemia and other central neurodegenerative disorders. Here, the latest concepts and developments in our understanding of the role of NO in cerebral ischemic neurodegeneration are discussed.

In our previous study, elderly leprosy patients showed a low prevalence of senile dementia of the Alzheimer type, but the frequency of apolipoprotein E (APO-E) epsilon 4 was elevated in non-demented elderly leprosy patients. Recent study has shown that Alzheimer's disease risk associated with APO-E epsilon 4 is significantly increased by the alpha 1-antichymotrypsin (ACT) genotype AA. Therefore we examined an association between ACT polymorphism and the APO-E epsilon 4 allele in 350 leprosy patients. None of our data showed an association of ACT genotype and APO-E epsilon 4 allele in leprosy patients. The allelic frequencies of the ACT gene did not differ even between demented patients with leprosy and age-matched controls. Our present data suggest that ACT polymorphism is not associated with the increased frequency of APO-E epsilon 4 in leprosy patients.
Depressive disorder is a polymorphic syndrome with a wide range of clinical manifestations. Most analyses of depressive symptomatology have been performed by ignoring psychotic symptoms, despite a substantial proportion of depressives presenting psychotic features. The purpose of this study was to include psychotic features in an analysis of depressive symptomatology. Six hundred sixty-nine inpatients affected by major depressive (n = 259) and bipolar (n = 410) disorder were rated for lifetime depressive symptoms using the Operational Criteria checklist for psychotic illness (OPCRIT) and included in a factorial analysis. Three factors were obtained: the first consisted of core depressive symptoms, the second comprised psychotic features, and the third comprised atypical symptoms. Separate analyses performed on major depressive and bipolar samples showed a similar factor structure, though there was some evidence of greater heterogeneity in the major depressive sample. Thus, when scored by the OPCRIT checklist, depressive symptomatology results were composed of core depressive symptoms, psychotic features, and atypical symptoms.
We have recently demonstrated the association of SV40 and human pleural malignant mesothelioma. Here, we have investigated whether SV40 viral sequences may be associated with other human tumours or other non-neoplastic pathology and whether SV40 DNA or protein expression may be of diagnostic, prognostic or therapeutic relevance. DNA was extracted from paraffin embedded tissues. SV40, JC and BK viral sequences were detected by the polymerase chain reaction and molecular hybridization with specific probes. The screening with three different sets of SV40-related primers demonstrated that 7/18 (38.8%) mesothelioma specimens were SV40 positive as well as 5/18 (27.7%) tubercular pleural lesions. None of the 18 lung cancers, nor the 20 pleural non-specific inflammatory specimens tested were positive. Twenty-five blood samples and 18 urinary sediments from MM patients were also negative. We have also found that SV40 Tag proteins are present in mesothelioma cells and tumours. Tag proteins may interfere with tumour suppressor gene products, such as p53. Preliminary results suggest that wild type p53 transgene expression, obtained after infection with recombinant adenovirus (AdCMV.p53), inhibited in vitro and in vivo proliferation, inducing apoptosis of mesothelioma cells. Infections with control viruses were ineffective. Thus, SV40 DNA and Tag expression in mesothelioma tumour cells, though probably not relevant for diagnostic or prognostic purposes, may be crucial for innovative gene therapy strategies.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a demyelinating disease characterized by infection of oligodendrocytes by JC virus. The exact nature of the pathogenesis of PML is not known. The nature of the primary infection, the site of viral latency, and the route by which JCV enters the brain remain to be elucidated. Different laboratories have shown the presence of JCV in peripheral lymphocytes from immunosuppressed individuals, suggesting these cells as possible carriers of JCV to the brain. To examine this observation, we tested the susceptibility to JCV infection of cells from lymphoid organs, focusing our attention on CD34+ haematopoietic precursor cells and B lymphocytes. The results demonstrate that both these cell types are susceptible to JCV infection and, moreover, that JCV can infect only those cells that differentiate into lymphocytic lineage.
Previous studies identified a group of proteins localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that bind calcium and direct protein folding. Three of these proteins, CaBP1, CaBP2, and protein disulfide isomerase, have been purified from rat microsomes and analyzed biochemically. However, their function in vivo has not been determined. Here, we report the isolation of a homologue of the CaBP1 gene from the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster (DmCaBP1). The predicted sequence of the Drosophila protein is very similar to that of rat CaBP1 and retains motifs thought to be functionally important in the mammalian protein. We show that DmCaBP1 is expressed in a specific spatiotemporal pattern during embryogenesis. In particular, it is expressed in midline precursor cells in the developing CNS. This is the first demonstration of tissue-specific expression for a member of this group of ER proteins and suggests a possible role for DmCABP1 as a molecular chaperone involved in nervous system development. The identification of the DmCaBP1 gene provides a basis for future genetic studies of its function.
Congenital ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency is the most common inborn error of urea cycle enzymes in humans. A large percentage of survivors of neonatal OTC deficiency suffer severe developmental disorders, including seizures, mental retardation and cerebral palsy. Neuropathological studies reveal ventricular enlargement, cerebral atrophy and delayed myelination, as well as Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. Using the sparse-fur (spf) mouse model of congenital OTC deficiency, studies of central cholinergic integrity revealed a developmental delay in choline acetyltransferase activity and of high-affinity [3H]-choline uptake in several brain structures. Subsequent studies of muscarinic cholinergic binding site distribution showed a widespread loss of M1 sites, consistent with cholinergic cell loss. These alterations are similar to those reported in Alzheimer's disease, suggesting that the severe cognitive dysfunction in congenital OTC deficiency may at least partly result from a muscarinic cholinergic lesion. Possible mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of cholinergic cell loss in congenital OTC deficiency include ammonia-induced inhibition of pyruvate and alpha-oxoglutarate oxidation, resulting in decreased synthesis of acetyl CoA and a cerebral energy deficit, as well as NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. Treatment of spf mice with acetyl-L-carnitine (ALCAR) results in partial recovery of the developmental choline acetyltransferase deficit, suggesting a potential therapeutic benefit of ALCAR in congenital OTC deficiency. Other therapies currently used include ammonia-lowering strategies (using sodium benzoate or sodium phenylacetate) and, in severe cases, liver transplantation.
Generalized oxidative deficits associated with experimental thiamine deficiency (TD) lead to selective neurodegeneration. In mouse brain, TD produces region-specific breach of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), neuronal loss and an accumulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in abnormal neurites. The APP-laden abnormal neurites within the damaged areas of mouse brain aggregate into neuritic clusters which strikingly resemble the neuritic component of Alzheimer amyloid plaques. However, amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) immunoreactivity has not been demonstrated in these neuritic clusters, possibly because the Abeta region of APP in mice contains three amino acid substitutions as compared with the amino acid sequence of human Abeta. In contrast, the guinea pig nucleic acid sequence is more related to the human sequence and the Abeta region is identical in sequence to that of human APP. Thus, the current studies tested whether the presence of an authentic Abeta fragment of APP (i.e., identical to that of man) might make guinea pigs more vulnerable to the development of Abeta-containing neuritic clusters following TD. During late stages of TD, BBB abnormalities, manifested by immunoglobulin G (IgG) extravasation and increased NADPH diaphorase reactivity in microvessels, occurred in brain areas known to be damaged by TD in mice. However, despite the prolonged thiamine deprivation and the advanced neurological symptoms of guinea pigs, no significant neuronal loss or altered APP/Abeta immunostaining occurred in any brain region. Microglial activation, another early marker of damage in mice, was not evident in thiamine-deficient guinea pig brain. Ferritin immunoreactivity and iron deposition in oligodendrocytes within areas of BBB abnormalities were either slightly enhanced or unchanged as compared to controls. This is the first report of brain abnormalities in the guinea pig model of dietary and pyrithiamine-induced TD. The results demonstrate species differences in the response to TD-induced damage, and further support the role of BBB and nitric oxide in the initial events in TD pathology.
The influence of dopamine receptor deletion on the expression and distribution of striatal excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor subunits comprising the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) subtypes were examined in the D1A dopamine (DA) receptor-deficient mouse. EAA receptor subunit immunofluorescent staining was altered by the DA receptor genetic mutation. The NMDA-R1 subunit was used as a marker for NMDA-type receptors. The number of striatal neurons expressing this subunit decreased and there was a modest attenuation in the neuropil staining in the mutants in contrast to littermate controls. The R1 subunit for the glutamate receptor (GluR1) was used as an indicator of the AMPA receptor subtype. Immunostaining for this subunit also showed changes induced by deletion of the DA receptor subtype. In contrast to the NMDA-R1 subunit, neuropil staining for the GluR1 subunit was elevated in the mutant in comparison to littermate controls, such that the immunofluorescent reaction obscured detection of the subunit protein in striatal interneurons. The results are discussed in relation to the potential impact on functional interactions between the EAA and DA systems in the striatum.
A distinct feature of the striatum is that much of the expression of neurochemicals in this forebrain structure follows a compartmental (striosome/matrix) ordering. How this pattern of neurochemical compartmentation is developed and regulated is still unknown. In the present paper we propose that a key feature of this early striatal plasticity is differential control of the activation kinetics of the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which in turn influences striatal expression of genes containing cAMP response elements in their promoter sequences. Specifically, we propose that activity-dependent regulation of the kinetics of CREB phosphorylation, brought about early expressed protein phosphatases and protein phosphatase inhibitors in the developing striatal compartments, helps to set up and to maintain patterning of the neurochemical prototypes characteristic of striatal compartments.
Neuroplasticity serves an important role for normal striatal function and in disease states. One route to neuroplasticity involves activation of the transcription factor cyclic 3', 5'-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP) response element binding protein (CREB) by phosphorylation of the amino acid 133Ser. Dopamine and glutamate, the two predominant neurotransmitters in the striatum, induce CREB phosphorylation in primary cultures of rat striatum through cyclic AMP and Ca2+ pathways. Here we present the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and Ca2+ in cyclic AMP-mediated CREB phosphorylation.
The differential neurobehavioral effects of forebrain dopamine (DA) depletions in neonatal and adult rats are reviewed. In contrast to the severe and long-lasting parkinsonian sensorimotor deficits seen in rats sustaining large DA depletions as adults, rats comparably depleted as neonates are spared from these gross behavioral deficits. While DA released from residual striatal DA terminals remains necessary for the gradual recovery of sensorimotor function in rats lesioned as adults and the sparing from deficits in rats lesioned as neonates, the specific roles of D1- and D2-like receptors differ between the two age groups. Coactivation of striatal D1 and D2 receptors by residual DA is necessary for the expression of sensorimotor behavior in rats depleted of DA as adults (and in intact rats) whereas activation of either D1 or D2 receptors is sufficient for these behaviors in rats depleted of DA as neonates. We discuss the D1/D2 modulation of several important markers for striatal transmission (acetylcholine release from interneurons, induction of c-fos, and the expression of GAD65 mRNA in striatal efferents) as potential mechanisms underlying this striking age-dependent plasticity following forebrain DA depletions.
The postnatal development of the electrophysiological properties and morphology of rat neostriatum was studied using in vivo and in vitro intracellular recording and biocytin staining and light and electron microscopy. The principal neurons, the medium spiny neurons, were found to undergo a protracted postnatal development of their electrophysiological and morphological characteristics. Most of the intrinsic membrane properties of medium spiny neurons came to resemble those in the adult by the end of the 3rd postnatal week. Synaptic responses and spontaneous activity patterns in medium spiny neurons were dependent on the arrival and functional maturation of excitatory afferents from cortex and thalamus and did not become adult-like until the end of the 1st postnatal month.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the postnatal expression of GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit genes in the context of cerebellar differentiation. We examined steady-state levels of GABA(A) receptor alpha1 and alpha6 subunit mRNAs, polyadenylated (polyA+) mRNA and beta-actin mRNA in7-, 14-, 21-, 28-, 35-, 49- and 120-day-old rats. Messenger RNA expression and splicing were evaluated in parallel using Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization histochemistry. The expression of mature GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit mRNA species (2.7 kb) was found 1 week after birth in cerebellar granule cells. Prior to stable expression of the mature alpha6 subunit gene, we detected large alpha6 subunit premessengers (3.8 and 3.5 kb) by Northern blot analysis. These premessenger species were detected in prenatal day (PND) 15 and neonatal rat cerebellum, when the mature alpha6 subunit mRNAs (2.7 kb) were not yet expressed. The maximal expression of mature alpha6 subunit mRNA species was observed at PND 21 when the peak level of cerebellar transcriptional activity was measured by polyA+ RNA levels. In contrast, beta-actin mRNA expression was decreased at PND 21 compared to birth levels. These major transcriptional events take place during a period of about 1 week (between PND 14 and 21), immediately following the most active phase of cell division in the external granule layer and migration of granule cells to the internal granule cell layer. Comparison between the relative abundance of these genes shows that differential regulation of each gene occurs during postnatal development. The induction of GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit gene expression is preceded by a reduction in beta-actin mRNA levels and a transient increase in total transcriptional activity. The expression of alpha6 subunit mRNA is maintained at the PND 21 level through adulthood, but the alpha1 subunit mRNA levels decrease drastically within the following week (from PND 21 to 28). These results suggest that tissue-specific expression of the GABA(A) receptor alpha6 subunit gene is correlated with a series of developmentally regulated morphologic and transcriptional events.
We address the question whether left-hemispheric and/or right-hemispheric contrast thresholds differ between children with dyslexia and controls, and whether there are interhemispheric differences. In order to answer these questions we examined [1] thresholds for the detection of Contrast-Defined (CD) forms to left and right half-field stimulation, and [2] half-field pattern onset Evoked Potentials (EPs) as a function of stimulus contrast in 21 children with dyslexia of 8-15 years of age and in 17 age-matched healthy controls. It was found that (A) children with dyslexia were less sensitive to CD forms than controls irrespective of half field of stimulation. In children with dyslexia as well as controls the forms were more easily detected in the right visual half-field than in the left one: (B) Peak latencies of the pattern onset EPs to contrast levels above 20% were up to 10 ms longer in children with dyslexia than in controls irrespective of half field of stimulation, and (C) children with dyslexia had smaller mean amplitudes for all contrast levels used. (D) Neither children with dyslexia nor controls showed hemispheric differences in the pattern onset EPs.

The appearance of late motor complications is the major drawback of long term levodopa therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease. Although disease progression may be a factor in the aetiology of these complications, unfavourable properties of levodopa may promote their development. These include competition with amino acids for gastrointestinal absorption and passage through the blood-brain barrier; and a short duration of action with a rapid peak plasma concentration and rapid clearance, producing strong receptor stimulation that rapidly alternates with neurotransmitter vacancy and nonselective stimulation of all dopamine receptors. Moreover, advanced neurodegeneration results in loss of the anatomical substrate responsible for dopamine uptake and transport, whereas the postsynaptic dopamine receptors (the therapeutic target of dopamine agonists) are relatively spared. In theory, long-acting direct dopamine D2 receptor agonists that also stimulate the D1 receptor should provide a satisfactory alternative to levodopa without the above-mentioned drawbacks. Cabergoline possesses all the prerequisites for testing the hypothesis that steady stimulation of D2 receptors may be able to minimise the development of late motor complications in patients with Parkinson's disease. It has an appropriate receptor affinity profile, with potent and long-lasting dopaminergic stimulatory effects in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats and in MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine)-lesioned primates; it has a consistent pharmacokinetic profile, with a very long mean plasma elimination half-life of 65 to 110 hours, and its absorption and excretion are unaffected by food, age or renal or hepatic disease; moreover, when given concomitantly, cabergoline does not influence levodopa pharmacokinetics. Initial clinical studies have demonstrated that the efficacy of cabergoline is comparable to that of levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease. The preliminary results of a long term study of initiation of treatment with cabergoline or levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease are in keeping with the hypothesis that steady receptor stimulation diminishes late motor complications.

The neglect of science was considered to be one of the causes of the 1898 crisis and therefore the production of science was regarded at the end of the last century as one of the principal measures to achieve national regeneration. The creation of research institutions, especially for outstanding researchers like Cajal, became a national goal. The press contributed greatly to bring about this goal, and in the case of Cajal, was not only the reporter but also the instigator of the campaign to provide him with his own research centre: the Biological Research Laboratory. This paper analyses the start, development and culmination of this campaign.
Based on recent research that indicated that P300 scalp topography varies as a function of task and/or information to be processed, this study examined scalp-recorded magnetic fields correlated with the P300 by means of whole-head magnetoencephalography. Subjects performed two discrimination tasks, in which targets, defined on either object or spatial characteristics of the same visual stimuli, had to be discriminated. Based on the across-subject root mean square (RMS) functions a sequence of 4 components could be identified in both tasks, N1m, P3m, and two later components, which, based on their estimated neuronal sources, were classified as representing motor processes during and following the manual responses to target stimuli. Reliable between-task differences in source localization were obtained for the P3m component, but not for the other components. Inferior-medial sources were found for the P3m evoked by both spatial and object targets, with these sources being located about 3.5 cm more anterior for object targets. These results suggest that different neuronal sources, possibly located in subcortical regions in the vicinity of the thalamus, contribute to the P3m evoked by target stimuli defined by either object or spatial stimulus characteristics.
Fridtjof Nansen (1861-1930), the Norwegian explorer, oceanographer, statesman, Nobel Peace Prizewinner is best known for his arctic travels. He began his professional career as an invertebrate zoologist at the Bergen Museum in Norway but soon developed an interest in the histological structure of the nervous system. Along with His, Koelliker, Lenhossek and Forel he was a pioneer advocate of what came later to be known as the Neuron Doctrine, but his role is now generally relegated to the footnotes of the history of neuroscience. Comparison with the independent, parallel papers of His and Forel gives Nansen technical priority. The reasons for his relative obscurity as a pioneer neuroscientist are many, but foremost among them must be the persistent failure of Ramn y Cajal to acknowledge Nansen's pioneering insights.
Somatostatin (SRIF), originally described as a hypothalamic hormone that inhibits the release of growth hormone was subsequently shown to inhibit the secretion of multiple pituitary hormones. Five genes encoding six different SRIF receptors (sst1, 2A, 2B, 3, 4 and 5) have been cloned and mRNAs for all five are expressed in the anterior pituitary. We used double immunostaining to determine which cells in the anterior pituitary bear sst2A and sst5 receptors. Our results show that these two receptors are widely distributed in the pituitary gland and are both present in a large percentage of GH cells. In addition, sst5 occurs in a small population of corticotrophs and a large percentage of lactotrophs whereas sst2A is found in only a few lactotrophs but a large number of corticotrophs. The sst2A receptor is also expressed in about a third of the gonadotrophs and thyrotrophs. Interestingly, sst2A and sst5 receptors colocalize in a small percentage of cells, most likely somatotrophs demonstrating that the same cells can contain multiple sst receptor subtypes. These results indicate that sst subtype specific analogs are likely to be useful for the selective regulation of individual pituitary hormones.
Exhaust emissions from a heavy-duty diesel vehicle, separated into particulate and semivolatile phases and thereafter fractionated according to polarity, were studied in the adult rat brain after intracranial microinjections using cresyl violet staining and immunohistochemistry. Intrastriatal as well as intrahippocampal injections of particulate fractions III [containing mononitro-polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)], IV (dinitro-PAH and quinones) and V (polar material) and of semivolatile fractions IV and V, in amounts corresponding to a driven length of 19.5 m, caused major lesions with tissue loss and disappearance of immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, tyrosine hydroxylase, and acetylcholine esterase. Particulate fractions I (&quot;light&quot; aliphatic hydrocarbons) and II (&quot;heavy&quot; aliphatic hydrocarbons and PAH) and semivolatile fraction III produced smaller lesions; semivolatile fractions I and II led to lesions equivalent to those of the vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide alone. Microinjected doses of particulate fractions III or IV corresponding to driven lengths of 2.0 and 9.8 m produced a variable lesion. Thus, fractions containing nitro-derivatives of PAH, quinones, and polar material caused the greatest damage after intracranial injections. It is concluded that intracerebral microinjections of fractionated motor vehicle exhausts provide a method for systematic testing of direct neurotoxicity.

Results of previous studies suggested that the brainstem participates in amygdaloid (AM) kindled seizure generalization and the positive transfer effect at the secondary site AM. This study was undertaken to define the role of the brainstem in the patterning of AM kindling, the maintenance of AM kindled seizure and the formation of the positive transfer effect (PTE) at the secondary site AM in cats. Seven animals with midsagittal bisection of the brainstem were subjected to primary site and secondary site AM kindling and primary site retest. All the animals were kindled at the primary site. However, the following significant differences from the pattern seen in intact animals were observed: (1) reversed direction of stage 4 seizure, with circling from the contralateral to the ipsilateral, (2) a marked kindled seizure stage instability, and (3) frequent abortive termination of the kindled seizure. At the secondary site AM, all the animals showed a complete absence of the positive transfer effect, with two out of seven animals failing to progress beyond stage 2. A negative transfer or an interference after-effect remained preserved at the secondary site kindling and primary site retest. The findings indicate that the bisected midsagittal area in the brainstem plays an important role not only in the patterning and maintenance of the kindled seizure but also in the formation of the transhemispheric positive transfer effect in feline AM kindling.
We report our clinical experience in managing a 59-year-old Italian male with Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS) whose first clinical manifestation was a persistent dysphonia; the patient worked as a mechanic. Video-laryngostroboscopic examination revealed paresis of the right vocal fold with a reduction in adduction together with incomplete glottal closure. Spectrographic and spirometric tests both showed abnormal changes. Laryngeal electromyography revealed neurogenic damage of the right thyroarytenoid and crycoarytenoid muscles. Due to the appearance of typical signs of systemic involvement of CSS as a necrotizing vasculitis, the patient was admitted to the Rheumatology Unit of the University of Pisa. Histologic analysis of a skin lesion on the patient's foot confirmed the diagnosis. Treatment with 6-methylprednisolone quickly brought remission from systemic and laryngeal symptoms, as well as improvement in the results of video-laryngostroboscopic, spectrographic and laryngeal myographic tests.
A multivariate approach using pattern recognition method was applied on a multivariable data set from patients with affective disorders comprising biological and clinical variables. The depressed patients were rated according to 23 items of the comprehensive psychopathological rating scale (CPRS). Variables of importance were selected and clusters of patients were found by combining monoamine oxidase, melatonin and post-dexamethasone cortisol with symptoms of psychomotor retardation and agitation. Patients were distributed with high scores of agitation in the extreme of one direction and with high scores of retardation in the opposite direction. By using the combined clinical and biological variables, a diagnostic subcategory with latent bipolar disorder was identified. Two clusters of unipolar patients, one with low melatonin and low psychomotor retardation scores, and one with high melatonin and high psychomotor retardation scores, were found. Identification of a patient group with latent bipolar disorder may have potential therapeutic value since bipolar patients should be taken care of by a specialist in psychiatry, avoid tricyclic antidepressant therapy and may be candidates for lithium treatment.
An association between schizophrenia and a rare perfect ten-repeat allele, K1p, of a tetranucleotide microsatellite polymorphism in the tyrosine hydroxylase gene has recently been reported. The rare allele was found only in schizophrenic patients. During treatment with antipsychotic drugs patients with the rare allele displayed lower plasma homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) levels than those without. We examined Swedish schizophrenic patients (n = 117) and healthy control subjects (n = 76) for the same polymorphism. In contrast to the previous studies, the K1p frequency in patients (4 of 117) tended to be lower than among controls (9 of 76). With all six alleles (K1p, K1i, K2-5) considered there was a significant difference between schizophrenic patients and control subjects. There was no significant difference in HVA and MHPG levels in cerebrospinal fluid from a subset (n = 64) of control subjects with and without the rare allele. The discrepant results warrant further investigation of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene.
We have systematically isolated and characterized DNA containing large CTG (n &gt; 7) repeats from a human cosmid genomic DNA library. Using a CTG10 probe, more than 100 cosmid clones were identified, and 30 of these have been extensively characterized. The sequenced cosmids contain repeats that are between three and 19 perfect units (average 10 perfect repeats). The cosmids map to at least 12 different chromosomes. Sequence analysis of flanking regions suggests that more than one third of the repeats occur in exons, and many share strong sequence identity with databank sequences, including the gene involved in dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). Genotyping of human DNA samples demonstrates that more than half of the repeats are polymorphic. This and similar collections of clones containing trinucleotide repeats should aid in the identification of genes that may contain expansions of trinucleotide repeats involved in human disease.
By stimulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells of four healthy donors with a mixture of overlapping peptides representing the core domain of p53, we established two CD4+ alphabeta T cell clones and four lines that recognized wild-type and mutant p53 proteins as well as p53 self peptides in an HLA class II-restricted fashion. Two T cell lines established from two unrelated donors reacted to the p53 peptide (p)153-166 and p108-122, respectively, in the context of DP5 molecules. Two T cell clones established from two other unrelated donors were specific for p193-204 in the context of DRB1*1401 and for p153-165 in the context of DP5, respectively. These two T cell clones responded almost equally to both wild-type and four mutant recombinant p53 proteins. The proliferative responses of these T cell clones to p53 recombinant proteins were augmented by heat denaturing, thereby suggesting that altered conformation of the protein facilitates proteolytic processing to produce antigenic peptides. The DRB1*1401-restricted T cell clone specific for p193-204 killed a B lymphoblastoid cell line homozygous for HLA-DRB1*1401 when the cell line was pre-pulsed with p53 protein as well as peptide. These results indicate that CD4+ T cells reactive to p53 do exist in healthy individuals and the epitopes are probably ignored by the immune system under physiological conditions. It is suggested that such epitopes stimulate T cells to induce anti-p53 antibody production in cancer patients as previously reported by others. The possible involvement of p53-reactive T cells in anti-tumor immunity is discussed.
Vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP; synaptobrevin) is involved in the molecular regulation of transmitter release at the presynaptic plasma membrane. VAMP exists in two isoforms, VAMP-1 and VAMP-2, which are transcribed from two separate genes and differentially expressed in the nervous system. In situ hybridization was used to examine whether VAMP isoform mRNA expression may be altered by experimental manipulations. The effect of nerve injury on VAMP-1 and VAMP-2 mRNA levels in motoneurones of the rat lumbar spinal cord was compared with lesion-induced changes in the expression of choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) and alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide (alpha-CGRP) mRNA. After unilateral sciatic nerve transection (axotomy), VAMP-1 mRNA expression decreased significantly in parallel with a downregulation of ChAT mRNA in axotomized motoneurones compared with the corresponding motoneurones on the contralateral unlesioned side. There was a rapid decrease in VAMP-1 and ChAT mRNA levels at 2 days after axotomy, and at 7 days there was a 65% decrease in VAMP-1 mRNA and a 48% decrease in ChAT mRNA. VAMP-1 mRNA levels continued to decrease at 14 and 21 days, while ChAT mRNA levels had returned to normal at this time. In contrast, VAMP-2 and alpha-CGRP mRNA levels were upregulated in axotomized motoneurones. A significant increase for both VAMP-2 and alpha-CGRP mRNA levels was present 2 days after axotomy, and a maximum was reached after 7 days for alpha-CGRP mRNA (163%) and after 14 days for VAMP-2 mRNA (587%). Immunohistochemical analysis did not reveal any detectable changes in VAMP-1- or VAMP-2-like immunoreactivity in the motoneurone cell soma after axotomy. In the proximal end of the transected sciatic nerve, there was an increase in VAMP-1- and VAMP-2-LI, which was most prominent at 2 days after lesion. The results show that, in axotomized spinal motoneurones, VAMP-1 mRNA is downregulated and VAMP-2 mRNA is upregulated, indicating differential regulation of the two separate VAMP genes and differential roles for the two VAMP isoforms in the regulation of exocytosis after nerve injury.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a maintenance factor for cholinergic neurones in the brain, but its properties as a developmental survival factor are largely unknown. The low accessibility of the developing mammalian brain to experimental manipulation makes it difficult to increase NGF levels during the early phases of brain development. In the present study we have used an in utero, ex-vivo gene transfer approach to explore NGF actions during development of the cholinergic system in the rat brain. Significantly increased numbers of cholinergic neurones were found only in the mesopontine complex in animals receiving NGF-secreting transplants, whereas the cholinergic neurones in the basal forebrain and striatum were not clearly affected. The present results suggest that overexpression of NGF during development may promote the survival of distinct populations of central cholinergic neurones into adulthood.
Glioma cells in acute slices and in primary culture, and glioma-derived human cell lines were screened for the presence of functional GABA(A) receptors. Currents were measured in whole-cell voltage clamp in response to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). While cells from the most malignant glioma, the glioblastoma multiforme, did not respond to GABA, an inward current (under our experimental conditions with high Cl- concentration in the pipette) was induced in gliomas of lower grades, namely in 71% of oligodendroglioma cells and in 62% of the astrocytoma cells. Glioma cell lines did not express functional GABA(A) receptors, irrespective of the malignancy of the tumour they originate from. The currents elicited by application of GABA were due to activation of GABA(A) receptors; the specific agonist muscimol mimicked the response, the antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin blocked the GABA-activated current and the benzodiazepine receptor agonist flunitrazepam augmented the GABA-induced current and the benzodiazepine inverse agonist DMCM decreased the GABA current. Cells were heterogeneous with respect to the direction of the current flow as tested in gramicidin perforated patches: in some cells GABA hyperpolarized the membrane, while in the majority it triggered a depolarization. Moreover, GABA triggered an increase in [Ca2+]i in the majority of the tumour cells due to the activation of Ca2+ channels. Our results suggest a link between the expression of GABA receptors and the growth of glioma cells as the disappearance of functional GABA(A) receptors parallels unlimited growth typical for malignant tumours and immortal cell lines.
Selective immunolesioning of the basal forebrain cholinergic system by 192 IgG-saporin, which leads to a dramatic loss of the cholinergic innervation in cortical and hippocampal regions, facilitates the development of hippocampal kindling in rats. The aim of the present study was to explore whether grafted cholinergic neurones are able to reverse the lesion-induced increase of seizure susceptibility. Intraventricular 192 IgG-saporin was administered to rats which 3 weeks later were implanted with rat embryonic, acetylcholine-rich septal-diagonal band tissue ('cholinergic grafts') or cortical tissue/vehicle ('sham grafts') bilaterally into the hippocampal formation. After 3 months, the grafted animals as well as non-lesioned control rats were subjected to daily hippocampal kindling stimulations. In the animals with cholinergic grafts, which had reinnervated the hippocampus and dentate gyrus bilaterally, there was a marked suppression of the development of seizures as compared with the hyperexcitable, sham-grafted rats. This effect was significantly correlated to the density of the graft-derived cholinergic innervation of the host hippocampal formation. The kindling rate in the rats with cholinergic grafts was similar to that in non-lesioned controls. These results provide further evidence that the intrinsic basal forebrain cholinergic system dampens kindling epileptogenesis and demonstrate that this function can be exerted also by grafted cholinergic neurones.
A possible role of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) as a presynaptic autoreceptor was investigated using Percoll-purified hippocampus nerve terminals (synaptosomes). This preparation contained only a neglectable amount of postsynaptic structures. Two main effects of NMDA were observed. First, NMDA dose-dependently (10-100 microM) and in the absence of Mg2+, stimulated basal release of aspartate and glutamate, but not of GABA. MK801 (10 microM), an open NMDA-R-channel blocker, reduced this effect even below control levels, indicating endogenous NMDA-R activation. By superfusing synaptosomes, which prevents a tonic receptor occupation, also basal GABA release was stimulated by NMDA. The NMDA-induced potentiation of amino acid superfusate levels was blocked both by MK801 and Mg2+ (1 mM), was slow in onset and returned to baseline after NMDA-removal. The NMDA-effect was also found in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, suggesting that amino acids were released from a non-vesicular (cytoplasmic) pool. Secondly, in KCl-depolarized synaptosomes exposed to 1 mM Mg2+, NMDA did not affect the release of the amino acids. MK801, however, reduced the KCl-evoked Ca2+-independent release of aspartate and glutamate, but not of GABA. L-trans-PDC, the selective inhibitor of the glutamate/aspartate transporter, prevented this MK801-effect, suggesting a coupling between NMDA-Rs and these transporters. These data provide evidence for a presynaptic NMDA autoreceptor in rat hippocampus. We speculate on the role of this NMDA-R to depolarize the presynaptic membrane by Na+-entry, which may induce reversal of amino acid transporters and thereby releasing amino acids from a cytoplasmic pool.
During development, telencephalic neural progenitors acquire positional specification and give rise to distinct structures such as the striatum and cortex. Here, we examine, in vivo, the influence of developmental stage, cell-surface molecules and regional differences along the dorso-ventral and antero-posterior axes on the selective incorporation of neural progenitors derived from different regions of the developing brain, utilizing a cross-species in utero transplantation paradigm. Striatal progenitors derived from the embryonic day (E) 12-14 mouse lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) were observed consistently to incorporate into the developing striatum as early as 24-48 h following intraventricular injection into the E15-17 rat host. By removing cell-surface molecules from the LGE progenitors, the pattern of incorporation was remarkably different with no preferential striatal incorporation. Cortical progenitors with intact cell-surface molecules, by contrast, displayed little telencephalic (including striatal) incorporation as compared with precursors from the LGE. However, both progenitors from cortex and LGE incorporated widely into diencephalic and mesencephalic structures. The capacity for integration of precursors derived from the LGE and cortex gradually decreased during development of the host and was minimal in the postnatal day (P) 1 host. Unlike the telencephalic precursors, the vast majority of progenitors derived from the midbrain and cerebellar primordium (with cell-surface molecules intact) incorporated into diencephalic and midbrain nuclei with only a few cells observed in the telencephalon. These results demonstrate that incorporation of neural progenitors across the ventricular wall in the embryonic host is strictly developmentally regulated, dependent on their position along the antero-posterior axes and in the case of progenitors from the LGE is mediated by cell-surface molecules expressed on the transplanted cells.
This study reports on the biodistribution and radiation dosimetry of iodine-123-labelled N-omega-(flu- oropropyl)-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane ([123I]FP-CIT), a promising radioligand for the imaging of dopamine transporters. In 12 healthy volunteers, conjugate whole-body scans were performed up to 48 h following intravenous injection of approximately 100 MBq [123I]FP-CIT. Attenuation correction was performed using a transmission whole-body scan obtained prior to injection of the radioligand, employing a 123I flood source. Blood samples were taken and urine was freely collected up to 48 h after injection of the radiotracer. For each subject, the percentage of injected activity measured in regions of interest over brain, striatum, lungs and liver were fitted to a multicompartmental model to give time-activity curves. The cumulative urine activity curve was used to model the urinary excretion rate and, indirectly, to predict faecal excretion. Using the MIRD method, nine source organs were considered in estimating absorbed radiation doses for organs of the body. The images showed rapid lung uptake and hepatobiliary excretion. Diffuse uptake and retention of activity was seen in the brain, especially in the striatum. At 48 h following the injection of [123I]FP-CIT, mean measured urine excretion was 60%+/-9% (SD), and mean predicted excretion in faeces was 14%+/-1%. In general, the striatum received the highest absorbed dose (average 0.23 mGy/MBq), followed by the urinary bladder wall (average 0.054 mGy/MBq) and lungs (average 0.043 mGy/MBq). The average effective dose equivalent of [123I]FP-CIT was estimated to be 0.024 mSv/MBq. The amount of [123I]FP-CIT required for adequate dopamine transporter imaging results in an acceptable effective dose equivalent to the patient.
Neurotrophic factors have robust effects on development, differentiation, maintenance and regeneration of neurons. In the present study, we have used in situ hybridization to determine the specific sites of gene activity of five neurotrophic factors during tooth development. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNAs were mainly detected in the dental papilla/pulp in postnatal rats, and the pattern of expression correlated with onset of dental innervation. In contrast, neurotrophin 3 (NT3) and 4 (NT4) mRNA expression patterns were predominantly epithelial and were strongest during early developmental stages when teeth are not yet innervated. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) mRNA was present in dental epithelium at early stages, but later in development, GDNF mRNA expression was mainly mesenchymal and observed in the odontoblast layer and extending into the subodontoblast zone. Our results suggest that both neurotrophins and GDNF may have multiple functions during tooth development. In addition to an influence on the establishment of the dental innervation, neurotrophic substances might have morphogenetic effects such as modulating the proliferation or differentiation of developing epithelial and mesenchymal cells.

Several lines of evidence indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play an important role in nociception in general and in pathological pain in particular. It has been previously demonstrated in behavioral studies that NMDA receptor antagonists attenuate pathological pain in humans and nociceptive behaviors in animals. In the present study, we investigated the effect of the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine (MEM) on the responses of spinothalamic tract (STT) cells in normal and neuropathic monkeys. Memantine was delivered into the spinal cord through a microdialysis fiber acutely implanted into the dorsal horn. Responses of STT cells to peripheral stimulation within their receptive fields were recorded before and after MEM infusion. In normal animals (n = 7), 10 mm MEM did not affect STT cell (n = 7) baseline activity or responses to mechanical stimuli (brush, press or pinch). In neuropathic animals (n = 6), 1.0, 3.0, 10.0 and 100 mm MEM did not affect baseline activity of STT cells (n = 7); however, in a dose-dependent fashion, it significantly reduced responses of these cells to all cutaneous stimuli. The data suggest that MEM can have a direct effect on STT cells, blocking NMDA receptors known to be present on this cell population and, furthermore, may be a therapeutic agent for chronic pain.

Many gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies focusing on the anatomy and pathology of the 7th cranial nerve have already been published. However, only scattered cases of herpes zoster oticus (HZO) have been described and only the MRI appearance of the soft temporal bone structures has been reported. Enhanced MRI was performed in 4 patients with HZO observed at the Department of Otorhinolaryngology of the University of Pisa. A good correlation was found between the clinical data and MRI findings in both the acute and chronic stages of the disease. The 2 cases with complete facial palsy presented prominent and diffuse enhancement of the 7th and 8th cranial nerves on postcontrast MRI, while the patient with grade III facial palsy showed more limited nerve enhancement. The patient with grade II facial palsy presented no MRI abnormalities. In our series, enhancement limited to the geniculate ganglion and to the labyrinthine segment of the facial nerve indicates a good prognosis while a widespread enhancement correlates with a poor prognosis. In conclusion, MRI with contrast may be useful during the acute stage of HZO because it can confirm the diagnosis and can provide prognostic information on the facial function.
The aim of this study was to evaluate somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) as a simple neurophysiological monitoring method in supra-aortal balloon test occlusions (BTO). The 13 patients examined had carcinoma of the larynx (n = 6), nasopharyngeal malignancy (n = 3), sphenoid meningioma (n = 2), mycotic aneurysm (n = 1), and a tumor of the carotid body (n = 1). Transfemoral balloon occlusion of the internal carotid artery was maintained for 30 min and monitored both clinically and by SEP. None of the 13 patients showed neurological deficits or pathological changes in the SEP. No thromboembolic complications occurred during BTO. In 11 cases the cervical vessels could be spared or reconstructed during surgery. No neurological symptoms occurred during the clinical follow-up. One patient died the day after BTO due to cardiac arrest. Neurophysiological monitoring of preoperative BTO using SEP is a technically simple method. A similar method has been shown to have a high sensitivity and reliability in carotid surgery.
This study hypothesizes that: peak supramaximal airflow during cough reflects expiratory muscle effort, and that expiratory muscle function during cough might be assessed from the airflow signal alone. We monitored airflow and oesophageal pressure (Poes) in normal subjects during cough generated under two conditions: 1) voluntarily from functional residual capacity (FRC); and 2) involuntarily after inhalation of citric acid (CA). Maximal expiratory cough flow was quantified as the quotient of maximal flow during a given cough divided by maximal flow at the matched volume of thoracic gas (Vtg) as identified on the maximal expiratory flow-volume curve. We found: flow ratios correlated poorly with Poes; the variance of flow ratios associated with a series of voluntary coughs was poorly explained by Poes. During CA inhalation, when the Vtg compressed during cough could not be controlled, correlation of Poes with flow ratio remained poor. We conclude that to study the motor limb of the cough reflex, measurements of both airflow and oesophageal pressure are required.
Cadaveric osseoligamentous lower cervical spines (C2-C7) are often used in the investigation of spinal biomechanics in vitro. Surprisingly, however, the techniques of harvesting at postmortem and preparation of cadaveric osseoligamentous lower cervical spine for biomechanical testing have not been described in detail. We describe a simple and effective method that can be readily integrated into the routine autopsy procedure. Points on the avoidance of disfiguring the cadaver and damaging the spinal osseoligamentous structures are highlighted.
There are various clinical neurophysiological techniques which have been applied to the investigation of the pelvic floor and neurogenic bladder. Sphincter electromyography (EMG) has proved to be particularly valuable in identifying patients with parkinsonism who have multiple system atrophy. EMG of the striated muscle of the urethral sphincter is essential in recognizing the abnormal spontaneous activity which causes urinary retention in young women. Tests which examine aspects of nerve conduction velocity have proved to be of lesser value both because such investigations test conduction of nerve fibres rather than levels of innervation, and furthermore examine large myelinated fibre conduction rather than that of the unmyelinated fibres which comprise the autonomic innervation.
The present study has examined the distribution of axons of differing sizes in the optic pathway of the ground squirrel. Axon diameters were measured from electron micrographs at various locations across sections of the optic nerve and tract, and total distributions and numbers were estimated. In both the nerve and tract, roughly 1.2 million optic axons were present. The population of optic axons had a unimodal size distribution, peaking at 0.9 microm in diameter and having an extended tail toward larger diameters. Local axon diameter distributions in the optic tract indicated distinct (though partially overlapping) axon diameter classes, including one of fine sizes peaking at 0.8-0.9 microm, a second of medium sizes peaking around 1.7-1.8 microm, and a third composed of the larger fibers with diameters up to 4.8 microm. The fine-caliber axons were found at all locations in the tract, and were the only axons present immediately adjacent to the pia, while the medium- and coarse-caliber axons were found at deeper locations. Curiously, the larger axons were found primarily in the medial parts of the tract, where axons from the dorsal retina normally course. A similarly restricted distribution of the larger axons was observed in the dorsotemporal parts of the optic nerve, suggesting that this difference in the tract may relate to an asymmetric distribution of ganglion cells on the retina giving rise to these axons. Measurements of axonal size taken within the optic fiber layer in dorsal and ventral parts of the retina confirmed this asymmetry, consistent with previous demonstrations of soma size differences in the dorsal versus ventral retina. The partial segregation of axons by size in the optic tract of the ground squirrel then reflects both the asymmetric distribution of retinal ganglion cell classes and the chronotopic reordering of optic axons that occurs within the chiasmatic region.
Previous studies indicate that the withdrawal reflex system in the rat has a &quot;modular&quot; organization, each reflex pathway performing a specific sensorimotor transformation. Here, we wished to clarify which cutaneous receptors contribute to this system and to determine whether there are differences in this respect between reflex pathways of different muscles. Withdrawal reflexes of the peroneus longus, extensor digitorum longus, and semitendinosus muscles were recorded with EMG techniques during high reflex excitability in decerebrate spinal rats (n=26). While maintained innocuous pressure on glabrous skin could elicit a sustained reflex activity in all muscles studied, vibration of glabrous skin (10-300 Hz) always failed to evoke a reflex response, suggesting that slowly adapting, but not rapidly adapting, low-threshold mechanoreceptive fibers from this type of skin contribute to withdrawal reflex pathways. Thermal stimulation in the innocuous range, i.e., cooling from 32 to 17 degrees C, or warming the skin from 32 to 41 degrees C, always failed to produce reflex responses, indicating that neither cold nor warm receptors contribute to withdrawal reflex pathways. When either cooling or warming the skin to the noxious temperatures of 1 degrees C or above 45 degrees C, respectively, a reflex discharge was often evoked in the muscles studied. Intradermal administration of histamine, a potent pruritogenic substance, produced very weak, or no, reflex response. In contrast, mustard oil produced vigorous reflex responses in all muscles studied. These findings suggest that some chemonociceptors contribute only weakly, or not at all, to withdrawal reflex pathways. The present data suggest that a selective set of cutaneous receptors contribute to withdrawal reflex pathways and that different withdrawal reflex pathways receive input from essentially the same cutaneous receptor types.

Previous studies have proposed the presence of circulating toxic factor(s) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In the present study we show that there is an increased number of astrocytes intensely immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the gray matter of the spinal cords of neonatal rats exposed to ALS CSF. There is also increased expression of GFAP in the astrocytes of the white matter of neonatal rat spinal cords exposed to ALS CSF. Western blot analysis also confirmed the increased expression of GFAP. Accordingly, our study provides for the first time a clear evidence for the pathological response of glia to the circulating toxic factor(s) in the CSF of ALS patients.
The ability of solid pieces of transplanted human embryonic spinal cord to survive, grow, and integrate with adult rat host spinal cord tissue was investigated. Unilateral cavities were surgically created at vertebral level T12-T13 in 10 athymic nude rats and 5 regular Sprague-Dawley rats. Seven of the athymic rats acutely received a human spinal cord graft, while the remaining 8 rats served as controls, with cavities alone. After 6 months the morphological outcome was evaluated with cresyl violet and with immunohistochemistry using antibodies toward human-specific neurofilament (hNF), human-specific Thy-1 (Thy-1), neurofilament, glial fibrillary acidic protein, serotonin (5-HT), and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The in situ morphology of the human embryonic spinal cord was also investigated and compared with grafts that were six months older. Solid human embryonic spinal cord grafts showed a 100% survival rate, grew to fill the volume of the cavity in a noninvasive manner, and expressed human specific antigens 6 months postgrafting. Thy-1 immunoreactivity (IR) was demonstrated up to 8 mm rostral to the graft suggestive of graft-derived fiber outgrowth. hNF-IR fibers and 5-HT- and TH-IR fibers traversed the graft-host border for a few hundred micrometers, respectively. Finally, our findings suggest that grafted solid pieces of human embryonic spinal cord minimize cystic deformations seen in the adult rat spinal cord with a unilateral cavity.
Partial lesions of the mammalian spinal cord result in an immediate motor impairment that recovers gradually over time; however, the cellular mechanisms responsible for the transient nature of this paralysis have not been defined. A unique opportunity to identify those injury-induced cellular responses that mediate the recovery of function has arisen from the discovery of a unique mutant strain of mice in which the onset of Wallerian degeneration is dramatically delayed. In this strain of mice (designated WldS for Wallerian degeneration, slow), many of the cellular responses to spinal cord injury are also delayed. We have used this experimental animal model to evaluate possible causal relationships between these delayed cellular responses and the onset of functional recovery. For this purpose, we have compared the time course of locomotor recovery in C57BL/6 (control) mice and in WldS (mutant) mice by hemisecting the spinal cord at T8 and evaluating locomotor function at daily postoperative intervals. The time course of locomotor recovery (as determined by the Tarlov open-field walking procedure) was substantially delayed in mice carrying the WldS mutation: C57BL/6 control mice began to stand and walk within 6 days (mean Tarlov score of 4), whereas mutant mice did not exhibit comparable locomotor function until 16 days postoperatively. Interpretation and conclusion: (a) The rapid return of locomotor function in the C57BL/6 mice suggests that the recovery resulted from processes of functional plasticity rather than from regeneration or collateral sprouting of nerve fibers. (b) The marked delay in the return of locomotor function in WldS mice indicates that the processes of neuroplasticity are induced by degenerative changes in the damaged neurons. (c) These strains of mice can be effectively used in future studies to elucidate the specific biochemical and physiological alterations responsible for inducing functional plasticity and restoring locomotor function after spinal cord injury.
The goal of the studies described was to evaluate the role of NMDA receptor-mediated glutamate excitotoxicity in the pathogenesis of selective neuronal loss due to thiamine deficiency. Administration of the central thiamine antagonist pyrithiamine to adult male rats resulted in a sequence of neurological symptoms including ataxia and loss of righting reflex followed by convulsions. Prior to the onset of convulsions, neuropathologic evaluation revealed significant neuronal loss in the ventral posterior medial thalamic nucleus. However, in vivo cerebral microdialysis at preconvulsive stages did not demonstrate significant increases of extracellular glutamate in this region and pretreatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 (1 mg/ kg/12 h, i.p.) did not afford significant neuroprotection. Following the onset of convulsions, microdialysate glutamate concentrations were increased fivefold (P &gt; 0.05) and MK801 treatment resulted in significant attenuation of neuronal loss in some thalamic nuclei. A comparable degree of neuroprotection was afforded by pretreatment with an anticonvulsant dose of diazepam (10 mg/kg/12 h, i.p.) a compound whose action is not NMDA receptor mediated. These findings suggest that NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity is not responsible for early selective neuronal loss in this model of thiamine deficiency encephalopathy and that the neuroprotective effect of MK801 at later stages are at least in part a consequence of its anticonvulsant properties.
We have evaluated potential neuroprotection offered by (-)-deprenyl on degenerating motor neurons of the spinal cord when subjected to transient ischemia. Thirty-six healthy adult male Wistar rats were trained for a motor function test in a staircase maze and randomly but equally (n = 6) grouped into normal control, sham control, ischemia (IS), IS rats treated with vehicle (IV), and rats treated with low (0.1 mg/kg) and high (1.0 mg/kg) doses of (-)-deprenyl. (-)-Deprenyl was given intraperitoneally 30 min after the induction of ischemia and thereafter everyday for 14 days. Spinal cord ischemia was produced at the lumbar level in conscious rats by occluding the abdominal aorta just below the branching point of the left renal artery for 30 min. Analysis of the motor performance in all groups of rats revealed a significant (P &lt; 0.001) increase in the time taken to cross the run way of the maze, in i.s. and i.v. rats compared to all other groups of rats. In addition, qualitative and quantitative examination of spinal motor neurons at the lumbar level showed a significant (P &lt; 0.001) decrease in the number of healthy motor neurons in i.s. and i.v. rats compared to controls. Postischemic administration of (-)-deprenyl, at both doses, significantly prevented motor neuron degeneration and the associated locomotor deficits in IS rats.
Fetal neural transplantation has been shown to be a feasible, safe, and according to a number of recent reports, effective treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). Fetal striatal transplantation may be as feasible, safe, and effective a treatment for Huntington's disease (HD), a disorder for which there is currently no effective treatment. This report describes our experience with fetal striatal transplantation to adult striatum in three HD patients. Three moderately advanced, nondemented HD patients received transplantation of fetal striatal tissue. The striatal precursor was selectively obtained from the lateral ganglionic eminence. Each patient received bilateral grafts from five to eight donors, placed into the caudate nucleus (one graft on each side) and the putamen (four grafts on each side). All three patients had HD as documented by family history, DNA heterozygosity (17-20 and 48-51 repeats), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealing striatal atrophy, and 2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography revealing striatal hypometabolism. All patients had been evaluated using the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale and appropriate neuropsychological tests for at least 3 months prior to transplantation. One year following transplantation, MRI of all three patients revealed that the grafts survived and grew within the striatum without displacing the surrounding tissue. No patients demonstrated adverse effects of the surgery or the associated cyclosporin immunosuppression, nor did any patient exhibit deterioration following the procedure. The limited experience provided by these three patients indicates that fetal tissue transplantation can be performed in HD patients without unexpected complications.

Glucosamine-6-phosphate deaminase (GNPDA) catalyzes the conversion of glucosamine-6-phosphate to fructose-6-phosphate, a reaction that under physiological conditions proceeds to the formation of fructose-6-phosphate. Though first identified in mammalian tissues in 1956, the enzyme has not previously been molecularly characterized in mammalian tissues, although a bacterial GNPDA has been cloned. Recently, a protein displaying similarity to bacterial GNPDA was purified and cloned from sperm extract. It was proposed that this protein was the factor, found in sperm extracts, that causes calcium oscillations in cells; thus, the protein was named 'oscillin.' We demonstrate that oscillin is the mammalian form of glucosamine 6-phosphate deaminase by showing that cloned oscillin has a robust GNPDA activity and can account for all such activity in mammalian tissues extracts. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry localize GNPDA selectively to tissues with high energy requirements such as the apical zone of transporting epithelia in the proximal convoluted tubules of the kidney and the small intestine; to neurons (but not glia) and especially to nerve terminals in the brain; and to motile sperm. Recombinant GNPDA and GNPDA purified to homogeneity from hamster sperm fail to elevate intracellular calcium when injected into mouse eggs over a wide range of concentrations under conditions in which sperm extracts elicit pronounced calcium oscillations. Thus, the calcium-releasing or oscillin activity of sperm extracts is due to a substance other than GNPDA. Since GNPDA is the sole enzyme linking hexosamine systems with glycolytic pathways, we propose that it provides a source of energy in the form of phosphosugar derived from the catabolism of hexosamines found in glycoproteins, glycolipids, and sialic acid-containing macromolecules. Evidence that GNPDA can regulate hexosamine stores comes from our observation that transfection of GNPDA into HEK-293 cells reduces cellular levels of sialic acid.
