Zebrafish have been gaining increasing popularity in behavioral neuroscience. However, the number of behavioral test paradigms specifically designed for zebrafish, and in general the amount of information available on the behavior of this species, is relatively small when compared with classical laboratory model organisms such as the mouse, the rat, and the fruit fly. A particularly typical behavioral feature of zebrafish is shoaling, i.e., group formation. Given the importance of social behavior in our own species and the fact that zebrafish possess several characteristics similar to those of other vertebrates, including humans, at many levels of biological organization (e.g., neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, biochemical processes, and amino acid sequence of proteins or nucleotide sequence of genes), the zebrafish is expected to be an excellent tool not only for basic research but perhaps also for translational research. Briefly, we propose that once social behavior of the zebrafish is better characterized and once appropriate behavioral methods have been developed, this species can be utilized for the analysis of the mechanisms of social behavior of other vertebrates including our own. In this review, we discuss general principles of shoaling and highlight what we know and what we do not know about this behavior as it pertains to zebrafish.
To ensure high acuity vision, eye movements have to be controlled with astonishing precision by the oculomotor system. Many human diseases can lead to abnormal eye movements, typically of the involuntary oscillatory eye movements type called nystagmus. Such nystagmus can be congenital (infantile) or acquired later in life. Although the resulting eye movements are well characterized, there is only little information about the underlying etiology. This is in part owing to the lack of appropriate animal models. In this review article, we describe how the zebrafish with its quick maturing visual system can be used to model oculomotor pathologies. We compare the characteristics and assessment of human and zebrafish eye movements. We describe the oculomotor properties of the zebrafish mutant belladonna, which has non-crossing optical fibers, and is a particularly informative model for human oculomotor deficits. This mutant displays a reverse optokinetic response, spontaneous oscillations that closely mimic human congenital nystagmus and abnormal motor behavior linked to circular vection.

A direct relationship has been established between synaptic activity and amyloid- secretion. Dysregulation of neuronal calcium homeostasis was shown to increase production of amyloid-, contributing to the initiation of Alzheimer's disease. Among the different routes of Ca(2+) entry, N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, a subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors, are especially involved in this process because of their ability to gate high levels of Ca(2+) influx. These receptors have been extensively studied for their crucial roles in synaptic plasticity that underlies learning and memory but also in neurotoxicity occurring during acute brain injuries and neurodegenerative diseases. For one decade, several studies provided evidence that NMDA receptor activation could have distinct consequences on neuronal fate, depending on their location. Synaptic NMDA receptor activation is neuroprotective, whereas extrasynaptic NMDA receptors trigger neuronal death and/or neurodegenerative processes. Recent data suggest that chronic activation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors leads to a sustained neuronal amyloid- release and could be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Thus, as for other neurological diseases, therapeutic targeting of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors could be a promising strategy. Following this concept, memantine, unlike other NMDA receptor antagonists was shown, to preferentially target the extrasynaptic NMDA receptor signaling pathways, while relatively sparing normal synaptic activity. This molecular mechanism could therefore explain why memantine is, to date, the only clinically approved NMDA receptor antagonist for the treatment of dementia.
Neurodegeneration is one of the greatest public health challenges for the 21st century. Among neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent and best characterized. Nevertheless, despite the large investment in AD research, currently there is no effective therapeutic option. In the present review, we highlight a novel alternative, which takes advantage of the biotechnological outbreak deployed by the discovery of the RNA interference-based gene silencing mechanism, and its application as a tool for neurodegeneration treatment. Here, we highlight cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) as a key candidate target for therapeutic gene silencing. Unlike other members of the cyclin-dependent kinase family, CDK5 does not seem to play a crucial role in cell cycle regulation. By contrast, CDK5 participates in multiple functions during nervous system development and has been established as a key mediator of Tau hyperphosphorylation and neurofibrillary pathology, thus serving as an optimal candidate for targeted therapy in the adult nervous system. We propose that the use of RNA interference for CDK5 silencing presents an attractive and specific therapeutic alternative for AD and perhaps against other tauopathies.

The present study was designed to explore psychopathological correlates of self-deception in clinical and nonclinical individuals to ascertain whether self-deception was associated with higher hopelessness, a proxy of suicide risk. The patients were 58 consecutive psychiatric patients (30 men, 28 women) admitted to the Sant'Andrea Hospital's psychiatric ward in Rome. Controls were composed of a sample recruited from the general population (62 men and 80 women). All the participants completed the Beck Hopelessness Scale (BHS), and the Balanced Inventory of Desirable Responding-6 Form 40A (BIDR). More than 55% of the patients had BHS scores of 9 or higher indicating severe hopelessness, while only 32% of the control subjects reported scores of 9 or higher on the BHS (p &lt; .01). Subjects with BHS scores of 9 or higher (compared to subjects with lower scores) had lower scores on the self-deceptive enhancement dimension of the BIDR, and were also more likely to be unemployed or retired. Self-deception may be a coping response to stressful live events. Disruption of such coping mechanism may indeed increase suicide risk as individuals do not want to face self-awareness and get close to a highly negative self.
The sirtuin SIRT1, a class III NAD(+)-dependent protein histone deacetylase, is present throughout the body that involves cells of the central nervous system, immune system, cardiovascular system, and the musculoskeletal system. SIRT1 has broad biological effects that affect cellular metabolism as well as cellular survival and longevity that can impact both acute and chronic disease processes that involve neurodegenerative disease, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. Given the intricate relationship SIRT1 holds with a host of signal transduction pathways ranging from transcription factors, such as forkhead, to cytokines and growth factors, such as erythropoietin, it becomes critical to elucidate the cellular pathways of SIRT1 to safely and effectively develop and translate novel avenues of treatment for multiple disease entities.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether a potent analogue of the endogenous brain peptide l-prolyl-l-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG), (3(R)-[(2(S)-pyrrolidinylcarbonyl)amino]-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidineacetamide (PAOPA), can prevent the induction of social withdrawal caused by sub-chronic treatment with the non-competitive NMDA (N-methyl-l-aspartate) receptor antagonist, MK-801. Results indicate that MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg) significantly decreased social interaction following sub-chronic treatment (7 days). Treatment with PAOPA (1 mg/kg) blocked the effects of MK-801, and increased the amount of time spent in social interaction in comparison to control animals. These results provide evidence for the development of peptidomimetic compounds for the treatment of social withdrawal and related negative symptoms associated with schizophrenia.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have reported a variety of brain abnormalities in association with schizophrenia. These include a higher incidence of cavum septum pellucidum (CSP), which is consistent with a neurodevelopmental model for this disorder. In this meta-analytic review, we describe and discuss the main CSP MRI findings in schizophrenia spectrum disorders (SSDs) to date. We adopted as keywords cavum and schizophrenia or psychosis, and the inclusion criteria were articles in English, with samples of SSD patients compared to healthy subjects, which used MRI to assess CSP, without time limit. From 18 potential reports, fifteen were eligible to be part of the current review. These studies included 1054 patients with SSD and 866 healthy volunteers. Six out of 15 studies pointed to a higher prevalence of CSP of any size in SSD patients, while five out of 15 showed that subjects with SSD had a greater occurrence of a large CSP than healthy individuals. However, the meta-analysis demonstrated that only the incidence of a large CSP was significantly higher in SSD relative to healthy comparisons (odds ratio=1.59; 95%CI 1.07-2.38; p=0.02). Overall our results suggest that only a large CSP is associated with SSD while a small CSP may be considered a normal neuroanatomical variation. Our review revealed a large degree of variability in the methods employed across the MRI studies published to date, as well as evidence of publication bias. Studies in large, community-based samples with greater standardization of methods should clarify the true significance of CSP in SSD.
Primary polydipsia, defined as excessive fluid intake not explained by medical causes, has been reported to occur in over 20% of chronically ill psychiatric inpatients and is especially common in schizophrenic populations. We tested the hypothesis that in an animal model of schizophrenia-like symptoms (subchronic injections of MK-801, 0.5 mg/kg twice daily for 7 days) an increase in the acquisition of schedule-induced polydipsia (SIP) will occur. Young adult, male rats acquired SIP when food-restricted and placed on a non-contingent fixed-time 1-min food schedule. In comparison with saline-treated control animals, subchronic MK-801 treatment significantly increased SIP. These findings suggest an animal model of polydipsia associated with schizophrenia in humans.

One major unresolved problem in olfaction research is to relate the percept to the molecular structure of stimuli. The present study examined this issue and showed for the first time a quantitative structure-odor relationship in which the more structurally complex a monomolecular odorant, the more numerous the olfactory notes it evokes. Low-complexity odorants were also rated as more aversive, reflecting the fact that low molecular complexity may serve as a warning cue for the olfactory system. Taken together, these findings suggest that molecular complexity provides a framework to explain the subjective experience of smells.
Clinical trials have recently demonstrated the effectiveness of Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) in preventing HIV infection. Consequently, PrEP may soon be used for epidemic control. We model the dynamic interactions that will occur between treatment programs and potential PrEP interventions in resource-constrained countries. We determine the consequences for HIV transmission and drug resistance. We use response hypersurface modeling to predict the effect of PrEP on decreasing transmission as a function of effectiveness, adherence and coverage. We predict PrEP will increase need for second-line therapies (SLT) for treatment-nave individuals, but could significantly decrease need for SLT for treatment-experienced individuals. If the rollout of PrEP is carefully planned it could increase the sustainability of treatment programs. If not, need for SLT could increase and the sustainability of treatment programs could be compromised. Our results show the optimal strategy for rolling out PrEP in resource-constrained countries is to begin around the &quot;worst&quot; treatment programs.
During development, axons of neurons in the mammalian central nervous system lose their ability to regenerate. To study the regeneration process, axons of mouse hippocampal neurons were partially damaged by an UVA laser dissector system. The possibility to deliver very low average power to the sample reduced the collateral thermal damage and allowed studying axonal regeneration of mouse neurons during early days in vitro. Force spectroscopy measurements were performed during and after axon ablation with a bead attached to the axonal membrane and held in an optical trap. With this approach, we quantified the adhesion of the axon to the substrate and the viscoelastic properties of the membrane during regeneration. The reorganization and regeneration of the axon was documented by long-term live imaging. Here we demonstrate that BDNF regulates neuronal adhesion and favors the formation of actin waves during regeneration after axonal lesion.
Mycobacteria synthesize intracellular methylglucose lipopolysaccharides (MGLP) proposed to regulate fatty acid synthesis. Although their structures have been elucidated, the identity of most biosynthetic genes remains unknown. The first step in MGLP biosynthesis is catalyzed by a glucosyl-3-phosphoglycerate synthase (GpgS, Rv1208 in Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv). However, a typical glucosyl-3-phosphoglycerate phosphatase (GpgP, EC3.1.3.70) for dephosphorylation of glucosyl-3-phosphoglycerate to glucosylglycerate, was absent from mycobacterial genomes. We purified the native GpgP from Mycobacterium vanbaalenii and identified the corresponding gene deduced from amino acid sequences by mass spectrometry. The M. tuberculosis ortholog (Rv2419c), annotated as a putative phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM, EC5.4.2.1), was expressed and functionally characterized as a new GpgP. Regardless of the high specificity for glucosyl-3-phosphoglycerate, the mycobacterial GpgP is not a sequence homolog of known isofunctional GpgPs. The assignment of a new function in M. tuberculosis genome expands our understanding of this organism's genetic repertoire and of the early events in MGLP biosynthesis.
Although neurons are known to exhibit a broad array of intrinsic properties that impact critically on the computations they perform, very few studies have quantified such biophysical diversity and its functional consequences. Using in vivo and in vitro whole-cell recordings here we show that mitral cells are extremely heterogeneous in their expression of a rebound depolarization (sag) at hyperpolarized potentials that is mediated by a ZD7288-sensitive current with properties typical of hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide gated (HCN) channels. The variability in sag expression reflects a functionally diverse population of mitral cells. For example, those cells with large amplitude sag exhibit more membrane noise, a lower rheobase and fire action potentials more regularly than cells where sag is absent. Thus, cell-to-cell variability in sag potential amplitude reflects diversity in the integrative properties of mitral cells that ensures a broad dynamic range for odor representation across these principal neurons.
Throughout the centuries, scientific observers have endeavoured to extend their knowledge of the interrelationships between the brain and its regulatory control of human emotions and behaviour. Since the time of physicians such as Aristotle and Galen and the more recent observations of clinicians and neuropathologists such as Broca, Papez, and McLean, the field of affective neuroscience has matured to become the province of neuroscientists, neuropsychologists, neurologists, and psychiatrists. It is accepted that the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, anterior cingulate cortex, hippocampus, and insula participate in the majority of emotional processes. New imaging technologies and molecular biology discoveries are expanding further the frontiers of knowledge in this arena. The advancements of knowledge on the interplay between the human brain and emotions came about as the legacy of the pioneers mentioned in this field. The aim of this paper is to describe the historical evolution of the scientific understanding of interconnections between the human brain, behaviour, and emotions.
Protein aggregation is a common characteristic of many neurodegenerative disorders, and the interaction between pathological/toxic proteins to cause neurodegeneration is a hot topic of current neuroscience research. Despite clinical, genetic, and experimental differences, evidence increasingly indicates considerable overlap between synucleinopathies and tauopathies or other protein-misfolding diseases. Inclusions, characteristics of these disorders, also occurring in other neurodegenerative diseases, suggest interactions of pathological proteins engaging common downstream pathways. Novel findings that have shifted our understanding in the role of pathologic proteins in the pathogenesis of Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases have confirmed correlations/overlaps between these and other neurodegenerative disorders. The synergistic effects of -synuclein, hyperphosphorylated tau, amyloid-, and other pathologic proteins, and the underlying molecular pathogenic mechanisms, including induction and spread of protein aggregates, are critically reviewed, suggesting a dualism or triad of neurodegeneration in protein-misfolding disorders, although the etiology of most of these processes is still mysterious.
Insight into the expanding themes of regenerative medicine is provided by the American Society for Neural Therapy and Repair's annual meeting. The 17th meeting covered a wide range of neurodegenerative disorders, exploring methods to elucidate the currently unknown mechanisms behind the disorders, as well as possible treatments ranging from the use of growth factors, gene therapy to cell transplantation. The importance of growth factors, both as a contributing factor to a disease and as a possible treatment either solo, or as a consequence of, or in conjunction with, stem cell therapy, was highlighted. The potential for viral vectors was also explored either for cells prior to transplantation or as a direct treatment regime into the brain itself. Identification of biomarkers that would allow early detection of a disease is an important factor in our fight against disease. The ability to now perform whole genome analysis and biomolecular profiling provides hope that such markers could be identified which not only could identify this likely to suffer from a disorder but also could allow its progress to be monitored. A few preclinical and clinical cell transplantation trials were also introduced as potential areas of followup in the years to come.
Growing evidence suggests that Parkinson's disease is not solely affecting the dopaminergic system. Results from biochemical, animal, postmortem, and functional imaging studies have revealed that other neurotransmitter systems are affected as well, including the serotonergic system. With the use of in vivo positron emission tomography functional imaging, it has been shown that serotonergic terminals are affected at a varying, nonlinear degree starting early in the clinical course of Parkinson's disease. Tremor and the majority of nonmotor symptoms do not seem to respond adequately to dopaminergic medication. Recent studies suggest that serotonergic dysfunction has a direct relevance to Parkinson's disease symptoms, the so-called nonmotor symptoms, including depression, fatigue, weight changes, and visual hallucinations. These in vivo findings indicate that agents acting on the serotonergic system could help towards alleviating these symptoms. This paper aims to review the current literature and to highlight the need for further in vivo investigations.
Perception of faces and voices plays a prominent role in human social interaction, making multisensory integration of cross-modal speech a topic of great interest in cognitive neuroscience. How to define potential sites of multisensory integration using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is currently under debate, with three statistical criteria frequently used (e.g., super-additive, max and mean criteria). In the present fMRI study, 20 participants were scanned in a block design under three stimulus conditions: dynamic unimodal face, unimodal voice and bimodal face-voice. Using this single dataset, we examine all these statistical criteria in an attempt to define loci of face-voice integration. While the super-additive and mean criteria essentially revealed regions in which one of the unimodal responses was a deactivation, the max criterion appeared stringent and only highlighted the left hippocampus as a potential site of face- voice integration. Psychophysiological interaction analysis showed that connectivity between occipital and temporal cortices increased during bimodal compared to unimodal conditions. We concluded that, when investigating multisensory integration with fMRI, all these criteria should be used in conjunction with manipulation of stimulus signal-to-noise ratio and/or cross-modal congruency.
The finding that in a patient with visual form agnosia (DF), the performance level varies in a visuomotor letter-posting task and a perceptual orientation matching task was considered as part of the evidence for the perception-action model (Milner and Goodale, 1995). In this study we examined an alternative interpretation of these findings. We specifically tested whether orientation matching and letter posting can be accomplished using different strategies. Sixteen neurologically intact participants were asked to either put cards of different sizes through a target slot of a certain orientation or to simply indicate the slot's orientation. Letter-posting was performed in three different conditions varying the amount of visual feedback available. Results show that some participants apply a strategy of obstacle-avoidance in the posting task. That is, they oriented the card such that the safety margin between the edges of the target and the card was increased. This tendency became stronger with increasing card size. In contrast, in the orientation matching task, the end-orientation of the card was unaffected by its size and closer to the slot's actual orientation. The findings suggest that posting and matching can be solved using different visuo-spatial information. The perception-action dissociation reported for these tasks in DF might therefore simply indicate a difficulty in computing visual orientation, an ability that is needed for successful orientation matching but not for posting.
The development of neuroimaging methods has enabled significant advances toward elucidating the mechanism of cognition, behavior and emotion. This article first reviews recent human neuroimaging studies that examined the neurocircuitry of emotion and emotion regulation. Next, we review the neuroimaging literature of the effects of cognitive behavioral therapy for depression. Lastly, we provide the brain mechanism that the emotional support regulates psychological pain in ostracism, and then discuss a biological model of psychotherapy. We hope that the present review can help us, not only to better understand the biological basis of cognition, behavior and emotion in psychotherapy, but also to be aware of effects of psychotherapy on brain.
In the process of revising of DSM-5 for release in 2013, there is growing interest in the concept of a nosologically distinct spectrum of obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCSDs). Validity and compass of this spectrum remains to be fully elucidated, but a preliminary approach emphasizes that putative OCSDs have phenomenologic (eg. repetitive thoughts and/ or behaviors), etiological, psychobiologic or treatment overlap with OCD. Studies have investigated the relevant neurocircuitry, neurochemistry, and neuroendocrinology underlying anxiety disorders and OCSDs, and have explored the underlying genetic basis of and relevant intermediate phenotypes for developing these conditions. There appears to be some scientific validity and clinical utility for conceptualizing a subgroup of emotional-related disorders, within which fall the anxiety, posttraumatic, and OCSDs. However OCSDs, especially motoric OCSDs such as tic or Tourette's disorder still remain controversial; the appropriate grouping of these is still under discussion and may still change.
Cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are the core symptoms of this disorder, and are strongly correlated with decreased QOL in patients. Antipsychotic drugs have been used therapeutically for positive symptoms, including hallucinations and delusions. However, many patients treated with antipsychotic drugs fail to recover from cognitive deficits. Therefore, a number of new therapeutic drugs for cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are currently being developed around the world. A number of studies suggest that nicotine, a major component of cigarettes, could improve cognitive deficits in patients with schizophrenia. Accumulating evidence suggests that the alpha7 subtype of nicotinic receptors (alpha7 nAchRs) play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, as well as deficits in auditory evoked potential P50 in patients with schizophrenia. We have reported that the antiemetic drug tropisetron (alpha7 nAchR agonist and 5-HT3 receptor antagonist) improved auditory P20-N40 deficits in DBA/2 mice, and cognitive deficits after administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine. Furthermore, a single administration of tropisetron was associated with improved auditory P50 deficits in non-smoking patients with schizophrenia. Moreover, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study demonstrated that tropisetron significantly improved auditory P50 deficits and attention deficits in patients with schizophrenia. In this paper, the author will discuss the therapeutic potential of alpha7 nAChR agonists for cognitive deficits in patients with schizophrenia.
It was not until 1967 that the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine, the first available serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI), emerged as an effective treatment for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Subsequently, the efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for OCD has been demonstrated in many studies. From these findings, neurochemical dysfunction in the serotonin system has been implicated in OCD pathogenesis. However, as many as half of OCD patients treated with an adequate trial of SRIs fail to fully respond to treatment and continue to exhibit significant symptoms. Hence, there is often a need to augment SRI treatment with other drugs. Currently, the best existing evidence favors antipsychotic drugs. Although much of the emphasis of pathophysiologic theories of OCD has been on serotonin, a growing body of evidence supports a role for dopaminergic neurotransmission in this disorder. At the same time, a range of functional neuroimaging studies have pointed to involvement of the cortico-basal ganglia loop (the &quot;OCD loop&quot;) in OCD. Effective pharmacotherapy is likely to modulate the OCD loop, thereby regulating functioning within the serotonin and dopamine neurotransmitter systems.
The long-term effects of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) on seizure frequency were studied in 50 patients with epilepsy and learning disabilities. Mean observation time was 4.6 years. At follow-up, none of the patients was seizure-free, 25% had more than 50% seizure reduction, and 46% had some seizure reduction, but less than 50%. The discontinuation rate was 18%. Our results indicate that, like antiepileptic drugs, VNS does not have such a good seizure-reducing effect in patients with epilepsy and learning disabilities compared with the general epilepsy population.
The damage caused by corrosion in chemical process installations can lead to unexpected plant shutdowns and the leakage of potentially toxic chemicals into the environment. When subjected to corrosion, structural changes in the material occur, leading to energy releases as acoustic waves. This acoustic activity can in turn be used for corrosion monitoring, and even for predicting the type of corrosion. Here we apply wavelet packet decomposition to extract features from acoustic emission signals. We then use the extracted wavelet packet coefficients for distinguishing between the most important types of corrosion processes in the chemical process industry: uniform corrosion, pitting and stress corrosion cracking. The local discriminant basis selection algorithm can be considered as a standard for the selection of the most discriminative wavelet coefficients. However, it does not take the statistical dependencies between wavelet coefficients into account. We show that, when these dependencies are ignored, a lower accuracy is obtained in predicting the corrosion type. We compare several mutual information filters to take these dependencies into account in order to arrive at a more accurate prediction.
The adaptation of standard integrated circuit (IC) technology as a transducer in cell-based biosensors in drug discovery pharmacology, neural interface systems and electrophysiology requires electrodes that are electrochemically stable, biocompatible and affordable. Unfortunately, the ubiquitous Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) IC technology does not meet the first of these requirements. For devices intended only for research, modification of CMOS by post-processing using cleanroom facilities has been achieved. However, to enable adoption of CMOS as a basis for commercial biosensors, the economies of scale of CMOS fabrication must be maintained by using only low-cost post-processing techniques. This review highlights the methodologies employed in cell-based biosensor design where CMOS-based integrated circuits (ICs) form an integral part of the transducer system. Particular emphasis will be placed on the application of multi-electrode arrays for in vitro neuroscience applications. Identifying suitable IC packaging methods presents further significant challenges when considering specific applications. The various challenges and difficulties are reviewed and some potential solutions are presented.
The accelerating pace of research in neuroscience has created a considerable demand for neural interfacing microsystems capable of monitoring the activity of large groups of neurons. These emerging tools have revealed a tremendous potential for the advancement of knowledge in brain research and for the development of useful clinical applications. They can extract the relevant control signals directly from the brain enabling individuals with severe disabilities to communicate their intentions to other devices, like computers or various prostheses. Such microsystems are self-contained devices composed of a neural probe attached with an integrated circuit for extracting neural signals from multiple channels, and transferring the data outside the body. The greatest challenge facing development of such emerging devices into viable clinical systems involves addressing their small form factor and low-power consumption constraints, while providing superior resolution. In this paper, we survey the recent progress in the design and the implementation of multi-channel neural recording Microsystems, with particular emphasis on the design of recording and telemetry electronics. An overview of the numerous neural signal modalities is given and the existing microsystem topologies are covered. We present energy-efficient sensory circuits to retrieve weak signals from neural probes and we compare them. We cover data management and smart power scheduling approaches, and we review advances in low-power telemetry. Finally, we conclude by summarizing the remaining challenges and by highlighting the emerging trends in the field.
We recently identified neurons in the cerebral cortex that become activated during sleep episodes with high slow-wave activity (SWA). The distinctive properties of these neurons are the ability to produce nitric oxide and their long-range projections within the cortex. In this review, we discuss how these characteristics of sleep-active cells could be relevant to SWA production in the cortex. We also discuss possible models of the role of nNOS cells in SWA production.




Prefrontal cortex (PFC) has been implicated in the experience and regulation of emotional states. Emotional experience is a complex construct, encompassing a range of more specific processes. This exploratory study aimed to delineate which (if any) aspects of emotional experience rely critically on either the ventromedial frontal (VMF) or lateral frontal (LF) lobes. The affective experience of individuals with damage to these regions was surveyed in detail using several measures and compared with that of control participants. Dependent measures included subjective and observer ratings of both dispositional affect and transient responses to laboratory mood inductions. VMF damage was associated with greater negative dispositional affect relative to controls and to individuals with LF damage; however, transient responses to emotional stimuli were largely normal. In contrast, LF damage was associated with an exaggerated subjective reactivity to sad emotional stimuli relative to control participants, but normal dispositional affect. Interestingly, neither form of PFC damage affected spontaneous emotion recovery following the mood inductions. These findings suggest a role for VMF in modulating dispositional negative affect; in contrast, LF areas appear to be critical in regulating transient emotional responses while emotional stimuli are present. This study also illustrates the dissociability of different aspects of emotional experience in patients with focal brain injury.
The Beauty-is-Good stereotype refers to the assumption that attractive people possess sociably desirable personalities and higher moral standards. The existence of this bias suggests that the neural mechanisms for judging facial attractiveness and moral goodness overlap. To investigate this idea, we scanned participants with functional magnetic resonance imaging while they made attractiveness judgments about faces and goodness judgments about hypothetical actions. Activity in the medial orbitofrontal cortex increased as a function of both attractiveness and goodness ratings, whereas activity in the insular cortex decreased with both attractiveness and goodness ratings. Within each of these regions, the activations elicited by attractiveness and goodness judgments were strongly correlated with each other, supporting the idea of similar contributions of each region to both judgments. Moreover, activations in orbitofrontal and insular cortices were negatively correlated with each other, suggesting an opposing relationship between these regions during attractiveness and goodness judgments. These findings have implications for understanding the neural mechanisms of the Beauty-is-Good stereotype.
Within the neural face-processing network, the right occipital face area (rOFA) plays a prominent role, and it has been suggested that it receives both feed-forward and re-entrant feedback from other face sensitive areas. Its functional role is less well understood and whether the rOFA is involved in the initial analysis of a face stimulus or in the detailed integration of different face properties remains an open question. The present study investigated the functional role of the rOFA with regard to different face properties (identity, expression, and gaze) using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Experiment 1 showed that the rOFA integrates information across different face properties: performance for the combined processing of identity and expression decreased after TMS to the rOFA, while no impairment was seen in gaze processing. In Experiment 2 we examined the temporal dynamics of this effect. We pinpointed the impaired integrative computation to 170 ms post stimulus presentation. Together the results suggest that TMS to the rOFA affects the integrative processing of facial identity and expression at a mid-latency processing stage.
Various kinds of normative judgments are an integral part of everyday life. We extended the scrutiny of social cognitive neuroscience into the domain of legal decisions, investigating two groups, lawyers and other academics, during moral and legal decision-making. While we found activation of brain areas comprising the so-called 'moral brain' in both conditions, there was stronger activation in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and middle temporal gyrus particularly when subjects made legal decisions, suggesting that these were made in respect to more explicit rules and demanded more complex semantic processing. Comparing both groups, our data show that behaviorally lawyers conceived themselves as emotionally less involved during normative decision-making in general. A group  condition interaction in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex suggests a modulation of normative decision-making by attention based on subjects' normative expertise.
Aggressive behavior is common during adolescence. Although aggression-related functional changes in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and frontopolar cortex (FPC) have been reported in adults, the neural correlates of aggressive behavior in adolescents, particularly in the context of structural neurodevelopment, are obscure. We used functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to measure the blood oxygenation level-depended signal and cortical thickness. In a block-designed experiment, 14-17-year old adolescents imagined aggressive and non-aggressive interactions with a peer. We show reduced vmPFC activation associated with imagined aggressive behavior as well as enhanced aggression-related activation and cortical thinning in the FPC with increasing age. Changes in FPC activation were also associated with judgments of the severity of aggressive acts. Reduced vmPFC activation was associated with greater aggression indicating its normal function is to exert inhibitory control over aggressive impulses. Concurrent FPC activation likely reflects foresight of harmful consequences that result from aggressive acts. The correlation of age-dependent activation changes and cortical thinning demonstrates ongoing maturation of the FPC during adolescence towards a refinement of social and cognitive information processing that can potentially facilitate mature social behavior in aggressive contexts.



Suspiciousness is a common feature of schizophrenia. However, suspicious thoughts are also commonly experienced by the general population. This study aimed to examine the underlying neural mechanism of suspicious thoughts in individuals with and without schizotypal personality disorder (SPD)-proneness, using an event-related potential (ERP) paradigm. Electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded when the &quot;feeling of being seen through&quot; was evoked in the participants. The findings showed a prominent positive deflection of the difference wave within the time window 250-400 ms after stimuli presentation in both SPD-prone and non-SPD-prone groups. Furthermore, the P3 amplitude was significantly reduced in the SPD-prone group compared to the non-SPD-prone group. The current density analysis also indicated hypoactivity in both frontal and temporal regions in the SPD-prone group, suggesting that the frontotemporal cortical network may play a role in the onset of suspicious thoughts. The P3 of difference wave was inversely correlated with the cognitive-perception factor and the suspiciousness/paranoid ideation trait, which provided preliminary electrophysiological evidence for the association of suspiciousness with SPD features.
Most studies investigating emotion recognition in schizophrenia have focused on facial expressions and neglected bodily and vocal expressions. Furthermore, little is known about affective multisensory integration in schizophrenia. In the first experiment, the authors investigated recognition of static, face-blurred, whole-body expressions (instrumental, angry, fearful, and sad) with a two-alternative, forced-choice, simultaneous matching task in a sample of schizophrenia patients, nonschizophrenic psychotic patients, and matched controls. In the second experiment, dynamic, face-blurred, whole-body expressions (fearful and happy) were presented simultaneously with either congruent or incongruent human or animal vocalizations to schizophrenia patients and controls. Participants were instructed to categorize the emotion expressed by the body and to ignore the auditory information. The results of Experiment 1 show an emotion recognition impairment in the schizophrenia group and to a lesser extent in the nonschizophrenic psychosis group, and this for all four expressions. The findings of Experiment 2 show that schizophrenia patients are more influenced by the auditory information than controls, but only when the auditory information consists of human vocalizations. This shows that schizophrenia patients are impaired in recognizing whole-body expressions, and they show abnormal affective multisensory integration of bimodal stimuli originating from the same source.
How people judge something to be morally right or wrong is a fundamental question of both the sciences and the humanities. Here we aim to identify the neural processes that underlie the specific conclusion that something is morally wrong. To do this, we introduce a novel distinction between &quot;moral deliberation,&quot; or the weighing of moral considerations, and the formation of a &quot;moral verdict,&quot; or the commitment to one moral conclusion. We predict and identify hemodynamic activity in the bilateral anterior insula and basal ganglia that correlates with committing to the moral verdict &quot;this is morally wrong&quot; as opposed to &quot;this is morally not-wrong,&quot; a finding that is consistent with research from economic decision-making. Using comparisons of deliberation-locked vs. verdict-locked analyses, we also demonstrate that hemodynamic activity in high-level cortical regions previously implicated in morality--including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex, and temporoparietal junction--correlates primarily with moral deliberation as opposed to moral verdicts. These findings provide new insights into what types of processes comprise the enterprise of moral judgment, and in doing so point to a framework for resolving why some clinical patients, including psychopaths, may have intact moral judgment but impaired moral behavior.
The cognitive and neural mechanisms leading to deception were studied by the event-related brain potential (ERP) technique. In a simulated deception situation with graded monetary incentives, participants made a decision to lie or be truthful in each trial and held their response until a delayed imperative signal was presented. Spatiotemporal principal component analysis (PCA) and source analysis revealed that brain activities dominant in the left lateral frontal area approximately 800-1,000 ms post-stimulus and over the central-frontal-parietal and right frontal areas after 1,300 ms were significantly more negative in the deceptive condition than in the truthful condition. These results suggest that two serial cognitive processes, decision making and response preparation, are related to deliberate deception.
Attachment disorganization in infancy is a risk factor for behavior problems and other psychopathology. Traditionally the role of parental behavior for qualitative differences in early attachment relationships has been emphasized. However, disrupted infant-parent interactions only partly explain attachment disorganization. A complementary focus on child factors such as early differences in the underlying neurobiological systems is needed. We examined whether early structural differences in the gangliothalamic ovoid, comprising the basal ganglia and the thalamus, are involved in the etiology of infant attachment disorganization. Gangliothalamic ovoid diameter was measured by ultrasound in 6-week-old participants of a prospective population-based cohort study. Attachment classification of 629 of these infants was assessed with the strange situation at 14 months of age. Neurobiological differences within the normal range were prospectively associated with attachment disorganization. Infants with a larger gangliothalamic ovoid at 6 weeks had a lower risk of attachment disorganization at 14 months (OR=0.73 per SD increase in diameter, 95% CI 0.57-0.93, p &lt; .05). Volume of the lateral ventricles as an index of general brain development was not associated with attachment disorganization. These findings provide new insight into the etiology of infant attachment disorganization that may in part be neurodevelopmentally determined.


Research has demonstrated that people readily pay more attention to negative than to positive and/or neutral stimuli. However, evidence from recent studies indicated that such an attention bias to negative information is not obligatory but sensitive to various factors. Two experiments using intergroup evaluative tasks (Study 1: a gender-related groups evaluative task and Study 2: a minimal-related groups evaluative task) was conducted to determine whether motivation to strive for a positive social identity - a part of one's self-concept - drives attention toward affective stimuli. Using the P1 component of event-related brain potentials (ERPs) as a neural index of attention, we confirmed that attention bias toward negative stimuli is not mandatory but it can depend on a motivational focus on affective outcomes. Results showed that social identity-based motivation is likely to bias attention toward affectively incongruent information. Thereby, early onset processes - reflected by the P1 component - appeared susceptible to top-down attentional influences induced by the individual's motivation to strive for a positive social identity.
We examined the effect of large, controlled whisker movements, delivered at a high speed, on the amplitude and spread of depolarization in the anesthetized mouse barrel cortex. The stimulus speed was varied between 1500 and 6000/s and the extent of movement was varied between 4 and 16. The rate of rise of the response was linearly related to the rate of rise of the stimulus. The initial spatial extent of cortical activation was also related to the rate of rise of the stimulus: that is, the faster the stimulus onset, the faster the rate of rise of the response, the larger the extent of cortex activated initially. The spatial extent of the response and the rate of rise of the response were not correlated with changes in the deflection amplitude. However, slower, longer lasting stimuli produced an Off response, making the actual extent of activation larger for the slowest rising stimuli. These results indicate that the spread of cortical activation depends on stimulus features.
The 23rd annual Barrels meeting was held on the University of California, San Diego campus and highlighted the latest advances in the whisker-to-barrel pathway and beyond. The annual meeting brought together investigators from a dozen countries to present their data in posters and short talks. The meeting focused on several themes, first the barrel system was used as a model to study the consequences that result from alterations in the normal pattern(s) of development. A second session focused on what happens to whisker information once it leaves the layer IV barrel. A third session addressed issues of coding within the barrel system and a final session highlighted the latest advances in the engineering of transgenic mouse lines. The meeting highlighted the utility of the barrel system to study cortical circuitry in the normal and pathological state.



In Human Erythroid Massive Amplification (HEMA) cultures, AB mononuclear cells (MNC) generate 1-log more erythroid cells (EBs) than the corresponding CD34(pos) cells, suggesting that MNC may also contain CD34(neg) HPC. To clarify the phenotype of AB HPC which generate EBs in these cultures, flow cytometric profiling for CD34/CD36 expression, followed by isolation and functional characterization (colony-forming-ability in semisolid-media and fold-increase in HEMA) were performed. Four populations with erythroid differentiation potential were identified: CD34(pos)CD36(neg) (0.1%); CD34(pos)CD36(pos) (barely detectable-0.1%); CD34(neg)CD36(low) (2%) and CD34(neg)CD36(neg) (75%). In semisolid-media, CD34(pos)CD36(neg) cells generated BFU-E and CFU-GM (in a 1:1 ratio), CD34(neg)CD36(neg) cells mostly BFU-E (87%) and CD34(pos)CD36(pos) and CD34(neg)CD36(low) cells were not tested due to low numbers. Under HEMA conditions, CD34(pos)CD36(neg), CD34(pos)CD36(pos), CD34(neg)CD36(low) and CD34(neg)CD36(neg) cells generated EBs with fold-increases of 9,000, 100, 60 and 1, respectively, and maturation times (day with &gt;10% CD36(high)CD235a(high) cells) of 10-7 days. Pyrenocytes were generated only by CD34(neg)/CD36(neg) cells by day 15. These results confirm that the majority of HPC in AB express CD34 but identify additional CD34(neg) populations with erythroid differentiation potential which, based on differences in fold-increase and maturation times, may represent a hierarchy of HPC present in AB.
Many human neurological diseases are not currently curable and result in devastating neurologic sequelae. The increasing availability of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from adult human somatic cells provides new prospects for cellreplacement strategies and disease-related basic research in a broad spectrum of human neurologic diseases. Patient-specific iPSC-based modeling of neurogenetic and neurodegenerative diseases is an emerging efficient tool for in vitro modeling to understand disease and to screen for genes and drugs that modify the disease process. With the exponential increase in iPSC research in recent years, human iPSCs have been successfully derived with different technologies and from various cell types. Although there remain a great deal to learn about patient-specific iPSC safety, the reprogramming mechanisms, better ways to direct a specific reprogramming, ideal cell source for cellular grafts, and the mechanisms by which transplanted stem cells lead to an enhanced functional recovery and structural reorganization, the discovery of the therapeutic potential of iPSCs offers new opportunities for the treatment of incurable neurologic diseases. However, iPSC-based therapeutic strategies need to be thoroughly evaluated in preclinical animal models of neurological diseases before they can be applied in a clinical setting.





Steroid hormones play a critical role in the initiation and maintenance of pregnancy. In particular, the important role that the progesterone metabolite, and neurosteroid, allopregnanolone, may play in fetal and adolescent development is becoming increasingly evident. Unlike steroid hormones, neurosteroids act at nontraditional targets in the central and peripheral nervous systems, including GABA(A) receptor complexes. This commentary discusses the three works in this issue that elucidate the important role of allopregnanolone in the mechanisms that regulate stress hypo-sensitivity of rodents in late pregnancy, neuroprotective effects in fetal sheep exposed to a hypoxic insult, and the continuing role that prefrontal cortex formation of allopregnanolone may play on the cognitive development of gestationally stressed rat offspring, grown to adolescence. The narrative that these works comprise was facilitated by the 5(th) International Meeting on Steroids and the Nervous System (Torino, Italy), which is organized to update our knowledge on the relationships between steroid hormones synthesized in different organs and the nervous system. Topics covered in this most recent meeting included sex differences in, and hormonal influences on, cannabinoid-regulated biology; steroids and pain; the importance of co-regulatory factors for steroid receptor action in the brain; mechanism and role of estrogen-induced nonclassical signaling in the brain; vitamin D as the forgotten neurosteroid; neurosteroids and GABA(A) receptors; and pathogenic mechanisms mediated by glucocorticoid receptors in psychiatric disorders. The 6(th) International Meeting on Steroids and the Nervous System will be held in Torino, Italy in February 2011.
Although organizational effects of sex hormones in early life on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function have been reported for males, the findings are mixed for females, likely the result of not controlling for adult gonadal status. In experiment 1, females were ovariectomized (OVX) either on postnatal day 1 or as adults and given estradiol benzoate (EB) and progesterone implants or not as adults. Corticosterone release in response to restraint stress was responsive to hormonal replacement irrespective of timing of OVX: without replacement, both OVX groups had lower corticosterone concentrations after restraint stress than did OVX groups with replacement and gonadally intact females. Thus, neonatal OVX did not alter the activational effects of sex hormones in adulthood. In a second experiment, females administered a dose of EB on postnatal day 1 had a more rapid decline of corticosterone concentrations after restraint as adults compared to oil-treated females, irrespective of whether they were OVX as neonates or as adults (all groups were given estradiol replacement as adults). Thus, evidently there are organizational effects of the sex hormonal milieu of the neonatal female, although this is a modest effect compared to previous reports in males.

Citicoline is a neuroprotectant and neurorestorative drug that is used in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke in some countries. The research with this compound continues. In this review, we focus on the latest publications or communications or both and on the major ongoing experimental and clinical projects involving citicoline in stroke recovery.









Background. There is emerging evidence to support the use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) therapy in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Aims. To explore feasibility, safety, and preliminary efficacy of G-CSF therapy in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Patients and Method. In randomized study, 10 patients with acute ischemic stroke were recruited in 1:1 ratio to receive 10g/kg G-CSF treatment subcutaneously daily for five days with conventional care or conventional treatment alone. Efficacy outcome measures were assessed at baseline, one month, and after six months of treatment included Barthel Index (BI), National Institute of Health Stroke Scale, and modified Rankin Scale. Results. One patient in G-CSF therapy arm died due to raised intracranial pressure. No severe adverse effects were seen in rest of patients receiving G-CSF therapy arm or control arm. No statistically significant difference between intervention and control was observed in any of the scores though a trend of higher improvement of BI score is seen in the intervention group. Conclusion. Although this study did not have power to examine efficacy, it provides preliminary evidence of potential safety, feasibility, and tolerability of G-CSF therapy. Further studies need to be done on a large sample to confirm the results.
Stroke remains a disease with a serious impact on quality of life but few effective treatments exist. There is an urgent need to develop and/or improve neuroprotective strategies to combat this. Many drugs proven to be neuroprotective in experimental models fail to improve patient outcome in a clinical setting. An emerging treatment, therapeutic hypothermia (TH), is a promising neuroprotective therapy in stroke management. Several studies with TH in experimental models and small clinical trials have shown beneficial effects. Despite this, implementation into the clinical setting is still lacking due to methodological considerations as well as hypothermia-related complications. This paper discusses the possible opportunities and limitations of the use of TH in animal models and the translation into the clinic.
Background. The impact of invasive methods of treatment on results in developing countries may differ from that in developed countries. Methods. This is a prospective clinical study of consecutive patients with Subarachnoid Haemorrhage (SAH) admitted to the Ghaem Hospital, Mashhad during the period from 2005 to 2009. The initial diagnosis and investigations were carried out by neurologists. The patients were divided into two groups. One received surgical treatment whilst the other group was managed medically. The decision as to the choice of the method of treatment was made by the neurosurgeons. The initial medical treatment was standardised for all the patients. The rate of complications and mortality was compared in both medical and surgical groups. Results. 120 SAH patients (52% females) with a mean age of 50.6  7 years were evaluated. The angiography revealed the presence of an aneurysm in 62 patients. 63.5% of the patients received medical treatment and 37.5% underwent aneurysmal surgery. Difference of rebleeding rate in the two therapeutic groups was not significant; X(2) = .014, P = .91. The effect of rebleeding on mortality was not significant; X(2) = 2.54, P = .14. Within 62 SAH patients with cerebral aneurysm, the mortality rate in both therapeutic groups was also not significantly different; X(2) = .16, P = .77. Conclusion. There is no significant difference in the mortality rate between the &quot;surgical&quot; and non-&quot;surgical&quot; groups of Iranian patients with SAH. This could be due to delay in performance of surgery in Iranian neurovascular centers.
The developing world carries the highest burden of stroke mortality and stroke-related disability. The number of stroke patients receiving r-tPA in the developing world is extremely low. Prehospital delay, financial constraints, and lack of infrastructure are main barriers of thrombolysis therapy in developing countries. Until a cheaper thrombolytic agent and the proper infrastructure for utilization of thrombolytic therapy is available, developing countries should focus on primary and secondary stroke prevention strategies. However, governments and health systems of developing countries should efforts exerb for promotion of their infrastructure of stroke care.
This paper explores information sharing in multidisciplinary clinical collaboration between three hospitals. Our study draws on qualitative interviews with surgeons and radiologists in two county hospitals and one university hospital. The analysis shows that the actors shared a restricted amount of information about the patients they have in common and that different actors used the shared information in different ways. However, much communication was still needed to clarify and negotiate the meaning of shared data and its implications for collaborative care. To conclude, while the arguments for a shared information space may appear convincing, the communication practice observed should illustrate that IS also needs to support the communicative process in clinical collaborative work.
This paper introduces the technical foundations of a system designed to embed a lightweight, faithful and spatially manipulable representation of the user's hand into an otherwise virtual world - Augmented Virtuality (AV). A highly intuitive control during pointing-like near space interaction can be provided to the user, as well as a very flexible means to experimenters, in a variety of non-medical and medical contexts. Our approach essentially relies on stereoscopic video see-through Augmented Reality (AR) technology and a generic, extendible framework for managing 3-D visual hand displacements. Research from human-computer interaction, perception and motor control has contributed to the elaboration of our proposal which combines a) acting in co-location, b) avoiding occlusion violations by assuring a correct scene depth ordering and c) providing a convincing visual feedback of the user's hand. We further present two cases in which this system has already successfully been used and then outline some other applications that we think are promising, for instance, in the fields of neuromotor rehabilitation and experimental neuroscience.
In the exploration of a person's self-image in the Internet, it seems that there is one representing profile. But, is it coherent with the real self? Today we are able to perform counseling and therapeutic practices, and we can affect and change the human self and mindset in virtual spaces. Using the connection between neuroscience and philosophy, we show that there are different types of the self people adopt in cyberspace. By showing how their disposition changes many questions can be answered. What mind state provokes addictive impulses and enables therapy? How does the sense and concept of reality change? Can we transfer the experiences we gain in the virtual into real life? By investigating how the virtual affects us in a positive or negative way, support to successful treatment applications are possible. The goal of this study is to find answers for the virtual space usage as a treatment tool and to see what the future holds for such therapeutic tendencies.
In the early-middle stages of Parkinson's disease (PD), polysomnographic studies show early alterations of the structure of the sleep, which may explain frequent symptoms reported by patients, such as daytime drowsiness, loss of attention and concentration, feeling of tiredness. The aim of this study was to verify if there is a correlation between the sleep dysfunction and decision making ability. We used a Virtual Reality version of the Multiple Errand Test (VMET), developed using the NeuroVR free software (http://www.neurovr2.org), to evaluate decision-making ability in 12 PD not-demented patients and 14 controls. Five of our not-demented 12 PD patients showed abnormalities in the polysomnographic recordings associated to significant differences in the VMET performance.
Associations between substance use variables and suicidal behavior were analyzed in an urban population sample from (&quot;the Women and Alcohol in Gothenburg&quot; study). In Phase I, 20-year-old women (n = 2,069) completed a screening questionnaire. Interviews were carried out with a stratified sample (n = 560). Data, collected in 1995 and 2000, were analyzed using logistic regression to generate odds ratios. Drug use, but not risky alcohol consumption, was associated with suicidal thoughts after adjusting for current depression. Study limitations and implications for suicide prevention are discussed. The study was funded by the Swedish Research Council and the Alcohol Research Council of Sweden.
A sample of 296 drug-using inmates in 14 Swedish prisons was randomized during 2004-2006 into three intervention groups; Motivational Interviewing delivered by counselors with workshop-only training, or by counselors with workshop training followed by peer group supervision, and controls. Drug and alcohol use was measured by the Addiction Severity Index (ASI) at intake and at 10 months after release. Complete data from 114 clients were analyzed by a stepwise regression analysis. All three groups reduced alcohol and drug use. Limitations in the study are discussed and future research is suggested. The study is financed by grants from the Research Committee of the National Prison and Probation Administration.
This work reviews preclinical and clinical studies published during the past two decades on the cellular and behavioral effects of commonly misused solvents. In animals, acute solvent exposure produces motor impairment and antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects. Human intoxication from misusing solvents is similar to that of ethanol; however, hallucinations and sudden sniffing death may occur at high solvent concentrations. Among chronic misusers, there is evidence of impaired memory, increased prevalence of psychiatric disorders, and neurological damage. Solvents facilitate inhibitory neurotransmission and block excitatory mechanisms. Toluene, in particular, increases brain dopamine levels and its effects occur at concentrations that do not dissolve cell membranes; therefore, neuronal damage is not an immediate, unavoidable consequence of solvent misuse.
This special issue of Substance Use &amp; Misuse addresses the public health issue of volatile substance misuse (VSM), the inhalation of gases or vapors for psychoactive effects, assessing the similarities and differences in the products misused, patterns, prevalence, etiologies, and impacts of VSM by examining it through sociocultural epidemiology, neuroscience, and interventions research. The Canadian, US, and Australian guest editors contend that, when compared with other drugs used at a similar prevalence, VSM has attracted relatively little research effort. The authors and editors call for further research to develop evidence-based policies and comprehensive interventions that respect culture and context-specific knowledge.
Thirty-six Native American tribal leaders and members living on contiguous rural southwest California reservations were surveyed concerning their view of the acceptability of a motivational interviewing (MI) intervention with youth (aged 8-18 years) who are drinking and their families. The results suggest the following: (1) a substantial proportion of reservation youth would be willing to accept MI for behavior change; (2) relatively few are actually ready to change; (3) most reservation youth are in the precontemplation stage of change; and (4) MI may be well suited as an intervention to prevent underage drinking in that population. The study's limitations are noted.
We first provide an overview of the potential of technology in the area of brief interventions for substance use and describe recent projects from our lab that are illustrative of that potential. Second, we present data from a study of during-session predictors of brief intervention response. In a sample of postpartum women (N = 39), several variables showed promise as predictors of later drug use, and a brief index derived from them predicted abstinence with a sensitivity of .7 and a specificity of .89. This promising approach and initial study findings support the importance of future research in this area.
This study examined P3a amplitude as a direct predictor of treatment success for substance dependence. Participants were 35 adults (27 men, 8 women) undergoing treatment for substance dependence at an urban residential treatment facility between October 2005 and July 2007. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) criteria were used to confirm substance dependence. P3a amplitude was significantly smaller for those who dropped out of treatment. Discriminant function analysis confirmed that P3a amplitude was a robust predictor of treatment completion, more sensitive than other measures including substance abuse severity. Implications for the interpretation of P3a amplitude as an index of executive function are discussed.



Some individuals suffering from mild traumatic brain injuries, especially repetitive mild concussions, are thought to develop a slowly progressive encephalopathy characterized by a number of the neuropathological elements shared with various neurodegenerative diseases. A central pathological mechanism explaining the development of progressive neurodegeneration in this subset of individuals has not been elucidated. Yet, a large number of studies indicate that a process called immunoexcitotoxicity may be playing a central role in many neurodegenerative diseases including chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). The term immunoexcitotoxicity was first coined by the lead author to explain the evolving pathological and neurodevelopmental changes in autism and the Gulf War Syndrome, but it can be applied to a number of neurodegenerative disorders. The interaction between immune receptors within the central nervous system (CNS) and excitatory glutamate receptors trigger a series of events, such as extensive reactive oxygen species/reactive nitrogen species generation, accumulation of lipid peroxidation products, and prostaglandin activation, which then leads to dendritic retraction, synaptic injury, damage to microtubules, and mitochondrial suppression. In this paper, we discuss the mechanism of immunoexcitotoxicity and its link to each of the pathophysiological and neurochemical events previously described with CTE, with special emphasis on the observed accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau.




Changes in -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptor (AMPAR) surface expression in the rodent nucleus accumbens (NAc) are produced by cocaine exposure and implicated in addiction-related behaviors. The direction of change depends on the animal's prior drug history. However, little is known about the effect of a single exposure to cocaine on AMPAR distribution in the NAc of untreated rats. This is essential information for interpreting the literature on AMPAR trafficking after repeated cocaine exposure. In this study, we used a protein crosslinking assay to determine the effect of a single cocaine injection on surface and intracellular AMPAR subunit levels in the rat NAc. We found increased AMPAR surface expression in the NAc 24 h, but not 30 min or 2 h, after cocaine injection. A major effect of cocaine is to increase extracellular dopamine (DA) levels, leading to DA receptor activation. Therefore, we also evaluated the effects of directly acting DA receptor agonists. In contrast to the effects of cocaine, AMPAR surface expression was significantly decreased 24 h after injection of the D2-class agonist quinpirole, whereas no significant effects were produced by the D1-class agonist SKF 81297 or the mixed DA agonist apomorphine. Our results show that the effects of a single cocaine exposure in drug- and injection-nave rats are distinct from those previously reported after repeated cocaine administration. They further suggest that cocaine exerts these effects by influencing neuronal circuits rather than simply stimulating NAc DA transmission.
CART (Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptide has been implicated in playing a modulatory role in reward and reinforcement. Previously, our laboratory demonstrated that injections of CART peptide (CART 55-102) into the nucleus accumbens (NAc) attenuated both cocaine- and dopamine-induced increases in locomotor activity (LMA), and attenuated cocaine reward as well. In this study, the effects of CART peptide on LMA induced by dopamine receptor agonists were evaluated after intraaccumbal injections in male, Sprague-Dawley rats. Effects of the D1 receptor agonist SKF-81,297, saline, CART 55-102, or CART 55-102 and SKF-81,297 together were compared. The SKF-81,297-induced increase in LMA was potentiated by coadministration of CART, while injection of CART alone had no significant effect. Injection of the D2 agonist 7-OH-DPAT had no effect on LMA, and the combination of both 7-OH-DPAT and CART peptide also had no effect. Quinelorane, a D3 receptor agonist, did not alter LMA, nor did the combination of CART peptide and quinelorane. The next experiment examined the effects of CART peptide on LMA induced by coinjection of both the D1 agonist SKF-81,297 and the D2 agonist 7-OH-DPAT. The combination of SKF-81,297 and 7-OH-DPAT induced greater LMA than SKF-81,297 alone. Coadministration of CART peptide along with the D1 and D2 agonists reduced LMA. These results strongly suggest that CART peptide reduces the effects of psychostimulants by modulating the simultaneous activation of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors rather than by affecting the action of any individual dopamine receptor.
Microtubules are involved in the formation of axons and dendrites, maintenance of neuronal morphology, and cellular trafficking. Recent studies suggest that drugs affecting dopamine activity in the brain can induce cytoskeletal modifications. For instance, we have demonstrated in acute rat brain slices a molecular chain of events connecting dopamine D1 receptor to aberrant phosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau. However, the molecular and cellular effects of tau phosphorylated by means of the activation of dopamine receptors were unexplored. Here we used SK-N-MC cells, which express endogenously functional D1 receptors, to demonstrate that levels of phosphorylated tau at serines 199-202 or 214 are increased by a calcium-dependent pathway subsequent to D1 receptor stimulation. Using selective pharmacological tools, we showed that enhanced intracellular calcium lead to cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) activation, by calpain proteolysis of p35 to p25, as well as glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) activation, by its phosphorylation at tyrosine 216. Interestingly, while the activation of protein kinase A (PKA) led directly to the phosphorylation of tau at serine 214, tau phosphorylation at serines 199-202 was independent of PKA. In addition, inhibition of cdk5 or GSK3 prevented the decrease in cell viability induced by D1 receptor stimulation whereas PKA inhibition had no influence. Our data demonstrate that activation of cdk5 and GSK3 following D1 receptor stimulation could have profound influence on both the neuronal cytoskeletal constituent tau and cell survival in SK-N-MC cells.
We previously reported the absence of high-affinity binding of the group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists LY 354,740 and LY 379,268 to the D2L dopamine receptor. A rebuttal to our findings has since been reported (see Introduction section); this study represents our response. Analysis by LCMS of LY 354,740 and LY 379,268 used in this study revealed the correct molecular mass for these compounds. Both LY 354,740 and LY 379,268 exhibited potent agonist activity for mGluR in the S-GTPS assay. Functionally, neither compound displayed antagonist activity in the GTPS assay with recombinant D. At concentrations up to 10 M, both compounds failed to displace [H]-raclopride, [H]-PHNO, or [H]-domperidone in filter-binding assays under isotonic (120 mM NaCl or N-methyl glucamine) or low-ionic strength (no NaCl or N-methyl glucamine) conditions. Some displacement of [H]-domperidone (20-40%) was observed at 30 M of LY 354,740 under low-ionic strength and under isotonic conditions in the absence of NaCl. No displacement of [H]-domperidone was detected in a two site model at lower (&lt;100 nM) concentrations of either compound. Moreover, no D activity was observed for LY 354,740 or LY 379,268 in the CellKey (cellular dielectric spectroscopy) assay. In this communication, we discuss the possible reasons for differences in our study and the previously published work and implications of these studies for mechanisms of antipsychotic action.
Activation of the corticotropin-releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor in the anterolateral BNST (BSTal), a key subdivision of the extended amygdala, elicits opiate-seeking behavior exacerbated by stress. However, it is unknown whether the presence of CRF-1 affects expression of the -opioid receptor (-OR) in the many GABAergic BSTal neurons implicated in the stress response. We hypothesized that deletion of the CRF-1 receptor gene would alter the density and/or subcellular distribution of -ORs in GABAergic neurons of the BSTal. We used electron microscopy to quantitatively examine -OR immunogold and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunoperoxidase labeling in the BSTal of CRFr-1 knockout (KO) compared to wild-type (WT) mice. To assess regional specificity, we examined -OR distribution in dorsal striatum. The -ORs in each region were predominantly localized in dendrites, many of which were GABA-immunoreactive. Significantly, more cytoplasmic -OR gold particles per dendritic area were observed selectively in GABA-containing dendrites of the BSTal, but not of the dorsal striatum, in KO compared to WT mice. In both regions, however, significantly fewer GABA-immunoreactive axon terminals were present in KO compared to WT mice. Our results suggest that the absence of CRF-1 results in enhanced expression and/or dendritic trafficking of -ORs in inhibitory BSTal neurons. They also suggest that the expression of CRF-1 is a critical determinant of the availability of GABA in functionally diverse brain regions. These findings underscore the complex interplay between CRF, opioid, and GABA systems in limbic and striatal regions and have implications for the role of CRF-1 in influencing the pharmacological effects of opiates active at -ORs.
Memory can be defined as the ability to acquire, process, store, and retrieve information. Memory is indispensable for learning, adaptation, and survival of every living organism. In humans, the remembering process has acquired great flexibility and complexity, reaching close links with other mental functions, such as thinking and emotions. Changes in synaptic connectivity and interactions among multiple neural networks provide the neurobiological substrates for memory encoding, retention, and consolidation. Memory may be categorized as short-term and long-term memory (according to the storage temporal duration), as implicit and explicit memory (with respect to the consciousness of remembering), as declarative (knowing that [fact]) and procedural (knowing how [skill]) memory, or as sensory (echoic, iconic and haptil), semantic, and episodic memory (according to the various remembering domains). Significant advances have been obtained in understanding memory neurobiology, but much remains to be learned in its cognitive, psychological, and phenomenological aspects.
Myoclonus is a sudden, brief, involuntary muscle jerk. It is caused by abrupt muscle contraction, in the case of positive myoclonus, or by sudden cessation of ongoing muscular activity, in the case of negative myoclonus (NM). Myoclonus may be classified in a number of ways, although classification based on the underlying physiology is the most useful from the therapeutic viewpoint. Given the large number of possible causes of myoclonus, it is essential to take a good history, to clinically characterize myoclonus and to look for additional findings on examination in order to limit the list of possible investigations. With regards to the history, the age of onset, the character of myoclonus, precipitating or alleviating factors, family history and associated symptoms and signs are important. On examination, it is important to see whether the myoclonus appears at rest, on keeping posture or during action, to note the distribution of jerks and to look for the stimulus sensitivity. Electrophysiological tests are very helpful in determining whether myoclonus is cortical, subcortical or spinal. A single pharmacological agent rarely control myoclonus and therefore polytherapy with a combination of drugs, often in large dosages, is usually needed. Generally, antiepileptic drugs such as valproate, levetiracetam and piracetam are effective in cortical myoclonus, but less effective in other forms of myoclonus. Clonazepam may be helpful with all types of myoclonus. Focal and segmental myoclonus, irrespective of its origin, may be treated with botulinum toxin injections, with variable success.

Hypothermia, especially applied during ischemia, is the gold-standard neuroprotectant. When delayed, cooling must often be maintained for a day or more to achieve robust, permanent protection. Most animal and clinical studies use whole-body cooling-an arduous technique that can cause systemic complications. Brain-selective cooling may avoid such problems. Thus, in this rat study, we used a method that cools one hemisphere without affecting the contralateral side or the body. Localized brain hypothermia was achieved by flushing cold water through a metal tube attached to the rats' skull. First, in anesthetized rats we measured temperature in the cooled and contralateral hemisphere to demonstrate selective unilateral cooling. Subsequent telemetry recordings in awake rats confirmed that brain cooling did not cause systemic hypothermia during prolonged treatment. Additionally, we subjected rats to transient global ischemia and after recovering from anesthesia they remained at normothermia or had their right hemisphere cooled for 2 days (32C-33C). Hypothermia significantly lessened CA1 injury and microglia activation on the right side at 1 and 4 week survival times. Near-complete injury and a strong microglia response occurred in the left (normothermic) hippocampus as occurred in both hippocampi of the untreated group. Thus, this focal cooling method is suitable for evaluating the efficacy and mechanisms of hypothermic neuroprotection in global ischemia models. This method also has advantages over many current systemic cooling protocols in rodents, namely: (1) lower cost, (2) simplicity, (3) safety and suitability for long-term cooling, and (4) an internal control-the normothermic hemisphere.

Caenorhabditis elegans is a well-established model organism for the study of various biological areas. However, the procedures generally used for this worm are limited by the low throughput, low automation, and imprecise delivery of external stimuli. Microfluidics technology is emerging as an attractive and enabling platform to overcome these problems. In this review, we summarize the current microfluidic approaches for the investigation of behavior and neurobiology in C. elegans, and discuss the trends of future development.
Adequate tissue sampling is known to reduce the likelihood that the toxicity of novel biomolecules, chemicals, and drugs might go undetected. Each organ, and often specific structurally and functionally distinct regions within it, must be assessed to detect potential site-specific toxicity. Adequate sampling of the brain requires particular consideration because of the many major substructures and more than 600 subpopulations of generally irreplaceable cells with unique functions and vulnerabilities. All known neurotoxicants affect specific subpopulations (usually neurons) rather than damaging a certain percentage of cells throughout the brain; thus, all populations should be independently assessed for lesions. Historically, the affected neural cell subpopulation has not been predictable, but it is now clear that sampling selected populations (e.g., cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellar folia) cannot forecast the health of other populations. This article reviews the neuroanatomical domains affected by several model neurotoxicants to illustrate the need for more comprehensive neurohistological evaluation during nonclinical development of novel compounds. The article also describes an easily executed, cost-effective method that uses a set number of evenly spaced coronal (cross) sections to accomplish this comprehensive brain assessment during nonclinical safety studies performed in rodents, dogs, and nonhuman primates.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is the regulated interface that mediates selective transcellular transport of nutrients and essential components from the blood into the brain parenchyma. Many neurodegenerative diseases including stroke, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and AIDS dementia exhibit loss of BBB integrity. Despite the increasing body of evidence for the involvement of glia in maintaining the BBB, few studies have addressed glial/endothelial/extracellular matrix interactions. A chemically induced astrocyte lesion provides a noninvasive model to study reversible BBB dysfunction in vivo. Blood-brain barrier integrity was assessed with fluorescent dextran tracers (3-70 kDa) and magnetic resonance imaging, in parallel with confocal and electron microscopy imaging of the neurovascular unit. These studies demonstrated modified tight-junction protein expression with loss of vascular integrity. We propose that adherens junction proteins and extracellular matrix remodeling provide a temporary size-selective barrier, whereas astrocyte and microglia activation direct tight-junction proteins to paracellular domains and restore BBB integrity. Morphological comparisons were made with the area postrema, a circumventricular organ with a naturally porous BBB. Further studies into cellular mechanisms of glial/endothelial/extracellular matrix interactions may identify novel glial-based therapeutic targets and innovate therapies for modulating diseases in which gliosis and raised levels of pro-inflammatory mediators are central components.
The evaluation of neurotoxic damage involves a unique set of challenges. Vulnerable structures, such as neocortex, hippocampus, spinal cord, and peripheral nerve are complex and sharply differentiated; deficits can result from insults to one or more element(s) in the system (e.g., myelin, axon, soma, synapse, or glia). In-life assessment of neurotoxic damage is complicated by the relative inaccessibility of structures in the brain and spinal cord, and recovery is severely limited. Histopathology and electrophysiology represent two of the most commonly used and valuable techniques in this field. This review outlines the strengths and limitations of these procedures and focuses on circumstances in which findings from these measures are dissociated. Electrophysiology is noninvasive and affords a longitudinal view of onset and progression of deficits; however, measures are generally weighted to large-diameter myelinated axons and to regions of primary sensory and motor processing. Histology is a highly validated biomarker, but it is restricted by sampling issues and is insensitive to some elements of neurotoxicity (e.g., altered channel function) associated with profound functional consequences. The central tenet of the discussion is that histology and electrophysiology offer complementary views of neurotoxic damage and, whenever possible, they should be used in concert.
Investigations in toxicologic neuropathology are complex undertakings because of the intricate spatial and temporal diversity in the anatomic, functional, and molecular organization of the central and peripheral nervous systems. This compilation of toxicologic neuropathology resources has been designed to consolidate a broad range of useful neurobiology, neuropathology, and neurotoxicology resources in a single reference. This collection will increase familiarity with the basic knowledge, skills, and tools required for the proficient practice of toxicologic neuropathology and should help to improve the analysis and interpretation of pathology data sets from neural tissues in toxicology studies.

Dr. Peter S. Spencer, a pioneering neurotoxicologist of international renown, delivered the keynote address at the 2010 Joint Scientific Symposium of the Society of Toxicologic Pathology (STP) and the International Federation of Societies of Toxicologic Pathologists (IFSTP). He has made many landmark discoveries during his four-decade career. Dr. Spencer's address communicated several fundamental principles of past and present toxicologic neuropathology research, and he also predicted future trends in the field. First, classic approaches to toxicologic neuropathology emphasized morphologic techniques such as light microscopic and ultrastructural assessment. However, neuropathology methods alone rarely reveal the mechanism(s) and etiology of neurotoxic conditions, so neurotoxicity problems are now being investigated using a multidisciplinary approach in which neuropathologic assessment is but one component of the analysis. The two primary trends for future toxicologic neuropathology investigations, in both animals and humans, will be an increased use of noninvasive neural imaging and greater preference for in situ molecular (&quot;omic&quot;) methods, which provide functional information in a structural context. These trends will significantly enhance the ability of scientists to translate animal data to human situations, thereby improving our understanding of disease mechanisms and facilitating efforts to design new therapies for neural diseases.
Session 1 of the 2010 STP/IFSTP Joint Symposium on Toxicologic Neuropathology, titled &quot;Fundamentals of Neurobiology,&quot; was organized to provide a foundation for subsequent sessions by presenting essential elements of neuroanatomy and nervous system function. A brief introduction to the session titled &quot;Introduction to Correlative Neurobiology&quot; was provided by Dr. Greg Hall (Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN). Correlative neurobiology refers to considerations of the relationships between the highly organized and compartmentalized structure of nervous tissues and the functioning within this system.
The continuing education course on Developmental Neurotoxicity Testing (DNT) was designed to communicate current practices for DNT neuropathology, describe promising innovations in quantitative analysis and noninvasive imaging, and facilitate a discussion among experienced neuropathologists and regulatory scientists regarding suitable DNT practices. Conventional DNT neuropathology endpoints are qualitative histopathology and morphometric endpoints of particularly vulnerable sites (e.g., cerebral, cerebellar, or hippocampal thickness). Novel imaging and stereology measurements hold promise for automated analysis of factors that cannot be effectively examined in routinely processed specimens (e.g., cell numbers, fiber tract integrity). The panel recommended that dedicated DNT neuropathology data sets be acquired on a minimum of 8 sections (for qualitative assessment) or 3 sections (for quantitative linear and stereological analyses) using a small battery of stains to examine neurons and myelin. Where guidelines permit discretion, immersion fixation is acceptable for younger animals (postnatal day 22 or earlier), and peripheral nerves may be embedded in paraffin. Frequent concerns regarding DNT data sets include false-negative outcomes due to processing difficulties (e.g., lack of concordance among sections from different animals) and insensitive analytical endpoints (e.g., qualitative evaluation) as well as false-positive results arising from overinterpretation or misreading by inexperienced pathologists.
In secretory cells, calcium-regulated exocytosis is rapidly followed by compensatory endocytosis. Neuroendocrine cells secrete hormones and neuropeptides through various modes of exo-endocytosis, including kiss-and-run, cavicapture and full-collapse fusion. During kiss-and-run and cavicapture modes, the granule membrane is maintained in an omega shape, whereas it completely merges with the plasma membrane during full-collapse mode. As the composition of the granule membrane is very different from that of the plasma membrane, a precise sorting process of granular proteins must occur. However, the fate of secretory granule membrane after full fusion exocytosis remains uncertain. Here, we investigated the mechanisms governing endocytosis of collapsed granule membranes by following internalization of antibodies labeling the granule membrane protein, dopamine--hydroxylase (DBH) in cultured chromaffin cells. Using immunofluorescence and electron microscopy, we observed that after full collapse, DBH remains clustered on the plasma membrane with other specific granule markers and is subsequently internalized through vesicular structures composed mainly of granule components. Moreover, the incorporation of this recaptured granule membrane into an early endosomal compartment is dependent on clathrin and actin. Altogether, these results suggest that after full collapse exocytosis, a selective sorting of granule membrane components is facilitated by the physical preservation of the granule membrane entity on the plasma membrane.
Vulnerability to suicidal behavior (SB) is likely mediated by an underlying genetic predisposition interacting with environmental and probable epigenetic factors throughout the lifespan to modify the function of neuronal circuits, thus rendering an individual more likely to engage in a suicidal act. Improving our understanding of the neuroscience underlying SBs, both attempts and completions, at all developmental stages is crucial for more effective preventive treatments and for better identification of vulnerable individuals. Recent studies have characterized SB using an endophenotype strategy, which aims to identify quantitative measures that reflect genetically influenced stable changes in brain function. In addition to aiding in the functional characterization of susceptibility genes, endophenotypic research strategies may have a wider impact in determining vulnerability to SB, as well as the translation of human findings to animal models, and vice versa. Endophenotypes associated with vulnerability to SB include impulsive/aggressive personality traits and disadvantageous decision making. Deficits in realistic risk evaluation represent key processes in vulnerability to SB. Serotonin dysfunction, indicated by neuroendocrine responses and neuroimaging, is also strongly implicated as a potential endophenotype and is linked with impulsive aggression and disadvantageous decision making. Specific endophenotypes may represent heritable markers for the identification of vulnerable patients and may be relevant targets for successful suicide prevention and treatments.
Attempts to improve cognitive function in patients with brain disorders have become the focus of intensive research efforts. A recent emerging trend is the use of so-called cognitive enhancers by healthy individuals. Here, we consider some of the effects - positive and negative - that current drugs have in neurological conditions and healthy people. We conclude that, to date, experimental and clinical studies have demonstrated relatively modest overall effects, most probably because of substantial variability in response both across and within individuals. We discuss biological factors that might account for such variability and highlight the need to improve testing methods and to extend our understanding of how drugs modulate specific cognitive processes at the systems or network level.
Economists define risk in terms of the variability of possible outcomes, whereas clinicians and laypeople generally view risk as exposure to possible loss or harm. Neuroeconomic studies using relatively simple behavioral tasks have identified a network of brain regions that respond to economic risk, but these studies have had limited success predicting naturalistic risk-taking. By contrast, more complex behavioral tasks developed by clinicians (e.g. Balloon Analogue Risk Task and Iowa Gambling Task) correlate with naturalistic risk-taking but resist decomposition into distinct cognitive constructs. We propose here that to bridge this gap and better understand neural substrates of naturalistic risk-taking, new tasks are needed that: are decomposable into basic cognitive and/or economic constructs; predict naturalistic risk-taking; and engender dynamic, affective engagement.
Neural coding by brain oscillations is a major focus in neuroscience, with important implications for dyslexia research. Here, I argue that an oscillatory 'temporal sampling' framework enables diverse data from developmental dyslexia to be drawn into an integrated theoretical framework. The core deficit in dyslexia is phonological. Temporal sampling of speech by neuroelectric oscillations that encode incoming information at different frequencies could explain the perceptual and phonological difficulties with syllables, rhymes and phonemes found in individuals with dyslexia. A conceptual framework based on oscillations that entrain to sensory input also has implications for other sensory theories of dyslexia, offering opportunities for integrating a diverse and confusing experimental literature.
Callosal projection neurons (CPN) are a diverse population of neocortical projection neurons that connect the two hemispheres of the cerebral cortex via the corpus callosum. They play key roles in high-level associative connectivity, and have been implicated in cognitive syndromes of high-level associative dysfunction, such as autism spectrum disorders. CPN evolved relatively recently compared to other cortical neuron populations, and have undergone disproportionately large expansion from mouse to human. While much is known about the anatomical trajectory of developing CPN axons, and progress has been made in identifying cellular and molecular controls over midline crossing, only recently have molecular-genetic controls been identified that specify CPN populations, and help define CPN subpopulations. In this review, we discuss the development, diversity and evolution of CPN.
Although slow wave activity in the EEG has been linked to homeostatic sleep regulation, the neurobiological substrate of sleep homeostasis is not well understood. Whereas cortical neurons typically exhibit reduced discharge rates during slow wave sleep (SWS), a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons, which express the enzyme neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), has recently been found to be activated during SWS. The extent of activation of these nNOS neurons is proportional to homeostatic sleep 'drive'. These cells are an exception among cortical interneurons in that they are projection neurons. We propose that cortical nNOS neurons are positioned to influence neuronal activity across widespread brain areas. They could thus provide a long-sought anatomical link for understanding homeostatic sleep regulation.

Nitrogen narcosis occurs in humans at around 0.4 MPa (4 ATA). Hydrogen narcosis occurs between 2.6 and 3.0 MPa. In rats, nitrogen disturbances occur from 1 MPa and a loss of righting reflex around 4 MPa. Neurochemical studies in striatum of rats with nitrogen at 3 MPa (75% of anesthesia threshold) with differential pulse voltammetry have demonstrated a decrease in dopamine (DA) release by neurons originated from the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Such a decrease is found also with compressed argon, which is more narcotic than nitrogen and with the anesthetic gas nitrous oxide. Inversely, compressed helium with its very low narcotic potency induces DA increase. Microdialysis studies in the striatum have indicated that nitrogen also induces a decrease of glutamate concentration. Nitrogen pressure did not modify NMDA glutamate receptor activities in SNc or striatum but enhanced GABAA receptors activities in SNc. Repetitive exposures to nitrogen narcosis suppressed the DA decrease and induced an increase. This fact and the lack of improvement of motor disturbances did not support the hypothesis of a physiological adaptation. The desensitization of the GABAA receptors on DA cells during recurrent exposures and the parallel long-lasting decrease of glutamate coupled to the increase in NMDA receptor sensitivity suggest a nitrogen neurotoxicity or addiction induced by recurrent exposures. The differential changes produced by inert gases indifferent neurotransmitter receptors would support the binding protein theory.


Rodents of all species are frequently kept as companion animals, with increasing client expectations for the care of their animals. Fortunately, specialist veterinary interest and information is now available for treatment of rodents. In the field of rodent analgesia particularly, much can be learned from the methods developed for preventing and alleviating pain in animals undergoing research studies in laboratories throughout the world. This article reviews advances in pain detection techniques in rodents and makes recommendations on analgesic agents that are available for the alleviation of pain.
The effects of accessing or retrieving information held in working memory are poorly understood compared to what we know about the nature of information storage in this limited-capacity memory system. Previous studies of object-based attention have often relied upon memory-demanding tasks, and this work could indicate that accessing a piece of information in visual working memory may have deleterious effects upon the other representations being maintained. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that accessing a feature of an object represented in visual working memory degrades the representations of the other stored objects' features. Our findings support this hypothesis and point to important new questions about the nature of effects resulting from accessing information stored in visual working memory.

The margin of the temporal visual field lies more than 90 from the line of sight and is critical for detecting incoming threats and for balance and locomotive control. We show (i) contrast sensitivity beyond 70 is higher for moving stimuli than for stationary, and in the outermost region, only moving stimuli are visible; (ii) sensitivity is highest for motion in directions near the vertical and horizontal axes and is higher for forward than for backward directions; (iii) the former anisotropy arises early in the visual pathway; (iv) thresholds for discriminating direction are lowest for upward and downward motion.
The present study aimed to investigate whether human body forms--like human faces--undergo holistic processing. Evidence for holistic face processing comes from the face composite effect: two identical top halves of a face are perceived as being different if they are presented with different bottom parts. This effect disappears if both bottom halves are shifted laterally (misaligned) or if the stimulus is rotated by 180. We investigated whether comparable composite effects are observed for human faces and human body forms. Matching of upright faces was more accurate and faster for misaligned compared to aligned presentations. By contrast, there were no processing differences between aligned and misaligned bodies. An inversion effect emerged, with better recognition performance for upright compared to inverted bodies but not faces. The present findings provide evidence for the assumption that holistic processing--investigated with the composite illusion--is not involved in the perception of human body forms.
Our goal in this study was to examine the red-eared slider turtle for a photomechanical response (PMR) and define its spectral sensitivity. Pupils of enucleated eyes constricted to light by 11%, which was one-third the response measured in alert behaving turtles at 33%. Rates of constriction in enucleated eyes that were measured by time constants (1.44-3.70 min) were similar to those measured in turtles at 1.97 min. Dilation recovery rates during dark adaptation for enucleated eyes were predicted using line equations and computed times for reaching maximum sizes between 26 and 44 min. Times were comparable to the measures in turtles where maximum pupil size occurred within 40 min and possessed a time constant of 12.78 min. Hill equations were used to derive irradiance threshold values from enucleated hemisected eyes and then plot a spectral sensitivity curve. The analysis of the slopes and maximum responses revealed contribution from at least two different photopigments, one with a peak at 410 nm and another with a peak at 480 nm. Fits by template equations suggest that contractions are triggered by multiple photopigments in the iris including an opsin-based visual pigment and some other novel photopigment, or a cryptochrome with an absorbance spectrum significantly different from that used in our model. In addition to being regulated by retinal feedback via parasympathetic nervous pathways, the results support that the iris musculature is photointrinsically responsive. In the turtle, the control of its direct pupillary light response (dPLR) includes photoreceptive mechanisms occurring both in its iris and in its retina.
Amblyopia is usually associated with the presence of anisometropia, strabismus or both early in life. We set out to explore quantitative relationships between the degree of anisometropia and the loss of visual function, and to examine how the presence of strabismus affects visual function in observers with anisometropia. We measured optotype acuity, Pelli-Robson contrast sensitivity and stereoacuity in 84 persons with anisometropia and compared their results with those of 27 persons with high bilateral refractive error (isoametropia) and 101 persons with both strabismus and anisometropia. All subjects participated in a large-scale study of amblyopia (McKee et al., 2003). We found no consistent visual abnormalities in the strong eye, and therefore report only on vision in the weaker, defined as the eye with lower acuity. LogMAR acuity falls off markedly with increasing anisometropia in non-strabismic anisometropes, while contrast sensitivity is much less affected. Acuity degrades rapidly with increases in both hyperopic and myopic anisometropia, but the risk of amblyopia is about twice as great in hyperopic than myopic anisometropes of comparable refractive imbalance. For a given degree of refractive imbalance, strabismic anisometropes perform considerably worse than anisometropes without strabismus--visual acuity for strabismics was on average 2.5 times worse than for non-strabismics with similar anisometropia. For observers with equal refractive error in the two eyes there is very little change in acuity or sensitivity with increasing (bilateral) refractive error except for one extreme individual (bilaterally refractive error of -15 D). Most pure anisometropes with interocular differences less than 4D retain some stereopsis, and the degree is correlated with the acuity of the weak eye. We conclude that even modest interocular differences in refractive error can influence visual function.
Vitamin D is a potent immune modulator, keeping the T-cell compartment in a more tolerogenic state. Multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease in which an autoreactive T-cell response contributes to inflammation in the central nervous system, has been associated with vitamin D deficiency. The effects of vitamin D on the immune system are believed to be an important driver of this association. In this chapter, we elaborate on vitamin D as a modulator of the T-cell response. This discussion will be placed in the perspective of MS as a T-cell-mediated disease and in the perspective of the numerous association studies on vitamin D deficiency and multiple health outcomes. We conclude that there is a firm experimental and epidemiological basis supporting the model of vitamin D as a physiological immune modulator, on which intervention studies assessing clinical and immunological outcome measures should be designed.
Recent studies on homeless adolescents suggest that the profiles of homeless adolescents are heterogeneous, and that certain clusters of homeless adolescents demonstrated resiliency and positive coping strategies. This study examined the relationship between HIV-related risk factors and resiliency (survival skills) of homeless adolescents over a 2-year period. Those who did not engage in unprotected sex reported significantly higher survival skills scores. Similarly, those who were monogamous during the study period reported significantly higher survival skills scores. However, there was a significant decline in survival skills scores after 6 months, regardless of the HIV-related risk factors. Findings from this study point to the urgent need to identify and target resilient adolescents early on to provide interventions to facilitate the transition to stable living situations before their resiliency deteriorates.
Growing axons encounter numerous developmental signals to which they must promptly respond in order to properly form complex neural circuitry. In the axons, these signals are often transduced into a local increase or decrease in protein levels. Contrary to the traditional view that the cell bodies are the exclusive source of axonal proteins, it is becoming increasingly clear not only that de novo protein synthesis takes place in axons, but also that it is required for the axons to respond to certain signals. Here we review the current knowledge of local mRNA translation in developing neurons with a special focus on protein synthesis occurring in axons and growth cones.








The Karolinska Burn Unit in Stockholm, Sweden, carried out a retrospective case review in order to compare the cost of the current protocol of care - in place since mid-2002 - with a previous protocol in paediatric burn patients. The study compared the years 2004 and 2007 with the year 2001. 2004 was the first full year in which the unit staff used Acticoat(TM) (Smith &amp; Nephew Wound Management, Hull, England), IntraSite Gel(TM) (idem), and Allevyn Adhesive(TM) (idem) in the treatment of paediatric burns patients. In 2001 the unit used Mepitel(TM) (Molnlycke, Gteborg, Sweden) together with a saline solution and peroxide for cleansing. This study examined differences in both labour and material costs, measured from the hospital's perspective. Our results show that the main impact of the new protocol was on length of stay for hospitalized patients. In 2001 the mean in-patient stay was 12.5 days; in 2004 the mean stay was 5.6 days and, in 2007, 4.5 days (p &lt; 0.001). It is hypothesized that the reason for this significant reduction in length of stay is that most of the patients treated with Acticoat were sent home earlier to be treated as outpatients because there was less need for sedation and/or analgesics, and because the risk of infection was perceived to be less. Pure hospitalization costs per in-patient were approximately Swedish kronor (kr) 67,725 in 2001 (1 kr = approx.  0.1 or US$ 0.15) and kr 30,305 and kr 24,440 in 2004 and 2007, respectively. This represents a saving of 55% and 64% with respect to 2001 costs.
Burn patients may suffer both physical and psychopathological consequences and their quality of life and the presence of psychopathological symptoms should be evaluated. The Burn Specific Health Scale - Brief (BHSH-B) is a tried and tested instrument for assessing burn patients' quality of life. The aim of this study is to propose the Italian translation of BSHS-B and presents the preliminary results of an exploratory study. The Italian version of the BSHS-B was administered to a sample group of 50 burn victims. Reliability was verified by Cronbach's alpha, and construct validity was evaluated through correlation with the Short Form 36 Health Survey Questionnaire (SF-36) and the Self-report Symptom Inventory - Revised (SCL-90). The entire scale and two out of three domains showed Cronbach's alpha values higher than 0.8. Significant correlations were identified between BSHS-B subscales and the SF-36 subscales Physical Pain and Social Activities. Several psychopathological SCL-90 subscales correlated with BSHS-B subscales Heat Sensitivity and Body Image. It was concluded that our translation of BSHS-B was reliable and showed good construct validity. The drawbacks of this study are the limited size of the sample and the wide variety of types of burn injuries.
The hippocampus is hypothesised to be critical for episodic memory in humans and episodic-like memory in animals. Human data regarding the roles of the various subregional networks within the hippocampus is difficult to obtain. In this article we examine the current rodent literature on episodic-like memory and associative recognition and review the roles of the hippocampal subregions in these behavioural tasks. We focus on the large amount of recent data reporting roles for CA3 and CA1 in allocentric spatial and temporal associative memory respectively. Our own recent data are then presented detailing critical roles for CA3 and CA1 in an associative recognition task which does not require allocentric spatial or temporal processing. These data support more generic roles for CA3 and CA1 in episodic-like memory, based on anatomical and theoretical literature on hippocampal function. We also present a novel analysis of our data in which we suggest that the encoding of object, place and context information is unaffected by lesions of the hippocampus and therefore infer that it may be the storage or retrieval phase of this associative memory which is critically dependent on hippocampal function. In conclusion however, more specific anatomically and temporally controlled methods are needed to fully define the role of hippocampal subregions in episodic-like memory.
A quantitative computational theory of the operation of the hippocampus as an episodic memory system is described. The CA3 system operates as a single attractor or autoassociation network to enable rapid, one-trial associations between any spatial location (place in rodents or spatial view in primates) and an object or reward and to provide for completion of the whole memory during recall from any part. The theory is extended to associations between time and object or reward to implement temporal order memory, also important in episodic memory. The dentate gyrus performs pattern separation by competitive learning to produce sparse representations, producing for example neurons with place-like fields from entorhinal cortex grid cells. The dentate granule cells produce by the very small number of mossy fibre connections to CA3 a randomizing pattern separation effect important during learning but not recall that separates out the patterns represented by CA3 firing to be very different from each other, which is optimal for an unstructured episodic memory system in which each memory must be kept distinct from other memories. The direct perforant path input to CA3 is quantitatively appropriate to provide the cue for recall in CA3, but not for learning. The CA1 recodes information from CA3 to set up associatively learned backprojections to neocortex to allow subsequent retrieval of information to neocortex, providing a quantitative account of the large number of hippocampo-neocortical and neocortical-neocortical backprojections. Tests of the theory including hippocampal subregion analyses and hippocampal NMDA receptor knockouts are described and support the theory.
Understanding the mechanisms of episodic memory requires linking behavioral data and lesion effects to data on the dynamics of cellular membrane potentials and population interactions within brain regions. Linking behavior to specific membrane channels and neurochemicals has implications for therapeutic applications. Lesions of the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex and subcortical nuclei impair episodic memory function in humans and animals, and unit recording data from these regions in behaving animals indicate episodic memory processes. Intracellular recording in these regions demonstrates specific cellular properties including resonance, membrane potential oscillations and bistable persistent spiking that could underlie the encoding and retrieval of episodic trajectories. A model presented here shows how intrinsic dynamical properties of neurons could mediate the encoding of episodic memories as complex spatiotemporal trajectories. The dynamics of neurons allow encoding and retrieval of unique episodic trajectories in multiple continuous dimensions including temporal intervals, personal location, the spatial coordinates and sensory features of perceived objects and generated actions, and associations between these elements. The model also addresses how cellular dynamics could underlie unit firing data suggesting mechanisms for coding continuous dimensions of space, time, sensation and action.
We provide a decidable hierarchical classification of first-order recurrent neural networks made up of McCulloch and Pitts cells. This classification is achieved by proving an equivalence result between such neural networks and deterministic Buchi automata, and then translating the Wadge classification theory from the abstract machine to the neural network context. The obtained hierarchy of neural networks is proved to have width 2 and height omega + 1, and a decidability procedure of this hierarchy is provided. Notably, this classification is shown to be intimately related to the attractive properties of the considered networks.
The question as to the role that correlated activity plays in the coding of information in the brain continues to be one of the most important in neuroscience. One approach to understanding this role is to formally model the ensemble responses as multivariate probability distributions. We have previously introduced alternatives to linear assumptions of multivariate Gaussian dependence for spike timing in neural ensembles using the probabilistic copula approach. In probability theory the copula &quot;couples&quot; marginal distributions to form flexible multivariate distribution functions for characterizing ensemble behavior. The parametric copula can be factored out of the joint probability density, and as such is independent and isolated from the marginal densities. This greatly simplifies the analysis, and allows a direct examination of the shape of the dependence independent of the marginals. The shape of the copula function goes beyond describing the dependence with a single summarizing statistic. In this review, we illustrate the construction of the copula, and how it contributes to the analysis of information conveyed by populations of neurons.
Spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP), a synaptic modification depending on a relative timing of presynaptic and postsynaptic spikes, has fascinated researchers in the fields of neurophysiology and computational neuroscience, because it is not only conceptually simple or biologically reasonable but is also versatile in neural network simulations. The STDP rule may be valid only under specific conditions, however. We propose herein a method that could find more natural and potent rules of synaptic plasticity.
It has been suggested that brain inflammation is important in aggravation of brain damage and/or that inflammation causes neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, systemic inflammation has also emerged as a risk factor for PD. In the present study, we evaluated how systemic inflammation induced by intravenous (iv) lipopolysaccharides (LPS) injection affected brain inflammation and neuronal damage in the rat. Interestingly, almost all brain inflammatory responses, including morphological activation of microglia, neutrophil infiltration, and mRNA/protein expression of inflammatory mediators, appeared within 4-8 h, and subsided within 1-3 days, in the substantia nigra (SN), where dopaminergic neurons are located. More importantly, however, dopaminergic neuronal loss was not detectable for up to 8 d after iv LPS injection. Together, these results indicate that acute induction of systemic inflammation causes brain inflammation, but this is not sufficiently toxic to induce neuronal injury.
The acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are proton-gated cation channels activated when extracellular pH declines. In rodents, the Accn2 gene encodes transcript variants ASIC1a and ASIC1b, which differ in the first third of the protein and display distinct channel properties. In humans, ACCN2 transcript variant 2 (hVariant 2) is homologous to mouse ASIC1a. In this article, we study two other human ACCN2 transcript variants. Human ACCN2 transcript variant 1 (hVariant 1) is not present in rodents and contains an additional 46 amino acids directly preceding the proposed channel gate. We report that hVariant 1 does not produce proton-gated currents under normal conditions when expressed in heterologous systems. We also describe a third human ACCN2 transcript variant (hVariant 3) that is similar to rodent ASIC1b. hVariant 3 is more abundantly expressed in dorsal root ganglion compared with brain and shows basic channel properties analogous to rodent ASIC1b. Yet, proton-gated currents from hVariant 3 are significantly more permeable to calcium than either hVariant 2 or rodent ASIC1b, which shows negligible calcium permeability. hVariant 3 also displays a small acid-dependent sustained current. Such a sustained current is particularly intriguing as ASIC1b is thought to play a role in sensory transduction in rodents. In human DRG neurons, hVariant 3 could induce sustained calcium influx in response to acidic pH and make a major contribution to acid-dependent sensations, such as pain.
Given the modulatory role of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the immune system, we investigated the effect of NPY on the production of NO and IL-1 in microglia. Upon LPS stimulation, NPY treatment inhibited NO production as well as the expression of inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS). Pharmacological studies with a selective Y(1) receptor agonist and selective antagonists for Y(1), Y(2), and Y(5) receptors demonstrated that inhibition of NO production and iNOS expression was mediated exclusively through Y(1) receptor activation. Microglial cells stimulated with LPS and ATP responded with a massive release of IL-1, as measured by ELISA. NPY inhibited this effect, suggesting that it can strongly impair the release of IL-1. Furthermore, we observed that IL-1 stimulation induced NO production and that the use of a selective IL-1 receptor antagonist prevented NO production upon LPS stimulation. Moreover, NPY acting through Y(1) receptor inhibited LPS-stimulated release of IL-1, inhibiting NO synthesis. IL-1 activation of NF-B was inhibited by NPY treatment, as observed by confocal microscopy and Western blotting analysis of nuclear translocation of NF-B p65 subunit, leading to the decrease of NO synthesis. Our results showed that upon LPS challenge, microglial cells release IL-1, promoting the production of NO through a NF-B-dependent pathway. Also, NPY was able to strongly inhibit NO synthesis through Y(1) receptor activation, which prevents IL-1 release and thus inhibits nuclear translocation of NF-B. The role of NPY in key inflammatory events may contribute to unravel novel gateways to modulate inflammation associated with brain pathology.
Tonic inhibition in the brain is mediated largely by specialized populations of extrasynaptic receptors, -aminobutyric acid receptors (GABA(A)Rs). In the dentate gyrus region of the hippocampus, tonic inhibition is mediated primarily by GABA(A)R subtypes assembled from 42/3 with or without the  subunit. Although the gating of these receptors is subject to dynamic modulation by agents such as anesthetics, barbiturates, and neurosteroids, the cellular mechanisms neurons use to regulate their accumulation on the neuronal plasma membrane remain to be determined. Using immunoprecipitation coupled with metabolic labeling, we demonstrate that the 4 subunit is phosphorylated at Ser(443) by protein kinase C (PKC) in expression systems and hippocampal slices. In addition, the 3 subunit is phosphorylated on serine residues 408/409 by PKC activity, whereas the  subunit did not appear to be a PKC substrate. We further demonstrate that the PKC-dependent increase of the cell surface expression of 4 subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs is dependent on Ser(443). Mechanistically, phosphorylation of Ser(443) acts to increase the stability of the 4 subunit within the endoplasmic reticulum, thereby increasing the rate of receptor insertion into the plasma membrane. Finally, we show that phosphorylation of Ser(443) increases the activity of 4 subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs by preventing current run-down. These results suggest that PKC-dependent phosphorylation of the 4 subunit plays a significant role in enhancing the cell surface stability and activity of GABA(A)R subtypes that mediate tonic inhibition.
How does attention alter neural responses? Decades of electrophysiological measurements in non-human primates as well as human EEG and fMRI studies have shown that spatial attention modulates firing rates across the visual cortex, but the computations that drive this process are still unclear. Further, while it is well known that attention affects perception, we have only a limited understanding of the link between attentionally driven changes in neural firing rates and subject performance. Here we used a novel human neuroimaging method to measure the effect of spatial attention on neural responses in V1, hMT+, hV4, and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS). Attention altered signals in different ways across the visual cortex: areas V1, hMT+, and IPS exhibited primarily response gain changes while hV4 showed contrast gain modulation. Signals in V1, hMT+, and IPS correlated with contrast detection performance suggesting that behavior can be predicted by population-level signals as early as striate cortex.
We compared thresholds for discriminating spatial frequency for children aged 5, 7, and 9 years, and adults at two baseline spatial frequencies (1 and 3 cpd). In Experiment 1, the minimum change from baseline necessary to detect a change in spatial frequency from either baseline decreased with age from 34% in 5-year-olds to 11% in 7-year-olds, 8% in 9-year-olds, and 6% in adults. The data were best fit by an exponential function reflecting the rapid improvement in thresholds between 5 and 7 years of age and more gradual improvement thereafter (r(2) = 0.50, p &lt; 0.0001). In Experiment 2, 5-year-olds' thresholds were higher than those of adults, even when memory demands were eliminated by presenting the two spatial frequencies side by side for an unlimited time. The pattern of development for sensitivity to spatial frequency (this study) resembles those for the development of sensitivity to orientation (T. L. Lewis, S. E. Chong, &amp; D. Maurer, 2009) and contrast (D. Ellemberg, T. L. Lewis, C. H. Lui, &amp; D. Maurer, 1999). The similar patterns are consistent with theories of common underlying mechanisms in primary visual cortex (A. Vincent &amp; D. Regan, 1995; W. Zhu, M. Shelley, &amp; R. Shapley, 2008) and suggest that those mechanisms continue to develop throughout childhood.
To understand the computations of our visual system, it is important to understand also the natural environment it evolved to interpret. Unfortunately, existing models of the visual environment are either unrealistic or too complex for mathematical description. Here we describe a naturalistic image model and present a mathematical solution for the statistical relationships between the image features and model variables. The world described by this model is composed of independent, opaque, textured objects, which occlude each other. This simple structure allows us to calculate the joint probability distribution of image values sampled at multiple arbitrarily located points, without approximation. This result can be converted into probabilistic relationships between observable image features as well as between the unobservable properties that caused these features, including object boundaries and relative depth. We show that the image model is sufficient to explain a wide range of natural scene properties. Finally, we discuss the implications of this description of natural scenes for the study of vision.
The use of transgenic mice in which subtypes of neurons are labeled with a fluorescent protein has greatly facilitated modern neuroscience research. GAD65-GFP mice, which have GABAergic interneurons labeled with GFP, are widely used in many research laboratories, although the properties of the labeled cells have not been studied in detail. Here we investigate these cells in the hippocampal area CA1 and show that they constitute 20% of interneurons in this area. The majority of them expresses either reelin (702%) or vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP; 152%), while expression of parvalbumin and somatostatin is virtually absent. This strongly suggests they originate from the caudal, and not the medial, ganglionic eminence. GFP-labeled interneurons can be subdivided according to the (partially overlapping) expression of neuropeptide Y (423%), cholecystokinin (253%), calbindin (202%) or calretinin (202%). Most of these subtypes (with the exception of calretinin-expressing interneurons) target the dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells. GFP-labeled interneurons mostly show delayed onset of firing around threshold, and regular firing with moderate frequency adaptation at more depolarized potentials.


Parkinson's disease (PD) has been associated with exposure to a variety of environmental agents, including pesticides, heavy metals, and organic pollutants; and inflammatory processes appear to constitute a common mechanistic link among these insults. Indeed, toxin exposure has been repeatedly demonstrated to induce the release of oxidative and inflammatory factors from immunocompetent microglia, leading to damage and death of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons. In particular, proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor- and interferon-, which are produced locally within the brain by microglia, have been implicated in the loss of DA neurons in toxin-based models of PD; and mounting evidence suggests a contributory role of the inflammatory enzyme, cyclooxygenase-2. Likewise, immune-activating bacterial and viral agents were reported to have neurodegenerative effects themselves and to augment the deleterious impact of chemical toxins upon DA neurons. The present paper will focus upon the evidence linking microglia and their inflammatory processes to the death of DA neurons following toxin exposure. Particular attention will be devoted to the possibility that environmental toxins can activate microglia, resulting in these cells adopting a &quot;sensitized&quot; state that favors the production of proinflammatory cytokines and damaging oxidative radicals.
The small insect brain is often described as an input/output system that executes reflex-like behaviors. It can also initiate neural activity and behaviors intrinsically, seen as spontaneous behaviors, different arousal states and sleep. However, less is known about how intrinsic activity in neural circuits affects sensory information processing in the insect brain and variability in behavior. Here, by simultaneously monitoring Drosophila's behavioral choices and brain activity in a flight simulator system, we identify intrinsic activity that is associated with the act of selecting between visual stimuli. We recorded neural output (multiunit action potentials and local field potentials) in the left and right optic lobes of a tethered flying Drosophila, while its attempts to follow visual motion (yaw torque) were measured by a torque meter. We show that when facing competing motion stimuli on its left and right, Drosophila typically generate large torque responses that flip from side to side. The delayed onset (0.1-1 s) and spontaneous switch-like dynamics of these responses, and the fact that the flies sometimes oppose the stimuli by flying straight, make this behavior different from the classic steering reflexes. Drosophila, thus, seem to choose one stimulus at a time and attempt to rotate toward its direction. With this behavior, the neural output of the optic lobes alternates; being augmented on the side chosen for body rotation and suppressed on the opposite side, even though the visual input to the fly eyes stays the same. Thus, the flow of information from the fly eyes is gated intrinsically. Such modulation can be noise-induced or intentional; with one possibility being that the fly brain highlights chosen information while ignoring the irrelevant, similar to what we know to occur in higher animals.
Drosophila melanogaster larvae are model systems for studies of development, synaptic transmission, sensory physiology, locomotion, drug discovery, and learning and memory. A detailed behavioral understanding of larvae can advance all these fields of neuroscience. Automated tracking can expand fine-grained behavioral analysis, yet its full potential remains to be implemented for the larvae. All published methods are unable to track the larvae near high contrast objects, including the petri-dish edges encountered in many behavioral paradigms. To alleviate these issues, we enhanced the larval contrast to obtain complete tracks. Our method employed a dual approach of optical-contrast boosting and post-hoc image processing for contrast enhancement. We reared larvae on black food media to enhance their optical contrast through darkening of their digestive tracts. For image processing we performed Frame Averaging followed by Subtraction then Thresholding (FAST). This algorithm can remove all static objects from the movie, including petri-dish edges prior to processing by the image-tracking module. This dual approach for contrast enhancement also succeeded in overcoming fluctuations in illumination caused by the alternating current power source. Our tracking method yields complete tracks, including at the edges of the behavioral arena and is computationally fast, hence suitable for high-throughput fine-grained behavioral measurements.


Recent data demonstrates that stem cells can exist in two morphologically, molecularly and functionally distinct pluripotent states; a nave LIF-dependent pluripotent state which is represented by murine embryonic stem cells (mESCs) and an FGF-dependent primed pluripotent state represented by murine and rat epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs). We find that derivation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) under EpiSC culture conditions yields FGF-dependent iPSCs from hereon called FGF-iPSCs) which, unexpectedly, display nave ES-like/ICM properties. FGF-iPSCs display X-chromosome activation, multi-lineage differentiation, teratoma competence and chimera contribution in vivo. Our findings suggest that in 129 and Bl6 mouse strains, iPSCs can dominantly adopt a naive pluripotent state regardless of culture growth factor conditions. Characterization of the key molecular signalling pathways revealed FGF-iPSCs to depend on the Activin/Nodal and FGF pathways, while signalling through the JAK-STAT pathway is not required for FGF-iPS cell maintenance. Our findings suggest that in 129 and Bl6 mouse strains, iPSCs can dominantly adopt a naive pluripotent state regardless of culture growth factor conditions.
Frontal-subcortical cognitive and limbic feedback loops modulate higher cognitive functioning. The final step in these feedback loops is the thalamo-cortical projection through the anterior limb of the internal capsule (AL-IC). Using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), we evaluated abnormalities in the AL-IC fiber tract in schizophrenia. Participants comprised 16 chronic schizophrenia patients and 19 male, normal controls, who were group matched for handedness, age, and parental socioeconomic status, and underwent DTI on a 1.5 Tesla GE system. We measured the diffusion indices, fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), radial diffusivity (RD), and axial diffusivity (AD), and manually segmented, based on FA maps, AL-IC volume, normalized for intracranial contents (ICC). The results showed a significant reduction in the ICC-corrected volume of the AL-IC in schizophrenia, but did not show diffusion measure group differences in the AL-IC in FA, MD, RD or AD. In addition, in the schizophrenia patients, AL-IC FA correlated positively with performance on measures of spatial and verbal declarative/episodic memory, and right AL-IC ICC-corrected volume correlated positively with more perseverative responses on the Wisconsin Card Sort Test (WCST). We found a reduction in AL-IC ICC-corrected volume in schizophrenia, without FA, MD, RD or AD group differences, implicating the presence of a structural abnormality in schizophrenia in this subcortical white matter region which contains important cognitive, and limbic feedback pathways that modulate prefrontal cortical function. Despite not demonstrating a group difference in FA, we found that AL-IC FA was a good predictor of spatial and verbal declarative/episodic memory performance in schizophrenia.
Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in serotonin synthesis. We investigated possible relationships between five TPH1 gene polymorphisms and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the major serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), the major dopamine metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA), and the major norepinephrine metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in healthy volunteers (n=132). The G-allele of the TPH1 rs4537731 (A-6526G) polymorphism was associated with 5-HIAA and HVA, but not MHPG concentrations. None of the other four TPH1 polymorphisms (rs211105, rs1800532, rs1799913 and rs7933505) were significantly associated with any of the monoamine metabolite concentrations. Two (rs4537731G/rs211105T/rs1800532C/rs1799913C/rs7933505G and rs4537731A/rs211105T/rs1800532C/rs1799913C/rs7933505G) of five common TPH1 five-allele haplotypes were associated with 5-HIAA and HVA concentrations in opposite directions. None of the common haplotypes was associated with MHPG concentrations in the CSF. The results suggest that TPH1 gene variation participates in the regulation of serotonin and dopamine turnover rates in the central nervous system of healthy human subjects.
Contents related to threat and associated cognitive processes are proposed to be the central characteristic of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) according to 'threat-relatedness hypothesis'. However, evidence for attention bias toward emotionally salient stimuli using the emotional Stroop test is equivocal. This discrepancy could be due to methodological issues, mainly differences in the lexical characters of words. Fifty Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition (DSM-IV) OCD patients (23 washers and 27 checkers) and 50 age-, handedness- and sex-matched healthy controls were examined with an optimized version of the emotional Stroop test (i.e., with lexically matched words) and color-Stroop test. Twenty-four patients were clinically symptomatic and 26 were remitted. OCD patients had significantly higher attention bias only for negative OCD stimuli as calculated by negatively valenced OCD interference score but not for neutral or non-OCD emotional stimuli. Symptomatic patients had significantly higher bias, but not the remitted patients. There were no significant correlations between other illness-related variables (age at onset, illness duration, and medication dose) and Stroop test performance. Study findings suggest the presence of selective emotional bias for OCD relevant stimuli in these patients and this bias is potentially related to symptomatic status. These observations are in tune with the threat-relatedness hypothesis.
We and others have previously shown that reactive microglia express the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and class II antigens in the hippocampus of patients suffering from epilepsy. Although the MHC glycoproteins serve as restriction elements for T lymphocytes, there is little information available regarding T lymphocytes in hippocampal sclerosis. In the present study, we investigated T lymphocyte infiltration in human hippocampi in four cases of epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis, as well as in four control cases without neurological disease. No CD8- or CD4-positive T lymphocytes were seen in hippocampi from the control cases. In contrast, CD8- and CD4-positive T lymphocytes had infiltrated into the hippocampi of patients with hippocampal sclerosis. In addition, expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 was diffusely upregulated in the hippocampi with hippocampal sclerosis. These results indicate that T lymphocyte infiltration is involved in the pathology of hippocampal sclerosis.
Anatomically &quot;early&quot; visual areas including striate cortex (V1) are known to play a role in the resolution of binocular rivalry. However, the time course of such activity and its relationship with subjective perception are unclear. The present study used an intermittent stimulation design to measure event-related potentials (ERPs) associated with perception during binocular rivalry and during physical alternations of the same stimuli. When gratings of high or low spatial frequencies were presented in physical alternation, the amplitude of the earliest cortical ERP component (the C1, at 60-100 ms) was larger for high spatial frequencies. When the same two stimuli competed during rivalry, however, C1 amplitudes were equivalent for perceptions of high versus low spatial frequency. These findings suggest that rivalry is not resolved before or during the initial cortical response at 60-100 ms. At longer latencies (approximately 130-160 ms), however, occipital ERPs with similar topographies and estimated sources as the C1 differed according to perception in both the rivalry and physical alternation conditions. These results suggest that during rivalry, neural activity coupled with the dominant percept first emerges in anatomically early visual cortex, but at delayed latencies.
Audiovisual processing was studied in a functional magnetic resonance imaging study using the McGurk effect. Perceptual responses and the brain activity patterns were measured as a function of audiovisual delay. In several cortical and subcortical brain areas, BOLD responses correlated negatively with the perception of the McGurk effect. No brain areas with positively correlated BOLD responses were found. This was unexpected as most studies of audiovisual integration use additivity and super additivity - that is, increased BOLD responses after audiovisual stimulation compared with auditory-only and visual-only stimulation - as criteria for audiovisual integration. We argue that brain areas that show decreased BOLD responses that correlate with an integrated audiovisual percept should not be neglected from consideration as possibly involved in audiovisual integration.
Tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK) and its receptor Fibroblast growth factor-inducible 14 (Fn14) are expressed in neurons. Here we demonstrate that TWEAK induces a dose-dependent increase in neuronal death and that this effect is independent of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) and mediated by nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B) pathway activation. Incubation with TWEAK induces apoptotic cell death in wild-type (Wt) but not in Fn14 deficient (Fn14(-/-)) neurons. Intracerebral injection of TWEAK induces accumulation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymers (PAR) in Wt but not in Fn14(-/-) mice. Exposure to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) conditions increases TWEAK and Fn14 mRNA expression in Wt neurons, and decreases cell survival in Wt but not in Fn14(-/-) or TWEAK deficient (TWEAK(-/-)) neurons. Experimental middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) increases the expression of TWEAK and Fn14 mRNA and active caspase-3, and the cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) with accumulation of PAR in the ischemic area in Wt but not Fn14(-/-) mice. Together, these results suggest a model where in response to hypoxia/ischemia the interaction between TWEAK and Fn14 in neurons induces PARP-1 activation with accumulation of PAR polymers and cell death via NF-B pathway activation. This is a novel pathway for hypoxia/ischemia-induced TWEAK-mediated cell death and a potential therapeutic target for ischemic stroke.
Altered pain responding in depression is a widely recognized but poorly understood phenomenon. The present study investigated nociceptive responding to acute (thermal and mechanical) and persistent (inflammatory) noxious stimuli in two animal models of depression, the olfactory bulbectomized (OB) and the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat. In addition, this study examined if altered nociceptive behaviour was associated with changes in monoamine levels in discrete brain regions. OB rats exhibited mechanical allodynia (von Frey test) but not thermal hyperalgesia (hot plate and tail-flick tests) when compared to sham-operated counterparts. Formalin-induced nociceptive behaviour was both heightened and prolonged in OB versus sham-operated controls. An inverse correlation was observed between 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) concentration in the hippocampus and amygdaloid cortex and nociceptive behaviour in the formalin test. In comparison, WKY rats exhibited thermal hyperalgesia in the hot plate test, while behaviour in the tail-flick and von Frey tests did not differ between WKY and Sprague-Dawley rats. Furthermore, WKY rats exhibited enhanced formalin-evoked nociceptive responding up to 40 min post administration, an effect inversely correlated with serotonin and 5-HIAA levels in the hypothalamus. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that altered pain responding observed in clinically depressed patients can be modelled pre-clinically, providing a means of investigating the neurochemical basis of, and possible treatments for, this phenomenon.
Febrile seizures occurring during childhood have been shown to interfere with the development of cognitive functions. However, an alteration of the developing sensory systems might also result from febrile seizures. In order to test this hypothesis, seizures were induced by hyperthermia in Long Evans rats on postnatal day 10. Extracellular single neuron recordings were carried out from postnatal days 15 to 30 and at adulthood. The response of neurons in the primary visual cortex to drifting sinusoidal gratings was recorded in anaesthetized rats. As soon as postnatal day 15, the neurons of rats having experienced a hyperthermic seizure showed significantly lower optimal spatial frequencies (SF), broader directional and temporal bandwidths, as well as higher contrast thresholds than did neurons recorded in normal rats. At adulthood, significantly broader spatial bandwidths and lower optimal temporal frequencies (TF) were obtained from neurons of rats subjected to hyperthermia. These results suggest that febrile seizures during infancy could affect the development of spatio-temporal receptive field properties of neurons in primary visual cortex. Such alterations of a sensory system might contribute to the cognitive deficits associated with early-onset febrile seizures.
Inheritance of the APOE4 allele is a well established genetic risk factor linked to the development of late onset Alzheimer's disease. As the major lipid transport protein in the central nervous system, apolipoprotein (apo) E plays an important role in the assembly and maintenance of synaptic connections. Our previous work showed that 7 month old human apoE4 targeted replacement (TR) mice displayed significant synaptic deficits in the principal neurons of the lateral amygdala, a region that is critical for memory formation and also one of the primary regions affected in Alzheimer's disease, compared to apoE3 TR mice. In the current study, we determined how age and varying APOE genotype affect synaptic integrity of amygdala neurons by comparing electrophysiological and morphometric properties in C57BL6, apoE knockout, and human apoE3, E4 and E2/4 TR mice at 1 month and 7 months. The apoE4 TR mice exhibited the lowest level of excitatory synaptic activity and dendritic arbor compared to other cohorts at both ages, and became progressively worse by 7 months. In contrast, the apoE3 TR mice exhibited the highest synaptic activity and dendritic arbor of all cohorts at both ages. C57BL6 mice displayed virtually identical synaptic activity to apoE3 TR mice at 1 month; however this activity decreased by 7 months. ApoE knockout mice exhibited a similar synaptic activity profile with apoE4 TR mice at 7 months. Consistent with previous reports that APOE2 confers protection, the apoE4-dependent deficits in excitatory activity were significantly attenuated in apoE2/4 TR mice at both ages. These findings demonstrate that expression of human apoE4 contributes to functional deficits in the amygdala very early in development and may be responsible for altering neuronal circuitry that eventually leads to cognitive and affective disorders later in life.
The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) has been demonstrated to play an important role in the affective dimension of pain. Although much evidence has pointed to an increased excitatory synaptic transmission in the ACC in some of the pathological pain state, the inhibitory synaptic transmission in this process has not been well studied. Also, the overall changes of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission have not been comparatively studied in an animal model displaying both long-term persistent nociception and hyperalgesia. Here we used patch clamp recordings in ACC brain slices to observe the changes in synaptic transmission in a pain model induced by peripheral bee venom injection. First, we show that, comparing with those of naive and saline controlled rats, there was a significant increase in spike frequency in ACC neurons harvested from rats after 2 h period of peripheral persistent painful stimuli. Second, it is further shown that the frequency, amplitude and half-width were all increased in spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents (sEPSCs), while the amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents (sIPSCs) was decreased. The recordings of miniature post-synaptic currents demonstrate an increase in frequency of miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents (mEPSCs) and a decrease in both frequency and amplitude of miniature inhibitory post-synaptic currents (mIPSCs) in rats' ACC slice of bee venom treatment. Taken together, the present results demonstrate an unparalleled change between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the ACC under a state of peripheral persistent nociception that might be underlying mechanisms of the excessive excitability of the ACC neurons. We propose that the painful stimuli when lasts or becomes persistent may cause a disruption of the balance between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission that can contribute to the functional change in the ACC.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes massive brain damage. However, the secondary injury and temporal sequence of events with multiple mechanisms after the insult has not been elucidated. Here, we examined the occurrence of apoptosis and a causal relationship between inflammation and apoptosis in the TBI brain. Following a lateral moderate fluid percussion injury model of TBI in adult rats, microarray analyses detected apparent changes in the expression levels of apoptosis-related genes which revealed time-dependent expression patterns for 23 genes in the lateral cortex. The upregulated 23 genes included inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin 1 (IL-1) , IL-1, and tumor necrotic factor (TNF) which immediately increased at 3 h following the injury. Time-dependent gene expression profile analyses showed that apoptosis was subsequently induced following inflammation. These results taken together suggested changes in expression of apoptosis-related genes may be associated with inflammatory response. Accompanying this surge of cell death genes after TBI was a neurostructural pathologic hallmark of apoptosis characterized by leakage of cytochrome c into cytoplasm, DNA fragmentation and apoptotic cells in the lateral cortex of the impacted hemisphere. Caspase-3 positive cells in the TBI brain were initially sporadic after 3 h, but these apoptotic cells subsequently increased and populated the cerebral cortex at 6 and 12 h, and gradually reached a plateau by 48 h. Interestingly, the expression profile of CD68 macrophage labeled cells closely resembled that of apoptotic cells after TBI, including the role of inflammatory signaling pathway in the progression of apoptotic cell death. These results taken together suggest that TBI induced upregulation of apoptosis-related genes, concomitant with the detection of apoptotic brain pathology during the 3-48 h post-injury period, which may be likely mediated by inflammation. Therapies designed at abrogating apoptosis and/or inflammation may prove effective when initiated at this subacute TBI phase.
A few studies have reported the existence of depletion of synaptic vesicles, and changes in neurotransmitter release and in the content of exocytotic proteins in the hippocampus of diabetic rats. Recently, we found that diabetes alters the levels of synaptic proteins in hippocampal nerve terminals. Hyperglycemia is considered the main trigger of diabetic complications, although other factors, such as low insulin levels, also contribute to diabetes-induced changes. Thus, the aim of this work was to evaluate whether long-term elevated glucose per se, which mimics prolonged hyperglycemia, induces significant changes in the content and localization of synaptic proteins involved in exocytosis in hippocampal neurons. Hippocampal cell cultures were cultured for 14 days and were exposed to high glucose (50 mM) or mannitol (osmotic control; 25 mM plus 25 mM glucose), for 7 days. Cell viability and nuclear morphology were evaluated by MTT and Hoechst assays, respectively. The protein levels of vesicle-associated membrane protein-2 (VAMP-2), synaptosomal-associated protein-25 (SNAP-25), syntaxin-1, synapsin-1, synaptophysin, synaptotagmin-1, rabphilin 3a, and also of vesicular glutamate and GABA transporters (VGluT-1 and VGAT), were evaluated by immunoblotting, and its localization was analyzed by immunocytochemistry. The majority of the proteins were not affected. However, elevated glucose decreased the content of SNAP-25 and increased the content of synaptotagmin-1 and VGluT-1. Moreover, there was an accumulation of syntaxin-1, synaptotagmin-1 and VGluT-1 in the cell body of some hippocampal neurons exposed to high glucose. No changes were detected in mannitol-treated cells. In conclusion, elevated glucose per se did not induce significant changes in the content of the majority of the synaptic proteins studied in hippocampal cultures, with the exception of SNAP-25, synaptotagmin-1 and VGluT-1. However, there was an accumulation of some proteins in cell bodies of hippocampal neurons exposed to elevated glucose, suggesting that the trafficking of these proteins to the synapse may be compromised. Moreover, these results also suggest that other factors, in addition to hyperglycemia, certainly contribute to alterations detected in synaptic proteins in diabetic animals.
Although the hippocampus is a brain region involved in short-term memory, the molecular mechanisms underlying memory formation are not completely understood. Here we show that sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) plays a pivotal role in the formation of memory. Addition of S1P to rat hippocampal slices increased the rate of AMPA receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) recorded from the CA3 region of the hippocampus. In addition long-term potentiation (LTP) observed in the CA3 region was potently inhibited by a sphingosine kinase (SphK) inhibitor and this inhibition was fully reversed by S1P. LTP was impaired in hippocampal slices specifically in the CA3 region obtained from SphK1-knockout mice, which correlates well with the poor performance of these animals in the Morris water maze test. These results strongly suggest that SphK/S1P receptor signaling plays an important role in excitatory synaptic transmission in the CA3 region of hippocampus and has profound effects on hippocampal function such as spatial learning.
Rodent models are frequently used in aging research to investigate biochemical age effects and aid in the development of therapies for pathological and non-pathological age-related degenerative processes. In order to validate the use of animal models in aging research and pave the way for longitudinal intervention-based animal studies, the consistency of cerebral aging processes across species needs to be evaluated. The dopaminergic system seems particularly susceptible to the aging process, and one of the most consistent findings in human brain aging research is a decline in striatal D2-like receptor (D2R) availability, quantifiable by positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. In this study, we aimed to assess whether similar age effects can be discerned in rat brains, using in vivo molecular imaging with the radioactive compound [(11)C]-raclopride. We observed a robust decline in striatal [(11)C]-raclopride uptake in the aged rats in comparison to the young control group, comprising a 41% decrement in striatal binding potential. In accordance with human studies, these results indicate that substantial reductions in D2R availability can be measured in the aged striatal complex. Our findings suggest that rat and human brains exhibit similar biochemical alterations with age in the striatal dopaminergic system, providing support for the pertinence of rodent models in aging research.
In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the expression of calcium binding proteins (CaBPs), parvalbumin (PV), calretinin (CR) and calbindin (CB), is dependent upon sensory experience as emphasized in visual deprivation and deafferentation studies. The expression of CaBPs was studied in interneurons within the primary and extrastriate visual cortices (V1, V2M, V2L) and auditory cortex (AC) of adult hamsters enucleated at birth. The effects of enucleation were mainly confined to area V1 where there was a significant volume reduction (26%) and changes in the laminar distribution of PV and CB immunoreactive (IR) cells. The density of PV-IR cell bodies was significantly increased in layer IV and reduced in layer V. Moreover, the density of CB-IR neurons was inferior in layer V of V1 in enucleated hamsters (EH) compared to controls. These results suggest that some features of the laminar distribution of specific CaBPs, in primary sensory cortices, are dependent upon or modulated by sensory input.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is primarily involved in the processing of acoustic stimuli, being in a position to send auditory information to motor centers that participate in behaviors such as prey catching and predators' avoidance. The role of the central nucleus of the IC (CIC) on fear and anxiety has been suggested on the basis that rats are able to engage in tasks to decrease the aversiveness of CIC stimulation, increased Fos immunolabeling during diverse aversive states and increased CIC auditory evoked potentials (AEP) induced by conditioned fear stimuli. Additionally, it was shown that brainstem AEP, represented by wave V, for which the main generator is the IC, is increased during experimentally-induced anxiety. Rats segregated according to their low or high emotional reactivity have been used as an important tool in the study of fear and anxiety. The IC contains a high density of GABA receptors. Since the efficacy of an anxiolytic compound is a function of the animal's anxiety level, it is possible that GABA-benzodiazepine (Bzp) agents affect LA and HA animals differently. In this study we investigated the GABA-Bzp influence on the modulation of AEP in rats with low- (LA) or high-anxiety (HA) levels, as assessed by the elevated plus-maze test (EPM). GABA-Bzp modulation on the unconditioned AEP response was analyzed by using intra-CIC injections (0.2 l) of the GABA-Bzp agonists muscimol (121 ng) and diazepam (30 g), or the GABA inhibitors bicuculline (10 ng) and semicarbazide (7 g). In a second experiment, we evaluate the effects of contextual aversive conditioning on AEP using foot-shocks as unconditioned stimuli. On the unconditioned fear paradigm GABA inhibition increased AEP in LA rats and decreases this measure in HA counterparts. Muscimol was effective in reducing AEP in both LA and HA rats. Contextual fear stimuli increased the magnitude of AEP. In spite of no effect obtained with diazepam in LA rats the drug inhibited AEP in HA animals. The specificity of the regulatory mechanisms mediated by GABA-Bzp for the ascending neurocircuits responsible for the acquisition of aversive information in LA and HA animals shed light on the processing of sensory information underlying the generation of defensive reactions.
Corticospinal projections from the forelimb area of the primary motor cortex to the C2-Th2 spinal cord segments were quantitatively analyzed using the high resolution anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), in rhesus monkeys (n=5). The majority of descending axons were located in the contralateral dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) (85-98%), but a minor portion was observed in the ipsilateral DLF (1-12%) and ventromedial funiculus (VMF) (1-7%). In the gray matter, axon collaterals and terminal buttons were found mainly in the contralateral laminae VI-VII and IX and ipsilateral lamina VIII. The majority of projections to the contralateral gray matter originated from the contralateral DLF, but a minority originated from the ipsilateral DLF. Axons from the ipsilateral DLF were not found to project collaterals on the ipsilateral side, but directly entered the contralateral side after crossing the midline. On the other hand, projections to the ipsilateral lamina VIII were from the ipsilateral VMF, and commissural axons were from the contralateral DLF. Terminal buttons in the motoneuron pool in the contralateral lamina IX were found mainly at the C7-Th1 spinal cord segments, whereas the projections to the contralateral laminae VI-VII, ipsilateral lamina VIII, and commissural axons were also found in more rostral segments, abundantly at the C4-C8 segments, 1-3 segments rostral to the motoneuronal projections. These results suggest that cortical control of contralateral forelimb motoneurons accompanies regulation of interneuronal systems in the contralateral laminae VI-VII and the ipsilateral lamina VIII located a few segments rostral to the motoneurons.
Environmental enrichment (EE) introduced during abstinence from cocaine self-administration is protective in reducing cue-elicited incentive motivation for cocaine in rats. This study examined neural activation associated with this protective effect of EE using Fos protein expression as a marker. Rats were trained to press a lever reinforced by cocaine (0.75 mg/kg/0.1 mL infusion) and light and tone cues across 15 consecutive days during which they were all housed in isolated conditions (IC). Rats were then assigned to either remain in IC, or to live in pair-housed conditions (PC) or EE for 30 days of forced abstinence from cocaine. Subsequently, cocaine-seeking behavior (lever presses without cocaine reinforcement) elicited by response-contingent cue presentations was assessed for 90 min, after which the rats' brains were immediately harvested for Fos protein immunohistochemistry. EE attenuated, whereas IC enhanced, cue-elicited cocaine-seeking behavior relative to PC. Also, within the prelimbic and orbitofrontal cortices and basolateral amygdala, IC enhanced, whereas EE reduced, Fos expression relative to PC. Furthermore, EE attenuated Fos expression in the infralimbic and anterior cingulate cortices, the nucleus accumbens (core and shell), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and ventral tegmental area, evident as a reduction relative to both PC and IC. In contrast, IC enhanced Fos expression in the dorsal caudate putamen, substantia nigra, and central amygdala, evident as an increase relative to both PC and EE. These results suggest that EE blunts neural activation throughout the mesocorticolimbic circuitry involved in cue-elicited incentive motivation for cocaine, whereas IC enhances activation primarily within the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway. These findings have important implications for understanding and treating drug-conditioned craving in humans.
Adenosine A(1) receptors are inhibitory G-protein coupled receptors that presynaptically regulate neurotransmitter release, but their role in self-regulating adenosine release is not known. In this study, we examined the modulation of evoked adenosine and dopamine efflux by A(1) receptors and studied whether D(1) receptors mediate these effects. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes was used for the simultaneous detection of adenosine and dopamine efflux on a subsecond time scale. Short electrical stimulation trains delivered to the substantia nigra (60 pulses, 60 Hz) were used to evoke dopamine and adenosine release in the striatum. The adenosine A(1) receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 1 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased both adenosine and dopamine efflux, although the effect for adenosine occurred more quickly than for dopamine. The A(1) antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX, 6 mg/kg, i.p.) increased stimulated adenosine release. The effects of CPA were partially attenuated by the dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist SCH-23390. Thus, A(1) and D(1) receptors have a synergistic interaction that modulates both stimulated adenosine and dopamine. The decrease in adenosine is not a downstream effect of lowered dopamine release, as decreasing dopamine synthesis and release with -methyl-p-tyrosine or increasing release with haloperidol had no effect on adenosine release. This study shows that A(1) receptors have some characteristics of an autoreceptor, including self-regulation of adenosine release.
There is increasing evidence that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have therapeutic potential in various animal models of neuronal injury. However, very few studies have examined the effect of medium-chain fatty acids (MCFAs) on neuronal injury. So in the present study we synthesized various MCFAs and their derivatives, and found that exposure to trans-2-decenoic acid ethyl ester (DAEE) markedly activated extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) in cultured cortical neurons. Therefore, we examined the effect of DAEE treatment on a rat model of spinal cord injury. DAEE (150 g/kg body weight) administered after hemisection of the spinal cord resulted in improved functional recovery, decreased the lesion size, increased the activation of ERK1/2, and enhanced the expression of bcl-2 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA in the injury site of the spinal cord. Furthermore, it also increased neuronal survival after spinal cord injury. These results indicate that the possibility that DAEE will become a promising tool for reducing the secondary damage observed following primary physical injury to the spinal cord.
Evidence suggests that neurogenesis occurs in the adult mammalian brain, and that various stimuli, for example, ischemia/hypoxia, enhance the generation of neural progenitor cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and their migration into the olfactory bulb. In a mouse stroke model, focal ischemia results in activation of neural progenitor cells followed by their migration into the ischemic lesion. The present study assessed the in vivo effects of cilostazol, a type 3 phosphodiesterase inhibitor known to activate the cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) signaling, on neurogenesis in the ipsilateral SVZ and peri-infarct area in a mouse model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Mice were divided into sham operated (n=12), vehicle- (n=18) and cilostazol-treated (n=18) groups. Sections stained for 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and several neuronal and a glial markers were analyzed at post-ischemia days 1, 3 and 7. Cilostazol reduced brain ischemic volume (P&lt;0.05) and induced earlier recovery of neurologic deficit (P&lt;0.05). Cilostazol significantly increased the density of BrdU-positive newly-formed cells in the SVZ compared with the vehicle group without ischemia. Increased density of doublecortin (DCX)-positive and BrdU/DCX-double positive neural progenitor cells was noted in the ipsilateral SVZ and peri-infarct area at 3 and 7 days after focal ischemia compared with the vehicle group (P&lt;0.05). Cilostazol increased DCX-positive phosphorylated CREB (pCREB)-expressing neural progenitor cells, and increased brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-expressing astrocytes in the ipsilateral SVZ and peri-infarct area. The results indicated that cilostazol enhanced neural progenitor cell generation in both ipsilateral SVZ and peri-infarct area through CREB-mediated signaling pathway after focal ischemia.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent factor for the ventral mesencephalic dopamine neurons. However, studies on the Gdnf gene deleted (Gdnf(-/-)) mouse have been limited to fetal tissue since these mice die prematurely. To evaluate long-term effects of Gdnf gene deletion, this study involves co-grafts of ventral mesencephalon (VM) and lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) derived from different Gdnf genotypes. The VM/LGE co-grafts were evaluated at 3, 6, and 12 months for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) -positive cell survival and nerve fiber formation in the LGE co-transplant, visualized by dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein relative molecular mass 32,000 (DARPP-32) -immunoreactivity. Cell counts revealed no difference in TH-positive neurons between Gdnf genotypes at 3 months postgrafting. At 6 months, a significant reduction in cell number was observed in the Gdnf(-/-) grafts. In fact, in the majority of the Gdnf(-/-) VM/LGE transplant had degenerated. At 12 months, a reduction in cell number was seen in both Gdnf(-/-) and Gdnf(+/-) compared to wild type transplants. In the Gdnf(-/-) grafts, TH-negative inclusion-like structures were present in the cytoplasm of the TH-positive neurons at 3 months. These structures were also found in the Gdnf(+/-) transplants at 12 months, but not in Gdnf(+/+) controls at any time point. In Gdnf(+/+) grafts, TH-positive nerve fiber innervation of the striatal co-grafts was dense and patchy and overlapped with clusters of DARPP-32-positive neurons. This overlap did mismatch in the Gdnf(+/-) grafts, while the TH-positive innervation was sparse in the Gdnf(-/-) transplants and the DARPP-32-positive neurons were widespread distributed. In conclusion, GDNF is essential for long-term maintenance of both the VM TH-positive neurons and for the striatal tissue, and appears crucial for generation of a proper organization of the striatum.
Here we sought to determine whether ghrelin's central effects on food intake can be interrupted by nicotine acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) blockade. Ghrelin regulates mesolimbic dopamine neurons projecting from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens, partly via cholinergic VTA afferents originating in the laterodorsal tegmental area (LDTg). Given that these cholinergic projections to the VTA have been implicated in natural as well as drug-induced reinforcement, we sought to investigate the role of cholinergic signaling in ghrelin-induced food intake as well as fasting-induced food intake, for which endogenous ghrelin has been implicated. We found that i.p. treatment with the non-selective centrally active nAChR antagonist, mecamylamine decreased fasting-induced food intake in both mice and rats. Moreover, central administration of mecamylamine decreased fasting-induced food intake in rats. I.c.v. ghrelin-induced food intake was suppressed by mecamylamine i.p. but not by hexamethonium i.p., a peripheral nAChR antagonist. Furthermore, mecamylamine i.p. blocked food intake following ghrelin injection into the VTA. Expression of the ghrelin receptor, the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1A, was found to co-localize with choline acetyltransferase, a marker of cholinergic neurons, in the LDTg. Finally, mecamylamine treatment i.p. decreased the ability of palatable food to condition a place preference. These data suggest that ghrelin-induced food intake is partly mediated via nAChRs and that nicotinic blockade decreases the rewarding properties of food.
Thyroid hormone deficiency during a critical period of development severely affects cognitive functions, resulting in profound mental retardation. Despite the importance of the disorder, the cellular mechanisms underlying these deficits remain largely unexplored. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the absence of thyroid hormone on the development of the intrinsic properties of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells. These cells are known to exhibit different firing patterns during development, being classified as either regular-spiking or burst-spiking cells. Patch-clamp experiments showed that hypothyroid rats presented a larger number of regular-spiking cells at early postnatal age (P9-11). This difference in firing-pattern distribution disappeared at the pre-weanling age (P17-19), when almost every cell displayed bursting behavior in both control and hypothyroid rats. However, when studied in detail, weanling hypothyroid rats presented a smaller number of spikes per burst than did control animals. One of the major factors behind bursting behavior is sustained depolarization following an action potential. In this study, we show that action potential afterdepolarizations of hypothyroid animals registered shorter half-durations than did controls, a fact which could explain the smaller number of action potentials per burst. Additionally, the afterdepolarizations observed on both hypothyroid and control neurons were highly sensitive to low concentrations of nickel, suggesting that a low-threshold Ca(2+) current is key in the generation of spike afterdepolarizations and in the control of the bursting pattern of firing of these neurons. In agreement with this, experiments performed on dissociated hippocampal neurons have shown that this current is significantly depressed in hypothyroid animals. Therefore, we conclude that an alteration of the low-threshold calcium current is the basic factor explaining the differences observed in the firing behavior of hypothyroid animals.
Animals are known to recognize a specific odorant informing conspecific health condition, which plays a significant role in regulating their social communication. Here, we assess neural mechanisms regulating innate approach/avoidance response toward such conspecific odor cues in rats. Odor scent from healthy conspecifics induced approach behavior, while those from sick conspecifics produced avoidance response in odor-recipient male rats. Analysis of mRNA expression in several brain sites of odor recipient rats illustrated that induction of c-fos mRNA expression was found in the olfactory bulb (OB), the medial amygdala (MeA), the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BnST), and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), when exposed to conspecific odor. Moreover, in the MeA, expression of oxytocin (OT) receptor mRNA was increased when rats were exposed to healthy conspecific odor, while induction of arginine vasopressin (AVP) receptor 1a and 1b mRNA were found only when exposed to sick conspecific odor. Bilateral infusion of OT receptor (OTR) antagonist, (d(CH2)5(1),Tyr(Me)(2),Thr(4),Orn(8),des-Gly-NH2(9))-Vasotocin, into the MeA blocked approach behavior to healthy odor, while those of AVP receptor antagonists, V1a selective: (Phenylac(1),D-Tyr(Me)(2),Arg(6.8),Lys-NH2(9))-Vasopressin, and type 1 receptor antagonist: (Deamino-Pen(1), Try(Me)(2), Arg(8))-Vasopressin, into the MeA inhibited avoidance response to sick odor. These findings provide evidence for an essential role of OT and AVP receptors, especially type 1a, in the MeA in regulating approach/avoidance behaviors, respectively, in social odorant communication.
The zebra finch song system is sexually dimorphic--only males sing, and the morphology of forebrain regions controlling the learning and production of this song is greatly enhanced in males compared to females. Masculinization appears to involve effects of steroid hormones as well as other factors, perhaps including the expression of sex chromosome genes (males: ZZ, females: ZW). The present study investigated three proteins--two encoded by Z-linked genes, ribosomal proteins L17 and L37 (RPL17 and RPL37), including their co-localization with androgen receptor (AR), from post-hatching day 25 to adulthood. Extensive co-expression of AR with the ribosomal proteins was detected in the three song nuclei investigated (HVC, robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA), and Area X) across these ages. In general, more cells expressed each of these proteins in males compared to females, and the sex differences increased as animals matured. Specific patterns differed across regions and between RPL17 and RPL37, which suggest potential roles of one or both of these proteins in the incorporation and/or differentiation of song system cells.
The vulnerability of brain neuronal cell subpopulations to neurologic insults varies greatly. Among cells that survive a pathological insult, for example ischemia or brain trauma, some may undergo morphological and/or biochemical changes that may compromise brain function. The present study is a follow-up of our previous studies that investigated the effect of glutamate-induced excitotoxicity on the GABA synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65/67)'s expression in surviving DIV 11 cortical GABAergic neurons in vitro [Monnerie and Le Roux, (2007) Exp Neurol 205:367-382, (2008) Exp Neurol 213:145-153]. An N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated decrease in GAD expression was found following glutamate exposure. Here we examined which NMDAR subtype(s) mediated the glutamate-induced change in GAD protein levels. Western blotting techniques on cortical neuron cultures showed that glutamate's effect on GAD proteins was not altered by NR2B-containing diheteromeric (NR1/NR2B) receptor blockade. By contrast, blockade of triheteromeric (NR1/NR2A/NR2B) receptors fully protected against a decrease in GAD protein levels following glutamate exposure. When receptor location on the postsynaptic membrane was examined, extrasynaptic NMDAR stimulation was observed to be sufficient to decrease GAD protein levels similar to that observed after glutamate bath application. Blocking diheteromeric receptors prevented glutamate's effect on GAD proteins after extrasynaptic NMDAR stimulation. Finally, NR2B subunit examination with site-specific antibodies demonstrated a glutamate-induced, calpain-mediated alteration in NR2B expression. These results suggest that glutamate-induced excitotoxic NMDAR stimulation in cultured GABAergic cortical neurons depends upon subunit composition and receptor location (synaptic vs. extrasynaptic) on the neuronal membrane. Biochemical alterations in surviving cortical GABAergic neurons in various disease states may contribute to the altered balance between excitation and inhibition that is often observed after injury.
Obesity is associated with increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease and several types of cancers. The hypothalamus is a region of the brain critical in the regulation of body weight. One of the critical and best studied hypothalamic circuits is comprised of the melanocortinergic orexigenic agouti-related protein (AgRP) and anorexigenic -melanocyte stimulating hormone (-MSH) neurons. These neurons project axons to the same hypothalamic target neurons and balance each other's activity leading to body weight regulation. We previously showed that the brain proteoglycan syndecan-3 regulates feeding behavior and body weight, and syndecan-3 null (SDC-3(-/-)) mice are lean and obesity resistant. Here we show that the melanocortin agonist Melanotan II (MTII) potently suppresses food intake and activates the hypothalamic paraventricular nuclei (PVN) in SDC-3(-/-) mice based on c-fos immunoreactivity. Interestingly, we determined that the AgRP neuropeptide is reduced in the PVN of SDC-3(-/-) mice compared to wild type mice. In contrast, neuropeptide Y, coexpressed in the AgRP neuron, is not differentially expressed nor is the counteracting neuropeptide -MSH. These findings are unprecedented and indicate that AgRP protein localization can be selectively regulated within the hypothalamus resulting in altered neuropeptide response and tone.
Chronic increases or decreases in neuronal activity initiates compensatory changes in synaptic strength that emerge slowly over a 12-24 h period, but the mechanisms underlying this slow homeostatic response remain poorly understood. Here, we show an essential role for the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) in slow homeostatic plasticity induced by chronic changes in network activity. In cultured hippocampal neurons, UPS inhibitors drive a slow increase in miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (mEPSC) amplitude and synaptic AMPA receptor subunit GluA1 and GluA2 expression that both mirrors and occludes the changes produced by chronic suppression of network activity with tetrodotoxin (TTX). These non-additive effects were similarly observed under conditions of chronic hyperactivation of network activity with bicuculline--the increase in mEPSC amplitude and GluA1/2 expression with chronic UPS inhibition persists during network hyperactivation, which scales synaptic strength and AMPA receptor expression in the opposite direction when UPS activity is intact. Finally, cell-autonomous UPS inhibition (via expression of the ubiquitin chain elongation mutant, UbK48R) enhances mEPSC amplitude in a manner that mimics and occludes changes in network activity, demonstrating a postsynaptic role for the UPS in slow homeostatic plasticity. Taken together, our results suggest that the UPS acts as an integration point for translating sustained changes in network activity into appropriate incremental compensatory changes at synapses.
Hyperalgesia in animal injury models is linked to activation of descending raphespinal modulatory circuits originating in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). A neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonist microinjected into the RVM before or after inflammation produced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) resulted in an attenuation of thermal hyperalgesia. A transient (acute) or a continuous infusion of Substance P (SP) microinjected into the RVM of non-inflamed animals led to similar pain hypersensitivity. Intrathecal pretreatment or post-treatment of a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist (Y-25130 or ondansetron) blocked the SP-induced hyperalgesia. The SP-induced hyperalgesia was both GABA(A) and NMDA receptor-dependent after pre- and post-treatment with selective antagonists at the spinal level. A microinjection of SP into the RVM also led to increased NMDA NR1 receptor subunit phosphorylation in spinal cord tissue. The GABA(A) receptor-mediated hyperalgesia involved a shift in the anionic gradient in dorsal horn nociceptive neurons and an increase in phosphorylated NKCC1 protein (isoform of the Na-K-Cl cotransporter). Following a low dose of SP infused into the RVM, intrathecal muscimol (GABA(A) agonist) increased SP-induced thermal hyperalgesia, phosphorylated NKCC1 protein expression, and NMDA NR1 subunit phosphorylation in the spinal cord. The thermal hyperalgesia was blocked by intrathecal gabazine, the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, and MK-801, the NMDA receptor channel blocker. These findings indicate that NK-1 receptors in the RVM are involved in SP-induced thermal hyperalgesia, this hyperalgesia is 5-HT3-receptor dependent at the spinal level, and involves the functional interaction of spinal GABA(A) and NMDA receptors.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by abnormal reciprocal social interactions, communication deficits, and repetitive behaviors with restricted interests. BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) is an inbred mouse strain that displays robust behavioral phenotypes with analogies to all three of the diagnostic symptoms of autism, including low social interactions, reduced vocalizations in social settings, and high levels of repetitive self-grooming. Autism-relevant phenotypes in BTBR offer translational tools to discover neurochemical mechanisms underlying unusual mouse behaviors relevant to symptoms of autism. Because repetitive self-grooming in mice may be a displacement behavior elevated by stressors, we investigated neuroendocrine markers of stress and behavioral reactivity to stressors in BTBR mice, as compared to C57BL/6J (B6), a standard inbred strain with high sociability. Radioimmunoassays replicated previous findings that circulating corticosterone is higher in BTBR than in B6. Higher basal glucocorticoid receptor mRNA and higher oxytocin peptide levels were detected in the brains of BTBR as compared to B6. No significant differences were detected in corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) peptide or CRF mRNA. In response to behavioral stressors, BTBR and B6 were generally similar on behavioral tasks including stress-induced hyperthermia, elevated plus-maze, light  dark exploration, tail flick, acoustic startle and prepulse inhibition. BTBR displayed less reactivity than B6 to a noxious thermal stimulus in the hot plate, and less immobility than B6 in both the forced swim and tail suspension depression-related tasks. BTBR, therefore, exhibited lower depression-like scores than B6 on two standard tests sensitive to antidepressants, did not differ from B6 on two well-validated anxiety-like behaviors, and did not exhibit unusual stress reactivity to sensory stimuli. Our findings support the interpretation that autism-relevant social deficits, vocalizations, and repetitive behaviors are not the result of abnormal stress reactivity in the BTBR mouse model of autism.
Physical exercise is a widely accepted behavioral strategy to enhance overall health, including mental function. However, there is controversial evidence showing brain mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage and decreased neurotrophin levels after high-intensity exercise, which presumably worsens cognitive performance. Here we investigated learning and memory performance dependent on different brain regions, glutathione antioxidant system, and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), serine/threonine protein kinase (AKT), cAMP response element binding (CREB) and dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP)-32 signaling in adult Swiss mice submitted to 9 weeks of high-intensity exercise. The exercise did not alter the animals' performance in the reference and working memory versions of the water maze task. On the other hand, we observed a significant impairment in the procedural memory (an implicit memory that depends on basal ganglia) accompanied by a reduced antioxidant capacity and ERK1/2 and CREB signaling in this region. In addition, we found increased striatal DARPP-32-Thr-75 phosphorylation in trained mice. These findings indicate an increased vulnerability of the striatum to high-intensity exercise associated with the disruption of implicit memory in mice and accompanied by alteration of signaling proteins involved in the plasticity of this brain structure.
The presynaptic, hemicholinium-3 sensitive, high-affinity choline transporter (CHT) supplies choline for acetylcholine (ACh) synthesis. In mice, a homozygous deletion of CHT (CHT-/-) leads to premature cessation of spontaneous or evoked neuromuscular signaling and is associated with perinatal cyanosis and lethality within 1 h. Heterozygous (CHT+/-) mice exhibit diminished brain ACh levels and demonstrate an inability to sustain vigorous motor activity. We sought to explore the contribution of CHT gene dosage to motor function in greater detail using transgenic mice where CHT is expressed under control of the motor neuron promoter Hb9 (Hb9:CHT). On a CHT-/- background, the Hb9:CHT transgene conferred mice with the ability to move and breath for a postnatal period of 24 h, thus increasing survival. Conversely, Hb9:CHT expression on a wild-type background (CHT+/+;Hb9:CHT) leads to an increased capacity for treadmill running compared to wild-type littermates. Analysis of the stimulated compound muscle action potential (CMAP) in these animals under basal conditions established that CHT+/+;Hb9:CHT mice display an unexpected, bidirectional change, producing either elevated or reduced CMAP amplitude, relative to CHT+/+ animals. To examine whether these two groups arise from underlying changes in synaptic properties, we used high-frequency stimulation of motor axons to assess CMAP recovery kinetics. Although CHT+/+; Hb9:CHT mice in the two groups display an equivalent, time-dependent reduction in CMAP amplitude, animals with a higher basal CMAP amplitude demonstrate a significantly enhanced rate of recovery. To explain our findings, we propose a model whereby CHT support for neuromuscular signaling involves contributions to ACh synthesis as well as cholinergic synaptic vesicle availability.
Serotonin is widely implicated in aversive processing. It is not clear, however, whether serotonin neurons encode information about aversive stimuli. We found that, in the dorsal raphe of anesthetized rats, most neurochemically-identified clocklike serotonin neurons were phasically excited by noxious footshocks, whereas most bursting serotonin neurons were inhibited. These results suggest that discrete groups of serotonin neurons differentially code for aversive stimuli.
The transient receptor potential A1 (TRPA1) channel contributes to nociceptive signaling in certain pain models. It has been suggested that Ca(2+), which activates and modulates TRPA1, could play a critical regulatory role in this process. Since TRPA1 and transient receptor potential V1 (TRPV1) channels are co-expressed and interact in neurons, we investigated whether activation and modulation of TRPA1 by Ca(2+) is regulated by TRPV1. Cell-attached recordings showed that TRPA1 is activated by extracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](e)) in concentration-response fashion. This activation, especially by 2 mM [Ca(2+)](e) was substantially suppressed by co-expression with TRPV1. Inside-out recordings demonstrated that intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i))-triggered activation of TRPA1 was attenuated by the presence of TRPV1 only at 2 mM [Ca(2+)](e), but not in Ca(2+)-free conditions. Further, depletion of internal Ca(2+) stores by thapsigargin generated TRPA1-mediated currents, which is affected by TRPV1 in both Chinese hamster ovary cells and sensory neurons. Since mustard oil current (I(MO)) is modulated by [Ca(2+)](e), we next examined whether alterations in the Ca(2+)-permeability of TRPV1 by mutating Y671 effect I(MO) properties. First it was demonstrated that the mutations in TRPV1 did not affect association of the TRPA1 and TRPV1 channels. However, these TRPV1 mutations, particularly Y671K, altered the following characteristics of TRPA1: magnitude of I(MO) in presence and absence of [Ca(2+)](e); the influence of [Ca(2+)](e) on the voltage-dependency of I(MO), and open probability of single-channel I(MO). In summary, activation of TRPA1 by [Ca(2+)](e) and [Ca(2+)](i) is controlled by the TRPV1 channel, and characteristics of I(MO) depend on Ca(2+) permeability of the TRPV1 channel.
Many cellular processes including neuronal activity are sensitive to changes in intracellular and/or extracellular pH-both of which are regulated by acid-base transporter activity. HCO(3)(-)-dependent transporters are particularly potent regulators of intracellular pH in neurons and astrocytes, and also contribute to the composition of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The molecular physiology of HCO(3)(-) transporters has advanced considerably over the past 14 years as investigators have cloned and characterized the function and localization of many Na-Coupled Bicarbonate Transporters of the solute carrier 4 (Slc4) family (NCBTs). In this review, we provide an updated overview of the function and localization of NCBTs in the nervous system. Multiple NCBTs are expressed in neurons and astrocytes in various brain regions, as well as in epithelial cells of the choroid plexus. Characteristics of human patients with SLC4 gene mutations/deletions and results from recent studies on mice with Slc4 gene disruptions highlight the functional importance of NCBTs in neuronal activity, somatosensory function, and CSF production. Furthermore, energy-deficient states (e.g., hypoxia and ischemia) lead to altered expression and activity of NCBTs. Thus, recent studies expand our understanding of the role of NCBTs in regulating the pH and ionic composition of the nervous system that can modulate neuronal activity.
The lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) is a critical structure involved in fear conditioning. We recently showed that regulated exocytosis and endocytosis of postsynaptic A-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate subtype of glutamate receptors (AMPARs) are involved in the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype glutamate receptors (NMDARs) dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in coronal slices of the LA. However, the molecular mechanisms of this effect remain unclear. In the present study, we investigated the role of distinct NMDAR subtypes in the endocytosis of AMPARs during LTD expression at the synapses of the thalamic inputs to the LA neurons. Here we show that the NMDARs antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (D-APV) blocked the induction of LTD and thus prevented endocytosis of surface AMPARs, indicating that NMDAR activation enhanced the internalization of AMPARs in LTD expression. Furthermore, the selective blocking of GluN2B-containing NMDARs completely abolished the NMDAR-induced AMPAR endocytosis, whereas preferential inhibition of GluN2A-containing NMDARs did not block the NMDAR-induced AMPAR endocytosis during LTD expression. These results suggest that there exist a preferred NMDAR subtype for AMPAR internalization and activation of GluN2B-containing NMDARs represent the predominate pathway triggered during the early stages of this NMDAR-induced endocytosis of AMPARs during LTD in the thalamic inputs to the LA of juvenile rats.
Brain damage, such as ischemic stroke, enhances proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) in the subventricular zone (SVZ). To date, no reliable in vitro systems, which can be used to unravel the potential mechanisms underlying this lesion-induced effect, have been established. Here, we developed an ex vivo method to investigate how the proliferation of NSPCs changes over time after experimental stroke or excitotoxic striatal lesion in the adult rat brain by studying the effects of microglial cells derived from an injured brain on NSPCs. We isolated NSPCs from the SVZ of brains with lesions and analyzed their growth and differentiation when cultured as neurospheres. We found that NSPCs isolated from the brains 1-2 weeks following injury consistently generated more and larger neurospheres than those harvested from naive brains. We attributed these effects to the presence of microglial cells in NSPC cultures that originated from injured brains. We suggest that the effects are due to released factors because we observed increased proliferation of NSPCs isolated from non-injured brains when they were exposed to conditioned medium from cultures containing microglial cells derived from injured brains. Furthermore, we found that NSPCs derived from injured brains were more likely to differentiate into neurons and oligodendrocytes than astrocytes. Our ex vivo system reliably mimics what is observed in vivo following brain injury. It constitutes a powerful tool that could be used to identify factors that promote NSPC proliferation and differentiation in response to injury-induced activation of microglial cells, by using tools such as proteomics and gene array technology.
Mitochondrial dysfunctions generating from cerebral ischemia-reperfusion exert a potential threat on neuronal cell survival and hence, accelerate the aging process and age dependent neuropathology. Thirty min moderate cerebral ischemia induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAO) followed by 30 min reperfusion caused an increased diene production, depleted glutathione (GSH) content, reduced superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities and pyramidal neuronal loss in young (2 months old) and aged (20 months old) rat brain compared to sham operated controls. Cytidine 5' diphosphocholine (CDP-Choline) is a known neuroprotective drug. CDP-Choline after metabolism in the liver suffers hydrolysis and splits into cytidine and choline before entering systemic circulation and hardly circumvents blood brain barrier (BBB) as such. Previous reports show CDP-Choline liposomes significantly increased in vivo uptake compared to &quot;free drug&quot; administration in cerebral ischemia. To enhance the therapeutic concentration build up in brain we sought to formulate mannosylated liposomal CDP-Choline (MLCDP) utilizing the mannose receptors. We tested the therapeutic supremacy of MLCDP over liposomal CDP-Choline (LCDP) in global moderate cerebral ischemia reperfusion induced neuronal damage. CDP-Choline in MLCDP delivery system was found potent to exert substantial protection against global moderate cerebral ischemia reperfusion induced mitochondrial damage in aged rat brain. Membrane lipid peroxidation, GSSG/GSH ratio and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in cerebral tissue were found to be higher in aged, compared to young rat. Further decline of those parameters was observed in aged rat brain by the induction of global moderate cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. MLCDP treatment when compared to free or LCDP treatment prevented global moderate cerebral ischemia-reperfusion induced mitochondrial damage as evident ultra structurally and release of cytochrome c (cyt c) from mitochondria into cytosol and protected mitochondria to restore its normal structure and functions.
Adenylyl cyclase (AC) signaling pathways have been identified in a model hair cell preparation from the trout saccule, for which the hair cell is the only intact cell type. The use of degenerate primers targeting cDNA sequence conserved across AC isoforms, and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), coupled with cloning of amplification products, indicated expression of AC9, AC7 and AC5/6, with cloning efficiencies of 11:5:2. AC9 and AC5/6 are inhibited by Ca(2+), the former in conjunction with calcineurin, and message for calcineurin has also been identified in the trout saccular hair cell layer. AC7 is independent of Ca(2+). Given the lack of detection of calcium/calmodulin-activated isoforms previously suggested to mediate AC activation in the absence of Gs in mammalian cochlear hair cells, the issue of hair-cell Gs mRNA expression was re-examined in the teleost vestibular hair cell model. Two full-length coding sequences were obtained for Gs/olf in the vestibular type II-like hair cells of the trout saccule. Two messages for Gi have also been detected in the hair cell layer, one with homology to Gi1 and the second with homology to Gi3 of higher vertebrates. Both Gs/olf protein and Gi1/Gi3 protein were immunolocalized to stereocilia and to the base of the hair cell, the latter consistent with sites of efferent input. Although a signaling event coupling to Gs/olf and Gi1/Gi3 in the stereocilia is currently unknown, signaling with Gs/olf, Gi3, and AC5/6 at the base of the hair cell would be consistent with transduction pathways activated by dopaminergic efferent input. mRNA for dopamine receptors D1A4 and five forms of dopamine D2 were found to be expressed in the teleost saccular hair cell layer, representing information on vestibular hair cell expression not directly available for higher vertebrates. Dopamine D1A receptor would couple to Golf and activation of AC5/6. Co-expression with dopamine D2 receptor, which itself couples to Gi3 and AC5/6, will down-modulate levels of cAMP, thus fine-tuning and gradating the hair-cell response to dopamine D1A. As predicted by the trout saccular hair cell model, evidence has been obtained for the first time that hair cells of mammalian otolithic vestibular end organs (rat/mouse saccule/utricle) express dopamine D1A and D2L receptors, and each receptor co-localizes with AC5/6, with a marked presence of all three proteins in subcuticular regions of type I vestibular hair cells. A putative efferent, presynaptic source of dopamine was identified in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive nerve fibers which passed from underlying connective tissue to the sensory epithelia, ending on type I and type II vestibular hair cells and on afferent calyces.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by neuronal loss and the presence of both neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques in the brain. These plaques arise from the deposition of beta-amyloid (A) peptides (38-43 amino acids), which are generated from enzymatic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by - and -secretases. In the present work, we cloned the principal APP isoforms as well as some enzymes that have been implicated in their amyloidogenic and non-amyloidogenic processing in dogs. Additionally, the main proteases implicated in the degradation of A were also studied. We also investigated the level of expression of these APP isoforms and enzymes in different brain regions and in peripheral tissues. Our data demonstrate that these canine proteins are highly homologous to their human counterparts. In addition, the expression pattern of these proteins in dogs is consistent with previous data reported in human beings. Thus, dogs may be a natural model to study the biology of AD and could also serve as an animal model for A-targeted drugs against this devastating disease.
The Ts65Dn (TS) mouse is the most widely used model of Down syndrome (DS). This mouse shares many phenotypic characteristics with the human condition including cognitive and neuromorphological alterations. In this study the effects of physical exercise on hippocampal neurogenesis and behavior in TS mice were assessed. 10-12 month-old male TS and control (CO) mice were submitted to voluntary physical exercise for 7 weeks and the effects of this protocol on hippocampal morphology, neurogenesis and apoptosis were evaluated. Physical exercise improved performance in the acquisition sessions of the Morris water maze in TS but not in CO mice. Conversely, it did not have any effect on anxiety or depressive behavior in TS mice but it did reduce the cognitive components of anxiety in CO mice. TS mice presented a reduced dentate gyrus (DG) volume, subgranular zone area and number of granule neurons. Hippocampal neurogenesis was reduced in TS mice as shown by the reduced number of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) positive cells. Voluntary physical exercise did not rescue these alterations in TS mice but it did increase the number of doublecortin (DCX)-and phospho histone 3 (PH3)-positive neurons in CO mice. It is concluded that physical exercise produced a modest anxiolytic effect in CO mice and that this was accompanied by an increased number of immature cells in the hippocampal DG. On the other hand, voluntary physical exercise exerted a positive effect on TS mice learning of the platform position in the Morris water maze that seems to be mediated by a neurogenesis-independent mechanism.
The visual perception of self-motion is mainly provided by optic flow. Eyes usually scan the environment during locomotion, and the gaze is not always directed to the focus of expansion (FOE) of the flow field. Such eye movements change the retinal FOE position with respect to the fovea. Here, we assess if optic flow selective neurons in parietal area PEc are modulated by eye position. We recorded single neuron activity during radial optic flow stimulation in two monkeys, varying eye and retinal FOE positions. We found that the majority of PEc neurons are modulated by the FOE retinotopic position with different tuning for expansion and contraction. Although many neurons did not show any gaze field without visual stimulation, the eye position modulated optic flow responses in about half of the cells. These novel results suggest that PEc neurons integrate both visual and eye position signals, and allow us to hypothesize their role in guiding locomotion as a part of a cortical network involved in FOE representation during self-motion. Visual and eye position interaction in this area could be seen as a contribution to the building of the invariant space representation necessary to motor planning.
A means for measuring levels of soluble huntingtin proteins in clinical samples is essential for assessing the biological effects of potential mutant huntingtin (mtHtt) modifying treatments being developed for Huntington's disease (HD). We have optimized a previously described cell-based Homogeneous Time Resolved Fluorescence method that can measure soluble mtHtt and its ratio to the total Htt (tHtt) in blood buffy coats [1]. The results of the optimization and assay qualification indicate the assay to be specific for mtHtt in HD compared to Control subjects, highly sensitive, and technically and biologically reproducible. We therefore generated a Good Laboratory Practice Standard Operating Procedure which we validated, using 30 HD and 8 control buffy coat samples in which significant differences in mtHtt levels were found. We intend to deploy the assay to evaluate sample sets from observational and therapeutic studies enrolling HD subjects to further validate soluble mtHtt measurement by HTRF as a biomarker for HD and to explore its potential uses.
Relapse prevention represents the primary therapeutic challenge in the treatment of drug addiction. As with humans, drug-seeking behaviour can be precipitated in laboratory animals by exposure to a small dose of the drug (prime). The aim of this study was to identify brain nuclei implicated in the cocaine-primed reinstatement of a conditioned place preference (CPP). Thus, a group of mice were conditioned to cocaine, had this place preference extinguished and were then tested for primed reinstatement of the original place preference. There was no correlation between the extent of drug-seeking upon reinstatement and the extent of behavioural sensitization, the extent of original CPP or the extinction profile of mice, suggesting a dissociation of these components of addictive behaviour with a drug-primed reinstatement. Expression of the protein product of the neuronal activity marker c-fos was assessed in a number of brain regions of mice that exhibited reinstatement (R mice) versus those which did not (NR mice). Reinstatement generally conferred greater Fos expression in cortical and limbic structures previously implicated in drug-seeking behaviour, though a number of regions not typically associated with drug-seeking were also activated. In addition, positive correlations were found between neural activation of a number of brain regions and reinstatement behaviour. The most significant result was the activation of the lateral habenula and its positive correlation with reinstatement behaviour. The findings of this study question the relationship between primed reinstatement of a previously extinguished place preference for cocaine and behavioural sensitization. They also implicate activation patterns of discrete brain nuclei as differentiators between reinstating and non-reinstating mice.


Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are a family of ligand-gated ion channels which are widely distributed in the human brain. Several lines of evidence suggest that two major subtypes (42 and 7) of nAChRs play an important role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Postmortem studies demonstrated alterations in the density of these subtypes of nAChRs in the brain of patients with AD. Currently, nAChRs are one of the most attractive therapeutic targets for AD. Therefore, several researchers have made an effort to develop novel radioligands that can be used to study quantitatively the distribution of these two subtypes in the human brain with positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). In this paper, we discuss the current topics on in vivo imaging of two subtypes of nAChRs in the brain of patients with AD.


The link between iron and Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been mainly investigated with a focus on the local accumulation of this metal in specific areas of the brain that are critical for AD. In the present study, we have instead looked at systemic variations of markers of iron metabolism. We measured serum levels of iron, ceruloplasmin, and transferrin and calculated the transferrin saturation and the ceruloplasmin to transferrin ratio (Cp/Tf). Cp/Tf and transferrin saturation increased in AD patients. Cp/Tf ratios also correlated positively with peroxide levels and negatively with serum iron concentrations. Elevated values of ceruloplasmin, peroxides, and Cp/Tf inversely correlated with MMSE scores. Isolated medial temporal lobe atrophy positively correlated with Cp/Tf and negatively with serum iron. All these findings indicate that the local iron accumulation found in brain areas critical for AD should be viewed in the frame of iron systemic alterations.
The concept of personality has recently begun to attract a great deal of interest in behavioural ecology. However, there is also a large and mature literature on personality within human psychology. These two bodies of work have developed independently and at present make rather little reference to one another. The current paper has two main objectives. First, we seek to acquaint behavioural ecologists with the principal ideas and issues found in the human personality psychology literature. Second, we explore how ideas from the behavioural ecology literature might help advance research in human personality psychology. We suggest strong potential for convergence between the two literatures in the near future. Common themes of this future unified science of personality include the conception of personality traits as reaction norms, a commitment to the importance of direct measurement of behaviour, investigation of both proximate and ultimate explanations for personality variation, and a concern with the impact of personality variation on survival and reproductive success.
A coping style (also termed behavioural syndrome or personality) is defined as a correlated set of individual behavioural and physiological characteristics that is consistent over time and across situations. This relatively stable trait is a fundamental and adaptively significant phenomenon in the biology of a broad range of species, i.e. it confers differential fitness consequences under divergent environmental conditions. Behavioural flexibility appears to be an important underlying attribute or feature of the coping style that might explain consistency across situations. Proactive coping is characterized by low flexibility expressed as rather rigid, routine-like behavioural tendencies and reduced impulse control (behavioural inhibition) in operant conditioning paradigms. This article summarizes some of the evidence that individual differentiation in behavioural flexibility emerges as a function of underlying variability in the activation of a brain circuitry that includes the prefrontal cortex and its key neurochemical signalling pathways (e.g. dopaminergic and serotonergic input). We argue that the multidimensional nature of animal personality and the terminology used for the various dimensions should reflect the differential pattern of activation of the underlying neuronal network and the behavioural control function of its components. Accordingly, unravelling the molecular mechanisms that give rise to individual differences in the coping style will be an important topic in biobehavioural neurosciences, ecology and evolutionary biology.
COG1410, a small, novel ApoE-mimetic peptide derived from the receptor binding region of apolipoprotein E (ApoE), has been classified as anti-inflammatory in nature and improves motor, sensorimotor, and cognitive dysfunction following cortical contusion injury (CCI). In order to further examine COG1410's preclinical efficacy on cognitive recovery, the present study evaluated COG1410 following moderate fluid percussion injury (FPI). Animals were prepared with a moderate, unilateral FPI over the hippocampus. Following FPI, animals received a regimen of five doses of COG1410 or vehicle at 2 and 4h (1.0mg/kg, i.v.) followed by additional doses administered 24, 48, and 72 h (1.0mg/kg, i.p.). Prior to injury, animals were trained for 4 days (4 trials/day) in the Morris water maze (MWM) and then tested for retrograde amnesia on post-FPI day 11 and then on a working memory task on day 18. Testing for motor dysfunction on the tapered balanced beam began on day 2 post-FPI. Administration of this regimen of COG1410 significantly improved retention of memory in the retrograde amnesia test compared to vehicle post-FPI. However, COG1410 did not significantly improve acquisition of working memory in the MWM. Motor dysfunction on the tapered beam post-FPI was improved in the COG1410-treated group compared to vehicle treatment. Cortical lesion analysis revealed that the COG1410-treated animals demonstrated significantly less tissue loss compared to vehicle-treated animals. The results of this study suggest that COG1410 significantly limited the behavioral dysfunction and tissue loss associated with FPI and demonstrated continued preclinical efficacy for TBI.
Among the best-replicated and most heritable endophenotypes of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are deficits in attention, inhibitory response control and larger intra-individual variability in response latencies. Here, we explored the presence of these heritable ADHD endophenotypes in two commonly used inbred mouse strains, C57BL/6J and DBA/2J, and investigated whether treatment with the stimulant amphetamine affected these phenotypes. Both in an operant Go/No-Go task and 5-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task, DBA/2J mice showed reduced inhibitory response control compared with C57BL/6J mice. Mean correct response latencies of DBA/2J mice were slower in both tasks. Analysis of the distribution of correct response latencies suggested similar processing speed, but DBA/2J mice displayed larger intra-individual variability. Amphetamine did not affect inhibition in the Go/No-Go task but increased omission errors. In contrast, in the 5-CSRT task, amphetamine did not affect omission errors but impaired inhibitory response control, specifically in C57BL/6J mice. The dopamine uptake inhibitor, GBR 12909, mimicked this effect and decreased accurate choice, specifically in C57BL/6J mice, indicating that dopamine modulates inhibitory response control and attention in the murine 5-CSRT task. Amphetamine did not affect response distributions in either task. Furthermore, we extended previous reports on differences in the brain dopamine system of DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice, by showing differential gene expression levels of three dopamine receptors (Drd1, Drd4 and Drd5) in the mPFC. In conclusion, genetic differences between DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice translate into multiple ADHD-related phenotypes, indicating that these strains are valuable resources to understand genetic mechanisms underlying ADHD-relevant phenotypes.
Many theories of language posit its recent evolution, perhaps contemporaneous with the evolution of Homo sapiens. The embodied language theory, however, in proposing that language includes gestures, provides an avenue for tracing language origins to phylogenetically earlier ancestral species. Here, evidence is presented that the structure of functional hand movements (e.g., reaching for food, climbing a ladder, or crawling), in rats and humans is similar. The structure of these functional hand movements is then compared to speech-related hand gestures in humans. The sequence of language-related gestures are also found to be characteristic of functional hand movements. It is suggested that these findings show that the arm and hand gestures that accompany human speech are derived from the same neural substrates that produce functional movements. Additionally, evidence is reviewed that supports the idea that speech-related gestures resemble the movements elicited by long-train stimulation of the primate motor cortex. Together, this evidence suggests that speech-related hand gestures have their evolutionary origins in functional hand movements of ancestral non-primate and primate species and may be constrained by the neural substrate for those movements. These findings are further discussed in relation to the idea that speech-related gestures reflect forelimb motor cortex contributions to embodied language.
Corticosterone (CORT) localized to the amygdala induces anxiety-like behavior coupled with increased behavioral responses to visceral and somatic stimuli. In the current study, we investigated the long-term consequences of briefly exposing the amygdala to elevated levels of CORT with the hypothesis that modulation of the amygdala with CORT results in persistent increases in anxiety-like behavior and viscerosomatic sensitivity.
We investigated the contribution of corticospinal tract (CST) plasticity to training-induced recovery and side effects following spinal cord injury (SCI). Rats were divided into three lesion groups: a unilateral lesion of the dorsal funiculus, the lateral funiculus or a lesion of the entire dorsolateral quadrant (DLQ). Following surgery, rats were distributed into a training group and an untrained group. Trained rats received rehabilitative training in skilled reaching 6 days a week, starting 4 days post-lesion. Following 6 weeks, all rats were tested in reaching (trained task) and crossing a horizontal ladder (untrained task). We found that trained rats with a lesion involving the dorsal column were significantly better in reaching compared to untrained animals. However, when crossing the horizontal ladder, trained rats made significantly more mistakes than untrained animals. Interestingly, rats with a lateral funiculus lesion did not show either effect. A subsequent ablation of the pyramidal tract (pyramidotomy) in rats with a DLQ-lesion significantly reduced but did not eliminate the reaching success. This spared function suggests that other descending systems contributed to the training-induced recovery. In addition, motor-evoked potentials (MEP) from cortical stimulation could still be evoked after pyramidotomy. Further, blocking synaptic transmission passing through the red nucleus using muscimol did not influence the occurrence of MEP's, suggesting that other descending pathways, like the reticulospinal tract, were involved in functional recovery. In summary, this study demonstrates that training-induced CST plasticity may contribute to recovery of motor function, but may also negatively affect untrained tasks as previously reported.
Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) is a potent hallucinogenic drug that strongly affects animal and human behavior. Although adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) are emerging as a promising neurobehavioral model, the effects of LSD on zebrafish have not been investigated previously. Several behavioral paradigms (the novel tank, observation cylinder, light-dark box, open field, T-maze, social preference and shoaling tests), as well as modern video-tracking tools and whole-body cortisol assay were used to characterize the effects of acute LSD in zebrafish. While lower doses (5-100 microg/L) did not affect zebrafish behavior, 250 microg/L LSD increased top dwelling and reduced freezing in the novel tank and observation cylinder tests, also affecting spatiotemporal patterns of activity (as assessed by 3D reconstruction of zebrafish traces and ethograms). LSD evoked mild thigmotaxis in the open field test, increased light behavior in the light-dark test, reduced the number of arm entries and freezing in the T-maze and social preference test, without affecting social preference. In contrast, LSD affected zebrafish shoaling (increasing the inter-fish distance in a group), and elevated whole-body cortisol levels. Overall, our findings show sensitivity of zebrafish to LSD action, and support the use of zebrafish models to study hallucinogenic drugs of abuse.
Chronic exposure to cocaine increases the activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a neural substrate for drugs of abuse. However, the functional significance of changes in ERK1/2 activity in this brain region is unknown. Using herpes simplex virus-mediated gene transfer to regulate ERK2 activity within the VTA in male rats, we show that overexpressing ERK2 increases preference for environments previously paired with low doses of cocaine and enhances cocaine-induced locomotion, whereas blocking ERK2 activity blocks cocaine-induced place conditioning and locomotor activity. These results demonstrate that ERK2-signaling within the VTA is a key modulator of functional responses to cocaine.
Zebrafish are increasingly being used in behavioral neuroscience, neuropsychopharmacology and neurotoxicology. Recently, behavioral screens used to model anxiety in rodents were adapted to this species, and novel models which tap on zebrafish behavioral ecology have emerged. However, model building is an arduous task in experimental psychopathology, and a continuous effort to assess the validity of these measurements is being chased among some researchers. To consider a model as valid, it must possess face, predictive and/or construct validity. In this article, we first review some notions of validity, arguing that, at its limit, face and predictive validity reduce to construct validity. Then we review some procedures which have been used to study anxiety, fear or related processes in zebrafish, using the validity framework. We conclude that, although the predictive validity of some of these models is increasingly being met, there is still a long way in reaching the desired level of construct validity. The refinement of models is an ongoing activity, and behavioral validation and parametric research ought to advance that objective.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic effects of the transplantation of bone-marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), genetically engineered to over-express brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or nerve growth factor (NGF) on motor deficits and neurodegeneration in YAC 128 transgenic mice. MSCs, harvested from mouse femurs, were genetically engineered to over-express BDNF and/or NGF and these cells, or the vehicle solution, were injected into the striata of four-month old YAC 128 transgenic and wild-type mice. Assessments of motor ability on the rotarod and the severity of clasping were made one day prior to transplantation and once monthly, thereafter, to determine the effects of the transplanted cells on motor function. The mice were sacrificed at 13-months of age for immunohistological examination. All YAC 128 mice receiving transplants had reduced clasping, relative to vehicle-treated YAC 128 mice, while YAC 128 mice that were transplanted with MSCs which were genetically engineered to over-express BDNF, had the longest latencies on the rotarod and the least amount of neuronal loss within the striatum of the YAC 128 mice. These results indicate that intrastriatal transplantation of MSCs that over-express BDNF may create an environment within the striatum that slows neurodegenerative processes and provides behavioral sparing in the YAC 128 mouse model of HD. Further research on the long-term safety and efficacy of this approach is needed before its potential clinical utility can be comprehensively assessed.
The expression of forms of synaptic plasticity, such as the phenomenon of long-term potentiation, requires the activity-dependent regulation of synaptic proteins and synapse composition. Here we show that ARMS (ankyrin repeat-rich membrane spanning protein)/Kidins220, a transmembrane scaffold molecule and BDNF TrkB substrate, is significantly reduced in hippocampal neurons after potassium chloride depolarization. The activity-dependent proteolysis of ARMS/Kidins220 was found to occur through calpain, a calcium-activated protease. Moreover, hippocampal long-term potentiation in ARMS/Kidins220(+/-) mice was enhanced, and inhibition of calpain in these mice reversed these effects. These results provide an explanation for a role for the ARMS/Kidins220 protein in synaptic plasticity events and suggest that the levels of ARMS/Kidins220 can be regulated by neuronal activity and calpain action to influence synaptic function.

The systemic regulation of stem cells ensures that they meet the needs of the organism during growth and in response to injury. A key point of regulationis the decision between quiescence and proliferation. During development, Drosophila neural stem cells (neuroblasts) transit through a period of quiescence separating distinct embryonic and postembryonic phases of proliferation. It is known that neuroblasts exit quiescence via a hitherto unknown pathway in response to a nutrition-dependent signal from the fat body. We have identified a population of glial cells that produce insulin/IGF-like peptides in response to nutrition, and we show that the insulin/IGF receptor pathway is necessary for neuroblasts to exit quiescence. The forced expression of insulin/IGF-like peptides in glia, or activation of PI3K/Akt signaling in neuroblasts, can drive neuroblast growth and proliferation in the absence of dietary protein and thus uncouple neuroblasts from systemic control.
The functional switch of glutamine/asparagine (Q/N)-rich prions and the neurotoxicity of polyQ-expanded proteins involve complex aggregation-prone structural transitions, commonly presumed to be forming  sheets. By analyzing sequences of interaction partners of these proteins, we discovered a recurrent presence of coiled-coil domains both in the partners and in segments that flank or overlap Q/N-rich and polyQ domains. Since coiled coils can mediate protein interactions and multimerization, we studied their possible involvement in Q/N-rich and polyQ aggregations. Using circular dichroism and chemical crosslinking, we found that Q/N-rich and polyQ peptides form -helical coiled coils invitro and assemble into multimers. Using structure-guided mutagenesis, we found that coiled-coil domains modulate invivo properties of two Q/N-rich prions and polyQ-expanded huntingtin. Mutations that disrupt coiled coils impair aggregation and activity, whereas mutations that enhance coiled-coil propensity promote aggregation. These findings support a coiled-coil model for the functional switch of Q/N-rich prions and for the pathogenesis of polyQ-expansion diseases.

Cancer and neurodegeneration are often thought of as disease mechanisms at opposite ends of a spectrum; one due to enhanced resistance to cell death and the other due to premature cell death. There is now accumulating evidence to link these two disparate processes. An increasing number of genetic studies add weight to epidemiological evidence suggesting that sufferers of a neurodegenerative disorder have a reduced incidence for most cancers, but an increased risk for other cancers. Many of the genes associated with either cancer and/or neurodegeneration play a central role in cell cycle control, DNA repair, and kinase signalling. However, the links between these two families of diseases remain to be proven. In this review, we discuss recent and sometimes as yet incomplete genetic discoveries that highlight the overlap of molecular pathways implicated in cancer and neurodegeneration.

Perinatal asphyxia, a naturally and commonly occurring risk factor in birthing, represents one of the major causes of neonatal encephalopathy with long term consequences for infants. Here, degraded spectral and temporal responses to sounds were recorded from neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of adult rats exposed to asphyxia at birth. Response onset latencies and durations were increased. Response amplitudes were reduced. Tuning curves were broader. Degraded successive-stimulus masking inhibitory mechanisms were associated with a reduced capability of neurons to follow higher-rate repetitive stimuli. The architecture of peripheral inner ear sensory epithelium was preserved, suggesting that recorded abnormalities can be of central origin. Some implications of these findings for the genesis of language perception deficits or for impaired language expression recorded in developmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorders, contributed to by perinatal asphyxia, are discussed.


Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder is not a single pathophysiological entity and appears to have a complex etiology. There are multiple genetic and environmental risk factors with small individual effect that act in concert to create a spectrum of neurobiological liability. Structural imaging studies show that brains of children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder are significantly smaller than unaffected controls. The prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia and cerebellum are differentially affected and evidence indicating reduced connectivity in white matter tracts in key brain areas is emerging. Genetic, pharmacological, imaging, and animal models highlight the important role of dopamine dysregulation in the neurobiology of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. To date, stimulants are the most effective psychopharmacological treatments available for Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. Currently only immediate release methylphenidate and atomoxetine are approved for the treatment of ADHD in Italy. Drug treatment should always be part of a comprehensive plan that includes psychosocial, behavioural and educational advice and interventions.
Learning and memory processes critically involve the orchestrated regulation of de novo protein synthesis. On the other hand it has become clear that regulated protein degradation also plays a major role in neuronal plasticity and learning behavior. One of the key pathways mediating protein degradation is proteosomal protein destruction. The anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets proteins for proteosomal degradation by the 26S proteasome. While the APC/C is essential for cell cycle progression it is also expressed in postmitotic neurons where it has been implicated with axonal outgrowth and neuronal survival. In this study we addressed the role of APC/C in learning and memory function by generating mice that lack the essential subunit APC2 from excitatory neurons of the adult forebrain. Those animals are viable but exhibit a severe impairment in the ability to extinct fear memories, a process critical for the treatment of anxiety diseases such as phobia or post-traumatic stress disorder. Since deregulated protein degradation and APC/C activity has been implicated with neurodegeneration we also analyzed the effect of Apc2 deletion in a mouse model for Alzheimer's disease. In our experimental setting loss of APC2 form principle forebrain neurons did not affect the course of pathology in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model. In conclusion, our data provides genetic evidence that APC/C activity in the adult forebrain is required for cognitive function.
Homeostatic synaptic plasticity is important for maintaining stability of neuronal function, but heterogeneous expression mechanisms suggest that distinct facets of neuronal activity may shape the manner in which compensatory synaptic changes are implemented. Here, we demonstrate that local presynaptic activity gates a retrograde form of homeostatic plasticity induced by blockade of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) in cultured hippocampal neurons. We show that AMPAR blockade produces rapid (&lt;3 hr) protein synthesis-dependent increases in both presynaptic and postsynaptic function and that the induction of presynaptic, but not postsynaptic, changes requires coincident local activity in presynaptic terminals. This &quot;state-dependent&quot; modulation of presynaptic function requires postsynaptic release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) as a retrograde messenger, which is locally synthesized in dendrites in response to AMPAR blockade. Taken together, our results reveal a local crosstalk between active presynaptic terminals and postsynaptic signaling that dictates the manner by which homeostatic plasticity is implemented at synapses.
Homeostatic scaling is a non-Hebbian form of neural plasticity that maintains neuronal excitability and informational content of synaptic arrays in the face of changes of network activity. Here, we demonstrate that homeostatic scaling is dependent on group I metabotropic glutamate receptor activation that is mediated by the immediate early gene Homer1a. Homer1a is transiently upregulated during increases in network activity and evokes agonist-independent signaling of group I mGluRs that scales down the expression of synaptic AMPA receptors. Homer1a effects are dynamic and play a role in the induction of scaling. Similar to mGluR-LTD, Homer1a-dependent scaling involves a reduction of tyrosine phosphorylation of GluA2 (GluR2), but is distinct in that it exploits a unique signaling property of group I mGluR to confer cell-wide, agonist-independent activation of the receptor. These studies reveal an elegant interplay of mechanisms that underlie Hebbian and non-Hebbian plasticity.
Transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) and cornichon proteins (CNIH-2/3) independently modulate AMPA receptor trafficking and gating. However, the potential for interactions of these subunits within an AMPA receptor complex is unknown. Here, we find that TARPs -4, -7, and -8, but not -2, -3, or -5, cause AMPA receptors to &quot;resensitize&quot; upon continued glutamate application. With -8, resensitization occurs with all GluA subunit combinations; however, -8-containing hippocampal neurons do not display resensitization. In recombinant systems, CNIH-2 abrogates -8-mediated resensitization and modifies AMPA receptor pharmacology and gating to match that of hippocampal neurons. In hippocampus, -8 and CNIH-2 associate in postsynaptic densities and CNIH-2 protein levels are markedly diminished in -8 knockout mice. Manipulating neuronal CNIH-2 levels modulates the electrophysiological properties of extrasynaptic and synaptic -8-containing AMPA receptors. Thus, -8 and CNIH-2 functionally interact with common hippocampal AMPA receptor complexes to modulate synergistically kinetics and pharmacology.
Medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) plays an important role in physiological processes underlying navigation, learning, and memory. Excitatory cells in the different MEC layers project in a region-specific manner to the hippocampus. However, the intrinsic microcircuitry of the main excitatory cells in the superficial MEC layers is largely unknown. Using scanning photostimulation, we investigated the functional microcircuitry of two such cell types, stellate and pyramidal cells. We found cell-type-specific intralaminar and ascending interlaminar feedback inputs. The ascending interlaminar inputs display distinct organizational principles depending on the cell-type and its position within the superficial lamina: the spatial spread of inputs for stellate cells is narrower than for pyramidal cells, while inputs to pyramidal cells in layer 3, but not in layer 2, exhibit an asymmetric offset to the medial side of the cell's main axis. Differential laminar sources of excitatory inputs might contribute to the functional diversity of stellate and pyramidal cells.
We take for granted the ability to fall asleep or to snap out of sleep into wakefulness, but these changes in behavioral state require specific switching mechanisms in the brain that allow well-defined state transitions. In this review, we examine the basic circuitry underlying the regulation of sleep and wakefulness and discuss a theoretical framework wherein the interactions between reciprocal neuronal circuits enable relatively rapid and complete state transitions. We also review how homeostatic, circadian, and allostatic drives help regulate sleep state switching and discuss how breakdown of the switching mechanism may contribute to sleep disorders such as narcolepsy.
The infusion of donor lymphocytes transduced with a retroviral vector expressing the HSV-TK suicide gene in patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for leukemia/lymphoma promotes immune reconstitution and prevents infections and graft-versus-host disease. Analysis of the clonal dynamics of genetically modified lymphocytes in vivo is of crucial importance to understand the potential genotoxic risk of this therapeutic approach. We used linear amplification-mediated PCR and pyrosequencing to build a genome-wide, high-definition map of retroviral integration sites in the genome of peripheral blood T cells from two different donors and used gene expression profiling and bioinformatics to associate integration clusters to transcriptional activity and to genetic and epigenetic features of the T cell genome. Comparison with matched random controls and with integrations obtained from CD34(+) hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells showed that integration clusters occur within chromatin regions bearing epigenetic marks associated with active promoters and regulatory elements in a cell-specific fashion. Analysis of integration sites in T cells obtained ex vivo two months after infusion showed no evidence of integration-related clonal expansion or dominance, but rather loss of cells harboring integration events interfering with RNA post-transcriptional processing. The study shows that high-definition maps of retroviral integration sites are a powerful tool to analyze the fate of genetically modified T cells in patients and the biological consequences of retroviral transduction.
Animals quickly learn to avoid predictable danger. However, if pre-exposed to a strong stressor, they do not display avoidance even if this causes continued contact with painful stimuli [1, 2]. In rodents, lesioning the habenula, an epithalamic structure that regulates the monoaminergic system, has been reported to reduce avoidance deficits caused by inescapable shock [3]. This is consistent with findings that inability to overcome a stressor is accompanied by an increase in serotonin levels [4]. However, other studies conclude that habenula lesions cause avoidance deficits [5, 6]. These contradictory results may be caused by lesions affecting unintended regions [6]. To clarify the role of the habenula, we used larval zebrafish, whose transparency and amenability to genetic manipulation enables more precise disruption of cells. We show that larval zebrafish learn to avoid a light that has been paired with a mild shock but fail to do so when pre-exposed to inescapable shock. Photobleaching of habenula afferents expressing the photosensitizer KillerRed causes a similar failure in avoidance. Expression of tetanus toxin in dorsal habenula neurons is sufficient to prevent avoidance. We suggest that this region may signal the ability to control a stressor, and that its disruption could contribute to anxiety disorders.
Avoiding toxins in food is as important as obtaining nutrition. Conditioned food aversions have been studied in animals as diverse as nematodes and humans [1, 2], but the neural signaling mechanisms underlying this form of learning have been difficult to pinpoint. Honeybees quickly learn to associate floral cues with food [3], a trait that makes them an excellent model organism for studying the neural mechanisms of learning and memory. Here we show that honeybees not only detect toxins but can also learn to associate odors with both the taste of toxins and the postingestive consequences of consuming them. We found that two distinct monoaminergic pathways mediate learned food aversions in the honeybee. As for other insect species conditioned with salt or electric shock reinforcers [4-7], learned avoidances of odors paired with bad-tasting toxins are mediated by dopamine. Our experiments are the first to identify a second, postingestive pathway for learned olfactory aversions that involves serotonin. This second pathway may represent an ancient mechanism for food aversion learning conserved across animal lineages.
Neuroscientists study the function of the brain by investigating how neurons in the brain communicate. Many investigators look at changes in the electrical activity of one or more neurons in response to an experimentally-controlled input. The electrical activity of neurons can be recorded in isolated brain slices using patch clamp techniques with glass micropipettes. Traditionally, experimenters can mimic neuronal input by direct injection of current through the pipette, electrical stimulation of the other cells or remaining axonal connections in the slice, or pharmacological manipulation by receptors located on the neuronal membrane of the recorded cell. Direct current injection has the advantages of passing a predetermined current waveform with high temporal precision at the site of the recording (usually the soma). However, it does not change the resistance of the neuronal membrane as no ion channels are physically opened. Current injection usually employs rectangular pulses and thus does not model the kinetics of ion channels. Finally, current injection cannot mimic the chemical changes in the cell that occurs with the opening of ion channels. Receptors can be physically activated by electrical or pharmacological stimulation. The experimenter has good temporal precision of receptor activation with electrical stimulation of the slice. However, there is limited spatial precision of receptor activation and the exact nature of what is activated upon stimulation is unknown. This latter problem can be partially alleviated by specific pharmacological agents. Unfortunately, the time course of activation of pharmacological agents is typically slow and the spatial precision of inputs onto the recorded cell is unknown. The dynamic clamp technique allows an experimenter to change the current passed directly into the cell based on real-time feedback of the membrane potential of the cell (Robinson and Kawai 1993, Sharp et al., 1993a,b; for review, see Prinz et al. 2004). This allows an experimenter to mimic the electrical changes that occur at the site of the recording in response to activation of a receptor. Real-time changes in applied current are determined by a mathematical equation implemented in hardware. We have recently used the dynamic clamp technique to investigate the generation of bursts of action potentials by phasic activation of NMDA receptors in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (Deister et al., 2009; Lobb et al., 2010). In this video, we demonstrate the procedures needed to apply a NMDA receptor conductance into a dopaminergic neuron.
Loss of the Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is associated with presumed postsynaptic deficits in mouse models of Fragile X syndrome. However, the possible presynaptic roles of FMRP in learning-related plasticity have received little attention. As a result, the mechanisms whereby FMRP influences synaptic function remain poorly understood. To investigate the cellular locus of the effects of FMRP on synaptic plasticity, we cloned the Aplysia homolog of FMRP and find it to be highly expressed in neurons. By selectively down-regulating FMRP in individual Aplysia neurons at the sensory-to-motor neuron synapse reconstituted in co-cultures, we demonstrate that FMRP functions both pre- and postsynaptically to constrain the expression of long-term synaptic depression induced by repeated pulses of FMRF-amide. In contrast, FMRP has little to no effect on long-term synaptic facilitation induced by repeated pulses of serotonin. Since other components of signaling pathways involved in plasticity appear to be conserved between Aplysia and mammalian neurons, our findings suggest that FMRP can participate in both pre- and postsynaptic regulation of enduring synaptic plasticity that underlies the storage of certain types of long-term memory.
Autism is a highly variable brain developmental disorder and has a strong genetic basis. Pax6 is a pivotal player in brain development and maintenance. It is expressed in embryonic and adult neural stem cells, in astrocytes in the entire central nervous system, and in neurons in the olfactory bulb, amygdala, thalamus, and cerebellum, functioning in highly context-dependent manners. We have recently reported that Pax6 heterozygous mutant (rSey(2)/+) rats with a spontaneous mutation in the Pax6 gene, show impaired prepulse inhibition (PPI). In the present study, we further examined behaviors of rSey(2)/+ rats and revealed that they exhibited abnormality in social interaction (more aggression and withdrawal) in addition to impairment in rearing activity and in fear-conditioned memory. Ultrasonic vocalization (USV) in rSey(2)+ rat pups was normal in male but abnormal in female. Moreover, treatment with clozapine successfully recovered the defects in sensorimotor gating function, but not in fear-conditioned memory. Taken together with our prior human genetic data and results in other literatures, rSey(2)/+ rats likely have some phenotypic components of autism.
Naked mole-rats are extremely unusual among mammals in that their cutaneous C-fibers lack the neuropeptide Substance P (SP). In other mammals, SP plays an important role in nociception: it is released from C-fibers onto spinal neurons where it facilitates NMDA receptor activity and causes sensitization that can last for minutes, hours or days. In the present study, we tested the effects of intrathecal application of: 1) SP, 2) an SP antagonist (GR-82334), and 3) an NMDA antagonist (APV) on heat-evoked foot withdrawal. In the naked mole-rat, at a high enough concentration, application of SP caused a large, immediate, and long-lasting sensitization of foot withdrawal latency that was transiently reversed by application of either antagonist. However, neither SP nor NMDA antagonists had an effect when administered alone to nave animals. In contrast, both antagonists induced an increase in basal withdrawal latency in mice. These results indicate that spinal neurons in naked mole-rats have functional SP and NMDA receptors, but that these receptors do not participate in heat-evoked foot withdrawal unless SP is experimentally introduced. We propose that the natural lack of SP in naked mole-rat C-fibers may have resulted during adaptation to living in a chronically high carbon dioxide, high ammonia environment that, in other mammals, would stimulate C-fibers and evoke nocifensive behavior.
During development, the effect of activating GABA(A) receptors switches from depolarizing to hyperpolarizing. Several environmental factors have been implicated in the timing of this GABA switch, including neural activity, although these observations remain controversial. By using acutely isolated retinas from KO mice and pharmacological manipulations in retinal explants, we demonstrate that the timing of the GABA switch in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) is unaffected by blockade of specific neurotransmitter receptors or global activity. In contrast to RGCs in the intact retina, purified RGCs remain depolarized by GABA, indicating that the GABA switch is not cell-autonomous. Indeed, purified RGCs cocultured with dissociated cells from the superior colliculus or cultured in media conditioned by superior collicular cells undergo a normal switch. Thus, a diffusible signal that acts independent of local circuit activity regulates the maturation of GABAergic inhibition in mouse RGCs.
Dendritic spikes appear to be a ubiquitous feature of dendritic excitability. In cortical pyramidal neurons, dendritic spikes increase the efficacy of distal synapses, providing additional inward current to enhance axonal action potential (AP) output, thus increasing synaptic gain. In cerebellar Purkinje cells, dendritic spikes can trigger synaptic plasticity, but their influence on axonal output is not well understood. We have used simultaneous somatic and dendritic patch-clamp recordings to directly assess the impact of dendritic calcium spikes on axonal AP output of Purkinje cells. Dendritic spikes evoked by parallel fiber input triggered brief bursts of somatic APs, followed by pauses in spiking, which cancelled out the extra spikes in the burst. As a result, average output firing rates during trains of input remained independent of the input strength, thus flattening synaptic gain. We demonstrate that this &quot;clamping&quot; of AP output by the pause following dendritic spikes is due to activation of high conductance calcium-dependent potassium channels by dendritic spikes. Dendritic spikes in Purkinje cells, in contrast to pyramidal cells, thus have differential effects on temporally coded and rate coded information: increasing the impact of transient parallel fiber input, while depressing synaptic gain for sustained parallel fiber inputs.
A part of the mediobasal hypothalamus (known as hypothalamic attack area) plays a central role in the control of aggressive behavior as its electrical stimulation reliably and rapidly elicits biting attacks in cats and rodents. The efferent connections of this brain region were described in rats, but afferent pathways were not investigated so far. We injected the retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit into the mediobasal hypothalamus of male Wistar rats and studied the distribution of labeled cells by immunohistochemical method. The retrograde labeling outlined three continuous, distinct afferent cell populations: (i) a telencephalic midline &quot;plate&quot; containing the orbitofrontal - medial prefrontal - septal regions which ends in the bed nucleus of stria terminalis; (ii) a temporal column including the medial amygdala, amigdalohippocampal area and subiculum; (iii) a diffuse column along the medial hypothalamus which ends in the posterior hypothalamic nucleus. Sparse labeling was present in brainstem nuclei, except for the lateral parabrachial nucleus that provides a significant input. The projections of the medial prefrontal cortex to the hypothalamic attack area indicate a direct, earlier undescribed pathway with marked importance in the control of aggressive behavior. Similarly, we identified several brain regions which send very significant projections to the hypothalamic attack area but their importance in the control of aggressive behavior are nearly unknown. The comparison of the present and earlier findings shows that efferent and afferent connections overlap in many regions to a significant extent, suggesting that reverberating circuits are important in the control of aggressive behavior.
Early experiences produce persistent changes in behavior and brain function. Being reared in a communal nest (CN), consisting of a single nest where three mouse mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving behavior from birth to weaning, provides an highly stimulating social environment to the developing pup since both mother-offspring and peer-to-peer interactions are markedly increased. Here we show that being reared in a CN affects adult behavior of CD-1 mice in a gender-dependent fashion, with reduced depression-like responses in females and increased anxiety-like behavior in males. In particular, CN females showed higher sucrose preference at baseline condition, drinking more sweet solution compared to female mice reared in a standard laboratory condition (SN). In the isolation test, both SN and CN females showed a reduction in sucrose preference after exposure to isolation stress. However, after 24h, only CN females significantly recovered. Finally, in the forced swim test, compared to SN, CN females spent longer time floating, a behavioral response that in the CN model has been inversely associated with display of endophenotypes of depression. With regard to the emotional response, CN males displayed an increased anxiety-like behavior in comparison to SN, spending less time in the open arms and displaying reduced head-dippings in the elevated plus-maze test. No difference was found in females. Overall, our findings show that gender and early experiences interact in modulating adult behavior. In particular, we show that early experiences modified developmental trajectories shaping adult endophenotypes of depression more markedly in females than in males.
Although visuospatial working memory (VSWM) is commonly used during speeded and unconscious memory processing in daily life, most neuroimaging studies on VSWM use tasks that impose motor restrictions onto the examinees to avoid movement-related artifacts. Multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), however, can measure cortical activation during cognitive processing without interfering with task procedure. The purpose of this study is to determine whether multichannel NIRS can detect VSWM-induced frontal cortex activation similar to that seen in VSWM performance in daily-life activity. Using NIRS, we measured relative changes in the concentration of oxygenated hemoglobin as an index of frontal activation in 52 measurement points (channels) on the frontal area during the Advanced Trail Making Test (ATMT), a tool used to assess VSWM. The ATMT consists of two tasks, R and F, with the former assessing motor factors and the latter relating to both motor and cognitive factors involved in speeded and unconscious VSWM operations. Twenty-six healthy volunteers were enrolled in this study. Channel activation during Task F performance was observed bilaterally over the dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. This distribution may reflect central executive function of working memory. Channel activation during Task R was circumscribed to part of the left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex partially overlapping with areas active during Task F performance, likely representing task-related motor factor activation. Our findings suggest that multichannel NIRS during ATMT performance is an appropriate means of measuring cortical activation induced by VSWM operations during daily activity.
Environmental stimuli and adverse experiences in early life may result in behavioral and physiological changes in adulthood. In several animal species, the odors cues are crucial in the setting of adaptive behaviors, especially towards predators. However, little is known about the effects of postnatal exposure to predator odor on the later physiological and behavioral responses to this natural stressor. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of a postnatal exposure to synthetic predator odor (TMT) in mice pups on later adult fear-related behaviors and corticosterone levels in response to this specific stimulus. Pups postnatally exposed to only water showed later in adult life behavioral responses when exposed to TMT that were statistically different from mice that were exposed as neonates to TMT. In addition, mice exposed as neonates to TMT showed a decrease of fear-related behaviors while no differences occurred in the corticosterone levels between both groups.



Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) express the photopigment melanopsin and serve as the primary retinal drivers of non-image-forming visual functions such as circadian photoentrainment, the pupillary light reflex, and suppression of melatonin production in the pineal. Past electrophysiological studies of these cells have focused on their intrinsic photosensitivity and synaptic inputs. Much less is known about their voltage-gated channels and how these might shape their output to non-image-forming visual centers. Here, we show that rat ipRGCs retrolabeled from the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) express a hyperpolarization-activated inwardly-rectifying current (I(h)). This current is blocked by the known I(h) blockers ZD7288 and extracellular cesium. As in other systems, including other retinal ganglion cells, I(h) in ipRGCs is characterized by slow kinetics and a slightly greater permeability for K(+) than for Na(+). Unlike in other systems, however, I(h) in ipRGCs apparently does not actively contribute to resting membrane potential. We also explore non-specific effects of the common I(h) blocker ZD7288 on rebound depolarization and evoked spiking and discuss possible functional roles of I(h) in non-image-forming vision. This study is the first to characterize I(h) in a well-defined population of retinal ganglion cells, namely SCN-projecting ipRGCs.
Echo planar imaging (EPI) is an MRI technique of particular value to neuroscience, with its use for virtually all functional MRI (fMRI) and diffusion imaging of fiber connections in the human brain. EPI generates a single 2D image in a fraction of a second; however, it requires 2-3 seconds to acquire multi-slice whole brain coverage for fMRI and even longer for diffusion imaging. Here we report on a large reduction in EPI whole brain scan time at 3 and 7 Tesla, without significantly sacrificing spatial resolution, and while gaining functional sensitivity. The multiplexed-EPI (M-EPI) pulse sequence combines two forms of multiplexing: temporal multiplexing (m) utilizing simultaneous echo refocused (SIR) EPI and spatial multiplexing (n) with multibanded RF pulses (MB) to achieve mn images in an EPI echo train instead of the normal single image. This resulted in an unprecedented reduction in EPI scan time for whole brain fMRI performed at 3 Tesla, permitting TRs of 400 ms and 800 ms compared to a more conventional 2.5 sec TR, and 2-4 times reductions in scan time for HARDI imaging of neuronal fibertracks. The simultaneous SE refocusing of SIR imaging at 7 Tesla advantageously reduced SAR by using fewer RF refocusing pulses and by shifting fat signal out of the image plane so that fat suppression pulses were not required. In preliminary studies of resting state functional networks identified through independent component analysis, the 6-fold higher sampling rate increased the peak functional sensitivity by 60%. The novel M-EPI pulse sequence resulted in a significantly increased temporal resolution for whole brain fMRI, and as such, this new methodology can be used for studying non-stationarity in networks and generally for expanding and enriching the functional information.
The nervus terminalis (NT) is a vertebrate cranial nerve whose function in adults is unknown. In bonnethead sharks, the nerve is anatomically independent of the olfactory system, with two major cell populations within one or more ganglia along its exposed length. Most cells are immunoreactive for either gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) or RF-amide-like peptides. To define further the cell populations and connectivity, we used double-label immunocytochemistry with antisera to different isoforms of GnRH and to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). The labeling patterns of two GnRH antisera revealed different populations of GnRH-immunoreactive (ir) cell profiles in the NT ganglion. One antiserum labeled a large group of cells and fibers, which likely contain mammalian GnRH (GnRH-I) as described in previous studies and which were ChAT immunoreactive. The other antiserum labeled large club-like structures, which were anuclear, and a sparse number of fibers, but with no clear labeling of cell bodies in the ganglion. These club structures were choline acetyltrasferase (ChAT)-negative, and preabsorption control tests suggest they may contain chicken-GnRH-II (GnRH-II) or dogfish GnRH. The second major NT ganglion cell-type was immunoreactive for RF-amides, which regulate GnRH release in other vertebrates, and may provide an intraganglionic influence on GnRH release. The immunocytochemical and anatomical differences between the two GnRH-immunoreactive profile types indicate possible functional differences for these isoforms in the NT. The club-like structures may be sites of GnRH release into the general circulation since these structures were observed near blood vessels and resembled structures seen in the median eminence of rats.
The risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is higher in women than in men, a sex difference that likely results from the effects of sex steroid hormones. To investigate this relationship, we first compared progression of -amyloid (A) pathology in male and female triple transgenic (3xTg-AD) mice. We found that female 3xTg-AD mice exhibit significantly greater A burden and larger behavioral deficits than age-matched males. Next, we evaluated how the organizational effects of sex steroid hormones during postnatal development may affect adult vulnerability to A pathology. We observed that male 3xTg-AD mice demasculinized during early development exhibit significantly increased A accumulation in adulthood. In contrast, female mice defeminized during early development exhibit a more male-like pattern of A pathology in adulthood. Taken together, these results demonstrate significant sex differences in pathology in 3xTg-AD mice and suggest that these differences may be mediated by organizational actions of sex steroid hormones during development.
Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) adenylyltransferase 2 (Nmnat2) catalyzes the synthesis of NAD from NMN and ATP. The Nmnat2 transcript is expressed predominately in the brain; we report here that Nmnat2 is a low abundance protein expressed in neurons. Previous studies indicate that Nmnat2 localizes to Golgi. As Nmnat2 is not predicted to contain a signal sequence, lipid-binding domain, or transmembrane domain, we investigated the nature of this interaction. These experiments reveal that Nmnat2 is palmitoylated in vitro, and this modification is required for membrane association. Surprisingly, exogenous Nmnat2 is toxic to neurons, indicating that protein levels must be tightly regulated. To analyze Nmnat2 localization in neurons (previous experiments relied on exogenous expression in HeLa cells), mouse brains were fractionated, showing that Nmnat2 is enriched in numerous membrane compartments including synaptic terminals. In HeLa cells, in addition to Golgi, Nmnat2 localizes to Rab7-containing late endosomes. These studies show that Nmnat2 is a neuronal protein peripherally attached to membranes via palmitoylation and suggest that Nmnat2 is transported to synaptic terminals via an endosomal pathway.
Following the mutation screening of genes known to cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in index cases from 107 familial ALS (FALS) kindred, a point mutation was identified in vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B (VAPB), or VAMP-associated protein B, causing an amino acid change from threonine to isoleucine at codon 46 (T46I) in one FALS case but not in 257 controls. This is an important finding because it is only the second mutation identified in this gene that causes ALS. In order to investigate the pathogenic effects of this mutation, we have used a motor neuron cell line and tissue-specific expression of the mutant protein in Drosophila. We provide substantial evidence for the pathogenic effects of this mutation in abolishing the effect of wild type VAPB in the unfolded protein response, promoting ubiquitin aggregate formation, and activating neuronal cell death. We also report that expression of the mutant protein in the Drosophila motor system induces aggregate deposition, endoplasmic reticulum disorganization, and chaperone up-regulation both in neurons and in muscles. Our integrated analysis of the pathogenic effect of the T46I mutation and the previously identified P56S mutation indicate extensive commonalities in the disease mechanism for these two mutations. In summary, we show that this newly identified mutation in human FALS has a pathogenic effect, supporting and reinforcing the role of VAPB as a causative gene of ALS.
Among the hallmarks of aged organisms are an accumulation of misfolded proteins and a reduction in skeletal muscle mass (&quot;sarcopenia&quot;). We have examined the effects of aging and dietary restriction (which retards many age-related changes) on components of the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) in muscle. The hindlimb muscles of aged (30 months old) rats showed a marked loss of muscle mass and contained 2-3-fold higher levels of 26S proteasomes than those of adult (4 months old) controls. 26S proteasomes purified from muscles of aged and adult rats showed a similar capacity to degrade peptides, proteins, and an ubiquitylated substrate, but differed in levels of proteasome-associated proteins (e.g. the ubiquitin ligase E6AP and deubiquitylating enzyme USP14). Also, the activities of many other deubiquitylating enzymes were greatly enhanced in the aged muscles. Nevertheless, their content of polyubiquitylated proteins was higher than in adult animals. The aged muscles contained higher levels of the ubiquitin ligase CHIP, involved in eliminating misfolded proteins, and MuRF1, which ubiquitylates myofibrillar proteins. These muscles differed from ones rapidly atrophying due to disease, fasting, or disuse in that Atrogin-1/MAFbx expression was low and not inducible by glucocorticoids. Thus, the muscles of aged rats showed many adaptations indicating enhanced proteolysis by the UPS, which may enhance their capacity to eliminate misfolded proteins and seems to contribute to the sarcopenia. Accordingly, dietary restriction decreased or prevented the aging-associated increases in proteasomes and other UPS components and reduced muscle wasting.
We investigated the involvement of PKA and PKC signaling in a negatively reinforced operant learning paradigm in Aplysia, learning that food is inedible (LFI). In vivo injection of PKA or PKC inhibitors blocked long-term LFI memory formation. Moreover, a persistent phase of PKA activity, although not PKC activity, was necessary for long-term memory. Surprisingly, neither PKA nor PKC activity was required for associative short-term LFI memory. Additionally, PKA and PKC were not required for the retrieval of short- or long-term memory (STM and LTM, respectively). These studies have identified key differences between the mechanisms underlying nonassociative sensitization, operant reward learning, and LFI memory in Aplysia.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been proposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Supportive of this hypothesis, several genetic variants that regulate mitochondrial function and homeostasis have been described to alter PD susceptibility. A recent report demonstrated association of a single nucleotide polymorphism in the mitochondrial translation initiation factor 3 (MTIF3) gene with PD risk. The protein encoded by this nuclear gene is essential for initiation complex formation on the mitochondrial 55S ribosome and regulates translation of proteins within the mitochondria. Changes in the function or expression of the MTIF3 protein may result in altered mitochondrial function, ATP production or formation of reactive oxygen species thereby affecting susceptibility to PD. We examined the association of rs7669 with sporadic PD in three Caucasian case control series (n=2434). A significant association was observed in the largest series (Norwegian; n=1650) when comparing CC vs. CT/TT genotypes, with the Irish and US series having a similar but non-significant trend. The combined series also revealed an association with risk of PD (P=0.01), supporting the possible involvement of this gene in PD etiology.
In three different experiments pairs of unrelated people sitting in two different rooms were exposed simultaneously to different rates of circumcerebral rotations of weak, complex magnetic fields in order to produce &quot;dynamic similarity&quot;. Quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) measurements were taken for one member of each pair in one room while the other sat in a closed chamber in another room and intermittently observed 5Hz, 8Hz, 10Hz, or 15Hz flashing lights. Reliable increases in QEEG power within specific frequencies over the right parietal region were observed during the similar-frequency light flashes when the shared temporal-spatial complexity of the circumcerebral rotating fields was based on 100ms, the average duration of normal microstates. The development of this experimental procedure could facilitate rational understanding of this class of &quot;coincidence&quot; phenomena.
White matter lesions (WML) are associated with dementia and are common in brain ageing. In order to determine whether alteration of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) may contribute to the pathogenesis of WML we assessed albumin leakage and expression of the tight junction (TJ) proteins claudin-5 (Cln-5), zona occludin-1 (ZO-1) and occludin in cases derived from the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study. Albumin extravasation was widespread in the ageing brain and enhanced in WML, suggesting dysfunction of the BBB may contribute to the pathogenesis of WML. This was not accompanied by significant changes in the endothelial expression of TJ proteins. However, ZO-1 and occludin were expressed by glial cells throughout the parenchyma of both control white matter and WML, suggesting these TJ proteins may have other functions in the brain.
Acetyl-cholinesterase inhibitors (AChEI) are drugs frequently prescribed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), exerting an effect on cognition, as well as on behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia and activities of daily living. The efficacy of AChEI may be ascribed not only to the activation of cholinergic transmission, but also to other mechanisms, among which a putative regulation of the immune response has already been hypothesized. In the present study, we evaluated, in a cross-sectional sample of 66AD patients and 48 healthy controls, the putative influence of AChEI on anti-Abeta 1-42 antibody plasma levels by ELISA assay. AD patients receiving AChEI therapy showed increased plasma levels of anti-Abeta 1-42 antibodies respect to untreated AD patients and antibodies levels similar to those of healthy controls, both before and after normalization by total IgG values. Our results support a potential role of AChEI in the modulation of the immune response against Abeta. We suggest that a strategy aimed at increasing the endogenous response against this peptide might represent an interesting therapeutic target to be further investigated.
Marked alterations in astrocyte function are a universal response to disease or injury in the central nervous system. Affected astrocytes develop characteristic morphological changes known as &quot;reactive astrogliosis&quot;, characterized by increased expression of the intermediate filament proteins, glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin. Reactive astrocytes also display alterations in other proteins including a rapid up-regulation of the gap junction protein, Connexin 43. The present study tests whether Connexin 43 is directly involved in the astrocytic response to injury. We have down regulated Connexin 43 expression using a microRNA generating plasmid and investigated the functional consequences of this treatment on the response of astrocytes in primary culture to a well-characterized scratch wound injury. The treatment resulted in more than 70% transfection efficiency and a near complete depletion of Connexin 43 in transfected cells. Compared to cells transfected with non-targeting microRNA, the cells depleted of Connexin 43 showed a slower wound closure and fewer transfected cells in the wound area. These changes were associated with decreased proliferation of the Connexin 43-depleted cells as well as shorter processes extending into the wound area suggesting a direct impairment of migration. The effects were independent of gap junction conductivity as exposure to the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone did not affect the rate of wound healing. The findings directly indicate a role for Connexin 43 in the astrocytic response to injury and suggest that modification of Connexin 43 expression might provide a therapeutic target to alter potentially deleterious astrocytic responses.
In this study we analyzed the topography of induced cortical oscillations in 20 healthy individuals performing simple attention tasks. We were interested in qualitatively replicating our recent findings on the localization of attention-induced beta bands during a visual task [1], and verifying whether significant topographic changes would follow the change of attention to the auditory modality. We computed corrected latency averaging of each induced frequency bands, and modeled their generators by current density reconstruction with Lp-norm minimization. We quantified topographic similarity between conditions by an analysis of correlations, whereas the inter-modality significant differences in attention correlates were illustrated in each individual case. We replicated the qualitative result of highly idiosyncratic topography of attention-related activity to individuals, manifested both in the beta bands, and previously studied slow potential distributions [2]. Visual inspection of both scalp potentials and distribution of cortical currents showed minor changes in attention-related bands with respect to modality, as compared to the theta and delta bands, known to be major contributors to the sensory-related potentials. Quantitative results agreed with visual inspection, supporting to the conclusion that attention-related activity does not change much between modalities, and whatever individual changes do occur, they are not systematic in cortical localization across subjects. We discuss our results, combined with results from other studies that present individual data, with respect to the function of cortical association areas.
The influence of pre-experimental autobiographical knowledge on recognition memory was investigated using as memoranda faces that were either personally known or unknown to the participant. Under a dual process theory, such knowledge boosted both recollection- and familiarity-based recognition judgements. Under an unequal variance signal detection model, pre-experimental knowledge increased both the variance and the separation of the target and foil memory strength distributions, boosting hits and correct rejections. Thus, pre-experimental knowledge has profound effects on the multiple, interacting processes that subserve recognition memory, and likely in the neural systems that underpin them.
Neuroplasticity in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), particularly its latero-capsular division (CeLC), is an important contributor to the emotional-affective aspects of pain. Previous studies showed synaptic plasticity of excitatory transmission to the CeLC in different pain models, but pain-related changes of inhibitory transmission remain to be determined. The CeLC receives convergent excitatory inputs from the parabrachial nucleus in the brainstem and from the basolateral amygdala (BLA). In addition, feedforward inhibition of CeA neurons is driven by glutamatergic projections from the BLA area to a cluster of GABAergic neurons in the intercalated cell masses (ITC). Using patch-clamp in rat brain slices we measured monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and polysynaptic inhibitory currents (IPSCs) that were evoked by electrical stimulation in the BLA. In brain slices from arthritic rats, input-output functions of excitatory synaptic transmission were enhanced whereas inhibitory synaptic transmission was decreased compared to control slices from normal untreated rats. A non-NMDA receptor antagonist (NBQX) blocked the EPSCs and reduced the IPSCs, suggesting that non-NMDA receptors mediate excitatory transmission and also contribute to glutamate-driven feed-forward inhibition of CeLC neurons. IPSCs were blocked by a GABAA receptor antagonist (bicuculline). Bicuculline increased EPSCs under normal conditions but not in slices from arthritic rats, which indicates a loss of GABAergic control of excitatory transmission. A metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1 (mGluR1) antagonist (LY367385) reversed both the increase of excitatory transmission and the decrease of inhibitory transmission in the arthritis pain model but had no effect on basal synaptic transmission in control slices from normal rats. The inhibitory effect of LY367385 on excitatory transmission was blocked by bicuculline suggesting the involvement of a GABAergic mechanism. An mGluR5 antagonist (MTEP) inhibited both excitatory and inhibitory transmission in slices from normal and from arthritic rats. The analysis of spontaneous and miniature EPSCs and IPSCs showed that mGluR1 acted presynaptically whereas mGluR5 had postsynaptic effects. In conclusion, mGluR1 rather than mGluR5 can account for the pain-related changes of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the CeLC through a mechanism that involves inhibition of inhibitory transmission (disinhibition).



In a previous study we proposed that the depolarized state of the wake-promoting hypocretin/orexin (hcrt/orx) neurons was independent of synaptic inputs as it persisted in tetrodotoxin and low calcium/high magnesium solutions. Here we show first that these cells are hyperpolarized when external sodium is lowered, suggesting that non-selective cation channels (NSCCs) could be involved. As canonical transient receptor channels (TRPCs) are known to form NSCCs, we looked for TRPCs subunits using single-cell RT-PCR and found that TRPC6 mRNA was detectable in a small minority, TRPC1, TRPC3 and TRPC7 in a majority and TRPC4 and 5 in the vast majority (90%) of hcrt/orx neurons. Using intracellular applications of TRPC antibodies against subunits known to form NSCCs, we then found that only TRPC5 antibodies elicited an outward current, together with hyperpolarization and inhibition of the cells. These effects were blocked by co-application of a TRPC5 antigen peptide. Voltage-clamp ramps in the presence or absence of TRPC5 antibodies indicated the presence of a current with a reversal potential close to -15 mV. Application of the non-selective TRPC channel blocker, flufenamic acid, had a similar effect, which could be occluded in cells pre-loaded with TRPC5 antibodies. Finally, using the same TRPC5 antibodies we found that most hcrt/orx cells show immunostaining for the TRPC5 subunit. These results suggest that hcrt/orx neurons are endowed with a constitutively active non-selective cation current which depends on TRPC channels containing the TRPC5 subunit and which is responsible for the depolarized and active state of these cells.
A series of 1,5-disubstituted pyridones was identified as positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 (mGluR2) via high throughput screening (HTS). Subsequent SAR exploration led to the identification of several compounds with improved in vitro activity. Lead compound 8 was further profiled and found to attenuate the increase in PCP induced locomotor activity in mice.
A new and novel non-SSRI potential treatment option for major depressive disorders is Valdoxen (agomelatine) which is currently in phase III clinical studies. Valdoxen is a norepinephrine disinhibitor (NNDI) and is also an antagonist of the 5-HT(2C) receptor.
Although significant advances have recently been made in the understanding and treatment of multiple sclerosis, reduction of long-term disability remains a key goal. Evidence suggests that inflammation and oxidative stress within the central nervous system are major causes of ongoing tissue damage in the disease. Invading inflammatory cells, as well as resident central nervous system cells, release a number of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species which cause demyelination and axonal destruction, the pathological hallmarks of multiple sclerosis. Reduction in oxidative damage is an important therapeutic strategy to slow or halt disease processes. Many drugs in clinical practice or currently in trial target this mechanism. Cell-based therapies offer an alternative source of antioxidant capability. Classically thought of as being important for myelin or cell replacement in multiple sclerosis, stem cells may, however, have a more important role as providers of supporting factors or direct attenuators of the disease. In this paper we focus on the antioxidant properties of mesenchymal stem cells and discuss their potential importance as a cell-based therapy for multiple sclerosis.
hESCs (human embryonic stem cells) have enormous potential for use in pharmaceutical development and therapeutics; however, to realize this potential, there is a requirement for simple and reproducible cell culture methods that provide adequate numbers of cells of suitable quality. We have discovered a novel way of blocking the spontaneous differentiation of hESCs in the absence of exogenous cytokines by supplementing feeder-free conditions with EHNA [erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine], an established inhibitor of ADA (adenosine deaminase) and cyclic nucleotide PDE2 (phosphodiesterase 2). hESCs maintained in feeder-free conditions with EHNA for more than ten passages showed no reduction in hESC-associated markers including NANOG, POU5F1 (POU domain class 5 transcription factor 1, also known as Oct-4) and SSEA4 (stage-specific embryonic antigen 4) compared with cells maintained in feeder-free conditions containing bFGF (basic fibroblast growth factor). Spontaneous differentiation was reversibly suppressed by the addition of EHNA, but, upon removing EHNA, hESC populations underwent efficient spontaneous, multi-lineage and directed differentiation. EHNA also acts as a strong blocker of directed neuronal differentiation. Chemically distinct inhibitors of ADA and PDE2 lacked the capacity of EHNA to suppress hESC differentiation, suggesting that the effect is not driven by inhibition of either ADA or PDE2. Preliminary structure-activity relationship analysis found the differentiation-blocking properties of EHNA to reside in a pharmacophore comprising a close adenine mimetic with an extended hydrophobic substituent in the 8- or 9-position. We conclude that EHNA and simple 9-alkyladenines can block directed neuronal and spontaneous differentiation in the absence of exogenous cytokine addition, and may provide a useful replacement for bFGF in large-scale or cGMP-compliant processes.
The poorly characterized G-protein-coupled receptor GPR35 has been suggested as a potential exploratory target for the treatment of both metabolic disorders and hypertension. It has also been indicated to play an important role in immune modulation. A major impediment to validation of these concepts and further study of the role of this receptor has been a paucity of pharmacological tools that interact with GPR35. Using a receptor--arrestin-2 interaction assay with both human and rat orthologues of GPR35, we identified a number of compounds possessing agonist activity. These included the previously described ligand zaprinast. Although a number of active compounds, including cromolyn disodium and dicumarol, displayed similar potency at both orthologues of GPR35, a number of ligands, including pamoate and niflumic acid, had detectable activity only at human GPR35 whereas others, including zaprinast and luteolin, were markedly selective for the rat orthologue. Previous studies have demonstrated activation of G13 by GPR35. A Saccharomyces cerevisiae-based assay employing a chimaeric Gpa1-G13 G-protein confirmed that all of the compounds active at human GPR35 in the -arrestin-2 interaction assay were also able to promote cell growth via G13. Each of these ligands also promoted binding of [35S]GTP[S] (guanosine 5'-[-[35S]thio]triphosphate) to an epitope-tagged form of G13 in a GPR35-dependent manner. The ligands identified in these studies will be useful in interrogating the biological actions of GPR35, but appreciation of the species selectivity of ligands at this receptor will be vital to correctly attribute function.
Activation of protein kinases and phosphatases at the plasma membrane often initiates agonist-dependent signalling events. In sensory neurons, AKAP150 (A-kinase-anchoring protein 150) orientates PKA (protein kinase A), PKC (protein kinase C) and the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent PP2B (protein phosphatase 2B, also known as calcineurin) towards membrane-associated substrates. Recent evidence indicates that AKAP150-anchored PKA and PKC phosphorylate and sensitize the TRPV1 (transient receptor potential subfamily V type 1 channel, also known as the capsaicin receptor). In the present study, we explore the hypothesis that an AKAP150-associated pool of PP2B catalyses the dephosphorylation and desensitization of TRPV1. Biochemical, electrophysiological and cell-based experiments indicate that PP2B associates with AKAP150 and TRPV1 in cultured TG (trigeminal ganglia) neurons. Gene silencing of AKAP150 reduces basal phosphorylation of TRPV1. However, functional studies in neurons isolated from AKAP150-/- mice indicate that the anchoring protein is not required for pharmacological desensitization of TRPV1. Behavioural analysis of AKAP150-/- mice further support this notion, demonstrating that agonist-stimulated desensitization of TRPV1 is sensitive to PP2B inhibition and does not rely on AKAP150. These findings allow us to conclude that pharmacological desensitization of TRPV1 by PP2B may involve additional regulatory components.






The identification and subsequent optimisation of a selective non-peptidic NPY Y2 antagonist series is described. This led to the development of amine 2, a selective, soluble NPY Y2 receptor antagonist with enhanced CNS exposure.
A new class of selective NPS antagonist was developed starting from a commercially available product identified by screening activities. Experimental NMR observations and computational experiments allowed the discovery of a new class of derivatives. 5-Phenyl-2-[2-(1-piperidinylcarbonyl)phenyl]-2,3-dihydro-1H-pyrrolo[1,2-c]imidazol-1-one represents a new lead compound in the NPS antagonist field.
Nuclear calcium is a key signal in the dialogue between synapse and nucleus that controls the genomic responses required for persistent adaptations, including memory and acquired neuroprotection. The amplitude and duration of nuclear calcium transients specify activity-induced transcriptional changes. However, the precise relationship between synaptic input and nuclear calcium output is unknown. Here, we used stereotaxic delivery to the rat brain of recombinant adeno-associated viruses encoding nuclear-targeted calcium sensors to assess nuclear calcium transients in CA1 pyramidal neurons after stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals. We show that in acute hippocampal slices, a burst of synaptic activity elicits a nuclear calcium signal with a regenerative component at above-threshold stimulation intensities. Using classical stimulation paradigms (i.e., high-frequency stimulation (HFS) and  burst stimulation (TBS)) to induce early LTP (E-LTP) and transcription-dependent late LTP (L-LTP), we found that the magnitude of nuclear calcium signals and the number of action potentials activated by synaptic stimulation trains are greatly amplified by their repetition. Nuclear calcium signals and action potential generation were reduced by blockade of either NMDA receptors or L-type voltage-gated calcium channels, but not by procedures thatlead to internal calcium store depletion or by blockade of metabotropic glutamate receptors. These findings identifya repetition-induced switch in nuclear calcium signaling that correlates with the transition from E-LTP to L-LTP, and may explain why the transcription-dependent phase of L-LTP is not induced by a single HFS or TBS but requires repeated trains of activity. Recombinant, nuclear-targeted indicators may prove useful for further analysis of nuclear calcium signaling invivo.

Understanding the regulatory mechanisms controlling the fate decisions of neural stem cells (NSCs) is a crucial issue to shed new light on mammalian central nervous system (CNS) development in health and disease. We have investigated a possible role for the previously uncharacterized BTB/POZ-domain containing zinc finger factor Zbtb45 in the differentiation of NSCs and postnatal oligodendrocyte precursors. In situ hybridization histochemistry and RT-qPCR analysis revealed that Zbtb45 mRNA was ubiquitously expressed in the developing CNS in mouse embryos at embryonic day (E) 12.5 and 14.5. Zbtb45 mRNA knockdown in embryonic forebrain NSCs by siRNA resulted in a rapid decrease in the expression of oligodendrocyte-characteristic genes after mitogen (FGF2) withdrawal, whereas the expression of astrocyte-associated genes such as CD44 and GFAP increased compared to control. Accordingly, the number of astrocytes was significantly increased seven days after Zbtb45 siRNA delivery to NSCs, in contrast to the numbers of neuronal and oligodendrocyte-like cells. Surprisingly, mRNA knockdown of the Zbtb45-associated factor Med31, a subunit of the Mediator complex, did not result in any detectable effect on NSC differentiation. Similar to NSCs, Zbtb45 mRNA knockdown in oligodendrocyte precursors (CG-4) reduced oligodendrocyte maturation upon mitogen withdrawal associated with down-regulation of the mRNA expression and protein levels of markers for oligodendrocytic differentiation. Zbtb45 mRNA knockdown did not significantly affect proliferation or cell death in any of the cell types. Based on these observations, we propose that Zbtb45 is a novel regulator of glial differentiation.

Mitochondrial dysfunction and perturbed degradation of proteins have been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Mutations in the Parkin and PINK1 genes are a cause of familial PD. PINK1 is a putative kinase associated with mitochondria, and loss of PINK1 expression leads to mitochondrial dysfunction, which increases with time. Parkin is suggested to be downstream of PINK1 and also mediates the removal of damaged mitochondria by macroautophagy (mitophagy). We investigated whether mitochondrial dysfunction in dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells following decreased PINK1 expression by RNAi may in part be due to the inhibition of mitophagy. Reduced flux through the macroautophagy pathway was found to be coincident with the inhibition of ATP synthesis following 12 days of PINK1 silencing. Overexpression of parkin in these cells restored both autophagic flux and ATP synthesis. Overexpression and RNAi studies also indicated that PINK1 and parkin were required for mitophagy following CCCP-induced mitochondrial damage. The ubiquitination of several mitochondrial proteins, including mitofusin 1 and mitofusin 2, were detected within 3 h of CCCP treatment. These post-translational modifications were reduced following the silencing of parkin or PINK1. The ubiquitination of mitochondrial proteins appears to identify mitochondria for degradation and facilitate mitophagy. PINK1 and parkin are thus required for the removal of damaged mitochondria in dopaminergic cells, and inhibition of this pathway may lead to the accumulation of defective mitochondria which may contribute to PD pathogenesis.
Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) are associated with familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS). Studies in transgenic mice have suggested that wild-type (WT) SOD1 can modulate the toxicity of mutant SOD1. In the present study, we demonstrate that the effects of WT SOD1 on the age at which transgenic mice expressing mutant human SOD1 (hSOD1) develop paralysis are influenced by the nature of the ALS mutation and the expression levels of WT hSOD1. We show that regardless of whether WT SOD1 changes the course of disease, both WT and mutant hSOD1 accumulate as detergent-insoluble aggregates in symptomatic mice expressing both proteins. However, using a panel of fluorescently tagged variants of SOD1 in a cell model of mutant SOD1 aggregation, we demonstrate that the interactions between mutant and WT SOD1 in aggregate formation are not simply a co-assembly of mutant and WT proteins. Overall, these data demonstrate that the product of the normal SOD1 allele in fALS has potential to influence the toxicity of mutant SOD1 and that complex interactions with the mutant protein may influence the formation of aggregates and inclusion bodies generated by mutant SOD1.
Five blends of poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) with poly(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) were used to prepare microcarriers by a solvent evaporation technique. Microcarriers were evaluated as suitable scaffolds to facilitate retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cell transplantation. The blend ratios were 90:10, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, 10:90 (PLLA:PLGA). Samples of each microcarrier blend were coated with an extracellular matrix protein. Coated and uncoated microcarriers were seeded with a human RPE cell line. As the lactide unit content increased the size of microcarriers generally became larger and the surface more irregular. Cells remained proliferative and retained phenotype as confirmed by immunocytochemistry. Blends rich in PLLA were superior for maintenance of RPE cell viability. This study demonstrates for the first time the feasibility of using microcarriers as a vehicle for retinal cell transplantation for ocular disease.
Regeneration of peripheral nerves after injury is suboptimal. We now report the long term delivery of nerve growth factor (NGF) by biodegradable poly-lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) microspheres in vitro and in vivo. Lactic to glycolic acid ratios of 50:50 and 85:15 were fabricated using the double emulsion solvent, evaporation technique. Three different inherent viscosities (0.1 dL g(-1) : 1A, 0.4 dL g(-1) : 4A, 0.7 dL g(-1) : 7A) were analyzed. In vitro, release of NGF for 23 days was measured. Electron microscopy demonstrated intact spheres for at least 7 days (50:50 1A), 14 days (50:50 4A), or 35 days (50:50 7A and 85:15 7A). In vitro release kinetics was characterized by burst release, followed by release of NGF at a rate of 0.6-1.6% a day. Release curves for 50:50 1A and 85:15 7A differed significantly from other compositions (p &lt; 0.01). In vivo, release was characterized by a novel radionuclide tracking assay. Release rates varied from 0.9 to 2.2% per day with linear kinetics. All but the 85:15 type of spheres showed different release profiles in vivo compared to in vitro conditions. On the basis of the surface morphology and release profiles, we found microspheres fabricated from 50:50 4A PLGA to be best suited for the use in a rat sciatic nerve injury model.
Although synaptogenesis within the retina is obviously essential for vision, mechanisms responsible for the initiation and maintenance of retinal synapses are poorly understood. In addition to its scientific interest, understanding retinal synapse formation is becoming clinically relevant with ongoing efforts to develop transplantation-based approaches for the treatment of retinal degenerative disease. To extend our understanding, we have focused on the chick model system and have studied the neuroligin family of neuronal adhesion factors that has been shown to participate in synapse assembly in the brain. We identified chicken orthologs of neuroligins 1, -3, and -4, but could find no evidence of neuroligin 2. We investigated temporal and spatial patterns of mRNA and protein expression during development using standard polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), quantitative PCR (QPCR), laser-capture microdissection (LCM), and confocal microscopy. At the mRNA level, neuroligins were detected at the earliest period tested, embryonic day (ED)5, which precedes the period of inner retina synaptogenesis. Significant alternative splicing was observed through development. While neuroligin gene products were generally detected in the inner retina, low levels of neuroligin 1 mRNA were also detected in the photoreceptor layer. Neuroligin 3 and -4 transcripts, on the other hand, were only detected in the inner retina. At retinal synapses neuroligin 1 protein was detected in the inner plexiform layer, but its highest levels were detected in the outer plexiform layer on the tips of horizontal cell dendrites. This work lays the groundwork for future studies on the functional roles of the neuroligins within the retina.
The effects of intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) on anti-GM1 IgM titer and function, classical complement pathway activity, and antibody-complement interaction were investigated in 62 patients with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). In vitro, IVIg decreased complement deposition by anti-GM1 IgM antibodies. First IVIg treatment (2 g/kg) decreased C1q and C4 concentrations and classical pathway activity in serum. In sera from patients receiving IVIg maintenance therapy (0.4 g/kg) C4 concentrations and classical pathway activity were generally lower at higher IgG concentrations. The beneficial effects of IVIg in MMN may be explained by reduced antibody-mediated complement deposition in nerves amplified by a systemically attenuated classical pathway.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex autoimmune disease characterised by demyelinating lesions in the central nervous system (CNS) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), a CNS-restricted protein expressed on the outer cell membrane of oligodendrocytes, has been linked with disease pathogenesis. We have investigated whether expression of MOG in post-mortem human brain tissue is associated with genetic variations in the MOG gene that have previously been associated with genetic susceptibility to MS (520G&gt;A, rs3130253, V145I and 511G&gt;C, rs2857766, V142L). Using quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR (qPCR), we found that the haplotype containing the 520A (rs3130253A, I145) allele is associated with a 1.7-fold increase in splicing of exon 2 to exon 3, which encodes the extracellular and transmembrane domains of MOG. Using predictive algorithms, we found that the 520G&gt;A variant also alters a putative exonic splicing enhancer (ESE) involving the SC35 and SRp55 RNA-binding proteins, supporting the notion that this variation has a regulatory effect. No consistent differences in allele-specific expression were observed for any of the SNPs using the SNaPshot method. In this exploratory study we have observed that changes in splicing, but not expression levels, are associated with common genetic variation in the MOG gene. Further work is now required to confirm these data and determine whether this altered MOG expression profile, which is predicted to be over-represented in Northern Europeans with MS, is relevant to the pathophysiology of this debilitating disease.
We examined the effect of chronic CCL3 treatment on the properties of cultured rat hippocampal neurons to gain an understanding of the neuronal effects of CCL3 during neuroinflammatory disorders. Western blot assays showed that chronic exposure to CCL3 altered the level of specific neuronal and glial proteins and that CCL3 had no effect on neuronal survival. CCL3 treatment also altered intracellular Ca(2+) dynamics and increased Ca(2+) levels in hippocampal neurons, measured by fura-2 imaging techniques. Additionally, chronic CCL3 increased NMDA-evoked Ca(2+) signals in the hippocampal neurons and increased NMDA receptor levels. These CCL3-induced neuroadaptive changes could play an important role in the CNS dysfunction associated with CNS disorders with a neuroinflammatory component.

Increasing evidence from neuro and retinal imaging, neuropathology, epidemiology and experimental models suggests that the primary underlying initiating cause of cerebral small vessel disease is the derangement of the blood-brain barrier. This may start some years before the first symptoms, leads to the small vessel structural changes (vessel wall thickening, disorganisation and eventual breakdown) and perivascular changes (oedema, enlarged perivascular spaces, tissue damage interpreted as &quot;infarcts&quot;) and is fundamentally different to traditional &quot;ischaemic&quot; mechanisms, although small vessel occlusion due to thrombus formation on damaged vessel walls may be a late secondary phenomenon. Space limits a detailed discussion of the epidemiology and experimental evidence, so this brief review will focus on neuroimaging evidence and summarise the appearances, risk factors and associations of different components of cerebral small vessel disease as identified on imaging, discuss potential causes and, in particular, the evidence that disordered blood-brain barrier precipitates or worsens progression of cerebral small vessel disease. This mechanism may also play a role in other common disorders of ageing such as Alzheimer's disease.
Few studies have investigated how the cortex encodes the preshaping of the hand as an object is grasped, an ethological movement referred to as prehension. We developed an encoding model of hand kinematics to test whether primary motor cortex (MI) neurons encode temporally extensive combinations of joint motions that characterize a prehensile movement. Two female rhesus macaque monkeys were trained to grasp 4 different objects presented by a robot while their arm was held in place by a thermoplastic brace. We used multielectrode arrays to record MI neurons and an infrared camera motion tracking system to record the 3-D positions of 14 markers placed on the monkeys' wrist and digits. A generalized linear model framework was used to predict the firing rate of each neuron in a 4 ms time interval, based on its own spiking history and the spatiotemporal kinematics of the joint angles of the hand. Our results show that the variability of the firing rate of MI neurons is better described by temporally extensive combinations of finger and wrist joint angle kinematics rather than any individual joint motion or any combination of static kinematic parameters at their optimal lag. Moreover, a higher percentage of neurons encoded joint angular velocities than joint angular positions. These results suggest that neurons encode the covarying trajectories of the hand's joints during a prehensile movement.
Grasping is a highly complex movement requiring coordination of a number of hand joints and muscles. In contrast to cortical descending systems, the contribution of the subcortical system for coordinating this higher degree of freedom is largely unknown. Here we explore how spinal interneurons (INs) contribute to the coordination of hand muscles by recording their activity from the cervical spinal cord (C5-T1) simultaneously with electromyographic (EMG) activity from hand and arm muscles in three monkeys performing a precision grip task. Spike-triggered averages of the rectified EMGs were compiled for 255 neurons (4821 neuron-muscle pairs). Twenty-six neurons produced 68 significant postspike effects in hand and arm muscles and were identified as premotor interneurons (PreM-INs), which presumably have relatively direct synaptic effects on spinal motoneurons. The majority of the PreM-INs (22/26 neurons) produced postspike effects in finger muscles (intrinsic and extrinsic hand muscles) compared with wrist (9/26 neurons) and elbow muscles (1/26 neurons). The effects in finger muscles were mostly facilitative [postspike facilitations (PSFs), 19/22 neurons], and few had suppressive effects (postspike suppressions, 3/22 neurons). Moreover, PreM-INs produced more divergent PSFs in intrinsic hand muscles (2.5  1.9 muscles/neuron) than in wrist muscles (1.2  0.4 muscles/neurons). We conclude that spinal PreM-INs produce divergent facilitations preferentially in intrinsic hand muscles. These results suggest that spinal interneurons contribute to the control of hand grasping in primates by combining and coordinating multiple finger muscles.
Devices such as robots or treadmills are often used to drive motor learning because they can create novel physical environments. However, the learning (i.e., adaptation) acquired on these devices only partially generalizes to natural movements. What determines the specificity of motor learning, and can this be reliably made more general? Here we investigated the effect of visual cues on the specificity of split-belt walking adaptation. We systematically removed vision to eliminate the visual-proprioceptive mismatch that is a salient cue specific to treadmills: vision indicates that we are not moving while leg proprioception indicates that we are. We evaluated the adaptation of temporal and spatial features of gait (i.e., timing and location of foot landing), their transfer to walking over ground, and washout of adaptation when subjects returned to the treadmill. Removing vision during both training (i.e., on the treadmill) and testing (i.e., over ground) strongly improved the transfer of treadmill adaptation to natural walking. Removing vision only during training increased transfer of temporal adaptation, whereas removing vision only during testing increased the transfer of spatial adaptation. This dissociation reveals differences in adaptive mechanisms for temporal and spatial features of walking. Finally training without vision increased the amount that was learned and was linked to the variability in the behavior during adaptation. In conclusion, contextual cues can be manipulated to modulate the magnitude, transfer, and washout of device-induced learning in humans. These results bring us closer to our ultimate goal of developing rehabilitation strategies that improve movements beyond the clinical setting.
Homeostatic synaptic plasticity adjusts the strength of synapses during global changes in neural activity, thereby stabilizing the overall activity of neural networks. Suppression of synaptic activity increases synaptic strength by inducing synthesis of retinoic acid (RA), which activates postsynaptic synthesis of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) in dendrites and promotes synaptic insertion of newly synthesized AMPARs. Here, we show that fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), an RNA-binding protein that regulates dendritic protein synthesis, is essential for increases in synaptic strength induced by RA or by blockade of neural activity in the mouse hippocampus. Although activity-dependent RA synthesis is maintained in Fmr1 knock-out neurons, RA-dependent dendritic translation of GluR1-type AMPA receptors is impaired. Intriguingly, FMRP is only required for the form of homeostatic plasticity that is dependent on both RA signaling and local protein synthesis. Postsynaptic expression of wild-type or mutant FMRP(I304N) in knock-out neurons reduced the total, surface, and synaptic levels of AMPARs, implying a role for FMRP in regulating AMPAR abundance. Expression of FMRP lacking the RGG box RNA-binding domain had no effect on AMPAR levels. Importantly, postsynaptic expression of wild-type FMRP, but not FMRP(I304N) or FMRPRGG, restored synaptic scaling when expressed in knock-out neurons. Together, these findings identify an unanticipated role for FMRP in regulating homeostatic synaptic plasticity downstream of RA. Our results raise the possibility that at least some of the symptoms of fragile X syndrome reflect impaired homeostatic plasticity and impaired RA signaling.
A highly diverse population of neocortical GABAergic inhibitory interneurons has been implicated in multiple functions in information processing within cortical circuits. The diversity of cortical interneurons is determined during development and primarily depends on their embryonic origins either from the medial (MGE) or the caudal (CGE) ganglionic eminences. Although MGE-derived parvalbumin (PV)- or somatostatin (SST)-expressing interneurons are well characterized, less is known about the other types of cortical GABAergic interneurons, especially those of CGE lineage, because of the lack of specific neuronal markers for these interneuron subtypes. Using a bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mouse line, we show that, in the somatosensory cortex of the mouse, the serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine 3A (5-HT(3A)) receptor, the only ionotropic serotonergic receptor, is expressed in most, if not all, neocortical GABAergic interneurons that do not express PV or SST. Genetic fate mapping and neurochemical profile demonstrate that 5-HT(3A)R-expressing neurons include the entire spectrum of CGE-derived interneurons. We report that, in addition to serotonergic responsiveness via 5-HT(3A)Rs, acetylcholine also depolarizes 5-HT(3A)R-expressing neurons via nicotinic receptors. 5-HT(3A)R-expressing neurons in thalamocortical (TC) recipient areas receive weak but direct monosynaptic inputs from the thalamus. TC input depolarizes a subset of TC-recipient 5-HT(3A)R neurons as strongly as fast-spiking cells, in part because of their high input resistance. Hence, fast modulation of serotonergic and cholinergic transmission may influence cortical activity through an enhancement of GABAergic synaptic transmission from 5-HT(3A)R-expressing neurons during sensory process depending on different behavioral states.
The historical roots of Alzheimer's disease provide a sound conceptual basis for linking the behavioral and neurological symptoms of the disease with the frequently associated pathology of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Out of these roots has grown the &quot;amyloid cascade hypothesis&quot;--a vision of the etiology of Alzheimer's that has spurred the discovery of many important insights into the neurobiology of the disease. Despite these successes, the wealth of new data now available to biomedical researchers urges a full review of the origins of Alzheimer's, and such a reconsideration is offered here. It begins with the most widely accepted risk factor for developing Alzheimer's disease: age. Then, for an individual to progress from normal age-appropriate cognitive function to a condition where the full palette of clinical symptoms is expressed, three key steps are envisioned: (1) an initiating injury, (2) a chronic neuroinflammatory response, and (3) a discontinuous cellular change of state involving most, if not all, of the cell types of the brain. The amyloid cascade is integrated into this sequence, but reconfigured as an amyloid deposition cycle. In this way, the pathology of amyloid plaques is envisioned as highly correlated with, but mechanistically distinct from, the three obligatory steps leading to Alzheimer's disease. The implications of this new model are discussed with respect to our current diagnostic criteria, and suggestions are put forward for expanding our future research efforts.

Over the last few years, simultaneous recordings of multiple spike trains have become widely used by neuroscientists. Therefore, it is important to develop new tools for analysing multiple spike trains in order to gain new insight into the function of neural systems. This paper describes how techniques from the field of visual analytics can be used to reveal specific patterns of neural activity. An interactive raster plot called iRaster has been developed. This software incorporates a selection of statistical procedures for visualization and flexible manipulations with multiple spike trains. For example, there are several procedures for the re-ordering of spike trains which can be used to unmask activity propagation, spiking synchronization, and many other important features of multiple spike train activity. Additionally, iRaster includes a rate representation of neural activity, a combined representation of rate and spikes, spike train removal and time interval removal. Furthermore, it provides multiple coordinated views, time and spike train zooming windows, a fisheye lens distortion, and dissemination facilities. iRaster is a user friendly, interactive, flexible tool which supports a broad range of visual representations. This tool has been successfully used to analyse both synthetic and experimentally recorded datasets. In this paper, the main features of iRaster are described and its performance and effectiveness are demonstrated using various types of data including experimental multi-electrode array recordings from the ganglion cell layer in mouse retina. iRaster is part of an ongoing research project called VISA (Visualization of Inter-Spike Associations) at the Visualization Lab in the University of Plymouth. The overall aim of the VISA project is to provide neuroscientists with the ability to freely explore and analyse their data. The software is freely available from the Visualization Lab website (see www.plymouth.ac.uk/infovis).
Functionally related groups of neurons spatially cluster together in the brain. To detect groups of functionally related neurons from 3D histological data, we developed an objective clustering method that provides a description of detected cell clusters that is quantitative and amenable to visual exploration. This method is based on bubble clustering (Gupta and Ghosh, 2008). Our implementation consists of three steps: (i) an initial data exploration for scanning the clustering parameter space; (ii) determination of the optimal clustering parameters; and (iii) final clustering. We designed this algorithm to flexibly detect clusters without assumptions about the underlying cell distribution within a cluster or the number and sizes of clusters. We implemented the clustering function as an integral part of the neuroanatomical data visualization software Virtual RatBrain (http://www.virtualratbrain.org). We applied this algorithm to the basal forebrain cholinergic system, which consists of a diffuse but inhomogeneous population of neurons (Zaborszky, 1992). With this clustering method, we confirmed the inhomogeneity in this system, defined cell clusters, quantified and localized them, and determined the cell density within clusters. Furthermore, by applying the clustering method to multiple specimens from both rat and monkey, we found that cholinergic clusters display remarkable cross-species preservation of cell density within clusters. This method is efficient not only for clustering cell body distributions but may also be used to study other distributed neuronal structural elements, including synapses, receptors, dendritic spines and molecular markers.
Rabies virus (RV) has widely been used as a trans-synaptic retrograde tracer to analyze chains of connected neurons. The use of antibodies directed against the viral nucleoprotein enables viral nucleocapsids to be visualized within the cell soma, as well as within the thickest main dendrites. However, through this approach it is often difficult to accurately define post-synaptic elements (thin dendrites and/or dendritic spines). This limitation can now easily been circumvented by taking advantage of antibodies directed against a soluble viral phosphoprotein that spreads throughout the cytoplasm of the infected neuron, thereby producing Golgi-like immunofluorescent labeling of first-order projection neurons that are infected with RV. Furthermore, when combined with anterograde tracers such as Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) and biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), this procedure to detect RV facilitates the accurate visualization of both the pre- and post-synaptic elements. Finally, this method of viral detection is sufficiently sensitive to detect weakly labeled second-order neurons, which can then be further characterized neurochemically. Several examples are provided to illustrate why retrograde trans-synaptic tracing using RV can be regarded as an important breakthrough in the analysis of brain circuits, providing an unprecedented level of resolution.
Powerful transneuronal tracing technologies exploit the ability of some neurotropic viruses to travel across neuronal pathways and to function as self-amplifying markers. Two main classes of viral transneuronal tracers are available, derived from alpha-herpesviruses (Herpes Simplex virus type 1, Pseudorabies) and rabies virus. Depending on the virus type and strain, there are major differences with regard to host range, peripheral uptake, replication mechanisms, transport direction and specificity. While alpha-herpesviruses are the tracers of choice for studying autonomic innervation, rabies virus is the ideal tool for studying motor innervation, since its peripheral uptake occurs exclusively at motor endplates. Rabies virus is the only viral tracer that is entirely specific, as it moves exclusively across chemical synapses by strictly unidirectional (retrograde) transneuronal transfer without altering neuronal metabolism, allowing for the stepwise, time-dependent, identification of neuronal networks across an unlimited number of synapses. This review will highlight and contrast the different properties of these viral tracers, and summarize the methodological issues that are critical for the appropriate execution and interpretation of transneuronal tracing studies. Combinations of viral tracing with other methodologies will be evaluated. Emerging technologies, based on genetically modified herpes and rabies tracers, will be also discussed and put in perspective.
Most of our current understanding of brain circuits is based on hodological studies carried out using neuroanatomical tract-tracing. Our aim is to advance one step further by visualizing the functional correlate in a given circuit. In this regard, we believe it is feasible to combine retrograde tracing with fluorescence, non-radioactive in situ hybridization (ISH) protocols. The subsequent detection at the single-cell level of the expression of a given mRNA within retrograde-labeled neurons provides information regarding cellular function. This may be of particular interest when trying to elucidate the performance of brain circuits of interest in animal models of brain diseases. Several combinations of retrograde tracing with either single- and double-ISH are presented here, together with some criteria that influence the selection of the tracer to be used in conjunction with the strong demands of the ISH.
GABAergic amacrine cell feedback to bipolar cells in retina has been described, activating both GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors. We explored whether metabotropic GABA(B) receptors also participate in this feedback pathway. CGP55845, a potent GABA(B) receptor antagonist, was employed to determine the endogenous role of these receptors. Ganglion cell EPSCs and IPSCs were monitored to measure the output of bipolar and amacrine cells. Using the tiger salamander slice preparation, we found that GABA(B) receptor pathways regulate bipolar cell release directly and indirectly. In the direct pathway, the GABA(B) receptor antagonist reduces EPSC amplitude, indicating that GABA(B) receptors cause enhanced glutamate release from bipolar cells to one set of ganglion cells. In the indirect pathway, the GABA(B) receptor antagonist reduces EPSC amplitude in another set of ganglion cells. The indirect pathway is only evident when GABA(A) receptors are inhibited, and is blocked by a glycine receptor antagonist. Thus, this second feedback pathway involves direct glycine feedback to the bipolar cell and this glycinergic amacrine cell is suppressed by GABAergic amacrine cells, through both GABA(A) and GABA(B) but not GABA(C) receptors. Overall, GABA(B) receptors do contribute to feedback regulation of bipolar cell transmitter release. However, unlike the ionotropic GABA receptor pathways, the metabotropic GABA receptor pathways act to enhance bipolar cell transmitter release. Furthermore, there are three discrete subsets of bipolar cell output regulated by GABA(B) receptor feedback (direct, indirect and null), implying three distinct, non-overlapping bipolar cell to ganglion cell circuits.
The purpose of the current study was to examine changes in dopamine D2 receptor (DA-D2R) expression within the basal ganglia of MPTP mice subjected to intensive treadmill exercise. Using Western immunoblotting analysis of synaptoneurosomes and in vivo positron emission tomography (PET) imaging employing the DA-D2R specific ligand [F]fallypride, we found that high intensity treadmill exercise led to an increase in striatal DA-D2R expression that was most pronounced in MPTP compared to saline treated mice. Exercise-induced changes in the DA-D2R in the dopamine-depleted basal ganglia are consistent with the potential role of this receptor in modulating medium spiny neurons (MSNs) function and behavioral recovery. Importantly, findings from this study support the rationale for using PET imaging with [F]fallypride to examine DA-D2R changes in individuals with Parkinson's Disease (PD) undergoing high-intensity treadmill training.
Vestibular dysfunction has been reported in patients with cervical dystonia (CD), but it is still unclear whether the abnormalities occur as part of the CD syndrome or whether they arise from the abnormal posture and movement of the head. We compared vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs) recorded from the affected neck muscles (i.e., cervical VEMPs) with those recorded from muscles unaffected by the dystonia, the extraocular muscles (i.e., ocular VEMPs). We compared 21 patients and age-matched normal controls to investigate whether these short-latency reflexes are altered in CD. We also measured subjective visual horizontal (SVH). Seven patients had not received botulinum toxin treatment (nave group), 10 were receiving regular injections (treatment group), and four had previously received treatment but had developed antibodies (antibody group). Both cervical and ocular VEMPs were present in the majority of patients and controls. For both reflexes, there were no significant differences between stimulation of the two sides of the head, between the treatment groups, or between the patients and controls. There was also no difference in degree of deviation of SVH between the groups. Our results showed that VEMPs can be reliably recorded from both the neck and extraocular muscles in patients with CD, even after long disease or treatment durations, and provide evidence for intact short-latency vestibular reflexes in CD.
Outpatient pharmacy errors are common, but little is known about their occurrence in Parkinson's disease (PD). We prospectively studied carbidopa/levodopa pharmacy errors in a cohort of PD outpatients. Over 1 year, pharmacy errors occurred in 8/73 (11%) subjects treated with this medication, producing adverse drug events (ADEs) in 7/8 (87.5%) and increased healthcare utilization in 6/8 (75%) cases. The most common errors were substitution of controlled-release for immediate-release carbidopa/levodopa 25/100 mg (5/8; 62.5%) or dispensation of the wrong carbidopa/levodopa dosage (2/8; 25%). All errors involved ongoing prescriptions, including three interpharmacy transfers. Three subjects (37.5%) questioned pharmacy staff about the change in appearance of the tablets, but the error was corrected in only 1/3 of these cases. Carbidopa/levodopa outpatient pharmacy errors are a common, preventable cause of morbidity and excessive healthcare utilization in PD. Education of healthcare providers, patients, and pharmacy staff is warranted to reduce these errors and associated ADEs.
The Balb/c strain and the C57BL/6 strain show constitutive differences for tyrosine hydroxylase expression, and noradrenaline (NA) prefrontal transmission. Male mice of these strains also show striking differences in social interaction behaviors, with an increased aggressiveness for the Balb/c strain. To test a potential link between these neurobiological and behavioral parameters, we evaluated the behavioral effects of chronic treatment of mice with BC19, a noreburnamine compound previously known as RU24722, found to modify cell organisation, tyrosine hydoxylase (TH) expression, and its activity into the locus coeruleus (LC). We compared the pharmacological effects between the two strains in social behaviors. Our results show that the emergence of additional TH-expressing (TH+) neurons in the rostral part of the LC of Balb/c mice was associated with an increase in the density of TH+ and noradrenergic (NA+) fibers in the molecular layer in the cingular (Cg1) and prelimbic (PrL) parts of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). BC19 treatment resulted in the near-equalization of the LC number of TH+ neurons and of the density of TH+ and NA+ fibers between both strains. The aggressiveness in Balb/c mice was considerably diminished by BC19 treatment, while the originally non aggressive behavior of C57Bl/6 mice was much less affected by BC19 treatment, despite a moderate increase in some offensive behaviors. In additional control experiments, we checked the effect of BC19 on a separate test for anxiety and assessed the effect of noradrenergic N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP-4) mediated lesions in C57BL/6 mice on social behaviors. In the present study we show that the BC19 effect in Balb/c mice was independent of anxiety as measured in the light/dark test and that DSP-4 lesions in C57BL/6 mice produced a robust increase in aggressive social interaction. Altogether, these results show that the noradrenergic system, and particularly its projections to the PFC, strongly modulates aggressive behaviors.
The hippocampus plays an important role in the formation of new memories and spatial navigation. Recently, growing evidence supports the view that it is also involved in addiction to opiates and other drugs. Theoretical and experimental studies suggest that hippocampal neural-network oscillations at specific frequencies and unit firing patterns reflect information of learning and memory encoding. Here, using multichannel recordings from the hippocampal CA1 area in behaving mice, we investigated the phase correlations between the theta (4-10 Hz) and gamma (40-100 Hz) oscillations, and the timing of spikes modulated by these oscillations. Local field potentials and single unit recordings in the CA1 area of mice receiving chronic morphine treatment revealed that the power of the theta rhythm was strongly increased; at the same time, the theta frequency during different behavioral states shifted markedly, and the characteristic coupling of theta and gamma oscillations was altered. Surprisingly, though the gamma oscillation frequency changed, the power of gamma lacking theta did not. Moreover, the timing of pyramidal cell spikes relative to the theta rhythm and the timing of interneuron spikes relative to the gamma rhythm changed during chronic morphine administration. Furthermore, these responses were impaired by a selective D1/D5 receptor antagonist intra-hippocampus injection. These results indicate that chronic morphine administration induced the changes of ensemble activity in the CA1 area, and these changes were dependent on local dopamine receptor activation.
Before hearing onset, the topographic organization of the auditory GABA/glycinergic pathway from the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) to the lateral superior olive (LSO) is refined by synaptic silencing and strengthening. The synaptic mechanisms underlying the developmental strengthening of maintained MNTB-LSO connections are unknown. Here we address this question using whole-cell recordings from LSO neurons in slices prepared from prehearing mice. Minimal and maximal stimulation techniques demonstrated that during the first two postnatal weeks, individual LSO neurons lose about 55% of their initial presynaptic MNTB partners while maintained single-fiber connections become about 14-fold stronger. Analysis of MNTB-evoked miniature events indicates that this strengthening is accompanied by a 2-fold increase in quantal amplitude. Strengthening is not caused by an increase in the probability of release because paired pulse ratios (PPRs) increased from 0.7 in newborn animals to 0.9 around hearing onset, indicating a developmental decrease rather than increase in release probability. In addition, a possible soma-dendritic relocation of MNTB input seems unlikely to underlie their strengthening as indicated by analysis of the rise times of synaptic currents. Taken together, we conclude that the developmental strengthening of MNTB-LSO connections is achieved by a 2-fold increase in quantal size and an 8-fold increase in quantal content.
Previously, we reported that a critical period in respiratory network development exists in rats around postnatal days (P; P12-P13), when abrupt neurochemical, metabolic, and physiological changes occur. Specifically, the expressions of glutamate and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NR) subunit 1 in the pre-Btzinger complex (PBC), nucleus ambiguus (Amb), hypoglossal nucleus (XII), and ventrolateral subnucleus of solitary tract nucleus (NTS(VL)) were significantly reduced at P12. To test our hypothesis that other NR subunits also undergo postnatal changes, we undertook an in-depth immunohistochemical study of NR2A, 2B, 2C, 2D, and 3B in these four respiratory nuclei in P2-P21 rats, using the non-respiratory cuneate nucleus (CN) as a control. Our results revealed that: (1) NR2A expression increased gradually from P2 to P11, but fell significantly at P12 in all four respiratory nuclei (but not in the CN), followed by a quick rise and a relative plateau until P21; (2) NR2B expression remained relatively constant from P2 to P21 in all five nuclei examined; (3) NR2C expression had an initial rise from P2 to P3, but remained relatively constant thereafter until P21, except for a significant fall at P12 in the PBC; (4) NR2D expression fell significantly from P2 to P3, then plateaued until P12, and declined again until P21; and (5) in contrast to NR2D, NR3B expression rose gradually from P2 to P21. These patterns reflect a dynamic remodeling of NMDA receptor subunit composition during postnatal development, with a distinct reduction of NR2A expression during the critical period (P12), just as NR1 did in various respiratory nuclei. There was also a potential switch between the neonatal NR2D and the more mature NR3B subunit, possibly around the critical period. Thus, during the critical period, NMDA receptors are undergoing greater adjustments that may contribute to attenuated excitatory synaptic transmission in the respiratory network.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are important processes in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies have implicated the role of amyloid -peptides (A) in mediating these processes. In astrocytes, oligomeric A induces the assembly of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase complexes resulting in its activation to produce anionic superoxide. A also promotes production of pro-inflammatory factors in astrocytes. Since low energy laser has previously been reported to attenuate oxidative stress and inflammation in biological systems, the objective of this study was to examine whether this type of laser light was able to abrogate the oxidative and inflammatory responses induced by A. Primary rat astrocytes were exposed to Helium-Neon laser (=632.8 nm), followed by the treatment with oligomeric A. Primary rat astrocytes were used to measure A-induced production of superoxide anions using fluorescence microscopy of dihydroethidium (DHE), assembly of NADPH oxidase subunits by the colocalization between the cytosolic p47(phox) subunit and the membrane gp91(phox) subunit using fluorescent confocal microscopy, phosphorylation of cytosolic phospholipase A(2) cPLA(2) and expressions of pro-inflammatory factors including interleukin-1 (IL-1) and inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) using Western blot Analysis. Our data showed that laser light at 632.8 nm suppressed A-induced superoxide production, colocalization between NADPH oxidase gp91(phox) and p47(phox) subunits, phosphorylation of cPLA(2,) and the expressions of IL-1 and iNOS in primary astrocytes. We demonstrated for the first time that 632.8 nm laser was capable of suppressing cellular pathways of oxidative stress and inflammatory responses critical in the pathogenesis in AD. This study should prove to provide the groundwork for further investigations for the potential use of laser therapy as a treatment for AD.
Ethanol (EtOH) is a drug widely consumed throughout the world that promotes several neurochemical disorders. Its deleterious effects are generally associated with modifications in oxidative stress parameters, signaling transduction pathways, and neurotransmitter systems, leading to distinct behavioral changes. Taurine (2-aminoethanesulfonic acid) is a -amino acid not incorporated into proteins found in mM range in the central nervous system (CNS). The actions of taurine as an inhibitory neurotransmitter, neuromodulator, and antioxidant make it attractive for studying a potential protective role against EtOH-mediated neurotoxicity. In this study, we investigated whether acute taurine cotreatment or pretreatment (1 h) prevent EtOH-induced changes in acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and in oxidative stress parameters in zebrafish brain. The results showed that EtOH exposure (1% in volume) during 1 h increased AChE activity, whereas the cotreatment with 400 mgL(-1) taurine prevented this enhancement. A similar protective effect of 150 and 400 mgL(-1) taurine was also observed when the animals were pretreated with this amino acid. Taurine treatments also prevented the alterations promoted in superoxide dismutase and catalase activities by EtOH, suggesting a modulatory role in enzymatic antioxidant defenses. The pretreatment with 150 and 400 mgL(-1) taurine significantly increased the sulfydryl levels as compared to control and EtOH groups. Moreover, 150 and 400 mgL(-1) taurine significantly decreased thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) levels, but the cotreatment with EtOH plus 400 mgL(-1) taurine did not prevent the EtOH-induced lipoperoxidation. In contrast, the pretreatment with 150 and 400 mgL(-1) taurine prevented the TBARS increase besides decreased the basal levels of lipid peroxides. Altogether, our data showed for the first time that EtOH induced oxidative stress in adult zebrafish brain and reinforce the idea that this vertebrate is an attractive alternative model to evaluate the beneficial effect of taurine against acute EtOH exposure.
Cholinergic neurons of the pontine laterodorsal tegmentum (LDT) play a critical role in regulation of behavioral state. Therefore, elucidation of mechanisms that control their activity is vital for understanding of how switching between wakefulness, sleep and anesthetic states is effectuated. In vivo studies suggest that GABAergic mechanisms within the pons play a critical role in behavioral state switching. However, the postsynaptic, electrophysiological actions of GABA on LDT neurons, as well as the identity of GABA receptors present in the LDT mediating these actions is virtually unexplored. Therefore, we studied the actions of GABA agonists and antagonists on cholinergic LDT cells by performing patch clamp recordings in mouse brain slices. Under conditions where detection of Cl(-) -mediated events was optimized, GABA induced gabazine (GZ)-sensitive inward currents in the majority of LDT neurons. Post-synaptic location of GABA(A) receptors was demonstrated by persistence of muscimol-induced inward currents in TTX and low Ca(2+) solutions. THIP, a selective GABA(A) receptor agonist with a preference for -subunit containing GABA(A) receptors, induced inward currents, suggesting the existence of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors. LDT cells also possess GABA(B) receptors as baclofen-activated a TTX- and low Ca(2+)-resistant outward current that was attenuated by the GABA(B) antagonists CGP 55845 and saclofen. The tertiapin sensitivity of baclofen-induced outward currents suggests that a G(IRK) mediated this effect. Further, outward currents were never additive with those induced by application of carbachol, suggesting that they were mediated by activation of GABA(B) receptors linked to the same G(IRK) activated in these cells by muscarinic receptor stimulation. Activation of GABA(B) receptors inhibited Ca(2+) increases induced by a depolarizing voltage step shown previously to activate VOCCs in cholinergic LDT neurons. Baclofen-mediated reductions in depolarization-induced Ca(2+) were unaltered by prior emptying of intracellular Ca(2+) stores, but were abolished by low extracellular Ca(2+) and pre-application of nifedipine, indicating that activation of GABA(B) receptors inhibits influx of Ca(2+) involving L-type Ca(2+) channels. Presence of GABA(C) receptors is suggested by the induction of inward current by (E)-4- amino-2-butenoic acid (TACA) and its inhibition by 1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine-4-ylmethylphosphinic (TPMPA), a relatively selective agonist and antagonist, respectively, of GABA(C) receptors. All of these GABA-mediated actions were found to occur in histochemically-identified cholinergic neurons. Taken together, these data indicate for the first time that cholinergic neurons of the LDT exhibit functional GABA(A, B and C) receptors, including extrasynaptically located GABA(A) receptors, which may be tonically activated by synaptic overflow of GABA. Accordingly, the activity of cholinergic LDT neurons is likely to be significantly affected by GABAergic tone within the nucleus, and so, demonstrated effects of GABA on behavioral state may be mediated, in part, via direct actions on cholinergic neurons in the LDT.
Using ulnar nerve as donor and musculocutaneous nerve as recipient we recently demonstrated that end-to-end neurorrhaphy in young adult male Wistar rats resulted in good recovery following protracted survival. Here we explored whether anti-inflammatory drug- methylprednisolone, regeneration/myelination-enhancing agent- methylcobalamin and neurite growth-enhancing and angiogenic factor- pleiotrophin accelerated its recovery. Methylprednisolone suppressed the perineuronal microglial reaction and periaxonal ED-1 expression while pleiotrophin increased the blood vessel density and nerve fiber densities in the reconnected nerve as expected. Neither methylprednisolone nor methylcobalamin altered the expression of growth associated protein 43 in the neurons examined suggesting that they did not interfere with axonal regeneration attempt. Surprisingly methylcobalamin enhanced the recovery of compound muscle action potentials and motor end plate innervation and the performance on sticker removal grooming test and augmented the diameters and myelin thicknesses of regenerated axons dramatically while enhancing S-100 expression in Schwann cells; remarkable recovery was achieved 1 month following neurorrhaphy. Simultaneous methylcobalamin and pleiotrophin treatment resulted in quick and persistent supernumerary reinnervation but failed to enhance the recovery over that of the former alone. Methylprednisolone transiently suppressed the enumeration of regrowing axons. In conclusion, methylcobalamin may be preferred over methylprednisolone to facilitate the recovery of peripheral nerves following end-to-end neurorrhaphy. The long-term effect of this treatment however remains to be clarified.
In brainstem slices of young male rat, we investigated the influence of the neuroactive steroid testosterone (T) on the synaptic responses by analyzing the field potential evoked in the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) by vestibular afferent stimulation. T induced three distinct and independent long-term synaptic changes: fast long-lasting potentiation (fLP), slow long-lasting potentiation (sLP) and long-lasting depression (LD). The fLP was mediated by 17-estradiol (E(2)) since it was abolished by blocking the estrogen receptors (ERs) or the enzyme converting T to E(2). Conversely, sLP and LD were mediated by 5-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) since they were prevented by blocking the androgen receptors (ARs) or the enzyme converting T to DHT. Therefore, the synaptic effects of T were mediated by its androgenic or estrogenic metabolites. The pathways leading to estrogenic and androgenic conversion of T might be co-localized since, the occurrence of fLP under block of androgenic pathway, and that of sLP and LD under estrogenic block, were higher than those observed without blocks. In case of co-localization, the effect on synaptic transmission should depend on the prevailing enzymatic activity. We conclude that circulating and neuronal T can remarkably influence synaptic responses of the vestibular neurons in different and opposite ways, depending on its conversion to estrogenic or androgenic metabolites.
We analyzed the long-term consequences of asphyxial cardiac arrest for hippocampal cell proliferation in rats to evaluate if the ischaemia-induced degenerated CA1 region may be repopulated by endogenous (stem) cells. Studies were performed in an asphyxial cardiac arrest model with 5 minutes of asphyxiation and three different survival times: 7, 21, and 90 days. Sham-operated non-asphyxiated rats served as control. Cell proliferation was studied by labeling dividing cells with 5-bromo-2'-deoxy-uridine (BrdU). The neurodegenerative/regenerative pattern at single cell levels was monitored by immunohistochemistry. Alterations of gene expression were analyzed by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. Analysis of BrdU-incorporation demonstrated an increase at 7, 21 as well as 90 days after global ischaemia in the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell layer. Similar results were found in the dentate gyrus. Differentiation of BrdU-positive cells, investigated by cell phenotype-specific double fluorescent labeling, showed increased neurogenesis only in the dentate gyrus of animals surviving the cardiac arrest for 7 days. The majority of newcomers, especially in the damaged CA1 region, consisted of glial cells. Moreover, asphyxia seemed to be able to induce the migration of microglia and astroglia from adjacent areas into the damaged area and/or the activation of resident cells. In addition, we show microglia proliferation/activation even 90 days after cardiac arrest. This morphological finding was confirmed by PCR analysis. The results indicate that asphyxia triggers cell proliferation in general and gliogenesis in particular - a possible pro-reparative event. Furthermore, from the finding of microglia proliferation up to 90 days after insult we conclude that delayed cell death processes take place which should be considered for further therapy strategies.
Reversible inactivation of the ventral portion of medial prefrontal cortex (vMPFC) of the rat brain has been shown to induce anxiolytic-like effects in animal models based on associative learning. The role of this brain region in situations involving innate fear, however, is still poorly understood, with several contradictory results in the literature. The objective of the present work was to verify in male Wistar rats the effects of vMPFC administration of cobalt chloride (CoCl(2)), a selective inhibitor of synaptic activity, in rats submitted to two models based on innate fear, the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and light-dark box (LDB), comparing the results with those obtained in two models involving associative learning, the contextual fear conditioning (CFC) and Vogel conflict (VCT) tests. The results showed that, whereas CoCl(2) induced anxiolytic-like effects in the CFC and VCT tests, it enhanced anxiety in rats submitted to the EPM and LDB. Together these results indicate that the vMPFC plays an important but complex role in the modulation of defensive-related behaviors, which seems to depend on the nature of the anxiety/fear inducing stimuli.
New granule cells are continuously generated throughout adulthood in the mammalian hippocampus. These newly generated neurons become functionally integrated into existing hippocampal neuronal networks, such as those that support retrieval of remote spatial memory. Here, we sought to examine whether the contribution of newly born neurons depends on the type of learning and memory task in mice. To do so, we reduced neurogenesis with a cytostatic agent and examined whether depletion of young hippocampal neurons affects learning and/or memory in two hippocampal-dependent tasks (spatial navigation in the Morris water maze and object location test) and two hippocampal-independent tasks (cued navigation in the Morris water maze and novel object recognition). Double immunohistofluorescent labeling of the birth dating marker 5-bromo-2'deoxyuridine (BrdU) together with NeuN, a neuron specific marker, was employed to quantify reduction of hippocampal neurogenesis. We found that depletion of young adult-generated neurons alters recent and remote memory in spatial tasks but spares non-spatial tasks. Our findings provide additional evidence that generation of new cells in the adult brain is crucial for hippocampal-dependent cognitive functions.
The coordinated expression of as many as 100 proteins may be required to sustain simple changes in synaptic transmission. While each protein may be regulated separately, the translation of multiple proteins could be regulated by microRNAs. MicroRNAs are short non-coding RNAs that translationally repress cognate sequences in targeted mRNAs. If these targeted sequences are shared across several genes, then a single microRNA could, effectively regulate the activity of several genes in parallel. Here we investigate whether microRNA transcription is influenced by naturally evoked synaptic activity at the climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapse in the mouse cerebellar flocculus. Mice received 24 h of binocular horizontal optokinetic stimulation (HOKS) evoking sustained increases in climbing fiber activity to Purkinje cells in one flocculus and decreases to Purkinje cells in the other. Increased climbing fiber activity increased transcription of 12 microRNAs in the flocculus. The transcription of one of these microRNAs, miR335, was proportional to duration of stimulation, increasing 18-fold after 24 h of HOKS. We localized miR335 transcripts to Purkinje cells using hybridization histochemistry. Transcripts of miR335 decayed to baseline within 3 h after HOKS was stopped. We identified mRNA targets for miR335 using multiple screens: sequence analysis, microinjection of miR335 inhibitors and identification of mRNAs whose transcription decreased during HOKS. Two genes, calbindin and 14-3-3- passed these screens. Our data suggest that microRNA transcription could provide an important synaptic or homeostatic mechanism for the regulation of proteins that contribute to Purkinje cell plasticity.
We examined whether repeated exposure to the increasingly abused amphetamine (AMPH) derivative 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy) results in long-lasting neurobehavioral changes, and further, the ability of contextual cues to modulate these changes. We focused on dorsal striatum, a brain region implicated in the formation of persistent drug-related habits. Rats were transported to a novel recording chamber and treated with once-daily injections (s.c.) of ()-MDMA (5.0 mg/kg) or saline for 5 days, followed by a challenge injection 14 days later either in the same (Experiment 1) or different context (Experiment 2). Chronically implanted micro-wire bundles were used to record from populations of striatal neurons on days 1, 5, and challenge. Twenty-four hours after the last injection, brains were removed and processed using a modified Golgi method to assess changes in neuronal morphology. A sensitized locomotor response was observed following MDMA challenge in 11 of 12 rats in Experiment 1 (same context), whereas only 58% of rats (7 of 12) displayed sensitization in Experiment 2 (different context). Furthermore, several alterations in striatal electrophysiology were apparent on challenge day, but only in rats that displayed sensitization. Conversely, structural changes in striatal medium spiny neurons, such as increases in spine density, were observed in MDMA-treated rats regardless of whether they displayed behavioral sensitization. Thus, it appears that reorganization of synaptic connectivity in dorsal striatum may contribute to long-lasting drug-induced behavioral alterations, but that these behavioral alterations are subject to modification depending on individual differences and the context surrounding drug administration.
Excitatory amino acid transporters (EAAT) uptake extracellular glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain. EAAT type 3 (EAAT3), the main neuronal EAAT, is expressed widely in the CNS. We have shown that the volatile anesthetic isoflurane increases EAAT3 activity and trafficking to the plasma membrane. Thus, we hypothesize that EAAT3 mediates isoflurane-induced anesthesia. To test this hypothesis, the potency of isoflurane to induce immobility and hypnosis, two major components of general anesthesia, was compared in the CD-1 wild-type mice and EAAT knockout mice that had a CD-1 strain gene background. Hypnosis was assessed by loss of righting reflex in this study. The expression of EAAT1 and EAAT2, two widely expressed EAATs in the CNS, in the cerebral cortex and spinal cord was not different between the EAAT3 knockout mice and wild-type mice. The concentration required for isoflurane to cause immobility to painful stimuli, a response involving primarily reflex loops in the spinal cord, was not changed by EAAT3 knockout. However, the EAAT3 knockout mice were more sensitive to isoflurane-induced hypnotic effects, which may be mediated by hypothalamic sleep neural circuits. Interestingly, the EAAT3 knockout mice did not have an altered sensitivity to the hypnotic effects caused by ketamine, an i.v. anesthetic that is a glutamate receptor antagonist and does not affect EAAT3 activity. These results suggest that EAAT3 modulates the sensitivity of neural circuits to isoflurane. These results, along with our previous findings which suggests that isoflurane increases EAAT3 activity, indicate that EAAT3 may regulate isoflurane-induced behavioral changes, including anesthesia.
The nucleus accumbens (NAcc) mediates feeding reward; its activity reflects tastants' hedonic value. NAcc dopamine guides immediate responses to reward, however, its involvement in establishing long-term responses after a period of exposure to palatable foods has not been defined. Furthermore, reward-driven overeating propels weight increase, but the scale of weight gain depends on animals' obesity-prone (OP) or -resistant (OR) phenotype. It is unclear whether the NAcc dopamine response to palatable food depends on obesity susceptibility. We investigated the effect of unrestricted extended access to high-fat high-sugar (HFHS) diet on expression of genes encoding dopamine receptors in the NAcc of OP and OR rats. We examined persistence of HFHS diet-induced changes in D(1) and D(2) gene expression in OP and OR rats subjected to HFHS withdrawal (bland chow for 18 days). Effects of restricted access to HFHS by pair-feeding were also studied. Using reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR), we found that NAcc D(1) mRNA was downregulated after long-term HFHS access in OP vs. OR animals. The effect was also observed after 18 days of HFHS withdrawal. Furthermore, restricted HFHS led to downregulation of D(1) as well as of D(2) mRNA levels compared to chow-fed controls. A difference in the expression of mu opioid receptor in the NAcc was also detected between the OP and OR rats during access to palatable food but not after withdrawal. We conclude that exposure to HFHS diets has lasting consequences for the NAcc dopamine system, perhaps modifying the motivation to search for food reward. The fact that the NAcc D(1) expression changes in OP animals after long-term exposure to palatable food and that this effect extends well into the reward discontinuation phase, implicates the D(1) receptor in the propensity to overeat and, in effect, gain weight in obesity prone individuals.
Recent studies provide increasing data indicating the prominent role of estrogens in protecting the nervous system against the noxious consequences of nerve injury. It is also clear that in the process of nerve injury and recovery not only the neurons, but the glial cells are also involved and they are important components of the protective mechanisms. In the present article the effect of 17-estradiol on injury-induced microglia activation was studied in an animal model. Peripheral axotomy of the oculomotor neurons was achieved by the removal of the right eyeball including the extraocular muscles of ovariectomized adult mice. The time course and the extent of microglia activation was followed by the unbiased morphometric analysis of CD11b immunoreactive structures within the oculomotor nucleus. The first sign of microglia activation appeared after 24 h following injury, the maximal effect was found on the fourth day. In ovariectomized females hormone treatment (daily injection of 17-estradiol, 5 g/100 g b.w.) decreased significantly the microglia reaction at postoperative day 4. Our results show that microglia response to nerve injury is affected by estradiol, that is these cells may mediate some of the hormonal effects and may contribute to protective mechanisms resulting in the structural and functional recovery of the nervous system.
Although hypertension has been implicated in the pathogenesis of vascular disease, its role in inflammatory responses, especially in brain, remains unclear. In this study we found key mechanisms by which angiotensin II (AngII) mediates cerebral microvascular inflammation. C57BL/6 male mice were subjected to slow-pressor dose of AngII infusion using osmotic mini-pumps at a rate of 400 ng/kg/min for 14 days. Vascular inflammation in the brain was evaluated by analysis of leukocyte-endothelial interaction and blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability. Results from intravital microscopy of pial vessels in vivo, revealed a 4.2 fold (P&lt;0.05, compared to vehicle) increase in leukocyte adhesion on day 4 of AngII infusion. This effect persisted through day 14 of AngII infusion, which resulted in a 2.6 fold (P&lt;0.01, compared to vehicle) increase in leukocyte adhesion. Furthermore, evaluation of BBB permeability by Evans Blue extravasation showed that Ang II significantly affected the BBB, inducing 3.8 times (P&lt;0.05, compared to vehicle) higher permeability. Previously we reported that AngII mediated hypertension promotes oxidative stress in the vasculature. Thus, we used the superoxide scavenger; 4-hydroxy-TEMPO (Tempol) to determine whether AngII via oxidative stress could contribute to higher leukocyte adhesion and increased BBB permeability. Tempol was given via drinking water (2 mmol) on day 4th following Ang II infusion, since oxidative stress increases in this model on day 4. Treatment with Tempol significantly attenuated the increased leukocyte/endothelial interactions and protected the BBB integrity on day 14 of AngII infusion. In conclusion, AngII via oxidative stress increases cerebral microvasculature inflammation and leads to greater immune-endothelial interaction and higher BBB permeability. This finding may open new avenues for the management of nervous system pathology involving cerebrovascular inflammation.
The ventral hippocampus (VH) plays critical roles in cue-induced and cocaine-primed reinstatement of cocaine seeking [Rogers JL, See RE (2007) Neurobiol Learn Mem 87:688-692]. Subregions of the VH make distinct projections to elements of the brain relapse circuitry that mediate drug context-induced reinstatement. Thus, the VH may also critically contribute to this form of cocaine seeking in a subregion-specific manner. Accordingly, this study evaluated the hypothesis that functional inactivation of the ventral hippocampus proper (VHp)-but not of the dentate gyrus (DG)-impairs cocaine seeking elicited by re-exposure to a drug-paired environmental context. Rats were trained to lever press for un-signaled i.v. cocaine infusions (0.15 mg/infusion) in a distinct environmental context (cocaine-paired context) followed by extinction training in a distinctly different context (extinction context). Subsequently, cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e., non-reinforced active lever responding) was assessed in either the previously cocaine-paired context or the extinction context. Rats received bilateral microinfusions of the GABA agonist cocktail, baclofen+muscimol (BM: 1.0/.01 mM), or vehicle into the VHp, DG, or the posterior dorsal hippocampus (pDH; extra-VH control) immediately before each test session. Exposure to the previously cocaine-paired context, but not the extinction context, reinstated extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior following vehicle pretreatment. BM pretreatment administered into the VHp, but not the DG or pDH, significantly attenuated drug context-induced cocaine seeking. These results indicate that the VH contributes to drug context-induced cocaine seeking in a subregion-specific manner, with the functional integrity of the VHp being necessary for memory or motivational aspects of drug-paired environmental stimuli that sustain stimulus control over goal-directed behavior.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) can augment transmitter release in sensory neurons by acutely sensitizing sensory neurons and by increasing the expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) over time. The current study examined the intracellular signaling pathways that mediate these two temporally distinct effects of NGF to augment CGRP release from sensory neurons. Growing sensory neurons in 30 or 100 ng/mL of NGF for 7 days increases CGRP content and this increase augments the amount of CGRP that is released by high extracellular potassium. Overexpressing a dominant negative Ras, Ras(17N) or treatment with a farnesyltransferase inhibitor attenuates the NGF-induced increase in CGRP content. Conversely, overexpressing a constitutively active Ras augments the NGF-induced increase in content of CGRP. Inhibiting mitogen activated protein kinase (MEK) activity also blocks the ability of NGF to increase CGRP expression. In contrast to the ability of chronic NGF to increase peptide content, acute exposure of sensory neurons to 100 ng/mL NGF augments capsaicin-evoked release of CGRP without affecting the content of CGRP. This sensitizing action of NGF is not affected by inhibiting Ras, MEK, or PI3 kinases. In contrast, the NGF-induced increase in capsaicin-evoked release of CGRP is blocked by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, BIM and the Src family kinases inhibitor, PP2. These data demonstrate that different signaling pathways mediate the alterations in expression of CGRP by chronic NGF and the acute actions of the neurotrophin to augment capsaicin-evoked release of CGRP in the absence of a change in the content of the peptide.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) and Wnt-7a are morphogens involved in embryonic as well as ongoing adult neurogenesis. Their effects on the differentiation and membrane properties of neonatal neural stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs) were studied in vitro using NS/PCs transduced with either Shh or Wnt-7a. Eight days after the onset of in vitro differentiation the cells were analyzed for the expression of neuronal and glial markers using immunocytochemical and Western blot analysis, and their membrane properties were characterized using the patch-clamp technique. Our results showed that both Shh and Wnt-7a increased the numbers of cells expressing neuronal markers; however, quantitative immunocytochemical analysis showed that only Wnt-7a enhanced the outgrowth and the development of processes in these cells. In addition, Wnt-7a markedly suppressed gliogenesis. The electrophysiological analysis revealed that Wnt-7a increased, while Shh decreased the incidence of cells displaying a neuron-like current pattern, represented by outwardly rectifying K(+) currents and tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na(+) currents. Additionally, Wnt-7a increased cell proliferation only at the early stages of differentiation, while Shh promoted proliferation within the entire course of differentiation. Thus we can conclude that Shh and Wnt-7a interfere differently with the process of neuronal differentiation and that they promote distinct stages of neuronal differentiation in neonatal NS/PCs.
Adrenomedullin (AM) and its binding protein, complement factor H (FH), are expressed throughout the brain. In this study we used a brain-specific conditional knockout for AM and a complete knockout for FH to investigate the effect of these molecules on the pathophysiology of stroke. Following 48 h of middle cerebral artery permanent occlusion, there was a statistically significant infarct size increase in animals lacking AM when compared to their wild type littermates. In contrast, lack of FH did not affect infarct volume. To investigate some of the mechanisms by which lack of AM may augment brain damage, markers of nitrosative stress, apoptosis, and autophagy were studied at the mRNA and protein levels. There was a significant increase of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9), fractin, and Beclin-1 in the peri-infarct area of AM-deficient mice when compared to their wild type counterparts and to contralateral and sham-operated controls. These data suggest that AM exerts a neuroprotective action in the brain and that this protection may be mediated by regulation of iNOS, matrix metalloproteases, and inflammatory mediators. In the future, substances that increase AM actions in the central nervous system may be used as potential neuroprotective agents in stroke.
The hippocampus is a prominent structure to study mechanisms of learning and memory at the cellular level. Long-term potentiation (LTP) as well as long-term depression (LTD) are the major cellular models which could underlie learning and memory formation. LTP and LTD consist of at least two phases, an early protein synthesis-independent transient stage (&lt;4 h; E-LTP, E-LTD) as well as a prolonged phase (&gt;4 h; L-LTP, L-LTD) requiring the synthesis of new proteins. It is known that during E-LTP the further induction of longer lasting LTP is precluded. However, if E-LTP is transformed into L-LTP, the same synapses now allow the induction of LTP again. We reproduced the LTP-results first and then investigated whether hippocampal LTP or LTD also prevents the establishment of subsequent LTD-induction in the same synaptic input. We show that the prior induction of LTP or LTD does not prevent a short-term depression (STD) but occludes LTD in apical dendrites of CA1 neurons in hippocampal slices in vitro during the early phase of LTP or LTD. However, LTD can again be induced in addition to STD after the establishment of L-LTP or L-LTD, that is about 4 h after the induction of the first event in the same synaptic input. We suggest that the neuronal input preserves the capacity for STD immediately after an initial potentiation or depression, but for the onset of additional longer lasting LTD in the same synaptic input, the establishment of the late plasticity form of the preceding event is critical.
The Kv4 potassium channel  subunits, Kv4.1, Kv4.2, and Kv4.3, determine some of the fundamental physiological properties of neurons in the CNS. Kv4 subunits are associated with auxiliary -subunits, such as the potassium channel interacting proteins (KChIP1 - 4), which are thought to regulate the trafficking and gating of native Kv4 potassium channels. Intriguingly, KChIP1 is thought to show cell type-selective expression in GABA-ergic inhibitory interneurons, while other -subunits (KChIP2-4) are associated with principal glutamatergic neurons. However, nothing is known about the expression of Kv4 family - and -subunits in specific interneurons populations in the BLA. Here, we have used immunofluorescence, co-immunoprecipitation, and Western Blotting to determine the relative expression of KChIP1 in the different interneuron subtypes within the BLA, and its co-localization with one or more of the Kv4  subunits. We show that all three -subunits of Kv4 potassium channel are found in rat BLA neurons, and that the immunoreactivity of KChIP1 closely resembles that of Kv4.3. Indeed, Kv4.3 showed almost complete co-localization with KChIP1 in the soma and dendrites of a distinct subpopulation of BLA neurons. Dual-immunofluorescence studies revealed this to be in BLA interneurons immunoreactive for parvalbumin, cholecystokin-8, and somatostatin. Finally, co-immunoprecipitation studies showed that KChIP1 was associated with all three Kv4  subunits. Together our results suggest that KChIP1 is selectively expressed in BLA interneurons where it may function to regulate the activity of A-type potassium channels. Hence, KChIP1 might be considered as a cell type-specific regulator of GABAergic inhibitory circuits in the BLA.
A significant number of postmenopausal women report increased anxiety and vulnerability to stress, which has been linked to decreased secretion of ovarian steroids. Communication between the serotonin system and the corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) system determines stress sensitivity or resilience. This study examines the effects of the ovarian steroids, estradiol (E) and progesterone (P) on the CRF system components that impact serotonin neurons in the midbrain of nonhuman primates. Ovariectomized rhesus macaques were treated with placebo, E alone for 1 month, or E supplemented with P for the last 2 weeks. Quantitative (q)RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry were employed. EP treatment decreased CRF-R1 and increased CRF-R2 gene expression in hemi-midbrain blocks and in laser captured serotonin neurons. Also in hemi-midbrains, E treatment increased urocortin 1 (UCN1) and CRFBP gene expression, but supplemental P treatment reversed these effects. EP decreased CRF fiber density in the dorsal, interfascicular and median raphe nuclei and decreased CRF-R1 immunostaining in the dorsal raphe. E increased CRF-R2 immunostaining in the dorsal and median raphe. EP increased UCN1 immunostaining in the cell bodies and increased UCN1 fiber density in the caudal linear nucleus. Estrogen receptor beta (ER), but not ER was detected in the nucleus of UCN1-positive neurons. While the mechanism of ovarian hormone regulation of the midbrain CRF system requires further investigation, these studies clearly demonstrate another pathway by which ovarian hormones may have positive effects on anxiety and mood regulation.
An immunogenic challenge during early postnatal development leads to long-term changes in behavioural and physiological measures reflecting enhanced emotionality and anxiety. Altered CNS serotonin (5-HT) signalling during the third postnatal week is thought to modify the developing neurocircuitry governing anxiety-like behaviour. Changes in 5-HT signalling during this time window may underlie increased emotionality reported in early immune challenge rodents. Here we examine both the spatial and temporal profile of 5-HT related gene expression, including 5HT1A, 2A, 2C receptors, the 5-HT transporter (5HTT), and tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) during early development (postnatal day [P]14, P17, P21, P28) in mice challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) during the first postnatal week. Expression levels were measured using in situ hybridization in regions associated with mediating emotive behaviours: the dorsal raphe (DR), hippocampus, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Increased TPH2 and 5HTT expression in the ventrolateral region of the DR of LPS-mice accompanied decreased expression of ventral DR 5HT1A and dorsal DR 5HTT. In the forebrain, 5HT1A and 2A receptors were increased, whereas 5HT2C receptors were decreased in the hippocampus. Decreased mRNA expression of 5HT2C was detected in the amygdala and PFC of LPS-treated pups; 5HT1A was increased in the PFC. The majority of these changes were restricted to P14-21. These transient changes in 5-HT expression coincide with the critical time window in which 5-HT disturbance leads to permanent modification of anxiety-related behaviours. This suggests that alterations in CNS 5-HT during development may underlie the enhanced emotionality associated with an early immune challenge.
In the brain, membrane associated nongenomic steroid receptors can induce fast-acting responses to ion conductance and second messenger systems of neurons. Emerging data suggest that membrane associated glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors may directly regulate synaptic excitability during times of stress when adrenal hormones are elevated. As the key neuron signaling interface, the synapse is involved in learning and memory, including traumatic memories during times of stress. The lateral amygdala is a key site for synaptic plasticity underlying conditioned fear, which can both trigger and be coincident with the stress response. A large body of electrophysiological data shows rapid regulation of neuronal excitability by steroid hormone receptors. Despite the importance of these receptors, to date, only the glucocorticoid receptor has been anatomically localized to the membrane. We investigated the subcellular sites of mineralocorticoid receptors in the lateral amygdala of the Sprague-Dawley rat. Immunoblot analysis revealed the presence of mineralocorticoid receptors in the amygdala. Using electron microscopy, we found mineralocorticoid receptors expressed at both nuclear including: glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons and extra nuclear sites including: presynaptic terminals, neuronal dendrites, and dendritic spines. Importantly we also observed mineralocorticoid receptors at postsynaptic membrane densities of excitatory synapses. These data provide direct anatomical evidence supporting the concept that, at some synapses, synaptic transmission is regulated by mineralocorticoid receptors. Thus part of the stress signaling response in the brain is a direct modulation of the synapse itself by adrenal steroids.
Paraquat produces dopaminergic pathologies of Parkinson's disease, in which cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is implicated. However, it is unclear whether paraquat induces toxicity within dopaminergic neurons through COX-2. To address this, human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells were treated with paraquat and then the involving mechanism of COX-2 was investigated. We initially examined the involvement of COX-2 in paraquat-induced toxicity. Data suggest that COX-2 is implicated in paraquat-induced reduction of viability in SY5Y cells. Then, to confirm the presence of COX-2 in SY5Y cells, we examined COX-2 mRNA and protein levels, which are regulated by NF-B. Data indicate that paraquat activates NF-B and up-regulates COX-2. We then checked quinone-bound proteins as quinones produced by COX-2 bind to intracellular proteins. Paraquat obviously forms quinone-bound proteins, in particular, quinone-bound DJ-1 and this formation is attenuated by meloxicam. Finally, we investigated antioxidant system including nuclear factor erythroid-related factor 2 (Nrf2), gamma glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS), and glutathione (GSH) as DJ-1 is linked to Nrf2 and Nrf2 regulates GCS expression and GCS is a GSH synthesis enzyme. Paraquat decreases protein levels of Nrf2 and GCS and intracellular GSH level and these decreases are alleviated by meloxicam. Therefore, collectively, our data indicate that paraquat induces COX-2 implicated toxicity in SY5Y cells. In conclusion, current findings support the idea that paraquat might produce toxicity in dopaminergic neurons through COX-2.
Lipid oxidative damage and amyloid  (A) misfolding contribute to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Thus, the prevention of oxidative damage and A misfolding are attractive targets for drug discovery. At present, no AD drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) prevent or halt disease progression. Hydralazine, a smooth muscle relaxant, is a potential drug candidate for AD drug therapy as it reduces A production and prevents oxidative damage via its antioxidant hydrazide group. We evaluated the efficacy of hydralazine, and related hydrazides, in reducing (1) A misfolding and (2) A protein modification by the reactive lipid 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) using transmission electron microscopy and Western blotting. While hydralazine did not prevent A aggregation as measured using the protease protection assay, there were more oligomeric species observed by electron microscopy. Hydralazine prevented lipid modification of A, and A was used as a proxy for classes of proteins which either misfold or are modified by HNE. All of the other hydrazides prevented lipid modification of A and also did not prevent A aggregation. Surprisingly, a few of the compounds, carbazochrome and niclosamide, appeared to augment A formation. Thus, hydrazides reduced lipid oxidative damage, and hydralazine additionally reduced A misfolding. While hydralazine would require specific chemical modifications for use as an AD therapeutic itself (to improve blood brain barrier permeability, reduce vasoactive side effects, and optimization for amyloid inhibition), this study suggests its potential merit for further AD drug development.



AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) mediate the majority of fast excitatory neurotransmission in the mammalian central nervous system. Modulation of AMPAR trafficking supports several forms of synaptic plasticity thought to underlie learning and memory. Protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1) is an AMPAR-binding protein shown to regulate both AMPAR trafficking and synaptic plasticity at many distinct synapses. However, studies examining the requirement for PICK1 in maintaining basal synaptic transmission and regulating synaptic plasticity at hippocampal Schaffer collateral-cornu ammonis 1 (SC-CA1) synapses have produced conflicting results. In addition, the effect of PICK1 manipulation on learning and memory has not been investigated. In the present study we analyzed the effect of genetic deletion of PICK1 on basal synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity at hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in adult and juvenile mice. Surprisingly, we find that loss of PICK1 has no significant effect on synaptic plasticity in juvenile mice but impairs some forms of long-term potentiation and multiple distinct forms of long-term depression in adult mice. Moreover, inhibitory avoidance learning is impaired only in adult KO mice. These results suggest that PICK1 is selectively required for hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning in adult rodents.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1/5) are important to synaptic circuitry formation during development and to forms of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. Dysregulation of mGluR1/5 signaling is implicated in some disorders of neurodevelopment, including fragile X syndrome, the most common inherited form of intellectual disabilities and leading cause of autism. Site(s) in the intracellular loops of mGluR1/5 directly bind caveolin-1, an adaptor protein that associates with membrane rafts. Caveolin-1 is the main coat component of caveolae and organizes macromolecular signaling complexes with effector proteins and membrane receptors. We report that long-term depression (LTD) elicited by a single application of the group I mGluR selective agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) was markedly attenuated at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses of mice lacking caveolin-1 (Cav1(-/-)), as assessed by field recording. In contrast, multiple applications of DHPG produced LTD comparable to that in WT mice. Passive membrane properties, basal glutamatergic transmission and NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent LTD were unaltered. The remaining LTD was reduced by anisomycin, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, by U0126, an inhibitor of MEK1/2 kinases, and by rapamycin, an inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), suggesting mediation by the same mechanisms as in WT. mGluR1/5-dependent activation (phosphorylation) of MEK and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) was altered in Cav1(-/-) mice; basal phosphorylation was increased, but a single application of DHPG had no further effect, and after DHPG, phosphorylation was similar in WT and Cav1(-/-) mice. Taken together, our findings suggest that caveolin-1 is required for normal coupling of mGluR1/5 to downstream signaling cascades and induction of mGluR-LTD.
Nucleotide variations, including SNPs, in the coding regions of disease genes are important targets for RNAi treatment, which is a promising medical treatment for intractable diseases such as triplet repeat diseases. However, the identification of such nucleotide variations and the design of siRNAs conferring disease allele-specific RNAi are quite difficult. In this study we developed a pull-down method to rapidly identify coding SNP (cSNP) haplotypes of triple repeat, disease-causing alleles, and we demonstrated disease allele-specific RNAi that targeted cSNP sites in mutant Huntingtin alleles, each of which possessed a different cSNP haplotype. Therefore, the methods presented here allow for allele-specific RNAi knockdown against disease-causing alleles by using siRNAs specific to disease-linked cSNP haplotypes, and advanced progress toward tailor-made RNAi treatments for triplet repeat diseases.
We present a case of optic neuritis and myelo-radiculopathy as a late association following Chlamydia psittaci infection. A 45-year-old female patient with a prior history of C psittaci pneumonia and subsequent reactive arthritis presented to the neurology unit with severe headache, constitutional symptoms and monocular disturbance in vision. Clinical examination revealed focal signs with brisk upper limb reflexes compared to lower limbs and mild left-sided pyramidal signs. Systemic inflammatory markers were raised and serological studies showed no evidence of re-infection. MRI showed multiple high signal foci within the brain parenchyma and pachymeningeal thickening and enhancement. There was marked clinical and haematological improvement with high dose corticosteroids.




Recent studies suggest progranulin (GRN) is a neurotrophic factor. Loss-of-function mutations in the progranulin gene (GRN) cause frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), a progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting 10% of early-onset dementia patients. Using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, we previously showed that GRN is detectable in human plasma and can be used to predict GRN mutation status. This study also showed a wide range in plasma GRN levels in non-GRN mutation carriers, including controls. We have now performed a genome-wide association study of 313,504 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 533 control samples and identified on chromosome 1p13.3 two SNPs with genome-wide significant association with plasma GRN levels (top SNP rs646776; p = 1.7  10). The association of rs646776 with plasma GRN levels was replicated in two independent series of 508 controls (p = 1.9  10) and 197 FTLD patients (p = 6.4  10). Overall, each copy of the minor C allele decreased GRN levels by 15%. SNP rs646776 is located near sortilin (SORT1), and the minor C allele of rs646776 was previously associated with increased SORT1 mRNA levels. Supporting these findings, overexpression of SORT1 in cultured HeLa cells dramatically reduced GRN levels in the conditioned media, whereas knockdown of SORT1 increased extracellular GRN levels. In summary, we identified significant association of a locus on chromosome 1p13.3 with plasma GRN levels through an unbiased genome-wide screening approach and implicated SORT1 as an important regulator of GRN levels. This finding opens avenues for future research into GRN biology and the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases.

Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion has two modes of release in mammalian species; the surge mode and the pulse mode. The surge mode, which is required for the induction of the preovulatory gonadotropin discharge in most species, is induced by the positive feedback of estrogen secreted by the mature ovarian follicle. The pulse mode of GnRH secretion stimulates tonic luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) secretion which drives folliculogenesis, spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis and is negatively fine-tuned by estrogen or androgen. The GnRH pulse-generating mechanism is sensitive to environmental cues, such as photoperiod, nutrition and stress surge-generating mechanism is relatively emancipated from these environmental cues. The present article first provides a brief historical background to the work that led to the concept of the GnRH pulse generator: a hypothalamic network that is central to our understanding of the regulation of reproduction. We then discuss possible neurobiological mechanisms underlying GnRH pulse generation, and conclude by proposing that kisspeptin neurons in the arcuate nucleus are key players in this regard.
The initiation of mammalian puberty requires a sustained increase in pulsatile release of gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. This increase is brought about by coordinated changes in transsynaptic and glial-neuronal communication, consisting of an increase in neuronal and glial stimulatory inputs to the GnRH neuronal network and the loss of transsynaptic inhibitory influences. GnRH secretion is stimulated by transsynaptic inputs provided by excitatory amino acids (glutamate) and at least one peptide (kisspeptin), and by glial inputs provided by growth factors and small bioactive molecules. The inhibitory input to GnRH neurons is mostly transsynaptic and provided by GABAergic and opiatergic neurons; however, GABA has also been shown to directly excite GnRH neurons. There are many genes involved in the control of these cellular networks, and hence in the control of the pubertal process as a whole. Our laboratory has proposed the concept that these genes are arranged in overlapping networks internally organized in a hierarchical fashion. According to this concept, the highest level of intra-network control is provided by transcriptional regulators that, by directing expression of key subordinate genes, impose genetic coordination to the neuronal and glial subsets involved in initiating the pubertal process. More recently, we have begun to explore the concept that a more dynamic and encompassing level of integrative coordination is provided by epigenetic mechanisms.
Lactation is an important physiological model of the integration of energy balance and reproduction, as it involves activation of potent appetitive neuropeptide systems coupled to a profound inhibition of pulsatile GnRH/LH secretion. There are multiple systems that contribute to the chronic hyperphagia of lactation: 1) suppression of the metabolic hormones, leptin and insulin, 2) activation of hypothalamic orexigenic neuropeptide systems NPY, AGRP, orexin (OX) and melanin concentrating hormone (MCH), 3) special induction of NPY expression in the dorsomedial hypothalamus, and 4) suppression of anorexigenic systems POMC and CART. These changes ensure adequate energy intake to meet the metabolic needs of milk production. There is significant overlap in all of the systems that regulate food intake with the regulation of GnRH, suggesting there could be several redundant factors acting to suppress GnRH/LH during lactation. In addition to an overall increase in inhibitory tone acting directly on GnRH cell bodies that is brought about by increases in orexigenic systems, there are also effects at the ARH to disrupt Kiss1/neurokinin B/dynorphin neuronal function through inhibition of Kiss1 and NKB. These changes could lead to an increase in inhibitory auto-regulation of the Kiss1 neurons and a possible disruption of pulsatile GnRH release. While the low levels of leptin and insulin contribute to the changes in ARH appetitive systems, they do not appear to contribute to the suppression of ARH Kiss1 or NKB. The inhibition of Kiss1 may be the key factor in the suppression of GnRH during lactation, although the mechanisms responsible for its inhibition are unknown.
The inositol pyrophosphate IP7 (5-diphosphoinositolpentakisphosphate), formed by a family of three inositol hexakisphosphate kinases (IP6Ks), modulates diverse cellular activities. We now report that IP7 is a physiologic inhibitor of Akt, a serine/threonine kinase that regulates glucose homeostasis and protein translation, respectively, via the GSK3 and mTOR pathways. Thus, Akt and mTOR signaling are dramatically augmented and GSK3 signaling reduced in skeletal muscle, white adipose tissue, and liver of mice with targeted deletion of IP6K1. IP7 affects this pathway by potently inhibiting the PDK1 phosphorylation of Akt, preventing its activation and thereby affecting insulin signaling. IP6K1 knockout mice manifest insulin sensitivity and are resistant to obesity elicited by high-fat diet or aging. Inhibition of IP6K1 may afford a therapeutic approach to obesity and diabetes.
Recent studies indicate that Toll-like receptors (TLRs), originally identified as infectious agent receptors, also mediate sterile inflammatory responses during tissue damage. In this study, we investigated the role of TLR2 in excitotoxic hippocampal cell death using TLR2 knock-out (KO) mice. TLR2 expression was up-regulated in microglia in the ipsilateral hippocampus of kainic acid (KA)-injected mice. KA-mediated hippocampal cell death was significantly reduced in TLR2 KO mice compared with wild-type (WT) mice. Similarly, KA-induced glial activation and proinflammatory gene expression in the hippocampus were compromised in TLR2 KO mice. In addition, neurons in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs) from TLR2 KO mouse brains were less susceptible to KA excitotoxicity than WT OHSCs. This protection is partly attributed to decreased expression of proinflammatory genes, such as TNF- and IL-1 in TLR2 KO mice OHSCs. These data demonstrate conclusively that TLR2 signaling in microglia contributes to KA-mediated innate immune responses and hippocampal excitotoxicity.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) mediate the majority of fast excitatory synaptic neurotransmission in the central nervous system. The selective assembly of iGluRs into AMPA, kainate, and N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor subtypes is regulated by their extracellular amino-terminal domains (ATDs). Kainate receptors are further classified into low-affinity receptor families (GluK1-GluK3) and high-affinity receptor families (GluK4-GluK5) based on their affinity for the neurotoxin kainic acid. These two families share a 42% sequence identity for the intact receptor but only a 27% sequence identity at the level of ATD. We have determined for the first time the high-resolution crystal structures of GluK3 and GluK5 ATDs, both of which crystallize as dimers but with a strikingly different dimer assembly at the R1 interface. By contrast, for both GluK3 and GluK5, the R2 domain dimer assembly is similar to those reported previously for other non-NMDA iGluRs. This observation is consistent with the reports that GluK4-GluK5 cannot form functional homomeric ion channels and require obligate coassembly with GluK1-GluK3. Our analysis also reveals that the relative orientation of domains R1 and R2 in individual non-NMDA receptor ATDs varies by up to 10, in contrast to the 50 difference reported for the NMDA receptor GluN2B subunit. This restricted domain movement in non-NMDA receptor ATDs seems to result both from extensive intramolecular contacts between domain R1 and domain R2 and from their assembly as dimers, which interact at both R1 and R2 domains. Our results provide the first insights into the structure and function of GluK4-GluK5, the least understood family of iGluRs.
Voltage-gated K+ (Kv) channels regulate diverse neuronal properties including action potential threshold, amplitude, and duration, frequency of firing, neurotransmitter release, and resting membrane potential. In axons, Kv channels are clustered at a variety of functionally important sites including axon initial segments, juxtaparanodes of myelinated axons, nodes of Ranvier, and cerebellar basket cell terminals. These channels are part of larger protein complexes that include cell adhesion molecules and scaffolding proteins. These interacting proteins play important roles in recruiting K+ channels to distinct axonal domains. Here, I review the composition, functions, and mechanism of localization of these K+ channel complexes in axons.
Voltage-gated Na+ channel (VGSC)  Subunits are not &quot;auxiliary.&quot; These multi-functional molecules not only modulate Na+ current (I(Na)), but also function as cell adhesion molecules (CAMs)-playing roles in aggregation, migration, invasion, neurite outgrowth, and axonal fasciculation.  subunits are integral members of VGSC signaling complexes at nodes of Ranvier, axon initial segments, and cardiac intercalated disks, regulating action potential propagation through critical intermolecular and cell-cell communication events. At least in vitro, many  subunit cell adhesive functions occur both in the presence and absence of pore-forming VGSC  subunits, and in vivo  subunits are expressed in excitable as well as non-excitable cells, thus  subunits may play important functional roles on their own, in the absence of  subunits. VGSC 1 subunits are essential for life and appear to be especially important during brain development. Mutations in  subunit genes result in a variety of human neurological and cardiovascular diseases. Moreover, some cancer cells exhibit alterations in  subunit expression during metastasis. In short, these proteins, originally thought of as merely accessory to  subunits, are critical players in their own right in human health and disease. Here we discuss the role of VGSC  subunits in the nervous system.

Substrains of the Spontaneously Hypertensive rat (SHR), a putative animal model of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), have demonstrated increased sensitivity to many drugs of abuse, including psychostimulants. Therefore, it was suggested that studies in SHR may help elucidate ADHD and comorbidity with substance use disorder (SUD). However, the drug intake profile of the SHR in the most relevant animal model of drug addiction, the self-administration (SA) test, and its response on the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm are not yet determined. In the present study, we employed SA and CPP tests to investigate the reinforcing effects of the psychostimulant methamphetamine in an SHR substrain obtained from Charles River, Japan (SHR/NCrlCrlj). Concurrent tests were also performed in Wistar rats, the strain representing &quot;normal&quot; heterogeneous population. To address if the presence of ADHD behaviors further increases sensitivity to the rewarding effect of methamphetamine during adolescence, a critical period for the onset of drug abuse, CPP tests were especially conducted in adolescent Wistar and SHR/NCrlCrlj. We found that the SHR/NCrlCrlj also acquired methamphetamine SA and CPP, indicating reinforcing effects of methamphetamine in this ADHD animal model. However, we did not observe increased responsiveness of the SHR/NCrlCrlj to methamphetamine in both SA and CPP assays. This indicates that the reinforcing effects of methamphetamine may be similar in strains and that the SHR/NCrlCrlj may not adequately model ADHD and increased sensitivity to methamphetamine.
In an effort to identify selective drug like pan-antagonists of the 5-HT1 autoreceptors, studies were conducted to elaborate a previously reported dual acting 5-HT1 antagonist/SSRI structure. A novel series of compounds was identified showing low intrinsic activities and potent affinities across the 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, and 5-HT1D receptors as well as high selectivity against the serotonin transporter. From among these compounds, 1-(3-{2-[4-(2-methyl-5-quinolinyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl}phenyl)-2-imidazolidinone (36) was found to combine potent in vivo activity with a strong preclinical developability profile, and on this basis it was selected as a drug candidate with the aim of assessing its potential as a fast-onset antidepressant/anxiolytic.
Observer translation results in optic flow that specifies heading. Concurrent smooth pursuit causes distortion of the retinal flow pattern for which the visual system compensates. The distortion and its perceptual compensation are usually modeled in terms of instantaneous velocities. However, apart from adding a velocity to the flow field, pursuit also incrementally changes the direction of gaze. The effect of gaze displacement on optic flow perception has received little attention. Here we separated the effects of velocity and gaze displacement by measuring the perceived two-dimensional focus position of rotating flow patterns during pursuit. Such stimuli are useful in the current context because the two effects work in orthogonal directions. As expected, the instantaneous pursuit velocity shifted the perceived focus orthogonally to the pursuit direction. Additionally, the focus was mislocalized in the direction of the pursuit. Experiments that manipulated the presentation duration, flow speed, and uncertainty of the focus location supported the idea that the latter component of mislocalization resulted from temporal integration of the retinal trajectory of the focus. Finally, a comparison of the shift magnitudes obtained in conditions with and without pursuit (but with similar retinal stimulation) suggested that the compensation for both effects uses extraretinal information.
Nanoformulated drugs can improve pharmacodynamics and bioavailability while serving also to reduce drug toxicities for antiretroviral (ART) medicines. To this end, our laboratory has applied the principles of nanomedicine to simplify ART regimens and as such reduce toxicities while improving compliance and drug pharmacokinetics. Simple and reliable methods for manufacturing nanoformulated ART (nanoART) are shown. Particles of pure drug are encapsulated by a thin layer of surfactant lipid coating and produced by fractionating larger drug crystals into smaller ones by either wet milling or high-pressure homogenization. In an alternative method free drug is suspended in a droplet of a polymer. Herein, drug is dissolved within a polymer then agitated by ultrasonication until individual nanosized droplets are formed. Dynamic light scattering and microscopic examination characterize the physical properties of the particles (particle size, charge and shape). Their biologic properties (cell uptake and retention, cytotoxicity and antiretroviral efficacy) are determined with human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM). MDM are derived from human peripheral blood monocytes isolated from leukopacks using centrifugal elutriation for purification. Such blood-borne macrophages may be used as cellular transporters for nanoART distribution to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected organs. We posit that the repackaging of clinically available antiretroviral medications into nanoparticles for HIV-1 treatments may improve compliance and positively affect disease outcomes.

Attention or variations in event processing help drive learning. Lesion studies have implicated the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) in this process, particularly when expected rewards are omitted. However, lesion studies cannot specify how information processing in CeA supports such learning. To address these questions, we recorded CeA neurons in rats performing a task in which rewards were delivered or omitted unexpectedly. We found that activity in CeA neurons increased selectively at the time of omission and declined again with learning. Increased firing correlated with CeA-inactivation sensitive measures of attention. Notably CeA neurons did not fire to the cues or in response to unexpected rewards. These results indicate that CeA contributes to learning in response to reward omission due to a specific role in signaling actual omission rather than a more general involvement in signaling expectancies, errors, or reward value.
Using exome sequencing, we identified a p.R191Q amino acid change in the valosin-containing protein (VCP) gene in an Italian family with autosomal dominantly inherited amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mutations in VCP have previously been identified infamilies with Inclusion Body Myopathy, Paget disease, and Frontotemporal Dementia (IBMPFD). Screening of VCP in a cohort of 210 familial ALS cases and 78 autopsy-proven ALS cases identified four additional mutations including a p.R155H mutation in a pathologically proven case of ALS. VCP protein is essential for maturation of ubiquitin-containing autophagosomes, and mutant VCP toxicity is partially mediated through its effect on TDP-43 protein, a major constituent of ubiquitin inclusions that neuropathologically characterize ALS. Our data broaden the phenotype of IBMPFD to include motor neuron degeneration, suggest that VCP mutations may account for 1%-2% of familial ALS, and provide evidence directly implicating defects in the ubiquitination/protein degradation pathway in motor neuron degeneration.
TDP-43 mislocalization and aggregation are implicated in the pathogenesis of ALS and FTLD-U. Valosin containing protein (VCP) mutations also lead to TDP-43 deposition, resulting in Inclusion Body Myopathy, Paget disease, and Frontotemporal Dementia (IBMPFD). In this issue of Neuron, Johnson etal. used whole-exome capture to identify VCP mutations in familial ALS. This extends the VCP phenotype to include motor neuron degeneration and provides another molecular tool to explore neurodegeneration disease mechanisms underlying the TDP-43 proteinopathies.
Huntington's disease (HD) is one of several neurodegenerative disorders caused by expansion of CAG repeats in a coding gene. Somatic CAG expansion rates in HD vary between organs, and the greatest instability is observed in the brain, correlating with neuropathology. The fundamental mechanisms of somatic CAG repeat instability are poorly understood, but locally formed secondary DNA structures generated during replication and/or repair are believed to underlie triplet repeat expansion. Recent studies in HD mice have demonstrated that mismatch repair (MMR) and base excision repair (BER) proteins are expansion inducing components in brain tissues. This study was designed to simultaneously investigate the rates and modes of expansion in different tissues of HD R6/1 mice in order to further understand the expansion mechanisms in vivo. We demonstrate continuous small expansions in most somatic tissues (exemplified by tail), which bear the signature of many short, probably single-repeat expansions and contractions occurring over time. In contrast, striatum and cortex display a dramatic--and apparently irreversible--periodic expansion. Expansion profiles displaying this kind of periodicity in the expansion process have not previously been reported. These in vivo findings imply that mechanistically distinct expansion processes occur in different tissues.

Prior knowledge of the probabilities concerning decision alternatives facilitates the selection of more likely alternatives to the disadvantage of others. The neural basis of prior probability (PP) integration into the decision-making process and associated preparatory processes is, however, still essentially unknown. Furthermore, trial-to-trial fluctuations in PP processing have not been considered thus far. In a previous study, we found that the amplitude of the contingent negative variation (CNV) in a precueing task is sensitive to PP information (Scheibe et al., 2009). We investigated brain regions with a parametric relationship between neural activity and PP and those regions involved in PP processing on a trial-to-trial basis in simultaneously recorded electroencephalographic (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. Conventional fMRI analysis focusing on the information content of the probability precue revealed increasing activation of the posterior medial frontal cortex with increasing PP, supporting its putative role in updating action values. EEG-informed fMRI analysis relating single-trial CNV amplitudes to the hemodynamic signal addressed trial-to-trial fluctuations in PP processing. We identified a set of regions mainly consisting of frontal, parietal, and striatal regions that represents unspecific response preparation on a trial-to-trial basis. A subset of these regions, namely, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the inferior frontal gyrus, and the inferior parietal lobule, showed activations that exclusively represented the contributions of PP to the trial-to-trial fluctuations of the CNV.
Repetitive firing of neurons at a low frequency often leads to a decrease in synaptic strength. The mechanism of this low-frequency depression (LFD) is poorly understood. Here, LFD was studied at Aplysia cholinergic synapses. The absence of a significant change in the paired-pulse ratio during LFD, together with the facts that neither the time course nor the extent of LFD were affected by the initial release probability, suggests that LFD is not related to a depletion of the ready-to-fuse synaptic vesicles (SVs) or to a decrease in the release probability, but results from the silencing of a subpopulation of release sites. A subset of SVs or release sites, which acquired a high release probability status during LFD, permits synapses to rapidly and temporarily recover the initial synaptic strength when the stimulation is stopped. However, the recovery of the full capacity of the synapse to sustain repetitive stimulations is slow and involves spontaneous reactivation of the silent release sites. Application of tetanic stimulations accelerates this recovery by immediately switching on the silent sites. This high-frequency-dependent phenomenon underlies a new form of synaptic plasticity that allows resetting of presynaptic efficiency independently of the recent history of the synapse. Microinjection of a mutated Aplysia synapsin that cannot be phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), or a PKA inhibitor both prevented high-frequency-dependent awakening of release sites. Changes in the firing pattern of neurons appear to be able to regulate the on-off status of release sites via a molecular cascade involving PKA-dependent phosphorylation of synapsin.
The BK channel is a Ca+- and voltage-gated potassium channel with many important physiological functions. To identify proteins important to its function in vivo, we screened for Caenorhabditis elegans mutants that suppressed a lethargic phenotype caused by expressing a gain-of-function (gf) isoform of the BK channel -subunit SLO-1. BKIP-1 (for BK channel interacting protein), a small peptide with no significant homology to any previously characterized molecules, was thus identified. BKIP-1 and SLO-1 showed similar expression and subcellular localization patterns and appeared to interact physically through discrete domains. bkip-1 loss-of-function (lf) mutants phenocopied slo-1(lf) mutants in behavior and synaptic transmission and suppressed the lethargy, egg-laying defect, and deficient neurotransmitter release caused by SLO-1(gf). In heterologous expression systems, BKIP-1 decreased the activation rate and shifted the conductance-voltage relationship of SLO-1 in a Ca+-dependent manner and increased SLO-1 surface expression. Thus, BKIP-1 is a novel auxiliary subunit critical to SLO-1 function in vivo.
The human auditory cortex is engaged in monitoring the speech of interlocutors as well as self-generated speech. During vocalization, auditory cortex activity is reported to be suppressed, an effect often attributed to the influence of an efference copy from motor cortex. Single-unit studies in non-human primates have demonstrated a rich dynamic range of single-trial auditory responses to self-speech consisting of suppressed, nonsuppressed and excited auditory neurons. However, human research using noninvasive methods has only reported suppression of averaged auditory cortex responses to self-generated speech. We addressed this discrepancy by recording electrocorticographic activity from neurosurgical subjects performing auditory repetition tasks. We observed that the degree of suppression varied across different regions of auditory cortex, revealing a variety of suppressed and nonsuppressed responses during vocalization. Importantly, single-trial high-gamma power ((High), 70-150 Hz) robustly tracked individual auditory events and exhibited stable responses across trials for suppressed and nonsuppressed regions.
Visual cortex is traditionally viewed as a hierarchy of neural feature detectors, with neural population responses being driven by bottom-up stimulus features. Conversely, &quot;predictive coding&quot; models propose that each stage of the visual hierarchy harbors two computationally distinct classes of processing unit: representational units that encode the conditional probability of a stimulus and provide predictions to the next lower level; and error units that encode the mismatch between predictions and bottom-up evidence, and forward prediction error to the next higher level. Predictive coding therefore suggests that neural population responses in category-selective visual regions, like the fusiform face area (FFA), reflect a summation of activity related to prediction (&quot;face expectation&quot;) and prediction error (&quot;face surprise&quot;), rather than a homogenous feature detection response. We tested the rival hypotheses of the feature detection and predictive coding models by collecting functional magnetic resonance imaging data from the FFA while independently varying both stimulus features (faces vs houses) and subjects' perceptual expectations regarding those features (low vs medium vs high face expectation). The effects of stimulus and expectation factors interacted, whereby FFA activity elicited by face and house stimuli was indistinguishable under high face expectation and maximally differentiated under low face expectation. Using computational modeling, we show that these data can be explained by predictive coding but not by feature detection models, even when the latter are augmented with attentional mechanisms. Thus, population responses in the ventral visual stream appear to be determined by feature expectation and surprise rather than by stimulus features per se.
Dopamine released in the nucleus accumbens is thought to contribute to the decision to exert effort to seek reward. This hypothesis is supported by findings that performance of tasks requiring higher levels of effort is more susceptible to disruption by manipulations that reduce accumbens dopamine function than tasks that require less effort. However, performance of some low-effort cue-responding tasks is highly dependent on accumbens dopamine. To reconcile these disparate results, we made detailed behavioral observations of rats performing various operant tasks and determined how injection of dopamine receptor antagonists into the accumbens influenced specific aspects of the animals' behavior. Strikingly, once animals began a chain of operant responses, the antagonists did not affect the ability to continue the chain until reward delivery. Instead, when rats left the operandum, the antagonists severely impaired the ability to return. We show that this impairment is specific to situations in which the animal must determine a new set of approach actions on each approach occasion; this behavior is called &quot;flexible approach.&quot; Both high-effort operant tasks and some low-effort cue-responding tasks require dopamine receptor activation in the accumbens because animals pause their responding and explore the chamber, and accumbens dopamine is required to terminate these pauses with flexible approach to the operandum. The flexible approach hypothesis provides a unified framework for understanding the contribution of the accumbens and its dopamine projection to reward-seeking behavior.
The mouse is a promising model in the study of visual system function and development because of available genetic tools. However, a quantitative analysis of visual receptive field properties had not been performed in the mouse superior colliculus (SC) despite its importance in mouse vision and its usefulness in developmental studies. We have made single-unit extracellular recordings from superficial layers of the SC in urethane-anesthetized C57BL/6 mice. We first map receptive fields with flashing spot stimuli and show that most SC neurons have spatially overlapped ON and OFF subfields. With drifting sinusoidal gratings, we then determine the tuning properties of individual SC neurons, including selectivity for stimulus direction and orientation, spatial frequency tuning, temporal frequency tuning, response linearity, and size preference. A wide range of receptive field sizes and selectivity are observed across the population and in various subtypes of SC neurons identified morphologically. In particular, orientation-selective responses are discovered in the mouse SC, and they are not affected by cortical lesion or long-term visual deprivation. However, ON/OFF characteristics and spatial frequency tuning of SC neurons are influenced by cortical inputs and require visual experience during development. Together, our results provide essential information for future investigations on the functional development of the superior colliculus.
Harnessing the immune system to clear protein aggregates is emerging as a promising approach to treat various neurodegenerative diseases. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), several clinical trials are ongoing using active and passive immunotherapy targeting the amyloid- (A) peptide. Limited emphasis has been put into clearing tau/tangle pathology, another major hallmark of the disease. Recent findings from the first A vaccination trial suggest that this approach has limited effect on tau pathology and that A plaque clearance may not halt or slow the progression of dementia in individuals with mild-to-moderate AD. To assess within a reasonable timeframe whether targeting tau pathology with immunotherapy could prevent cognitive decline, we developed a new model with accelerated tangle development. It was generated by crossing available strains that express all six human tau isoforms and the M146L presenilin mutation. Here, we show that this unique approach completely prevents severe cognitive impairment in three different tests. This remarkable effect correlated well with extensive clearance of abnormal tau within the brain. Overall, our findings indicate that immunotherapy targeting pathological tau is very feasible for tauopathies, and should be assessed in clinical trials in the near future.
Compensatory mechanisms are often used to achieve stability by reducing variance, which can be accomplished via negative feedback during homeostatic regulation. In principle, compensation can also be implemented through feedforward mechanisms where a regulator acts to offset the anticipated output variation; however, few such neural mechanisms have been demonstrated. We provide evidence that an Aplysia neuropeptide, identified using an enhanced representational difference analysis procedure, implements feedforward compensation within the feeding network. We named the novel peptide &quot;allatotropin-related peptide&quot; (ATRP) because of its similarity to insect allatotropin. Mass spectrometry confirmed the peptide's identity, and in situ hybridization and immunostaining mapped its distribution in the Aplysia CNS. ATRP is present in the higher-order cerebral-buccal interneuron (CBI) CBI-4, but not in CBI-2. Previous work showed that CBI-4-elicited motor programs have a shorter protraction duration than those elicited by CBI-2. Here we show that ATRP shortens protraction duration of CBI-2-elicited ingestive programs, suggesting a contribution of ATRP to the parametric differences between CBI-4-evoked and CBI-2-evoked programs. Importantly, because Aplysia muscle contractions are a graded function of motoneuronal activity, one consequence of the shortening of protraction is that it can weaken protraction movements. However, this potential weakening is offset by feedforward compensatory actions exerted by ATRP. Centrally, ATRP increases the activity of protraction motoneurons. Moreover, ATRP is present in peripheral varicosities of protraction motoneurons and enhances peripheral motoneuron-elicited protraction muscle contractions. Therefore, feedforward compensatory mechanisms mediated by ATRP make it possible to generate a faster movement with an amplitude that is not greatly reduced, thereby producing stability.
Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is characterized by focal seizures, associated with hippocampal sclerosis, and often resistance to antiepileptic drugs. The parafascicular nucleus (PF) of the thalamus is involved in the generation of physiological oscillatory rhythms. It receives excitatory inputs from the cortex and inhibitory inputs from the basal ganglia, a system implicated in the control of epileptic seizures. The aim of this study was to examine the involvement of the PF in the occurrence of hippocampal paroxysmal discharges (HPDs) in a chronic animal model of MTLE in male mice. We recorded the local field potential (LFP) and the extracellular and intracellular activity of hippocampal and PF neurons during spontaneous HPDs in vivo. The end of the HPDs was concomitant with a slow repolarization in hippocampal neurons leading to an electrical silence. In contrast, it was associated in the PF with a transient increase in the power of the 10-20 Hz band in LFPs and a depolarization of PF neurons resulting in a sustained firing. We tested the role of the PF in the control of HPDs by single 130 Hz electrical stimulation of this nucleus and bilateral intra-PF injection of NMDA and GABA(A) antagonist and agonist. High-frequency PF stimulation interrupted ongoing HPDs at an intensity devoid of behavioral effects. NMDA antagonist and GABA(A) agonist suppressed hippocampal discharges in a dose-dependent way, whereas NMDA agonist and GABA(A) antagonist increased HPDs. Altogether, these data suggest that the PF nucleus plays a role in the modulation of MTLE seizures.
Understanding how neural circuits work requires a detailed knowledge of cellular-level connectivity. Our current understanding of neural circuitry is limited by the constraints of existing tools for transsynaptic tracing. Some of the most intractable problems are a lack of cellular specificity of uptake, transport across multiple synaptic steps conflating direct and indirect inputs, and poor labeling of minor inputs. We used a novel combination of transgenic mouse technology and a recently developed tracing system based on rabies virus (Wickersham et al., 2007a,b) to overcome all three constraints. Because the virus requires transgene expression for both initial infection and subsequent retrograde transsynaptic infection, we created several lines of mice that express these genes in defined cell types using the tetracycline-dependent transactivator system (Mansuy and Bujard, 2000). Fluorescent labeling from viral replication is thereby restricted to defined neuronal cell types and their direct monosynaptic inputs. Because viral replication does not depend on transgene expression, it provides robust amplification of signal in presynaptic neurons regardless of input strength. We injected virus into transgenic crosses expressing the viral transgenes in specific cell types of the hippocampus formation to demonstrate cell-specific infection and monosynaptic retrograde transport of virus, which strongly labels even minor inputs. Such neuron-specific transgenic complementation of recombinant rabies virus holds great promise for obtaining cellular-resolution wiring diagrams of the mammalian CNS.
Mechanisms influencing the development of olfactory bulb glomeruli are poorly understood. While odor receptors (ORs) play an important role in olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) axon targeting/coalescence (Mombaerts et al., 1996; Wang et al., 1998; Feinstein and Mombaerts, 2004), recent work showed that G protein activation alone is sufficient to induce OSN axon coalescence (Imai et al., 2006; Chesler et al., 2007), suggesting an activity-dependent mechanism in glomerular development. Consistent with these data, OSN axon projections and convergence are perturbed in mice deficient for adenylyl cyclase III, which is downstream from the OR and catalyzes the conversion of ATP to cAMP. However, in cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel knock-out mice OSN axons are only transiently perturbed (Lin et al., 2000), suggesting that the CNG channel may not be the sole target of cAMP. This prompted us to investigate an alternative channel, the hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channel (HCN), as a potential developmental target of cAMP in OSNs. Here, we demonstrate that HCN channels are developmentally precocious in OSNs and therefore are plausible candidates for affecting OSN axon development. Inhibition of HCN channels in dissociated OSNs significantly reduced neurite outgrowth. Moreover, in HCN1 knock-out mice the formation of glomeruli was delayed in parallel with perturbations of axon organization in the olfactory nerve. These data support the hypothesis that the outgrowth and coalescence of OSN axons is, at least in part, subject to activity-dependent mechanisms mediated via HCN channels.
In neurons, the endosomal system is essential for membrane receptor trafficking to dendrites and axons and thereby participates in various neuronal functions, such as neurite outgrowth and synaptic plasticity. A multitude of regulators coordinates trafficking through endosomes, but most of them have not been studied in detail in neurons. In non-neuronal cells, EHD1 (Eps15 homology-domain containing protein 1) functions in the recycling endosome and is required for endosome-to-plasma membrane transport of multiple cargos. In this study, we analyze the role of EHD1 in neurons. In particular, we investigate whether EHD1 is required for polarized trafficking of the dendritically targeted transferrin and the axonal adhesion molecule L1/NgCAM (neuron-glia cell adhesion molecule) and, if so, in what compartment it is required. We find that endosomal recycling of both L1/NgCAM and transferrin is impaired when EHD1 is downregulated. We show that EHD1 colocalizes with L1/NgCAM and transferrin mostly in EEA1 (early endosome antigen 1)-positive early endosomes and less extensively with recycling endosomes. Using live imaging, we observe that EHD1 is stably associated with endosomal membranes during their maturation into EEA1-positive compartments and often persists on them longer than EEA1. Finally, we show that downregulation of EHD1 causes a delay of L1/NgCAM in exiting EEA1-positive endosomes, resulting in impaired targeting of L1/NgCAM to the axonal membrane. We conclude that, in neurons, EHD1 functions in early endosomes rather than (or possibly in addition to) recycling endosomes. These findings point to the existence of neuronal adaptations of the endosomal system.
The significance of the mismatch negativity (MMN), an event-related potential measured in humans which indexes novelty in the auditory environment, has motivated a search for a cellular correlate of this process. A leading candidate is stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) in auditory cortex units, which shares several characteristics with the MMN. Whether auditory cortex responses encode sensory novelty, a defining property of the MMN, however, has not been resolved. To evaluate this key issue, we used several variations of the auditory oddball paradigm from the human literature and examined psychophysical and pharmacological properties of multiunit activity in the auditory cortex of awake rodents. We found converging evidence dissociating SSA from sensory novelty and the MMN. First, during an oddball paradigm with frequency deviants, neuronal responses showed clear SSA but failed to encode novelty in a manner analogous to the human MMN. Second, oddball paradigms using intensity or duration deviants revealed a pattern of unit responses that showed sensory adaptation, but again without any measurable novelty correlates aligning to the human MMN. Finally NMDA antagonists, which are known to disrupt the MMN, suppressed the magnitude of multiunit responses in a nonspecific manner, leaving the process of SSA intact. Together, our results suggest that auditory novelty detection as indexed by the MMN is dissociable from SSA at the level of activity encoded by auditory cortex neurons. Further, the NMDA sensitivity reported for the MMN, which models the disruption of MMN observed in schizophrenia, may occur at a mechanistic locus outside of SSA.



Social neuroscience has made considerable progress in revealing the mechanisms underlying empathy. We focused on the mechanism of perspective taking, which is one aspect of the empathic process that includes the emotional inhibitory mechanism, a function of the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex using the near-infrared spectroscopy. As a pretreatment, 19 participants played a game with confederates playing either fairly or unfairly. Accordingly, each participant evaluated valence of their partner's faces. The data showed that taking the other perspective of an unfair player activated the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex in participants with high PT ability. In contrast, the behavioral data showed no differences between those participants with high and low-perspective taking abilities. These results suggest that different types of empathic features can produce different perspective taking strategies.
Dopamine exerts a robust promoting effect on adult neurogenesis. Here, we report the presence of an intense dopamine (tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive) zone along the ventricular border of the caudate nucleus in patients with Huntington's disease, but not in age-matched controls. This thin (150-400 microm) paraventricular zone was composed of numerous small and densely packed dopamine axon varicosities and overlapped the deep layers of the subventricular zone. Immunoreactivity in the paraventricular zone was 50% higher than in adjacent striatal areas. This intense dopamine zone concurs with the striking increase of neurogenesis noted in the subventricular zone of Huntington's disease patients and indicates that dopamine might play a crucial role in intrinsic mechanisms designed to compensate for the massive striatal neuronal losses that occur in Huntington's disease.
It has been shown that the volume of the olfactory bulb (OB) changes with function. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the OB volume and the olfactory function in early blind (EB) subjects increase compared with controls. Psychophysical testing of olfactory performances and OB volumetric measurements assessed by an MRI scan were studied. Quantitative olfactory function expressed in the odor discrimination and odor-free identification scores was higher in EB subjects compared with controls. The mean of right, left and total OB volume was 65.40, 75.48, and 140.89 mm, respectively for the EB subjects and 54.47, 52.11, and 106.60 mm, respectively for the controls, with these differences being significant. EB subjects have superior olfactory abilities and presented with significantly higher OB volume than the sighted controls. OB plasticity may explain this compensatory mechanism between visual deprivation and enhanced olfactory perception.
Exposure to stress causes differential neural modifications in various limbic regions, namely the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and amygdala. We investigated whether -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) phosphorylation is involved with these stress effects. Using an acute inescapable stress protocol with rats, we found opposite effects on AMPA receptor phosphorylation in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and dorsal hippocampus (DH) compared to the amygdala and ventral hippocampus (VH). After stress, the phosphorylation of Ser831-GluA1 was markedly decreased in the mPFC and DH, whereas the phosphorylation of Ser845-GluA1 was increased in the amygdala and VH. Stress also modulated the GluA2 subunit with a decrease in the phosphorylation of both Tyr876-GluA2 and Ser880-GluA2 residues in the amygdala, and an increase in the phosphorylation of Ser880-GluA2 in the mPFC. These results demonstrate that exposure to acute stress causes subunit-specific and region-specific changes in glutamatergic transmission, which likely lead to the reduced synaptic efficacy in the mPFC and DH and augmented activity in the amygdala and VH. In addition, these findings suggest that modifications of glutamate receptor phosphorylation could mediate the disruptive effects of stress on cognition. They also provide a means to reconcile the contrasting effects that stress has on synaptic plasticity in these regions. Taken together, the results provide support for a brain region-oriented approach to therapeutics.
Childhood diet is important for brain development. Furthermore, the quality of breakfast is thought to affect the cognitive functioning of well-nourished children. To analyze the relationship among breakfast staple type, gray matter volume, and intelligence quotient (IQ) in 290 healthy children, we used magnetic resonance images and applied voxel-based morphometry. We divided subjects into rice, bread, and both groups according to their breakfast staple. We showed that the rice group had a significantly larger gray matter ratio (gray matter volume percentage divided by intracranial volume) and significantly larger regional gray matter volumes of several regions, including the left superior temporal gyrus. The bread group had significantly larger regional gray and white matter volumes of several regions, including the right frontoparietal region. The perceptual organization index (POI; IQ subcomponent) of the rice group was significantly higher than that of the bread group. All analyses were adjusted for age, gender, intracranial volume, socioeconomic status, average weekly frequency of having breakfast, and number of side dishes eaten for breakfast. Although several factors may have affected the results, one possible mechanism underlying the difference between the bread and the rice groups may be the difference in the glycemic index (GI) of these two substances; foods with a low GI are associated with less blood-glucose fluctuation than are those with a high GI. Our study suggests that breakfast staple type affects brain gray and white matter volumes and cognitive function in healthy children; therefore, a diet of optimal nutrition is important for brain maturation during childhood and adolescence.


The activities of the mind and brain never cease. Although many of our waking hours are spent processing sensory input and executing behavioral responses, moments of unoccupied rest free us to wander through thoughts of the past and future, create daydreams, and imagine fictitious scenarios. During sleep, when attention to sensory input is at a minimum, the mind continues to process information, using memory fragments to create the images, thoughts, and narratives that we commonly call 'dreaming'. Far from being a random or meaningless distraction, spontaneous cognition during states of sleep and resting wakefulness appears to serve important functions related to processing past memories and planning for the future. From single-cell recordings in rodents to behavioral studies in humans, recent studies in the neurosciences suggest a new conception of dreaming as part of a continuum of adaptive cognitive processing occurring across the full range of mind/brain states.
Human brain imaging studies of bistable perceptual phenomena revealed that frontal and parietal areas are activated during perceptual switches between the two conflicting percepts. However, these studies do not provide information about causality, i.e., whether activity reports a consequence or a cause of the perceptual change. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to individually localize four parietal regions involved in perceptual switches during binocular rivalry in 15 subjects and subsequently disturbed their neural processing and that of a control site using 2 Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during binocular rivalry. We found that TMS over one of the sites, the right intraparietal sulcus (IPS), prolonged the periods of stable percepts. Additionally, the more lateralized the blood oxygen level-dependent signal was in IPS, the more lateralized the TMS effects were. Lateralization varied considerably across subjects, with a right-hemispheric bias. Control replay experiments rule out nonspecific effects of TMS on task performance, reaction times, or eye blinks. Our results thus demonstrate a causal, destabilizing, and individually lateralized effect of normal IPS function on perceptual continuity in rivalry. This is in accord with a role of IPS in perceptual selection, relating its role in rivalrous perception to that in attention.
Previous event-related potential (ERP) studies have provided mixed results regarding the earliest manifestations of conscious visual report. One possible explanation for the results could be that conscious visual perception emerges progressively rather than appearing as a binary transition. In the present study, we used electrical neuroimaging to identify the stages of processing that lead to the successful conscious identification of a briefly presented degraded stimulus. Grayscale images of faces and butterflies were presented for 16 ms and their visibility was manipulated by means of random image structure evolution (RISE). Three levels of RISE image distortions were used for each image. First, we determined an individual detection threshold of 50% for each subject. We then added two control conditions, namely fully degraded stimuli and stimuli that yielded 80% detection. Topographic ERP analyses revealed distinct effects for identified and unidentified stimuli at the threshold of detection. Four stages were observed that distinguished successful from unsuccessful stimulus identification. This shows that the events associated with conscious perception occurs at several distinct stages in time starting as early as 220 ms after stimulus presentation, rather than translating as a single temporal event and includes marked top-down activations when identification becomes difficult.

Cognitive impairment affects a large proportion of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and has a profound impact on their daily-life activities. Improving the knowledge of the pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in MS and of the mechanisms responsible for its evolution over time might contribute to development of better outcome measures and targets for innovative treatment strategies. Due to their ability to detect MS-related abnormalities, MRI techniques are a valuable tool to achieve these goals. Following an updated overview of the assessment methods and profile of cognitive impairment in patients with MS, this review provides a state-of-the-art summary of the main results obtained from the application of conventional and modern magnetic resonance- based techniques to quantify MS-related damage, in terms of macroscopic lesions, as well as involvement of the normal-appearing white matter and gray matter and their association with cognitive impairment. The possible role of brain cortical reorganization in limiting the clinical consequences of disease-related damage is also discussed. Finally, the utility of the previous techniques to monitor the progression of cognitive deficits over time and the efficacy of possible therapeutic strategies is considered.


Inositol pyrophosphates have been implicated in numerous biological processes. Inositol hexakisphosphate kinase-2 (IP6K2), which generates the inositol pyrophosphate, diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (IP7), influences apoptotic cell death. The tumor suppressor p53 responds to genotoxic stress by engaging a transcriptional program leading to cell-cycle arrest or apoptosis. We demonstrate that IP6K2 is required for p53-mediated apoptosis and modulates the outcome of the p53 response. Gene disruption of IP6K2 in colorectal cancer cells selectively impairs p53-mediated apoptosis, instead favoring cell-cycle arrest. IP6K2 acts by binding directly to p53 and decreasing expression of proarrest gene targets such as the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 6 (MKK6) is a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase (MAP2K) subfamily that specifically phosphorylates and activates the p38 MAPKs. Based on both biochemical and cellular assays, we found that MKK6 was extremely sensitive to oxidation: It was inactivated by oxidation and its kinase activity was fully restored upon treatment with a reducing agent. Detailed mechanistic studies showed that cysteines 109 and 196, two of the six cysteines in MKK6, formed an intramolecular disulfide bond upon oxidation that inactivated MKK6 by inhibiting its ATP binding. This mechanism is distinct from that seen in other redox-sensitive kinases. The two cysteines involved in intramolecular disulfide formation are conserved in all seven members of the MAP2K family. Consistently, we confirmed that other MAP2Ks were also sensitive to oxidation. Our work reveals that MKK6 and other MAP2Ks are a distinct class of cellular redox sensors.
Rats received unilateral hippocampal lesions before being placed in complex environments or standard lab housing. Three months later the brains were prepared for Golgi-Cox staining. Pyramidal cells in layer III of parietal cortex were analyzed bilaterally. The basilar dendrites of the parietal pyramidal cells in the intact hemisphere showed the expected changes in experience-dependent changes, including an increase in dendritic branching and length as well as spine density. In contrast, the basilar dendrites of the parietal neurons in the lesion hemisphere showed no significant effect of experience on dendritic branching or length and showed a decrease in spine density in the same neurons. The apical fields failed to show an effect of experience in either hemisphere. The hippocampus plays a crucial role in neocortical experience-dependent plasticity.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of age-related dementia (ARD). Most research directed at understanding the causes of AD is focused on the genetic-based pathology associated with the familial form of this disorder. This is important work and significant progress has been made but 85% of all AD patients have the sporadic form of the disorder. This means that a complete understanding of these complex disorders will remain elusive unless alternative approaches are developed. In this paper we want to make two main points. First, we argue that the current diagnostic distinctions between AD and ARD do not accurately reflect the heterogeneity of these disorders. Second, we present an approach to understanding the etiology of these disorders by suggesting that multiple combinations of co-factors produce variants of the sporadic form of AD. Various proof of principle experiments are presented and the mechanistic and treatment implications of this view are discussed.
Hand shaping is an important part of many skilled hand movements and includes a number of hand shapes prominent amongst which is collection. In collection, the hand is held with the digits lightly closed and flexed. It occurs when the hand is at rest and it occurs as the hand is transported to a target in behaviors such as reaching for an object, crawling, and climbing a ladder. Collection also frequently precedes hand gestures associated with speaking. The development of collection in infancy has not been described but it might be predicted that collection should develop before grasping and reaching movements. The present study examines the development of collection and arm position during the first 6 months of infant development. Infants were filmed while awake and photographed while asleep and hand shape and the hands location relative to the torso was documented. Collection associated with a relaxed position of the arm became increasingly prominent over the first 4 weeks of life in both awake and sleeping infants. It replaces a clenched (spastic) fist that was typically held proximal to the upper torso. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that the development of collection is an important antecedent to other hand shaping movements, especially skilled movements of grasping and reaching.
Neural plasticity is a term that encompasses a vast array of changes in the nervous system in response to a wide range of environmental disturbances. The conservative manner in which nervous systems produce behavior is explored in the act of scratching the head. Whether the scratching is done with the hind leg (flamingos and axis deer) or the hand (spider monkey), it is shown that, when scratching their heads, animals follow a simple rule to avoid making multiple movements simultaneously with different parts of their bodies. Closer inspection of such a computational cost-saving scheme reveals that neural plasticity may best enhance motor performance when it occurs at higher levels of brain organization. The example of how complex social behavior, play fighting, is organized in rats shows that cortical systems can modify the contextual use of species-typical, or well-learned, behavior patterns, rather than producing new behavior patterns.
Ageing and stress represent critical influences on stroke risk and outcome. These variables are intricately linked, as ageing is frequently associated with gradual dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. This study determined the effects of stress on motor function in aged rats, and explored possible interactions of age and stress on motor recovery following stroke in a rat model. Young adult (4 months) and aged (18 months) male Wistar rats were tested in skilled and non-skilled movement before and after focal ischemia in motor cortex. One group of each age received restraint stress starting seven days pre-lesion until three weeks post-lesion. Aged rats were less mobile and stress further diminished their overall exploratory activity. Aged rats were also less proficient in motor skill acquisition and slower to improve after lesion. Stress diminished post-lesion improvement and prevented recovery of endpoint measures. The larger functional loss in aged rats vs. young rats was accompanied by greater damage of cortical tissue and persistent elevations in corticosterone levels. The behavioural and physiological measures suggest limited ability of aged animals to adapt to chronic stress. These findings show that age or stress alone can modulate motor performance but may have greater influence by synergistically affecting stroke recovery.
In previous work from our laboratory, we have developed a model of stroke that allows the comparison of stroke injury across age groups (10-day old, 63-day old, 180-day old rats). In this current study, we incorporated environmental enrichment to determine whether this form of rehabilitation alters behavioral recovery, and whether age and/or sex interacts with enrichment. Our results indicated that ischemic male rats that were housed in standard cages (shoebox housed) performed the poorest on two tasks of motor ability, and that this performance was related to the size of the lesion. With the exception of lesion size, in which 10-day old enriched rats had significantly smaller lesions than either the enriched 63-day old rats or the 180-day old rats, we observed no significant effects of age on behavioral recovery. Thus, our results are consistent with the observation that male rats may be more vulnerable to stroke and that they may differentially benefit from enrichment.
The influences of complex housing, T-maze, and Grice box training on dendritic morphology of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and primary somatosensory (Par 1) were investigated in the rat. Golgi-Cox analyses demonstrated that all learning paradigms produced alterations in PFC connectivity, albeit differently. Furthermore, the effects of experience on dendritic morphology varied by region, hemisphere, and lamina and often resulted in opposing changes within each. For example, complex housing produced a time-dependent decrease in the dendritic fields of layer (L) V neurons in region 3 of the cingulate cortex (Cg3) in the medial PFC (mPFC) neurons and increases in LIII of the dorsal agranular insular (AID) region of the orbitofrontal cortex. In contrast, T-maze training produced increases in Cg3 LV and decreases in AID LIII spine density. Of interest, the influence of experience was not reflected equally between hemispheres. For example, T-maze training produced an increase in Cg3 LV and AID LIII branch order and length in the right hemisphere, and an increase in Cg3 LIII branch order in the left hemisphere. Additionally, correlation analysis of task performance and dendritic morphology indicated an opposing influence of experience within the different laminae of the Cg3. For example, whereas, performance was negatively correlated with Cg3 LV dendritic branch order/length, there was a positive correlation with Cg3 LIII dendrites. Complex housing induced changes in the Par 1were also time -dependent but were only apparent after a prolonged period of exposure. In addition to demonstrating learning-specific modifications in dendritic connectivity within the PFC, the results illustrate varying patterns of change that likely reflect task-dependent requirements on the PFC.
Tactile stimulation has been reported to be effective as a treatment for inducing growth in premature human babies and infant rats and for improving functional recovery after brain injury in infant rats. We wondered if the behavioral impairments following injury in adulthood would show similar improvements with tactile stimulation. To test this hypothesis, rats were given either bilateral medial frontal cortex aspiration lesions or a unilateral focal stroke produced in the sensorimotor cortex using the pial stripping technique. In both conditions, rats that were designated to the tactile stimulation treatment group received the stimulation for one week before the surgery to accustom them to the stimulation procedure and then two weeks postoperatively. After a three-week recovery period, the animals with frontal damage were tested in a tray-reaching task. Animals with sensorimotor cortex damage were tested in a single pellet reaching task. Following behavioral testing brains were processed for Golgi-Cox analyses. Marked improvement was found in motor performance in the lesion-tactile stimulation animals regardless of the nature of the cortical injury. The observed behavioral recovery was associated with an increase in dendritic length in pyramidal cells adjacent cortex in the frontal operates and in the intact sensorimotor cortex in the stroke animals. Taken together, these data show tactile stimulation can improve motor performance in adult animals and the improvement is correlated with dendritic sprouting. This finding could have implications for therapy in humans following stroke.
Spontaneous state-dependent oscillatory dynamics in the brain are relevant to both ongoing and prospective neural and behavioural function. In the hippocampus, the presence of different patterns of coordinated network activity during offline (sleep) states has the potential to modify neural connections and thus influence memory storage. In addition to theta (3-12Hz) and ripple (100-300Hz) activity, the hippocampus also demonstrates a slow oscillation (SO: &lt; or =1Hz) during sleep which prominently organizes hippocampal cellular activity and dynamically coordinates ensembles across the entire forebrain into temporal frames of activity (UP) and inactivity (DOWN). The SO also significantly modulates hippocampal excitatory synaptic transmission on both a short (within cycle) and medium (across state) time scale and through its dynamic coordination with neocortical areas has the potential to function as a platform for long-term bidirectional synaptic plasticity. Recent evidence suggests that it is of direct benefit for the consolidation of hippocampal-dependent memories and thus, further investigation of its mechanisms in modulating short-to-long-term neural plasticity is certainly warranted.
Sensory cues can improve movement deficits in Parkinson's disease, but little is known about the mechanisms involved. To investigate neuroplastic changes following sensorimotor cue training, rats were shaped to respond to acoustic tone or medial geniculate stimulation cues by retrieving a food reward. Neuroplasticity associated with training was assessed by changes in auditory neocortical evoked field potentials and dendritic morphology. Stimulation cue training was associated with changes in dendritic arbour length and complexity in auditory and motor neocortices, but was without effect on evoked electrophysiological responses. Tone cue training was associated with a significant increase in peak height of the evoked auditory response and then under haloperidol challenge, demonstrated reduced akinesia. Results indicate that cue-training induces neuroplastic changes that may be related to improved sensorimotor function under dopaminergic antagonism.

We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the reference frames used to encode visual information in scene-responsive cortical regions. At early levels of the cortical visual hierarchy, neurons possess spatially selective receptive fields (RFs) that are yoked to specific locations on the retina. In lieu of this eye-centered organization, we speculated that visual areas implicated in scene processing, such as the parahippocampal place area (PPA), the retrosplenial complex (RSC), and transverse occipital sulcus (TOS) might instead possess RFs defined in head-, body-, or world-centered reference frames. To test this, we scanned subjects while they viewed objects and scenes presented at four screen locations while they maintained fixation at one of three possible gaze positions. We then examined response profiles as a function of either fixation-referenced or screen-referenced position. Contrary to our prediction, the PPA and TOS exhibited position-response curves that moved with the fixation point rather than being anchored to the screen, a pattern indicative of eye-centered encoding. RSC, on the other hand, did not exhibit a position-response curve in either reference frame. By showing an important commonality between the PPA/TOS and other visually responsive regions, the results emphasize the critical involvement of these regions in the visual analysis of scenes.
Historically, the safety of live attenuated vaccine candidates against neurotropic viruses was assessed by semi-quantitative analysis of virus-induced histopathology in the central nervous system of monkeys. We have developed a high-throughput automated image analysis (AIA) for the quantitative assessment of virus-induced neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. Evaluation of the results generated by AIA showed that quantitative estimates of lymphocytic infiltration, microglial activation, and neurodegeneration strongly and significantly correlated with results of traditional histopathological scoring. In addition, we show that AIA is a targeted, objective, accurate, and time-efficient approach that provides reliable differentiation of virus neurovirulence. As such, it may become a useful tool in establishing consistent analytical standards across research and development laboratories and regulatory agencies, and may improve the safety evaluation of live virus vaccines. The implementation of this high-throughput AIA will markedly advance many fields of research including virology, neuroinflammation, neuroscience, and vaccinology.
Increasing evidence supports a role for oxidative DNA damage and impaired DNA repair mechanisms in the pathogenesis of age related neurodegenerative diseases. Within this context there is a current interest in the understanding of the role played by polymorphisms of DNA repair genes in the inter-individual risk to develop neurodegenerative pathologies, as well as in the onset and the progression of disease symptoms. Particularly, somatic CAG repeat expansion of the gene encoding for huntingtin has been observed in tissues of patients affected by Huntington's disease (HD), including blood and brain. Recent evidence suggests that somatic CAG repeat expansion in HD cells might contribute to disease age at onset and is mediated by the DNA repair OGG1 enzyme, during the removal of 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) from the DNA. There is also evidence that the expression of hMTH1, which removes 8-oxoG from the nucleotide pool, protects mice from HD-like symptoms, and progenitor striatal cells from the toxic effects of the mutant huntingtin. The hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism results in reduced OGG1 activity and increased 8-oxoG formation. In the present study, performed on blood DNA from 91 HD subjects, we observed that bearers of the mutant Cys326 allele (Ser326Cys+Cys326Cys) tend to have an increased number of CAG repeats of the expanded HD allele (P=0.049); moreover bearers of at least one copy of the mutant Cys326 allele, mainly heterozygous subjects, showed a significant (P=0.041) earlier disease onset than Ser326Ser wild-type individuals, suggesting a possible role of the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism in HD phenotype.
Our data have shown that nitrite therapy can rescue the ischemic brain when injected &lt;3h after cerebral ischemic-reperfusion (I/R) injury and its effects can be prolonged to 4.5h in combination with memantine. We investigated whether or not long-term nitrite therapy is beneficial in ischemic brains. Sodium nitrite (1-100 g/kg ip) or saline were administered to rats subjected to focal I/R injury for 7 days beginning 24h after I/R. Behavioral tests for 5 weeks revealed better functional recovery in the high-dose nitrite group than the control group. Other nitrite groups with relatively low doses showed no functional benefits. Hemispheric atrophy was attenuated by approximately 30% in the high-dose nitrite group. High-dose nitrite therapy also reduced inflammatory cytokine levels and caspase activity in the subacute period, and increased BrdU(+)MAP2(+) and BrdU(+)laminin(+) cells, and vascular density in the 5-week ischemic brain. Long-term nitrite therapy, when initiated 24h after I/R, corrected the subacute hostile environment, induced tissue and vascular regeneration, and improved functional recovery. Early and subsequent long term nitrite therapy may be effective in the management for ischemic stroke patients.
Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) has been described as an efficient catalytic bioscavenger due to its ability to hydrolyze organophosphates (OPs) and chemical warfare nerve agents (CWNAs). It is the future most promising candidate as prophylactic medical countermeasure against highly toxic OPs and CWNAs. Most of the studies conducted so far have been focused on the hydrolyzing potential of PON1 against nerve agents, sarin, soman, and VX. Here, we investigated the hydrolysis of tabun by PON1 with the objective of comparing the hydrolysis potential of human and rabbit serum purified and recombinant human PON1. The hydrolysis potential of PON1 against tabun, sarin, and soman was evaluated by using an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) back-titration Ellman method. Efficient hydrolysis of tabun (100 nM) was observed with 25-40 mU of PON1, while higher concentration (80-250 mU) of the enzyme was required for the complete hydrolysis of sarin (11 nM) and soman (3 nM). Our data indicate that tabun hydrolysis with PON1 was 30-60 times and 200-260 times more efficient than that with sarin and soman, respectively. Moreover, the catalytic activity of PON1 varies from source to source, which also reflects their efficiency of hydrolyzing different types of nerve agents. Thus, efficient hydrolysis of tabun by PON1 suggests its promising potential as a prophylactic treatment against tabun exposure.
Reprogramming methodologies have provided multiple routes for achieving pluripotency. However, pluripotency is generally considered to be an almost singular state, with subtle differences described between induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and embryonic stem cells (ESCs). We profiled miRNA expression levels across 49 human cell lines, including ESCs, iPSCs, differentiated cells, and cancer cell lines. We found that the resulting miRNA profiles divided the iPSCs and hESCs examined into two distinct categories irrespective of the cell line origin. The miRNAs that defined these two pluripotency categories also distinguished cancer cells from differentiated cells. Transcriptome analysis suggested that several gene sets related to p53 distinguished these categories, and overexpression of the p53-targeting miRNAs miR-92 and miR-141 in iPSCs was sufficient to change their classification status. Thus, our results suggest a subdivision of pluripotent stem cell states that is independent of their origin but related to p53 network status.

Polycystin-1 (PC1) is a large membrane protein that is expressed along the renal tubule and exposed to a wide range of concentrations of urea. Urea is known as a common denaturing osmolyte that affects protein function by destabilizing their structure. However, it is known that the native conformation of proteins can be stabilized by protecting osmolytes that are found in the mammalian kidney. PC1 has an unusually long ectodomain with a multimodular structure including 16 Ig-like polycystic kidney disease (PKD) domains. Here, we used single-molecule force spectroscopy to study directly the effects of several naturally occurring osmolytes on the mechanical properties of PKD domains. This experimental approach more closely mimics the conditions found in vivo. We show that upon increasing the concentration of urea there is a remarkable decrease in the mechanical stability of human PKD domains. We found that protecting osmolytes such as sorbitol and trimethylamine N-oxide can counteract the denaturing effect of urea. Moreover, we found that the refolding rate of a structurally homologous archaeal PKD domain is significantly slowed down in urea, and this effect was counteracted by sorbitol. Our results demonstrate that naturally occurring osmolytes can have profound effects on the mechanical unfolding and refolding pathways of PKD domains. Based on these findings, we hypothesize that osmolytes such as urea or sorbitol may modulate PC1 mechanical properties and may lead to changes in the activation of the associated polycystin-2 channel or other intracellular events mediated by PC1.
Neuronal cell loss underlies the pathological decline in cognition and memory associated with Alzheimer disease (AD). Recently, targeting the endocannabinoid system in AD has emerged as a promising new approach to treatment. Studies have identified neuroprotective roles for endocannabinoids against key pathological events in the AD brain, including cell death by apoptosis. Elucidation of the apoptotic pathway evoked by -amyloid (A) is thus important for the development of therapeutic strategies that can thwart A toxicity and preserve cell viability. We have previously reported that lysosomal membrane permeabilization plays a distinct role in the apoptotic pathway initiated by A. In the present study, we provide evidence that the endocannabinoid system can stabilize lysosomes against A-induced permeabilization and in turn sustain cell survival. We report that endocannabinoids stabilize lysosomes by preventing the A-induced up-regulation of the tumor suppressor protein, p53, and its interaction with the lysosomal membrane. We also provide evidence that intracellular cannabinoid type 1 receptors play a role in stabilizing lysosomes against A toxicity and thus highlight the functionality of these receptors. Given the deleterious effect of lysosomal membrane permeabilization on cell viability, stabilization of lysosomes with endocannabinoids may represent a novel mechanism by which these lipid modulators confer neuroprotection.
We used a random-dot two-frame apparent motion paradigm to investigate whether age-related declines in motion perception are caused by deficits in integrating spatial information, temporal information, or both. Two random-dot patterns were presented sequentially on a black screen, separated by a blank inter-stimulus interval ranging from 0.01 s to 0.240 s. From the first to the second pattern, all the dots were shifted to the left or right by an equal displacement ranging from 0.03 deg to 1.64 deg. The spatiotemporal range yielding good direction discrimination performance was greatly reduced with age. For ISIs longer than 0.04 s, older subjects performed less accurately than younger subjects across a wide range of spatial displacements. Older subjects also showed poorer performance for large spatial displacements across a wide range of ISIs. Age-related differences in performance were also found with small displacements; however, these were largely accounted for by age-related declines in visual acuity. Overall, the results show that the maximum temporal interval and maximum spatial displacement over which two frames can be integrated are reduced in older age.
To decrease the impedance of microelectrode arrays, for neuroscience applications we have fabricated and tested MEA based on multi-walled carbon nanotubes. With decreasing physical size of a microelectrode, its impedance increases and charge-transfer capability decreases. To decrease the impedance, the effective surface area of the electrode must generally be increased. We explored the effect of plasma treatment on the surface wettability of MWCNT. With a steam-plasma treatment the surface of MWCNT becomes converted from superhydrophobic to superhydrophilic; this hydrophilic property is attributed to-OH bonding on the surface of MWCNT. We reported the synthesis at 400C of MWCNT on nickel-titanium multilayered metal catalysts by thermal chemical vapor deposition. Applying plasma with a power less than 25W for 10s improved the electrochemical and biological properties, and circumvented the limitation of the surface reverting to a hydrophobic condition; a hydrophilic state is maintained for at least one month. The MEA was used to record neural signals of a lateral giant cell from an American crayfish. The response amplitude of the action potential was about 275V with 1ms period; the recorded data had a ratio of signal to noise up to 40.12dB. The improved performance of the electrode makes feasible the separation of neural signals and the recognition of their distinct shapes. With further development the rapid treatment will be useful for long-term recording applications.
We previously reported a patient who exhibited a peculiar form of delusional misidentification. She had a selective deficit in retrieving family relationships between herself and her daughters and husband (i.e., she misidentified her daughters as her sisters and her husband as her father) despite being able to retrieve their names and faces and some person-specific semantic information (e.g., occupation). Based on this finding, the present positron emission tomography study was designed to elucidate the brain mechanisms underlying the retrieval of family relationships in healthy individuals. We found that the right inferior temporal gyrus, in which hypoperfusion was detected in the patient we had reported, was significantly activated during the retrieval of family relationships compared with names and occupations. These findings indicate that the retrieval of the relationships between oneself and one's family members may require a specific cognitive process dissociated from the retrieval of names and other person-specific semantic information.

Since the 1980 s, when cell transplantation into the brain as a cure for Parkinson's disease hit the headlines, several patients with Parkinson's disease have received transplantation of cells from aborted fetuses with the aim of replacing the dopamine cells destroyed by the disease. The results in human studies were unpredictable and raised controversy. Some patients showed remarkable improvement, but many of the patients who underwent transplantation experienced serious disabling adverse reactions, putting an end to human trials since the late 1990 s. These side effects consisted of patients' developing troublesome involuntary, uncontrolled movements in the absence of dopaminergic medication, so-called off-phase, graft-induced dyskinesias. Notwithstanding the several mechanisms having been proposed, the pathogenesis of this type of dyskinesias remained unclear and there was no effective treatment. It has been suggested that graft-induced dyskinesias could be related to fiber outgrowth from the graft causing increased dopamine release, that could be related to the failure of grafts to restore a precise distribution of dopaminergic synaptic contacts on host neurons or may also be induced by inflammatory and immune responses around the graft. A recent study, however, hypothesized that an important factor for the development of graft-induced dyskinesias could include the composition of the cell suspension and specifically that a high proportion of serotonergic neurons cografted in these transplants engage in nonphysiological properties such as false transmitter release. The findings from this study showed serotonergic hyperinnervation in the grafted striatum of two patients with Parkinson's disease who exhibited major motor recovery after transplantation with fetal mesencephalic tissue but later developed graft-induced dyskinesias. Moreover, the dyskinesias were significantly attenuated by administration of a serotonin agonist, which activates the inhibitory serotonin autoreceptors and attenuates transmitter release from serotonergic neurons, indicating that graft-induced dyskinesias were caused by the dense serotonergic innervation engaging in false transmitter release. Here the implications of the recent findings for the development of new human trials testing the safety and efficacy of cell transplantation in patients with Parkinson's disease are discussed.
Altered glutamatergic synaptic transmission is among the key events defining the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). mGlu2 receptors, a subtype of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors, regulate (as autoreceptors) fast synaptic transmission in the CNS via the controlled release of the excitatory amino acid glutamate. Since their pharmacological manipulation in rodents has been reported to affect cognition, they are potential drug targets for AD therapy. We examined the fate of these receptors in cases of AD as well as in aging PS2APP mice--a proposed model of the disease. In vitro binding of [(3)H]LY354740, a selective group II agonist (with selective affinity for mGlu2 receptors, under the assay conditions used) and quantitative radioautography revealed a partial, but highly significant, loss of receptors in amyloid-affected discrete brain regions of AD cases and PS2APP mice. Among the mouse brain regions affected were, above all, the subiculum but also frontolateral cortex, dentate gyrus, lacunosum moleculare and caudate putamen. In AD, significant receptor losses were registered in entorhinal cortex and lacunosum moleculare (40% and 35%, respectively). These findings have implications for the development of selective ligands for symptomatic therapy in AD and for its diagnosis.
Osthole, a natural coumarin derivative, has taken considerable attention because of its diverse pharmacological functions. It has been reported to be useful in the treatment of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and neuronal damage. In the present study, we examined the neuroprotective effect of osthole and its potential mechanisms against acute ischemic stroke induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in rats. The rats were pretreated with osthole 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg 30 min before MCAO. The neuroprotective effect of osthole against acute ischemic stroke was evaluated by neurological deficit score (NDS), dry-wet weight and 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. The contents of malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH), activity of myeloperoxidase (MPO) and the level of interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-8 after 2h of MCAO in rats were detected to investigate its anti-oxidative action and anti-inflammatory property. Pretreatment with osthole significantly increased in GSH, and decreased the volume of infarction, NDS, edema, MDA, MPO, IL-1 and IL-8 compared with rats in the MCAO group at 24h after MCAO. The study suggests the neuroprotective effect of osthole in the MCAO model of rats. The anti-oxidative action and anti-inflammatory property of osthole may contribute to a beneficial effect against stroke.
Human kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6) is highly expressed in the central nervous system. Although the physiological roles of this serine protease are unknown, in vitro substrates include amyloid precursor protein and components of the extracellular matrix, which are altered in neurological disease, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have compared KLK6 expression in post-mortem brain tissue in AD, vascular dementia (VaD) and controls. We studied the distribution of KLK6 in the temporal cortex and white matter by immunohistochemistry, and measured KLK6 mRNA and protein levels in the frontal and temporal cortex from 15 AD, 15 VaD and 15 control brains. Immunohistochemistry showed KLK6 to be restricted to endothelial cells. After adjustment for variations in vessel density by measurement of factor VIII-related antigen, we found KLK6 protein and mRNA levels to be significantly decreased in the frontal but not the temporal cortex in AD. In VaD, KLK6 protein level was significantly increased in the frontal cortex. Our findings suggest that an altered KLK6 expression may contribute to vascular abnormalities in AD and VaD.

Nicotine exposure during development can alter behavior in adulthood in mice. One route of nicotine administration that can mimic some of the dynamics of human smoking is administration of the drug to pregnant and nursing mice through the drinking water. It is critical to determine if nicotine administration has an impact on maternal behavior as such changes could lead to persistent behavioral alterations in the offspring, independent of the neuropharmacological effects of the drug. While a number of studies have detected nicotine exposure-induced changes, the effects of nicotine administration through the drinking water on maternal behavior in mice have not been examined comprehensively. In the current study we have compared maternal behaviors of C57BL/6J mice exposed to nicotine in the drinking water to behaviors of animals exposed to saccharin (vehicle) in the drinking water for the first 7days after birth of their litters and find no significant between-group differences in any behaviors measured except passive nursing. We have also assessed the effects of nicotine administration through the drinking water on postnatal weight gain of the pups and find no significant differences between groups. Open-field locomotor activity differences between exposed and unexposed offspring in adolescence were also assessed, with transient hyperactivity detected in nicotine-exposed mice. These data suggest that behavioral differences identified between animals exposed to nicotine through maternal drinking water administration are primarily due to the neuropharmacological effects of the drug and not due to effects of exposure on maternal behavior.
Learned helplessness in animals has been used to model disorders such as depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), but there is a lack of knowledge concerning which individual behavioral characteristics at baseline can predict helpless behavior after exposure to inescapable stress. The first aim of this study was to determine behavioral predictors of helplessness using the novel and familiar open-field tests, sucrose consumption, and passive harm-avoidance tasks before learned helplessness training and testing. Individual differences in physiologic responses to restraint stress were also assessed. A cluster analysis of escape latencies from helplessness testing supported the division of the sample population of Holtzman rats into approximately 50% helpless and 50% non-helpless. Linear regression analyses further revealed that increased reactivity to the novel environment, but not general activity or habituation, predicted susceptibility to learned helplessness. During restraint stress there were no mean differences in heart rate, heart rate variability, and plasma corticosterone between helpless and non-helpless rats; however, a lower heart rate during stress was associated with higher activity levels during exploration. Our most important finding was that by using an innocuous screening tool such as the novel and familiar open-field tests, it was possible to identify subjects that were susceptible to learned helplessness.
In Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), precopulatory behaviors such as vaginal scent marking are essential for attracting a suitable mate. Vaginal marking is dependent on forebrain areas implicated in the neural regulation of reproductive behaviors in rodents, including the medial preoptic/anterior hypothalamus (MPOA-AH). Within MPOA-AH, the neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) acts to facilitate copulation (lordosis), as well as ultrasonic vocalizations towards males. It is not known, however, if OT in this area also facilitates vaginal marking. In the present study, a specific oxytocin receptor antagonist (OTA) was injected into MPOA-AH of intact female Syrian hamsters to determine if oxytocin receptor-dependent signaling is critical for the normal expression of vaginal marking elicited by male, female, and clean odors. OTA injections significantly inhibited vaginal marking in response to male odors compared with vehicle injections. There was no effect of OTA on marking in response to either female or clean odors. When injected into the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), a nearby region to MPOA-AH, OTA was equally effective in decreasing marking. Finally, the effects of OTA appear to be specific to vaginal marking, as OTA injections in MPOA-AH or BNST did not alter general locomotor activity, flank marking, or social odor investigation. Considered together, these results suggest that OT in MPOA-AH and/or BNST normally facilitates male odor-induced vaginal marking, providing further evidence that OT generally supports prosocial interactions among conspecifics.
Since the pioneering work by Julius Adler in the 1960's, bacterial chemotaxis has been predominantly studied as metabolism-independent. All available simulation models of bacterial chemotaxis endorse this assumption. Recent studies have shown, however, that many metabolism-dependent chemotactic patterns occur in bacteria. We hereby present the simplest artificial protocell model capable of performing metabolism-based chemotaxis. The model serves as a proof of concept to show how even the simplest metabolism can sustain chemotactic patterns of varying sophistication. It also reproduces a set of phenomena that have recently attracted attention on bacterial chemotaxis and provides insights about alternative mechanisms that could instantiate them. We conclude that relaxing the metabolism-independent assumption provides important theoretical advances, forces us to rethink some established pre-conceptions and may help us better understand unexplored and poorly understood aspects of bacterial chemotaxis.
Recently evidence has accumulated that many neural networks exhibit self-organized criticality. In this state, activity is similar across temporal scales and this is beneficial with respect to information flow. If subcritical, activity can die out, if supercritical epileptiform patterns may occur. Little is known about how developing networks will reach and stabilize criticality. Here we monitor the development between 13 and 95 days in vitro (DIV) of cortical cell cultures (n = 20) and find four different phases, related to their morphological maturation: An initial low-activity state (19 DIV) is followed by a supercritical (20 DIV) and then a subcritical one (36 DIV) until the network finally reaches stable criticality (58 DIV). Using network modeling and mathematical analysis we describe the dynamics of the emergent connectivity in such developing systems. Based on physiological observations, the synaptic development in the model is determined by the drive of the neurons to adjust their connectivity for reaching on average firing rate homeostasis. We predict a specific time course for the maturation of inhibition, with strong onset and delayed pruning, and that total synaptic connectivity should be strongly linked to the relative levels of excitation and inhibition. These results demonstrate that the interplay between activity and connectivity guides developing networks into criticality suggesting that this may be a generic and stable state of many networks in vivo and in vitro.


The profile of recurrent ischemic strokes has not been much investigated. The aim of this study was to evaluate how the therapeutic strategies recommended for secondary prevention after an ischemic stroke are implemented in the real world of clinical practice. All patients admitted for a recurrent ischemic stroke or TIA were prospectively registered. The etiology was determined according to the TOAST classification. The risk factors and cardiovascular treatment at the time of the recurrence were recorded. A total of 168 patients were evaluated. Most of the patients (61%) recurred after 1 year. The recurrent stroke was not associated with a particular etiological subtype. The most frequent risk factor was hypertension (79%), followed by hypercholesterolemia (43%), smoking (25%), and diabetes (22%). Most of the patients had more than 1 risk factor (84%). Hypertension was not satisfactorily controlled in 38% of patients, hypercholesterolemia in 42%, and diabetes in 59%. A significant minority of patients (15%) were not taking any antithrombotic agent despite a history of stroke or TIA. Only 34% of the cases with a known atrial fibrillation were on anticoagulant therapy and the International Normalized Ratio was &lt; 2.0 in 71% of them. In conclusion, stroke prevention needs to be improved by better implementation of therapeutic strategies in clinical practice. The patients should also be better informed about target values as well as the importance of physical activity and smoking cessation.




It has been reported that the development of TDP-43 pathology in cases of Lewy body disease (LBD) might be associated with the severity of tau pathology. However, the impact of -synuclein pathology on TDP-43 accumulation in LBD remains unclear. To clarify whether -synuclein pathology has an effect on TDP-43 accumulation, independent of tau pathology, we examined by immunohistochemistry 56 cases of LBD using a phosphorylation-dependent TDP-43 antibody. The frequency of TDP-43 pathology in all LBD cases was 18% (10/56). In 37 LBD cases with no or low tau burden (LBD-Ltau; Braak NFT stages 0-II), the frequency of TDP-43 pathology was 19% (7/37). The frequency of TDP-43 pathology in diffuse neocortical type LBD-Ltau cases was 36% (4/11), which was higher than those in limbic and brain stem-predominant types (11-14%). The amygdala and entorhinal cortex were the most frequently affected sites of TDP-43 pathology in LBD-Ltau cases. In LBD-Ltau cases, the proportion of diffuse neocortical type LBD was higher in the TDP-43-positive cases, than that in TDP-43-negative cases (57 vs. 23%). In all LBD cases, -synuclein pathology in the temporal cortex was significantly more severe in TDP-43-positive cases, and significantly correlated with the severity of TDP-43 pathology in the amygdala. In a multivariate model, the presence of severe -synuclein pathology was significantly associated with the development of TDP-43 pathology independent of age at death and tau pathology. In the amygdala, TDP-43 was often colocalized with -synuclein or tau. Given these findings, we suggest that -synuclein pathology is associated with TDP-43 accumulation in LBD cases.

Aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) on the peripheral and central vestibular system, by means of a case series prospective study at the University referral centre of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery; 45 consecutive patients suffering from OSAS were compared with a control group of 30 volunteer subjects selected from among the department employees. Severity of the disease was evaluated by means of cardio-respiratory function monitoring during sleep; the apnoea-hypopnoea index was calculated. Both groups underwent: 1) head and neck examination; 2) fibre-optic examination; 3) pure tone audiometry; 4) evaluation of eye movement disorders using oculomotility tests recorded with the help of video-nystagmography; 5) caloric vestibular responses recorded with video-nystagmography; 6) auditory brainstem response. Results, when evaluating our data, showed that the peripheral vestibular system may become asymmetric due to hypoxic damage while the central vestibular system corrects this disequilibrium.




The year 2010 is the centennial of the publication of the &quot;Seven Little Devils&quot; in the predecessor of Acta Physiologica. In these seven papers, August and Marie Krogh sought to refute Christian Bohr's theory that oxygen diffusion from the lungs to the circulation is not entirely passive but rather facilitated by a specific cellular activity substitute to secretion. The subjects of the present reevaluation of this controversy are Christian Bohr, Professor and Doctor of Medicine (1855-1911), nominated three times for the Nobel Prize; August Krogh, Doctor of Philosophy (1874-1949), Christian Bohr's assistant and later Nobel Prize laureate (1920); and Marie Krogh, ne Jrgensen, Doctor of Medicine and wife of August Krogh (1874-1943). The controversy concerned is the transport of oxygen from the lungs into the bloodstream: are passive transport and diffusion capacity together sufficient to secure the oxygen supply in all circumstances or is there an additional specific (&quot;energy consuming&quot; or &quot;active&quot;) mechanism responsible for the transport of oxygen from the alveoli into the bloodstream? The present discussion purports to show that the contestants' views were closer than the parties themselves and posterity recognized. Posterity has judged the dispute unilaterally from the Nobel laureate's point of view, but it is evident that August Krogh's Nobel Prize was awarded for the discovery of a cellular activity (Christian Bohr's expression), represented by Krogh's discovery of capillary recruitment. Christian Bohr appears to have been correct in the narrower sense that the diffusion capacity at rest is not great enough to explain the transport during work; a special mechanism intervenes and optimizes the conditions under which diffusion acts. August Krogh, of course, was right in the wider sense that the transport mechanism itself is always entirely passive.
The I4898T (IT) mutation in type 1 ryanodine receptor (RyR1), the Ca(2+) release channel of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) is linked to a form of central core disease (CCD) in humans and results in a nonleaky channel and excitation-contraction uncoupling. We characterized age-dependent and fiber-type-dependent alterations in muscle ultrastructure, as well as the magnitude and spatiotemporal properties of evoked Ca(2+) release in heterozygous Ryr1(I4895T/WT) (IT/+) knock-in mice on a mixed genetic background. The results indicate a classical but mild CCD phenotype that includes muscle weakness and the presence of mitochondrial-deficient areas in type I fibers. Electrically evoked Ca(2+) release is significantly reduced in single flexor digitorum brevis (FDB) fibers from young and old IT/+ mice. Structural changes are strongly fiber-type specific, affecting type I and IIB/IIX fibers in very distinct ways, and sparing type IIA fibers. Ultrastructural alterations in our IT/+ mice are also present in wild type, but at a lower frequency and older ages, suggesting that the disease mutation on the mixed background promotes an acceleration of normal age-dependent changes. The observed functional and structural alterations and their similarity to age-associated changes are entirely consistent with the known properties of the mutated channel, which result in reduced calcium release as is also observed in normal aging muscle. In strong contrast to these observations, a subset of patients with the analogous human heterozygous mutation and IT/+ mice on an inbred 129S2/SvPasCrl background exhibit a more severe disease phenotype, which is not directly consistent with the mutated channel properties.
In this review, we summarize key observations supporting the idea of immunosenescence in the CNS. We provide a discussion of senescent changes that affect microglial cells and emphasize differences between laboratory rodents and humans. Microglial immunosenescence may explain why humans but not rodents develop neurofibrillary degeneration.
The past decade or so has witnessed a rekindling of interest in glia requiring a re-evaluation of the early descriptions of astrocytes as merely support cells, and microglia as adopting either a resting state or an activated state in a binary fashion. We now know that both cell types contribute to the optimal functioning of neurons in the healthy brain, and that altered function of either cell impacts on neuronal function and consequently cognitive function. The evidence indicates that both astrocytic and microglial phenotype change with age and that the shift from the resting state is associated with deterioration in synaptic function. In this review, we consider the rapidly-expanding array of functions attributed to these cells and focus on evaluating the changes in cell activation that accompany ageing.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, age-related neurodegenerative disorder which first manifests as profound memory dysfunction. The majority of cases are idiopathic, although advanced age is the greatest risk factor for AD. Recent evidence suggests that pre-fibrillar soluble amyloid-beta (A) underlies an early, progressive loss of synapses that is a hallmark of AD. One of the downstream effects mediated by soluble A aggregates is the hyperactivation of the phosphatase calcineurin (CaN). This important phosphatase is abundant in the nervous system and intimately involved in the mechanisms of memory as well as the immune response. Such a duality places CaN at the crux of neuroimmunomodulation processes. In the present review, we briefly summarize the role of CaN in physiological aging and discuss how CaN hyperactivity could cause the memory impairment, neuroinflammation, and neuronal death that are pathological mechanisms of AD.






Electrical stimulation can cause significant damage to clinical electrodes as well as patient injury. In this study, the effects of stimulation on pure metal electrodes were investigated without the complexities introduced by the multiple elements that make up the clinical electrode. As with the clinical electrodes, there was significant decomposition of pure stainless steel anodes with no associated significant changes in the cathodes when stimulation employed long pulse durations. Effects of stimulation were greater when the anode and cathode were closer under constant voltage stimulation but were distance independent under constant current stimulation. High ionic content of the solution also increased the degree of damage to the anode as did the presence of chloride in the solution. Electrode composition also influenced the amount damage to the anode. Platinum and platinum-iridium electrodes showed no damage with any stimulus while stainless steel showed the lowest resistance to corrosion for direct current (DC) stimulation. Tungsten electrodes behaved very differently than stainless steel, decomposing with pulse stimulation and resisting decomposition during DC stimulation because of the formation of surface protective layers. Because platinum was able to maintain high levels of current over time, prolonged stimulation produced dramatic increases in the temperature of the solution; however, even short periods of stimulation were sufficient to produce dramatic changes in pH in the neighborhood of the electrode.
Few rodent models of human immunodeficiency virus type one (HIV-1) infection can reflect the course of viral infection in humans. To this end, we investigated the relationships between progressive HIV-1 infection, immune compromise, and neuroinflammatory responses in NOD/scid-IL-2R(c)(null) mice reconstituted with human hematopoietic CD34(+) stem cells. Human blood-borne macrophages repopulated the meninges and perivascular spaces of chimeric animals. Viral infection in lymphoid tissue led to the accelerated entry of human cells into the brain, marked neuroinflammation, and HIV-1 replication in human mononuclear phagocytes. A meningitis and less commonly an encephalitis followed cM-T807 antibody-mediated CD8(+) cell depletion. We conclude that HIV-1-infected NOD/scid-IL-2R(c)(null) humanized mice can, at least in part, recapitulate lentiviral neuropathobiology. This model of neuroAIDS reflects the virological, immunological, and early disease-associated neuropathological components of human disease.
The accumulation of intracellular storage vesicles is a hallmark of lysosomal storage diseases. Neither the identity nor origin of these implicated storage vesicles have yet been established. The vesicles are often considered as lysosomes, endosomes, and/or autophagosomes that are engorged with undigested materials. Our studies in the mouse model of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB, a lysosomal storage disease that induces neurodegeneration, showed that large storage vesicles in cortical neurons did not receive material from either the endocytic or autophagy pathway, which functioned normally. Storage vesicles expressed GM130, a Golgi matrix protein, which mediates vesicle tethering in both pre- and cis-Golgi compartments. However, other components of the tethering/fusion complex were not associated with GM130 on storage vesicles, likely accounting for both the resistance of the vesicles to brefeldin A and the alteration of Golgi ribbon architecture, which comprised distended cisterna connected to LAMP1-positive storage vesicles. We propose that alteration in the GM130-mediated control of vesicle trafficking in pre-Golgi and Golgi compartments affects Golgi biogenesis and gives rise to a dead-end storage compartment. Vesicle accumulation, Golgi disorganization, and alterations of other GM130 functions may account for neuron dysfunction and death.
Ezrin, radixin, and moesin (ERM) proteins are known to be substrates of Rho kinase (ROCK), a key player in vascular smooth muscle regulation. Their function in arteries remains to be elucidated. The objective of the present study was to investigate ERM phosphorylation and function in rat aorta and mesenteric artery and the influence of ERM-binding phosphoprotein 50 (EBP50), a scaffold partner of ERM proteins in several cell types. In isolated arteries, ERM proteins are phosphorylated by PKC and ROCK with different kinetics after either agonist stimulation or KCl-induced depolarization. Immunoprecipitation of EBP50 in noradrenaline-stimulated arteries allowed identification of its interaction with moesin and several other proteins involved in cytoskeleton regulation. This interaction was inhibited by Y27632, a ROCK inhibitor. Moesin or EBP50 depletion after small interfering RNA transfection by reverse permeabilization in intact mesenteric arteries both potentiated the contractility in response to agonist stimulation without any effect on contractile response induced by high KCl. This effect was preserved in ionomycin-permeabilized arteries. These results indicate that, in agonist-stimulated arteries, the activation of ROCK leads to the binding of moesin to EBP50, which interacts with several components of the cytoskeleton, resulting in a decrease in the contractile response.
Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4) regulates the strength and duration of G protein signaling and plays an important role in smooth muscle contraction, cardiac development, and psychiatric disorders. Little is known about the posttranscriptional regulation of RGS4 expression. We cloned the full-length cDNA of rabbit RGS4, which contains a long 3'-untranslated region (UTR) with several AU-rich elements (AREs). We determined whether RGS4 mRNA stability is mediated by the RNA-binding protein human antigen R (HuR) and contributes to IL-1-induced upregulation of RGS4 expression. We show that IL-1 treatment in colonic smooth muscle cells doubled the half-life of RGS4 mRNA. Addition of RGS4 3'-UTR to the downstream of Renilla luciferase reporter induced dramatic reduction in the enzyme activity and mRNA expression of luciferase, which was attenuated by the site-directed mutation of the two 3'-most ARE sites. IL-1 increased luciferase mRNA stability in a UTR-dependent manner. Knockdown of HuR significantly aggravated UTR-mediated instability of luciferase and inhibited IL-1-induced upregulation of RGS4 mRNA. In addition, IL-1 increased cytosolic translocation and RGS4 mRNA binding of HuR. These findings suggest that 3'-most ARE sites within RGS4 3'-UTR are essential for the instability of RGS4 mRNA and IL-1 promotes the stability of RGS4 mRNA through HuR.
The type of free fatty acids (FFAs), saturated or unsaturated, is critical in the development of insulin resistance (IR), since the degree of saturation correlates with IR. We compared the effects of the saturated FFA palmitate, the unsaturated FFA oleate, and a mixture of each on the production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage, mitochondrial function, apoptosis, and insulin-signaling pathway in skeletal muscle cells. Only palmitate caused a significant increase of mtROS production, which correlated with concomitant mtDNA damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, induction of JNK, apoptosis, and inhibition of insulin signaling. Blocking de novo synthesis of ceramide abolished the effects of palmitate on mtROS production, viability, and insulin signaling. Oleate alone did not cause mtROS generation and mtDNA damage, and its addition to palmitate prevented palmitate-induced mtDNA damage, increased total ATP levels and cell viability, and prevented palmitate-induced apoptosis and inhibition of insulin-stimulated Akt (Ser(473)) phosphorylation. The peroxisome proliferator activator receptor- coactivator 1 (PGC-1) protein level and promoter activity were decreased at concentrations of palmitate 0.5 mM, whereas addition of oleate increased both PGC-1 level and promoter activity. Expression of the mitochondrial transcription factor (TFAM) was significantly diminished after palmitate but not oleate treatment. Addition of the ROS scavenger, N-acetylcystein (NAC), to palmitate restored both the expression and promoter activity of PGC-1 as well as TFAM expression. We propose that 1) mtROS generation is the initial event in the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction and consequent apoptosis and the inhibition of insulin signaling and that 2) oleate ameliorates palmitate-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and thus may contribute to the prevention of palmitate-induced IR.
DOCA-salt treatment increases mean arterial pressure (MAP), while central infusion of benzamil attenuates this effect. The present study used c-Fos immunoreactivity to assess the role of benzamil-sensitive proteins in the brain on neural activity following chronic DOCA-salt treatment. Uninephrectomized rats were instrumented with telemetry transmitters for measurement of MAP and with an intracerebroventricular (ICV) cannula for benzamil administration. Groups included rats receiving DOCA-salt treatment alone, rats receiving DOCA-salt treatment with ICV benzamil, and appropriate controls. At study completion, MAP in vehicle-treated DOCA-salt rats reached 142  4 mmHg. In contrast DOCA-salt rats receiving ICV benzamil had lower MAP (124  3 mmHg). MAP in normotensive controls was 102  3 mmHg. c-Fos immunoreactivity was quantified in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and across subnuclei of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), as well as other cardiovascular regulatory sites. Compared with vehicle-treated normotensive controls, c-Fos expression was increased in the SON and all subnuclei of the PVN, but not in other key autonomic nuclei, such as the rostroventrolateral medulla. Moreover, benzamil treatment decreased c-Fos immunoreactivity in the SON and in medial parvocellular and posterior magnocellular neurons of the PVN in DOCA-salt rats but not areas associated with regulation of sympathetic activity. Our results do not support the hypothesis that DOCA-salt increases neuronal activity (as indicated by c-Fos immunoreactivity) of other key regions that regulate sympathetic activity. These results suggest that ICV benzamil attenuates DOCA-salt hypertension by modulation of neuroendocrine-related PVN nuclei rather than inhibition of PVN sympathetic premotor neurons in the PVN and rostroventrolateral medulla.
Neuropeptide Y receptors are critical regulators of energy homeostasis and are well known for their powerful influence on feeding, but their roles in other important aspects of energy homeostasis, such as energy expenditure and their functional interactions in these processes, are largely unknown. Here we show that mice lacking both Y2 and Y4 receptors exhibited a reduction in adiposity, more prominent in intra-abdominal vs. subcutaneous fat, and an increase in lean mass as determined by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. These changes were more pronounced than those seen in mice with Y2 or Y4 receptor single deletion, demonstrating the important roles and synergy of Y2 and Y4 signaling in the regulation of body composition. These changes in body composition occurred without significant changes in food intake, but energy expenditure and physical activity were significantly increased in Y4(-/-) and particularly in Y2(-/-)Y4(-/-) but not in Y2(-/-) mice, suggesting a critical role of Y4 signaling and synergistic interactions with Y2 signaling in the regulation of energy expenditure and physical activity. Y2(-/-) and Y4(-/-) mice also exhibited a decrease in respiratory exchange ratio with no further synergistic decrease in Y2(-/-)Y4(-/-) mice, suggesting that Y2 and Y4 signaling each play important and independent roles in the regulation of substrate utilization. The synergy between Y2 and Y4 signaling in regulating fat mass may be related to differences in mitochondrial oxidative capacity, since Y2(-/-)Y4(-/-) but not Y2(-/-) or Y4(-/-) mice showed significant increases in muscle protein levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) coactivator (PGC)-1, and mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I and III. Taken together, this work demonstrates the critical roles of Y2 and Y4 receptors in the regulation of body composition and energy metabolism, highlighting dual antagonism of Y2 and Y4 receptors as a potentially effective anti-obesity treatment.

There have been several reports about disruption of the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) and blood-brain barrier (BBB) in SOD1 mutant mice. Pathologically, microbleeds and hemosiderine deposits were found. We investigated patients with ALS for the occurrence of cerebral microbleeds with 7 Tesla MRI. Twelve patients with ALS and 12 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were studied. We performed T2*-weighed imaging which enables whole-brain in vivo detection of cerebral microbleeds and hemosiderin deposits in humans. No microbleeds were found in patients with ALS.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) signaling participates in the synaptic plasticity, maintenance or regulation of adult brain. Although ErbB4, a key NRG1 receptor, is expressed in multiple regions in the adult animal brain, little is known about its localization in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. We previously reported that ErbB4 immunoreactivity showed regional difference in the hippocampus of age-matched control. In the present paper, immunohistochemical characterization of the distribution of ErbB4 receptor in the hippocampus relative to pathology staging were performed in age-matched control (Braak stage 0, n=6) and AD (Braak stage I/V, n=10). Here, we found that ErbB4 immunoreactivity was significantly increased in apoptotic hippocampal pyramidal neurons in the brains of AD patients, compared to those of age-matched control subjects. In AD brains, ErbB4 immunoreactivity was demonstrated to colocalize with the apoptotic signal Bax in apoptotic hippocampal pyramidal neurons. These results suggest that up-regulation of ErbB4 immunoreactivity in apoptotic neuron may involve in the progression of pathology of AD.
Despite its abundance in Latin America, and its remarkable ability to use tools, there are only a few myological studies on the capuchin monkey, Cebus libidinosus. In the present study, we dissected the forearm extensor muscles of six adult males and two adult females of this species. We describe these muscles and compare them with those of other primates dissected by us and by other authors. The forearm extensor muscles of Cebus monkeys are, in general, more similar to those of other platyrrhines than to distantly related taxa that use tools, such as chimpanzees and modern humans, with three main exceptions: contrary to most other platyrrhines, (1) in Cebus, chimpanzees and modern humans the extensor pollicis longus usually inserts onto Digit I, and not onto Digits I and II; (2) in Cebus the abductor pollicis longus has two separate tendons, as is the case in chimpanzees, and in modern humans (where one of these tendons is associated with a distinct belly, forming the muscle extensor pollicis brevis); (3) in Cebus, and in modern humans and chimpanzees, the extensor pollicis longus is not deeply blended with the extensor indicis. Therefore, the Cebus monkeys provide an illustrative example of how phylogenetic constrains and ecological adaptations have been combined to develop a specific myological configuration that, associated with their sophisticated neurological organization, allow them to easily navigate in their arboreal habitats and, at the same time, to finely manipulate objects in order to search for food and to prepare this food for ingestion.
The cetacean brain is well studied. However, few comparisons have been done with other marine mammals. In this study, we compared the harp seal (Pagophilus groenlandicus) and the harbor porpoise brain (Phocoena phocoena). Stereological methods were applied to compare three areas of interest: the entire neocortex and two subdivisions of the neocortex, the auditory and visual cortices. The total number of neurons and glial cells in the three regions was estimated. The main results showed that the harbor porpoise have an estimated 14.9  10(9) neocortical neurons and 34.8  10(9) neocortical glial cells, whereas the harp seal have 6.1  10(9) neocortical neurons and 17.5  10(9) neocortical glial cells. The harbor porpoise have significantly more neurons and glial cells in the auditory cortex than in the visual cortex, whereas the pattern was opposite for the harp seal. These results are the first to provide estimates of the number of neurons and glial cells in the neocortex of the harp seal and harbor porpoise brain and offer new data to the comparative field of mammalian brain evolution.
Brain injury or disease can initiate changes in local or global stiffness of brain tissue. While stiffness of the extracellular environment is known to affect the morphology and function of many cell types, little is known about how the dendrites of neurons respond to changes in brain stiffness. To assess how extracellular stiffness affects dendrite morphology, we took biomaterial and biomedical engineering approaches. We cultured mixed and pure hippocampal neurons on hydrogels composed of polyacrylamide (PA) of varying stiffnesses to mimic the effects of extracellular matrix stiffness on dendrite morphology. The majority of investigations of cortical and spinal cord neurons on soft hydrogels examined branching at early time points (days in vitro (DIV) 2-7), an important distinction from our study, where we include later time points that encompass the peak of branching (DIV 10-12). At DIV 12, dendrite branching was altered by stiffness for both pure and mixed neuronal cultures. Furthermore, we treated hippocampal cultures with glutamate receptor antagonists and with astrocyte-conditioned media. Blocking AMPA and NMDA receptors affected the changes in dendrite branching seen at varying rigidities. Moreover, extracellular factors secreted by astrocytes also change dendrite branching seen at varying rigidities. Thus, astrocytes and ionotropic glutamate receptors contribute to mechanosensing.
The relationship between motor neurone disease (MND) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) has been a topic of scientific exploration for over hundred years. A connection between both diseases was first postulated in 1932 and has been strengthened by a steady stream of case reports since then. By the late 20th century, the link between both diseases was firmly established, with the resulting condition often referred to as MND/FTD. Several strands of evidence support the notion of an MND/FTD overlap. First, a small but well-documented group of patients present with a full-blown FTD, associated with MND. Second, subtle but characteristic changes in frontal-executive functions and social cognition have been described in non-demented MND patients, often in association with frontal atrophy/hypoactivity on neuroimaging. Third, amyotrophic features have been documented in patients primarily diagnosed with FTD. Moreover, the same genetic defect can lead to FTD and MND phenotypes in different members of the same family. However, as the current research is moving toward a more fine-grained evaluation, an increasingly complex picture begins to emerge. Some features, such as psychotic symptoms or severe language deficits (particularly in comprehension and verb processing), seem to occur more often in MND/dementia than in the classical FTD. On the basis of the review of 100 years of literature as well as 10 years of clinical experience of longitudinal follow-up of MND/dementia patients, this review argues in favor of MND/dementia (or, more precisely, MND/dementia/aphasia) as a separate clinical entity, not sufficiently explained by a combination of MND and FTD.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) syndromes comprise a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative conditions characterized by atrophy in the frontal and temporal lobes. Three main clinical variants are recognized: Behavioral variant (bv-FTD), Semantic dementia (SD), and Progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA). However, logopenic/phonological (LPA) variant has been recently described, showing a distinctive pattern of brain atrophy and often associated to Alzheimer's disease pathology. The diagnosis of FTD is challenging, since there is clinical, pathological, and genetic overlap between the variants and other neurodegenerative diseases, such as motoneuron disease (MND) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). In addition, patients with gene mutations (tau and progranulin) display an inconsistent clinical phenotype and the correspondence between the clinical variant and its pathology is unpredictable. New cognitive tests based on social cognition and emotional recognition together with advances in molecular pathology and genetics have contributed to an improved understanding. There is now a real possibility of accurate biomarkers for early diagnosis. The present review concentrates on new insights and debates in FTD.
Dementia and depression are mental health problems that are commonly encountered in neuropsychiatric practice in the elderly. Approximately, half of the patients with late-onset depression have cognitive impairment. The prevalence of depression in dementias has been reported to be between 9 and 68%. Depression has been both proposed to be a risk factor for dementia as well as a prodrome of dementia. This article is a selective literature review of the complex relationship between the two conditions covering definitions, epidemiology, related concepts, treatment, and emerging biomarkers. The methodological issues and the mechanisms underlying the relationship are also highlighted. The relationship between the two disorders is far from conclusive.
One of the fundamental goals in human genetics is to link gene function to phenotype, yet the function of the majority of the genes in the human body is still poorly understood. This is especially true for the developing human brain. The study of human phenotypes that result from inherited, mutated alleles is the most direct evidence for the requirement of a gene in human physiology. Thus, the study of Mendelian central nervous system (CNS) diseases can be an extremely powerful approach to elucidate such phenotypic/genotypic links and to increase our understanding of the key components required for development of the human brain. In this review, we highlight examples of how the study of inherited neurodevelopmental disorders contributes to our knowledge of both the &quot;normal&quot; and diseased human brain, as well as elaborate on the future of this type of research. Mendelian disease research has been, and will continue to be, key to understanding the molecular mechanisms that underlie human brain function, and will ultimately form a basis for the design of intelligent, mechanism-specific treatments for nervous system disorders.



We report on the clinical presentation of branchio-oculo-facial (BOF) syndrome in 2 patients with mutations in the TFAP2A gene (OMIM 107580). This TFAP2A gene was recently shown to be involved in the causation of BOF syndrome. An overview of the literature on BOF syndrome is given based on clinical reports written in the period during which mutation analysis was not yet available for BOF syndrome. We also give descriptions of the mutations in the TFAP2A gene in our 2 new patients with BOF syndrome. Congenital conductive hearing impairments are described, including hearing rehabilitation and the results of ear surgery.
Electroencephalography (EEG) has been extensively used in studies of the frontal asymmetry of emotion and motivation. This study investigated the midfrontal EEG activation, heart rate and skin conductance during an emotional face analog of the Stroop task, in anxious and non-anxious participants. In this task, the participants were asked to identify the expression of calm, fearful and happy faces that had either a congruent or incongruent emotion name written across them. Anxious participants displayed a cognitive bias characterized by facilitated attentional engagement with fearful faces. Fearful face trials induced greater relative right frontal activation, whereas happy face trials induced greater relative left frontal activation. Moreover, anxiety specifically modulated the magnitude of the right frontal activation to fearful faces, which also correlated with the cognitive bias. Therefore, these results show that frontal EEG activation asymmetry reflects the bias toward facilitated processing of fearful faces in anxiety.

Dyslexia is characterized by a severe, persistent reading disorder occurring in an intelligent child. In the large field of learning disabilities, dyslexia is related to a cerebral dysfunction well described with Imagery and genetic studies. Nevertheless the diagnosis of dyslexia cannot be done by another way than clinical symptoms. Optimizing the management of children with dyslexia is a critical issue and is now possible, thanks to the improvement of neurosciences data and the mobilization of the key stakeholders. The knowledge of the precise symptoms is essential in order to lead the child's doctor able to improve coordination and harmonization of teaching and care and guidance of parents.



Multiple sclerosis (MS) has both neurological and psychiatric manifestations. Though depression, bipolar disorder and la belle indifference are commonly described, schizophrenia-like-psychosis is not widely reported with MS. Drug interactions and side effects make treatment, in such scenario, challenging. We, for the first time, report a patient with MS and paranoid schizophrenia successfully treated with concurrent use of clozapine and risperidone with interferon-beta-1a.

In a cross sectional study we examined the dimensions of perfectionism and perfectionistic self-presentation in patients with social phobia. We also examined associations between perfectionism and self-report of anxiety and depression with fear of negative evaluation. Thirty patients with a diagnosis of social phobia and 30 community volunteers completed two measures of trait perfectionism, fear of negative evaluation and measures of anxiety and depression. The clinical sample had overall higher levels of perfectionism and had greater fear of negative evaluation, social anxiety, trait anxiety and depression than the community sample. The clinical sample had significantly higher concern over mistakes, doubts over actions, parental criticism (F-MPS, Frost et al., 1990) and scored higher for non-display of imperfection on the Perfectionistic Self Presentation Scale (PSPS; Hewitt et al., 2003). The two groups did not differ on other dimensions of perfectionism, or on both measures of perfectionism. The two measures of perfectionism were positively correlated. There was a significant correlation between trait perfectionism and Brief Fear of Negative Evaluation scale (BFNE). The paper discusses the importance of examining perfectionism in social phobia.
Compound effects on cloned human Ether--go-go related gene (hERG) potassium channels have been used to assess the potential cardiac safety liabilities of drug development candidate compounds. In addition to radioactive ligand displacement tests, two other common approaches are surrogate ion-based flux assays and electrophysiological recordings. The former has much higher throughput, whereas the latter measures directly the effects on ionic currents. Careful characterization in earlier reports has been performed to compare the relative effectiveness of these approaches for known hERG blockers, which often yielded good overall correlation. However, cases were reported showing significant and reproducible differences in potency and/or sensitivity by the two methods. This raises a question concerning the rationale and criteria on which an assay should be selected for evaluating unknown compounds. To provide a general basis for considering assays to profile large compound libraries for hERG activity, we have conducted parallel flux and electrophysiological analyses of 2,000 diverse compounds, representative of the 300,000 compound collection of NIH Molecular Library Small Molecular Repository (MLSMR). Our results indicate that at the conventional testing concentration 1.0M, the overlap between the two assays ranges from 32% to 50% depending on the hit selection criteria. There was a noticeable rate of false negatives by the thallium-based assay relative to electrophysiological recording, which may be greatly reduced under modified comparative conditions. As these statistical results identify a preferred method for cardiac safety profiling of unknown compounds, they suggest an efficient method combining flux and electrophysiological assays to rapidly profile hERG liabilities of large collection of naive compounds.

In vitro screens using cellular preparations expressing human Ether--go-go related gene (hERG) potassium channels have become an intrinsic tool for evaluating cardiac liability of compounds during early preclinical stage development. Although hERG channel blocking effects are most reliably evaluated using the low-throughput, manual patch clamp technique, methods and technologies that yield hERG activity data in multiwell format are required to address increased throughput requirements. In most cases, multiwell approaches to measuring hERG activity involve achieving a reasonable balance between throughput and data fidelity. Here we compared two functional multiwell hERG assays: a fluorescence-based fluorometric imaging plate reader (FLIPR()) screen measuring thallium (Tl(+)) influx through hERG channels and an automated patch clamp assay using an IonWorks Quattro(). Mean Z' values for FLIPR-Tl(+) and IonWorks Quattro assays were similar, 0.570.09 (SD; n=10) versus 0.630.11 (n=12), respectively. IC determinations for a set of 17 reference compounds were used to evaluate potency shifts relative to conventional voltage clamp data. The reference compound set included members that are known to exert severe potency shifts in multiwell assays. Mean potency shift values for FLIPR-Tl(+) and IonWorks Quattro assays were 117- and 8-fold, respectively. On the basis of reduced potency shifts and low data variability, we conclude that the IonWorks Quattro screen was a better predictor of hERG activity in conventional whole-cell patch clamp than the Tl(+) influx assay.

The fragile X premutation is a tandem CGG trinucleotide repeat expansion on the FMR1 gene between 55 and 200 repeats in length. A CGG knock-in (CGG KI) mouse with CGG repeat lengths between 70 and 350 has been developed and used to characterize the histopathology and cognitive deficits reported in carriers of the fragile X premutation. Previous studies have shown that CGG KI mice show progressive deficits in processing spatial information. To further characterize cognitive deficits in the fragile X premutation, temporal ordering in CGG knock-in (CGG KI) mice was evaluated. Female CGG KI mice were tested for their ability to remember the temporal order in which two objects were presented. The results demonstrate that at 48 weeks of age, female CGG KI mice with CGG repeat expansions between 150 and 200 CGG repeats performed more poorly on tests of temporal order than wildtype mice, whereas female CGG KI mice with between 80 and 100 CGG repeats performed similarly to wildtype mice. No mice had any difficulty in detecting the presence of a novel object. These data suggest female CGG KI mice show a CGG repeat length-sensitive deficit for temporal ordering.
Activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the dorsal periaqueductal gray (dPAG) impairs escape behavior, suggesting a panicolytic-like effect. Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychotomimetic compound present in Cannabis sativa, causes anxiolytic-like effects after intra-dPAG microinjections by activating 5-HT1A receptors. In the present work we tested the hypothesis that CBD could also impair escape responses evoked by two proposed animal models of panic: the elevated T-maze (ETM) and electric stimulation of dPAG. In experiment 1 male Wistar rats with a single cannula implanted in the dPAG received a microinjection of CBD or vehicle and, 10 min later, were submitted to the ETM and open field tests. In experiment 2 escape electrical threshold was measured in rats with chemitrodes implanted in the dPAG before and 10 min after CBD microinjection. In experiment 3 similar to experiment 2 except that the animals received a previous intra-dPAG administration of WAY-100635, a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, before CBD treatment. In the ETM microinjection of CBD into the dPAG impaired inhibitory avoidance acquisition, an anxiolytic-like effect, and inhibited escape response, a panicolytic-like effect. The drug also increased escape electrical threshold, an effect that was prevented by WAY-100635. Together, the results suggest that CBD causes panicolytic effects in the dPAG by activating 5-HT1A receptors.
Agmatine [2-(4-aminobutyl)guanidine] is an endogenous amine proposed as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator that binds to multiple target receptors in brain. Besides, many central and peripheral functions, agmatine have been implicated in the process of drug addiction. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of centrally injected agmatine on nicotine induced locomotor sensitization in Swiss male mice. Our data shows that repeated injections of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg, sc, twice daily for 7 days) gradually increased locomotion during 7 days development period or after 3 days (nicotine) withdrawal phase challenged with nicotine (0.4 mg/kg, sc) on day 11. Mice were pretreated with agmatine (40-80 microg, icv) or agents known to increase endogenous brain agmatine levels [e.g. an agmatine biosynthetic precursor, L-arginine (80 microg, icv), ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor, difluoromethyl-ornithine (50 microg, icv), diamine oxidase inhibitor, aminoguanidine (25 microg, icv) and agmatinase inhibitor, arcaine (50 microg, icv)] 30 min before daily first nicotine injection or during nicotine withdrawal phase. All these treatments attenuated the development as well as incubation of locomotor sensitization to nicotine. Coadministration of agmatine (20 microg, icv) and alpha(2)-adrenoreceptors agonist, clonidine (0.1 microg, icv) evoked synergistic inhibition of nicotine sensitization. Conversely, prior administration of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine (5mg/kg, ip) or idazoxan (0.4 mg/kg, ip) reversed the inhibitory effect of agmatine on nicotine sensitization. There was no significant difference in activity between mice injected with any of these agents/saline alone and saline/saline groups. These data indicate that agmatine attenuates nicotine induced locomotor sensitization via a mechanism which may involve alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors. Thus, agmatine might have therapeutic implications in the treatment of nicotine addiction and deserve further investigations.
Potentiated locomotor response to amphetamine has been associated with an increased sensitivity of the dopaminergic system and used as a model of the positive symptoms of schizophrenia in rodents. The hippocampus, through the subiculum, modulates dopamine transmission and hippocampal or subicular lesions potentiate the locomotor response to amphetamine. However, little is known about the upstream structures controlling hippocampal/subicular activity towards the regulation of dopamine transmission. The main modulatory input to the hippocampus is the septal area, composed of the medial septum and vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (MS/vDBB). The so-called septohippocampal pathway includes cholinergic and GABAergic fibers reaching the hippocampus through the fimbria-fornix. While electrolytic lesions of the MS/vDBB potentiate the locomotor response to amphetamine, cholinergic damage in the MS/vDBB does not affect this response. Moreover, the role of the GABAergic connections has never been investigated. Therefore, we performed in rats lesions of cholinergic or/and GABAergic septal neurons and assessed locomotor activity, (i) in an unfamiliar environment, (ii) under baseline conditions (separating light-on and light-off periods) and (iii) in response to an amphetamine challenge. While single lesions had no effects, rats with combined lesions were hyperactive in all three conditions. Thus, damage to cholinergic and GABAergic septohippocampal neurons induced locomotor alterations qualitatively comparable to those produced by hippocampal and/or subicular lesions. Our results further suggest that the septum, through both cholinergic and GABAergic fibers, modulates the functional contribution of the hippocampus/subiculum in the regulation of mesolimbic dopamine transmission.
Decision neuroscience suggests that there exists a core network for the subjective valuation of rewards from a range of different domains, encompassing the ventral striatum and regions of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), in particular the ventromedial aspect of the OFC. Here we first review ways to measure subjective value experimentally in a cognitive neuroscience context, and provide a brief overview over different types of value (outcome, goal and decision value). We then compare results of functional neuroimaging studies of subjective value representations across these different types of value. Our analysis suggests that the same region of the mOFC represents the outcome values of primary reinforcers, but also more complex decision values in which multiple dimensions of the reward need to be integrated. The subjective (hedonic) experience of processing highly valued decision options (regardless of whether they refer to actually experienced rewards or merely potential future rewards) appears to be what is reflected in value-related mOFC activity.
Recent application of theories of embodied or grounded cognition to the recognition and interpretation of facial expression of emotion has led to an explosion of research in psychology and the neurosciences. However, despite the accelerating number of reported findings, it remains unclear how the many component processes of emotion and their neural mechanisms actually support embodied simulation. Equally unclear is what triggers the use of embodied simulation versus perceptual or conceptual strategies in determining meaning. The present article integrates behavioral research from social psychology with recent research in neurosciences in order to provide coherence to the extant and future research on this topic. The roles of several of the brain's reward systems, and the amygdala, somatosensory cortices, and motor centers are examined. These are then linked to behavioral and brain research on facial mimicry and eye gaze. Articulation of the mediators and moderators of facial mimicry and gaze are particularly useful in guiding interpretation of relevant findings from neurosciences. Finally, a model of the processing of the smile, the most complex of the facial expressions, is presented as a means to illustrate how to advance the application of theories of embodied cognition in the study of facial expression of emotion.
The article by Malkova, Mishkin, Suomo, and Bachevalier (2010, this issue) adds an important piece to our understanding of the role of the medial versus lateral temporal regions in socioemotional behavior. In their paper, they evaluate the effect of infant and adult amygdala lesions and infant inferotemporal cortex lesions on the social interactions of monkeys in infancy and adulthood. The results show that medial temporal lesions performed in infants produce greater effects on socioaffective behavior than similar lesions in adulthood and that infant monkeys with inferotemporal lesions exhibit social deficits that are resolved by adulthood. These results are relevant to three significant issues: (1) the role of the medial temporal and lateral temporal cortex in the symptoms of the Kluver-Bucy syndrome; (2) the role of age at injury in behavioral change after cerebral injuries; and (3) the importance of lesion locus and behavioral measure for recovery from infant and adult cerebral injury.
Reaching movements of the arm and hand become automatic early in development and are used throughout one's life span. Studies on skilled reaching have focused on the kinematic aspects and have advanced our knowledge of the individual motor components of reaching. It has also been shown that motor behaviors are organized in terms of ethologically relevant actions, rather than by motor components. Thus, it is important to analyze how the motor components of reaching are performed within the overall action as a whole. The objective of the present study was to examine the motor components of reaching-to-eat within the context of the overall behavior in stroke participants. Results show that reaching-to-eat involves the whole body to produce isolated actions of the limb and changes after stroke in three fundamental ways: abnormal use of nonkinematic aspects of movement, body-limb disintegration, and a disruption in the temporal aspect of the phases of reaching-to-eat. The movements within the behavior can reorganize, possibly a reflection of dynamic interactions between behavioral compensation and neuroplasticity, while the overall performance of the behavior remains the same. Such subtle flexibility may be part of the process of recovery.
Exposure to stress reliably activates the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis response in rodents, which is significantly reduced (habituated) following repeated exposures. In the current study, it was first established that HPA axis response habituation to repeated loud noise lasted for at least 4 weeks in rats. In the next experiment, a contextual extinction procedure following repeated loud noise exposures failed to restore the habituated HPA axis response. Although an additional study indicated some recovery of responses when the context was modified on a test day following habituation, this effect could be mostly attributed to the familiarity with the contextual cues. A final study confirmed that rats could distinguish between the contexts used and further indicated that context preexposures reduce acute HPA axis responses to loud noise. These studies therefore provide no support for the hypothesis that contextual cues regulate HPA axis response habituation.
The possible involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in amnesia induced by scopolamine was investigated. An inhibitory (passive) avoidance task was used for memory assessment in male Wistar rats. The results revealed that intra-NAc administration of a nonselective muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, scopolamine (1 and 2 g/rat) impaired memory consolidation in the animals when tested 24 h later. Post-training intra-NAc administration of NMDA (0.005 and 0.01 g/rat) also impaired memory consolidation, whereas post-training intra-NAc administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.5, 1 and 1.5 g/rat) did not. Intra-NAc co-administration of an ineffective dose of NMDA with ineffective doses of scopolamine (0.25 and 0.5 g/rat) after training had no significant effect on memory consolidation, but intra-NAc injections of effective doses of NMDA (0.005 and 0.01 g/rat) prevented the amnesic effect of an effective dose of scopolamine (2 g/rat). In contrast, intra-NAc co-administration of MK-801 (0.5, 1 and 1.5 g/rat) along with an effective dose of scopolamine (2 g/rat) did not prevent the effect of the latter drug. It can be concluded that NMDA receptors in the NAc are involved in the modulation of memory consolidation that was affected by scopolamine.
It is generally held that anxiety is characterized by an attentional bias for threatening information. In recent years there has been an important debate whether these biases reside at the level of attentional selection (threat detection) or attentional processing after threat detection (attentional disengagement). In a visual search task containing emotional facial expressions, eye-movements were examined before and after threat detection in high and low trait anxious individuals to further elucidate the temporal unfolding of attentional bias. Results indicated that high-anxious individuals neither showed facilitated orienting to threat nor impaired disengagement of visual attention from threat. Interestingly, the presence of threat in the visual search display was associated with increased decision times in high-anxious individuals. These results challenge some of the current views on attentional bias to threat but indicate that emotional information reduces processing efficiency in anxiety.
Erythropoietin (EPO), originally discovered as hematopoietic growth factor, has direct effects on cells of the nervous system that make it a highly attractive candidate drug for neuroprotection/neuroregeneration. Hardly any other compound has led to so much preclinical work in the field of translational neuroscience than EPO. Almost all of the &gt;180 preclinical studies performed by many independent research groups from all over the world in the last 12 years have yielded positive results on EPO as a neuroprotective drug. The fact that EPO was approved for the treatment of anemia &gt;20 years ago and found to be well tolerated and safe, facilitated the first steps of translation from preclinical findings to the clinic. On the other hand, the same fact, naturally associated with loss of patent protection, hindered to develop EPO as a highly promising therapeutic strategy for application in human brain disease. Therefore, only few clinical neuroprotection studies have been concluded, all with essentially positive and stimulating results, but no further development towards the clinic has occurred thus far. This article reviews the preclinical and clinical work on EPO for the indications neuroprotection/neuroregeneration and cognition, and hopefully will stimulate new endeavours promoting development of EPO for the treatment of human brain diseases.
Acquired brain injury, including both Ischaemic stroke (IS) and Traumatic Brain injury (TBI), is one of the most common causes of disability and death in adults. Yet there are vast differences in our knowledge of their epidemiology. While the incidence, case-fatality and risk factors for stroke are well established, work needs to continue particularly in low-income countries, where these data remain sparse; and in relation to specific stroke subtypes such as IS. Similar data regarding the epidemiology of TBI are generally lacking. The majority of TBI incidence studies have focussed on hospital-based samples and there are no established criteria from which to design high quality epidemiological studies. The need to establish such criteria separate from those already available for stroke is suggested given the differing demographic profile of TBI as well as differences in seeking of medical attention for TBI. The immense burden of stroke can be reduced by prevention of modifiable risk factors particularly in developing countries where both changing lifestyle and lack of healthcare resources are contributing to rising stroke incidence and mortality. Similarly, studies to date indicate that TBI incidence can be reduced by addressing modifiable risk factors such as alcohol abuse, risk-taking behaviour and socioeconomic disparities.
The NCLs (neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses) are the most common inherited paediatric neurodegenerative disorder. Although genetically distinct, NCLs can be broadly divided into two categories: one in which the mutation results in a defect in a transmembrane protein, and the other where the defect lies in a soluble lysosomal enzyme. A number of therapeutic approaches are applicable to the soluble lysosomal forms of NCL based on the phenomenon of cross-correction, whereby the ubiquitously expressed mannose 6-phosphate/IGF (insulin-like growth factor) II receptor provides an avenue for endocytosis, trafficking and lysosomal processing of extracellularly delivered enzyme. The present review discusses therapeutic utilization of cross-correction by enzyme-replacement therapy, gene therapy and stem cell therapy for the NCLs, along with an overview of the recent progress in translating these treatments into the clinic.
The NCLs (neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses) (also known as Batten disease) are a group of at least ten fatal inherited storage disorders. Despite the identification of many of the disease-causing genes, very little is known about the underlying disease mechanisms. However, now that we have mouse or large-animal models for most forms of NCL, we can investigate pathogenesis and compare what happens in the brain in different types of the disease. Broadly similar neuropathological themes have emerged, including the highly selective nature of neuron loss, early effects upon the presynaptic compartment, together with an early and localized glial activation. These events are especially pronounced within the thalamocortical system, but it is clear that where and when they occur varies markedly between different forms of NCL. It is now becoming apparent that, despite having pathological endpoints that resemble one another, these are reached by a sequence of events that is specific to each subtype of NCL.
Biochemical disorders in lysosomal storage diseases consist of the interruption of metabolic pathways involved in the recycling of the degradation products of one or several types of macromolecules. The progressive accumulation of these primary storage products is the direct consequence of the genetic defect and represents the initial pathogenic event. Downstream consequences for the affected cells include the accumulation of secondary storage products and the formation of histological storage lesions, which appear as intracellular vacuoles that represent the pathological hallmark of lysosomal storage diseases. Relationships between storage products and storage lesions are not simple and are still largely not understood. Primary storage products induce malfunction of the organelles where they accumulate, these being primarily, but not only, lysosomes. Consequences for cell metabolism and intracellular trafficking combine the effects of primary storage product toxicity and the compensatory mechanisms activated to protect the cell. Induced disorders extend far beyond the primarily interrupted metabolic pathway.
Lysosomal diseases are a family of over 50 disorders caused by defects in proteins critical for normal function of the endosomal/lysosomal system and characterized by complex pathogenic cascades involving progressive dysfunction of many organ systems, most notably the brain. Evidence suggests that compromise in lysosomal function is highly varied and leads to changes in multiple substrate processing and endosomal signalling, in calcium homoeostasis and endoplasmic reticulum stress, and in autophagocytosis and proteasome function. Neurons are highly vulnerable and show abnormalities in perikarya, dendrites and axons, often in ways seemingly unrelated to the primary lysosomal defect. A notable example is NAD (neuroaxonal dystrophy), which is characterized by formation of focal enlargements (spheroids) containing diverse organelles and other components consistent with compromise of retrograde axonal transport. Although neurons may be universally susceptible to NAD, GABAergic neurons, particularly Purkinje cells, appear most vulnerable and ataxia and related features of cerebellar dysfunction are a common outcome. As NAD is found early in disease and thus may be a contributor to Purkinje cell dysfunction and death, understanding its link to lysosomal compromise could lead to therapies designed to prevent its occurrence and thereby ameliorate cerebellar dysfunction.

Insect navigational behaviors including obstacle avoidance, grazing landings, and visual odometry are dependent on the ability to estimate flight speed based only on visual cues. In honeybees, this visual estimate of speed is largely independent of both the direction of motion and the spatial frequency content of the image. Electrophysiological recordings from the motion-sensitive cells believed to underlie these behaviors have long supported spatio-temporally tuned correlation-type models of visual motion detection whose speed tuning changes as the spatial frequency of a stimulus is varied. The result is an apparent conflict between behavioral experiments and the electrophysiological and modeling data. In this article, we demonstrate that conventional correlation-type models are sufficient to reproduce some of the speed-dependent behaviors observed in honeybees when square wave gratings are used, contrary to the theoretical predictions. However, these models fail to match the behavioral observations for sinusoidal stimuli. Instead, we show that non-directional motion detectors, which underlie the correlation-based computation of directional motion, can be used to mimic these same behaviors even when narrowband gratings are used. The existence of such non-directional motion detectors is supported both anatomically and electrophysiologically, and they have been hypothesized to be critical in the Dipteran elementary motion detector (EMD) circuit.
In order to provide adequate multivariate measures of information flow between neural structures, modified expressions of partial directed coherence (PDC) and directed transfer function (DTF), two popular multivariate connectivity measures employed in neuroscience, are introduced and their formal relationship to mutual information rates are proved.

Preparatory modulations relative to the timing of upcoming stimuli may involve activation or suppression mechanisms. Here, we assessed the interplay between these mechanisms with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex. Single- or paired-pulse TMS with 3- or 15-ms interstimulus intervals was delivered during the interval between the warning and the imperative stimuli (i.e., the foreperiod) of a choice reaction time task. Temporal uncertainty was manipulated through between-block variation of the foreperiod duration (500 or 2500ms). The shortening of reaction time for the short foreperiod was accompanied with a decrease in amplitude of the single-pulse motor evoked potential (MEP), indicating corticospinal suppression. The co-occurring increase in amplitude of both paired-pulse MEPs (3 and 15ms) expressed relative to single-pulse MEPs reveals released short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and enhanced intracortical facilitation (ICF). These results suggest that temporal preparation is associated with both corticospinal suppression and cortical activation.

Positive modulators at benzodiazepine sites of 2- and 3-containing GABA(A) receptors are believed to be anxiolytic. Negative allosteric modulators of 5-containing GABA(A) receptors enhance cognition. By oocyte two-electrode voltage clamp and subsequent structure-activity relationship studies, we discovered cinnoline and quinoline derivatives that were both positive modulators at 2-/3-containing GABA(A) receptors and negative modulators at 5-containing GABA(A) receptors. In addition, these compounds showed no functional activity at 1-containing GABA(A) receptors. Such dual functional modulators of GABA(A) receptors might be useful for treating comorbidity of anxiety and cognitive impairments in neurological and psychiatric illnesses.
A series of novel AMPA receptor positive modulators displaying CNS penetration have been discovered with sub-micromolar activity and good selectivity over the cardiac channel receptor, hERG. We describe here the synthesis of these compounds which are biaryl pyrrolidine and tetrahydrofuran sulfonamides and disclose their activities against the human GluA2 flip isoform homotetrameric receptor.
5-{2-[4-(2-Methyl-5-quinolinyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl}-2(1H)-quinolinones and 3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinones have been identified with different combinations of 5-HT(1) autoreceptor antagonist and hSerT potencies and excellent rat PK profiles. The availability of tool compounds with a range of profiles at targets known to play a key role in the control of synaptic 5-HT levels will allow exploration of different pharmacological profiles in a range of animal behavioral and disease models.
A novel class of benzimidazole NPY Y5 receptor antagonists was prepared exploiting a privileged spirocarbamate moiety. The structure-activity relationship of this series and efforts to achieve a profile suitable for further development and an appropriate pharmacokinetic profile in rat are described. Optimisation led to the identification of the brain penetrant, orally bioavailable Y5 antagonist 9b which significantly inhibited the food intake induced by a Y5 selective agonist with a minimal effective dose of 30mg/kg po.


There is little doubt that women experience a heightened psychiatric morbidity compared to men. A growing body of evidence suggests that, for some women, the menopausal transition and early postmenopausal years may represent a period of vulnerability associated with an increased risk of experiencing symptoms of depression, or for the development of an episode of major depressive disorder. Recent research has begun to shed some light on potential mechanisms that influence this vulnerability. At the same time, a number of studies and clinical trials conducted over the past decade have provided important data regarding efficacy and safety of preventative measures and treatment strategies for midlife women; some of these studies have caused a shift in the current thinking of how menopausal symptoms should be appropriately managed.Essentially, most women will progress from premenopausal into postmenopausal years without developing significant depressive symptoms. However, those with prior history of depression may face a re-emergence of depression during this transition while others may experience a first episode of depression in their lives. Here I provide an overview of what is known about risk factors for depression and the risk posed by the menopausal transition, its associated symptoms, and the underlying changes in the reproductive hormonal milieu, discussing the evidence for the occurrence of mood symptoms in midlife women and the challenges that face clinicians and health professionals who care for this population.
We describe a case of cerebral venous thrombosis presenting in a patient with Lane-Hamilton syndrome and coeliac disease epilepsy cerebral calcification syndrome. This is a first reported occurrence of this combination. Delayed anticoagulation with early external ventricular drain insertion for life-threatening raised intracranial pressure resulted in a successful outcome.
Optogenetics is a novel technique of delivering genes that encode proteins capable of conveying light sensitivity to neurons, heralding exciting new possibilities for laboratory-based neuroscience research. This fast-developing field is of particular interest because of the potential application for individualised diagnostic and therapeutic clinical approaches. The authors describe what optogenetics is and how it works, explain its significance to neurosurgery and illustrate its relevance by giving examples of recent translational and future clinical applications.
Randomised controlled trials (RCT) of mixed n-6 and n-3 PUFA diets, and meta-analyses of their CHD outcomes, have been considered decisive evidence in specifically advising consumption of 'at least 5-10 % of energy as n-6 PUFA'. Here we (1) performed an extensive literature search and extracted detailed dietary and outcome data enabling a critical examination of all RCT that increased PUFA and reported relevant CHD outcomes; (2) determined if dietary interventions increased n-6 PUFA with specificity, or increased both n-3 and n-6 PUFA (i.e. mixed n-3/n-6 PUFA diets); (3) compared mixed n-3/n-6 PUFA to n-6 specific PUFA diets on relevant CHD outcomes in meta-analyses; (4) evaluated the potential confounding role of trans-fatty acids (TFA). n-3 PUFA intakes were increased substantially in four of eight datasets, and the n-6 PUFA linoleic acid was raised with specificity in four datasets. n-3 and n-6 PUFA replaced a combination of TFA and SFA in all eight datasets. For non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI)+CHD death, the pooled risk reduction for mixed n-3/n-6 PUFA diets was 22 % (risk ratio (RR) 0.78; 95 % CI 0.65, 0.93) compared to an increased risk of 13 % for n-6 specific PUFA diets (RR 1.13; 95 % CI 0.84, 1.53). Risk of non-fatal MI+CHD death was significantly higher in n-6 specific PUFA diets compared to mixed n-3/n-6 PUFA diets (P = 0.02). RCT that substituted n-6 PUFA for TFA and SFA without simultaneously increasing n-3 PUFA produced an increase in risk of death that approached statistical significance (RR 1.16; 95 % CI 0.95, 1.42). Advice to specifically increase n-6 PUFA intake, based on mixed n-3/n-6 RCT data, is unlikely to provide the intended benefits, and may actually increase the risks of CHD and death.


We report our initial experience with a Solitaire AB neurovascular remodeling stent device in performing cerebral embolectomy in seven patients presenting to our institution with acute stroke who were resistant to iv thrombolytic drug treatment. The main inclusion criteria were: National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score 10; treatment performed within 8 h from the onset of symptoms and no large hypodensity on CT; and occlusion of a major cerebral artery on the CT angiogram. An admission and a post-interventional NIHSS score were calculated for all patients by two different neurologists. Efficacy was assessed radiologically by post-treatment thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) scores and clinically by a 30-day Modified Rankin Scale (MRS) score. The mean duration of neurointerventional treatment was 84 min. All interventions were successful, with TIMI scores of 2 or 3 achieved in 100% of patients. There was one procedural complication in our series owing to a self-detached stent and one patient had a small asymptomatic basal ganglia haemorrhage. There was improvement of more than 4 points on the NIHSS score in 5 (72%) of the patients following treatment, of whom 4 (57%) had a 30-day MRS score of 2. The use of a Solitaire stent in acute stroke was safe, time-efficient and encouraging; however, a larger sample size will be required to further evaluate the use of this device, which could benefit a significant number of stroke patients.
Anosognosia for hemiplegia is a common and striking disorder following stroke. Because it is typically transient and variable, it remains poorly understood and has rarely been investigated at different times in a systematic manner. Our study evaluated a prospective cohort of 58 patients with right-hemisphere stroke and significant motor deficit of the left hemibody, who were examined using a comprehensive neuropsychological battery at 3 days (hyperacute), 1 week (subacute) and 6 months (chronic) after stroke onset. Anosognosia for hemiplegia was frequent in the hyperacute phase (32%), but reduced by almost half 1 week later (18%) and only rarely seen at 6 months (5%). Anosognosia for hemiplegia was correlated with the severity of several other deficits, most notably losses in proprioception, extrapersonal spatial neglect and disorientation. While multiple regression analyses highlighted proprioceptive loss as the most determinant factor for the hyperacute period, and visuospatial neglect and disorientation as more determinant for the subacute phase, patients with both proprioceptive loss and neglect had significantly higher incidence of anosognosia for hemiplegia than those with only one deficit or no deficits (although a few double dissociations were observed). Personal neglect and frontal lobe tests showed no significant relation with anosognosia for hemiplegia, nor did psychological traits such as optimism and mood. Moreover, anosognosia for neglect and prediction of performance in non-motor tasks were unrelated to anosognosia for hemiplegia, suggesting distinct monitoring mechanisms for each of these domains. Finally, by using a voxel-based statistical mapping method to identify lesions associated with a greater severity of anosognosia, we found that damage to the insula (particularly its anterior part) and adjacent subcortical structures was determinant for anosognosia for hemiplegia in the hyperacute period, while additional lesions in the premotor cortex, cingulate gyrus, parietotemporal junction and medial temporal structures (hippocampus and amygdala) were associated with the persistence of anosognosia for hemiplegia in the subacute phase. Taken together, these results suggest that anosognosia for hemiplegia is likely to reflect a multi-component disorder due to lesions affecting a distributed set of brain regions, which can lead to several co-existing deficits in sensation, attention, interoceptive bodily representations, motor programming, error monitoring, memory and even affective processing, possibly with different combinations in different patients.
Decreased language lateralization is a well-replicated finding in psychotic patients. It is currently unclear, however, whether this abnormality is related to a particular symptom of psychosis or to psychosis in general. It has been argued that decreased language lateralization may be related to auditory verbal hallucinations. To elucidate this, these hallucinations should be studied in isolation. Thirty-five patients with a psychotic disorder, 35 non-psychotic subjects with relatively isolated auditory verbal hallucinations and 35 healthy control subjects participated in this study. All subjects were scanned on a 3T magnetic resonance imaging scanner, while covertly performing a paced verbal fluency task. In order to measure performance on the task, one additional task block was presented during which subjects had to generate words overtly. In addition to calculating language lateralization indices, group-wise brain activation during verbal fluency was compared between the three groups. Task performance was nearly maximal for all groups and did not differ significantly between the groups. Compared with the healthy control subjects and non-psychotic subjects with auditory verbal hallucinations, language lateralization was significantly reduced for the patient group. In addition, the patients displayed significantly greater activity in the right precentral gyrus and left insula when compared with the healthy control subjects and the non-psychotic subjects with auditory verbal hallucinations. Furthermore, the patients showed greater activity in the right superior parietal lobule when compared with the healthy control subjects. Lateralization indices did not differ significantly between the non-psychotic subjects with auditory verbal hallucinations and the healthy control subjects. Moreover, there were no significant differences in brain activation during verbal fluency between the two non-psychotic groups. As language lateralization was not significantly reduced in the non-psychotic individuals with auditory verbal hallucinations, a direct relationship between auditory verbal hallucinations and decreased language lateralization can not be established at present.
Tourette syndrome is a childhood-onset neuropsychiatric disorder with a high prevalence of attention deficit hyperactivity and obsessive-compulsive disorder co-morbidities. Structural changes have been found in frontal cortex and striatum in children and adolescents. A limited number of morphometric studies in Tourette syndrome persisting into adulthood suggest ongoing structural alterations affecting frontostriatal circuits. Using cortical thickness estimation and voxel-based analysis of T1- and diffusion-weighted structural magnetic resonance images, we examined 40 adults with Tourette syndrome in comparison with 40 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. Patients with Tourette syndrome showed relative grey matter volume reduction in orbitofrontal, anterior cingulate and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices bilaterally. Cortical thinning extended into the limbic mesial temporal lobe. The grey matter changes were modulated additionally by the presence of co-morbidities and symptom severity. Prefrontal cortical thickness reduction correlated negatively with tic severity, while volume increase in primary somatosensory cortex depended on the intensity of premonitory sensations. Orbitofrontal cortex volume changes were further associated with abnormal water diffusivity within grey matter. White matter analysis revealed changes in fibre coherence in patients with Tourette syndrome within anterior parts of the corpus callosum. The severity of motor tics and premonitory urges had an impact on the integrity of tracts corresponding to cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical connections. Our results provide empirical support for a patho-aetiological model of Tourette syndrome based on developmental abnormalities, with perturbation of compensatory systems marking persistence of symptoms into adulthood. We interpret the symptom severity related grey matter volume increase in distinct functional brain areas as evidence of ongoing structural plasticity. The convergence of evidence from volume and water diffusivity imaging strengthens the validity of our findings and attests to the value of a novel multimodal combination of volume and cortical thickness estimations that provides unique and complementary information by exploiting their differential sensitivity to structural change.
Using the Braak staging for neurofibrillary changes as an objective indicator of the progression of Alzheimer's disease, we have performed a systematic search for global gene expression changes in the prefrontal cortex during the course of Alzheimer's disease. In the prefrontal cortex, senile plaques and neurofibrillary changes start to appear around Braak stage III, allowing for the detection of changes in gene expression before, during and after the onset of Alzheimer's disease neuropathology. Two distinct patterns of tightly co-regulated groups of genes were observed: (i) an increase in expression in early Braak stages, followed by a decline in expression in later stages (the UPDOWN clusters; containing 865 genes) and (ii) a decrease in expression in early Braak stages, followed by an increase in expression in later stages (the DOWNUP clusters; containing 983 genes). The most profound changes in gene expression were detected between Braak stages II and III, just before or at the onset of plaque pathology and neurofibrillary changes in the prefrontal cortex. We also observed an increase in intracellular beta amyloid staining from Braak stages I to III and a clear decrease in Braak stages IV to VI. These data suggest a link between specific gene expression clusters and Alzheimer's disease-associated neuropathology in the prefrontal cortex. Gene ontology over-representation and functional gene network analyses indicate an increase in synaptic activity and changes in plasticity during the very early pre-symptomatic stage of the disease. In later Braak stages, the decreased expression of these genes suggests a reduction in synaptic activity that coincides with the appearance of plaque pathology and neurofibrillary changes and the clinical diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment. The interaction of the ApoE genotype with the expression levels of the genes in the UPDOWN and DOWNUP clusters demonstrates that the accelerating role of ApoE-4 in the progression of Alzheimer's disease is reflected in the temporal changes in gene expression presented here. Since the UPDOWN cluster contains several genes involved in amyloid precursor protein processing and beta amyloid clearance that increase in expression in parallel with increased intracellular beta amyloid load, just before the onset of plaque pathology in the prefrontal cortex, we hypothesize that the temporally orchestrated increase in genes involved in synaptic activity represents a coping mechanism against increased soluble beta amyloid levels. As these gene expression changes occur before the appearance of Alzheimer's disease-associated neuropathology, they provide an excellent starting point for the identification of new targets for the development of therapeutic strategies aimed at the prevention of Alzheimer's disease.
Deviations of the subjective visual vertical in the roll or fronto-parallel plane occur commonly in disorders of the brainstem and have been extensively explored. In contrast, little is known about deviations in other directions. The present retrospective study focused on deviations in the pitch (sagittal) direction in 176 patients with a wide variety of disorders. The test task was to set a self-illuminated rod in the apparent upright position, in total darkness. Abnormal results (outside  4) were recorded in 58% of the subjects. Negative (top backward) deviations were the most common, particularly with mass lesions in the pineal region, obstructive hydrocephalus, cerebellar lesions and crowding at the craniocervical junction. Positive and negative deviations were about equally common with focal intra-axial lesions. Negative deviations appeared related to dorsal locations of lesions and vice versa. Normal pressure hydrocephalus, Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy were associated with smaller deviations, without a clear directional preponderance, and a larger individual variability. Most subjects lacked overt clinical corollaries. The most common ocular signs were aqueduct syndromes (n = 17) and ocular tilt reactions (n = 12), which were associated with deviations in 47 and 92% of instances, respectively. Subjective corollaries of deviation were never reported, not even by those subjects who showed a dramatic improvement upon resolution of the underlying condition. Deviations were also assessed in roll in a subgroup of 40 patients with focal lesions. Thirty subjects returned abnormal results: 13% in roll, 47% in pitch and 40% in pitch and roll. The direction of roll deviation appeared primarily related to laterality, with clockwise deviations with right-sided lesions and vice versa. All subjects with ocular tilt reactions had combined pitch and roll deviations, implying a common neural substrate. Correlation analyses, geometrical modelling and experimental self-observations indicated that deviations in pitch were attributable to cyclotorsional asymmetries between the eyes. The frequent co-existence of abnormal pitch and roll results implies that the true axis of deviation in focal brainstem disorders commonly falls outside traditional reference planes. The term 'visual upright in three dimensions' is suggested to identify unrestricted measurements, preserving the established term 'visual vertical' for measurements confined to the roll plane. Assessment of the visual upright in three dimensions provides a new, quantitative angle on brainstem disorders. The test appears useful for identifying a ubiquitous yet clinically silent feature of brainstem disease and also for monitoring the evolution of underlying conditions. More detailed explorations appear well motivated.
Professor J.A.N. Corsellis, whose life and work is recalled here, gained great insight into the meaning of morphological cerebral aberrations found in neuropsychiatric disease through exact neuropathological investigations of tissue specimens obtained from patients with distinct syndromes. He was a leading authority in the field. We have searched and compiled resources relating to J.A.N. Corsellis' life and work, including personal memories from colleagues and data from scientific publications. J.A.N. Corsellis made seminal contributions to the understanding of neuropsychiatric disease; his works substantially added to the understanding of the dementias, schizophrenia and the psychoses, and morphological sequelae of boxing. In seizure disorders, his name is linked to the first description of focal cortical dysplasia and limbic encephalitis, the pathology of status epilepticus and Ammon's horn sclerosis, and the systematic investigation of epilepsy surgery specimens in general. Both his life and work are closely linked to Runwell Hospital, Wickford, Essex and the Maudsley Hospital. During his professional life he established a large brain bank, now known as the Corsellis Collection. J.A.N. Corsellis had significant impact on neuroscience; many of his observations were groundbreaking and are still valid.
Previous dual-task research pairing complex visual tasks involving non-spatial cognitive processes during dichotic listening have shown effects on the late component (Ndl) of the negative difference selective attention waveform but no effects on the early (Nde) response suggesting that the Ndl, but not the Nde, is affected by non-spatial processing in a dual-task. Thus to further explore the nature of this dissociation and whether the Nd waveform is affected by spatial processing; fourteen adult participants performed auditory dichotic listening in conjunction with visuo-spatial memory in a cross-modal dual-task paradigm. The results showed that the visuo-spatial memory task decreased both the Nde and Ndl waveforms, and also attenuated P300 and increased its latency. This pattern of results suggests that: (1) the Nde reflects a memory trace that is shared with vision when the information is spatial in nature, and (2) P300 latency appears to be influenced by the discriminability of stimuli underlying the Nde and Ndl memory trace.
The perception and processing of temporal information are tasks the brain must continuously perform. These include measuring the duration of stimuli, storing duration information in memory, recalling such memories, and comparing two durations. How the brain accomplishes these tasks, however, is still open for debate. The temporal bisection task, which requires subjects to compare temporal stimuli to durations held in memory, is perfectly suited to address these questions. Here we perform a meta-analysis of human performance on the temporal bisection task collected from 148 experiments spread across 18 independent studies. With this expanded data set we are able to show that human performance on this task contains a number of significant peculiarities, which in total no single model yet proposed has been able to explain. Here we present a simple 2-step decision model that is capable of explaining all the idiosyncrasies seen in the data.
Cocaine addiction involves an escalation in drug intake which alters many brain functions. The present study documented cocaine-induced changes in brain metabolic activity as a function of cocaine self-administration history. Experimentally naive rhesus monkeys (N=6) were given increasing access to cocaine under a fixed-ratio schedule of intravenous (i.v.) drug self-administration. PET imaging with F-18 labeled fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was used to measure acute intramuscular (i.m.) cocaine-induced changes in brain metabolism in the cocaine-nave state, following 60 sessions under limited-access conditions (1h/day), following 60 sessions under extended-access conditions (4h/day), and following 4weeks of drug withdrawal. In the cocaine-nave state, cocaine-induced increases in brain metabolism were restricted to the prefrontal cortex. As cocaine exposure increased from limited to extended access, metabolic effects expanded throughout the frontal cortex and were induced within the striatum. Conversely, cocaine-induced activation was far less robust following withdrawal. The results highlight a progressive expansion of the metabolic effects of cocaine to include previously unaffected dopamine innervated brain regions as a consequence of cocaine self-administration history. The identification of brain regions progressively influenced by drug exposure may be highly relevant toward efforts to develop treatments for cocaine addiction.
This pilot study aimed to show that information-free stimulation of the tongue can improve behavioral measures and induce sustained neuromodulation of the balance-processing network in individuals with balance dysfunction. Twelve balance-impaired subjects received oneweek of cranial nerve non-invasive neuromodulation (CN-NINM). Before and after the week of stimulation, postural sway and fMRI activation were measured to monitor susceptibility to optic flow. Nine normal controls also underwent the postural sway and fMRI tests but did not receive CN-NINM. Results showed that before CN-NINM balance-impaired subjects swayed more than normal controls as expected (p0.05), and that overall sway and susceptibility to optic flow decreased after CN-NINM (p0.005 &amp; p0.05). fMRI showed upregulation of visual sensitivity to optic flow in balance-impaired subjects that decreased after CN-NINM. A region of interest analysis indicated that CN-NINM may induce neuromodulation by increasing activity within the dorsal pons (p0.01).
During sentence comprehension, older adults are less likely than younger adults to predict features of likely upcoming words. A pair of experiments assessed whether such differences would extend to tasks with reduced working memory demands and time pressures. In Experiment 1, event-related brain potentials were measured as younger and older adults read short phrases cuing antonyms or category exemplars, followed three seconds later by targets that were either congruent or incongruent and, for congruent category exemplars, of higher or lower typicality. When processing the less expected low typicality targets, younger - but not older - adults elicited a prefrontal positivity (500-900ms) that has been linked to processing consequences of having predictions disconfirmed. Thus, age-related changes in prediction during comprehension generalize across task circumstances. Analyses of individual differences revealed that older adults with higher category fluency were more likely to show the young-like pattern. Experiment 2 showed that these age-related differences were not due to simple slowing of language production mechanisms, as older adults generated overt responses to the cues as quickly as - and more accurately than - younger adults. However, older adults who were relatively faster to produce category exemplars in Experiment 2 were more likely to have shown predictive processing patterns in Experiment 1. Taken together, the results link prediction during language comprehension to language production mechanisms and suggest that although older adults can produce speeded language output on demand, they are less likely to automatically recruit these mechanisms during comprehension unless top-down circuitry is particularly strong.
Postnatal neurogenesis has been observed in two brain regions: the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus, among vertebrates including human. Accumulating evidence has indicated the molecular mechanisms commonly underlying embryonic and adult neurogenesis. Genetic factors essential for neural development, i.e., Pax6, Fabp7, Sox2, Wnt3, Notch1, etc., are also expressed in adult neurogenic regions. Adult neurogenesis, however, is distinct from embryonic neurogenesis in that the former is activity dependent; environmental stimulation modulates the entire processes of adult neurogenesis. In the hippocampus, physical exercise and cognitive stimuli robustly increase the proliferation of precursor cells, whereas physical/psychosocial stress decreases the proliferation of newborn neurons. Thus, adult neurogenesis is intriguingly regulated by several genetic and environmental factors. Reduction in hippocampal neurogenesis during the infantile and adult stages has been observed in some animal models of mental illness such as schizophrenia and major depression, implicating that postnatal neurogenesis may contribute to a part of the symptoms of mental illness. In this review, we describe the molecular mechanisms and functional significance of postnatal neurogenesis.
In some patients with acute cerebral vessel occlusion, navigating mechanical thrombectomy systems is difficult due to tortuous anatomy of the aortic arch, carotid arteries, or vertebral arteries. Our purpose was to describe a multiple coaxial catheter system used for mechanical revascularization that helps navigation and manipulations in tortuous vessels. A triple or quadruple coaxial catheter system was built in 28 consecutive cases presenting with acute ischemic stroke. All cases were treated by mechanical thrombectomy with the Penumbra System. In cases of unsuccessful thrombo-aspiration, additional thrombolysis or angioplasty with stent placement was used for improving recanalization. The catheter system consisted of an outermost 8-Fr and an intermediate 6-Fr guiding catheter, containing the inner Penumbra reperfusion catheters. The largest, 4.1-Fr, reperfusion catheter was navigated over a Prowler Select Plus microcatheter. The catheter system provided access to reach the cerebral lesions and provided stability for the mechanically demanding manipulations of thromboaspiration and stent navigation in all cases. Apart from their mechanical role, the specific parts of the system could also provide access to different types of interventions, like carotid stenting through the 8-Fr guiding catheter and intracranial stenting and thrombolysis through the Prowler Select Plus microcatheter. In this series, there were no complications related to the catheter system. In conclusion, building up a triple or quadruple coaxial system proved to be safe and efficient in our experience for the mechanical thrombectomy treatment of acute ischemic stroke.
Crustaceans have long been used for peptide research. For example, the process of neurosecretion was first formally demonstrated in the crustacean X-organ-sinus gland system, and the first fully characterized invertebrate neuropeptide was from a shrimp. Moreover, the crustacean stomatogastric and cardiac nervous systems have long served as models for understanding the general principles governing neural circuit functioning, including modulation by peptides. Here, we review the basic biology of crustacean neuropeptides, discuss methodologies currently driving their discovery, provide an overview of the known families, and summarize recent data on their control of physiology and behavior.

The primary olfactory (or piriform) cortex is a trilaminar paleocortex that is seen increasingly as an attractive model system for the study of cortical sensory processing. Recent findings highlight the importance of -amino butyric acid (GABA)-releasing interneurons for the function of the piriform cortex (PC), yet little is known about the different types of interneurons in the PC. Here, we provide the first detailed functional characterization of the major classes of GABAergic interneurons in the anterior piriform cortex (aPC) and show how these classes differentially engage in phasic synaptic inhibition. By measuring the electrical properties of interneurons and combining this with information about their morphology, laminar location, and expression of molecular markers, we have identified 5 major classes in the aPC of the mouse. Each layer contains at least one class of interneuron that is tuned to fire either earlier or later in a train of stimuli resembling the input received by the PC in vivo during olfaction. This suggests that the different subtypes of interneuron are specialized for providing synaptic inhibition at different phases of the sniff cycle. Thus, our results suggest mechanisms by which classes of interneurons play specific roles in the processing performed by the PC in order to recognize odors.
Self-esteem is a facet of personality that influences perception of social standing and modulates the salience of social acceptance and rejection. As such, self-esteem may bias neural responses to positive and negative social feedback across individuals. During functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning, participants (n = 42) engaged in a social evaluation task whereby they ostensibly received feedback from peers indicating they were liked or disliked. Results demonstrated that individuals with low self-esteem believed that they received less positive feedback from others and showed enhanced activity to positive versus negative social feedback in the ventral anterior cingulate cortex/medial prefrontal cortex (vACC/mPFC). By contrast, vACC/mPFC activity was insensitive to positive versus negative feedback in individuals with high self-esteem, and these individuals consistently overestimated the amount of positive feedback received from peers. Voxelwise analyses supported these findings; lower self-esteem predicted a linear increase in vACC/mPFC response to positive versus negative social feedback. Taken together, the present findings propose a functional role for the vACC/mPFC in representing the salience of social feedback and shaping perceptions of relative social standing.
Performance feedback during learning is accompanied by a negative event-related potentials (ERP) component, the feedback-related negativity (FRN), which codes a reward prediction error. An open issue relates to the coding of feedback stimuli in observational learning. The present study aimed to determine differences in the neural processing of feedback in active and observational learners in a between-subjects design. By choosing between different stimuli, 15 active learners could learn a rule determining the probability of monetary reward. Each of the 15 observers was yoked to the performance of one active learner. In test trials, observers could prove whether they had gained insight into the rule. Although both groups learned at a comparable rate, FRN amplitudes following negative feedback were significantly reduced in observational relative to active learners, whereas there was no difference for the FRN in response to positive feedback. Additionally, between-group differences were already observed in the time window preceding the FRN, between 150 and 220 ms after feedback onset. The processing of feedback stimuli thus depends upon the direct relevance for one's own action planning. The FRN as an error signal indicating the need for behavioral adaptation appears to be especially relevant, if negative feedback is linked to agency.
Observing other people's actions activates a network of brain regions that is also activated during the execution of these actions. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to test whether these &quot;mirror&quot; regions in frontal and parietal cortices primarily encode the spatiomotor aspects or the functional goal-related aspects of observed tool actions. Participants viewed static depictions of actions consisting of a tool object (e.g., key) and a target object (e.g., keyhole). They judged the actions either with regard to whether the objects were oriented correctly for the action to succeed (spatiomotor task) or whether an action goal could be achieved with the objects (function task). Compared with a control condition, both tasks activated regions in left frontoparietal cortex previously implicated in action observation and execution. Of these regions, the premotor cortex and supramarginal gyrus were primarily activated during the spatiomotor task, whereas the middle frontal gyrus was primarily activated during the function task. Regions along the intraparietal sulcus were more strongly activated during the spatiomotor task but only when the spatiomotor properties of the tool object were unknown in advance. These results suggest a division of labor within the action observation network that maps onto a similar division previously proposed for action execution.
There is growing evidence from patient and neuroimaging studies that the anterior temporal lobe (ATL) should be considered a crucial part of the neural network that underpins language. Specifically, this region supports semantic representations that play a key role in various aspects of language processing. In this study, we tested the critical importance of this region for language processing in normal participants by applying repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over the left ATL semantic region. The ability to generate the past tense of English verbs has often been used as a test case for neurocognitive models of language. Accordingly, we used this aspect of language to investigate the impact of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the left ATL. As predicted by single mechanism accounts of past-tense generation, ATL rTMS had a selective impact on participants' ability to generate the past tense of irregular verbs. When combined with other evidence, these results confirm that the ATL semantic hub is a key component of the neural network for language.
Cortical GABAergic interneurons are divided into various subtypes, with each subtype contributing to rich variety and fine details of inhibition. Despite the functional importance of each interneuron subtype, the molecular mechanisms that contribute to sorting them to their appropriate positions within the cortex remain unclear. Here, we show that the chemokine receptor CXCR4 regulates the regional and layer-specific distribution of interneuron subtypes. We removed Cxcr4 specifically in a subset of interneurons at a specific mouse embryonic developmental stage and analyzed the number of interneurons and their laminar distribution in 9 representative cortical regions comprehensively in adults. We found that the number of Cxcr4-deleted calretinin- and that of neuropeptide Y-expressing interneurons were reduced in most caudomedial and lateral cortical regions, respectively, and also in superficial layers. In addition, Cxcr4-deleted somatostatin-expressing interneurons showed a reduction in the number of superficial layers in certain cortical regions but of deep layers in others. These findings suggest that CXCR4 is required for proper regional and laminar distribution in a wider interneuron subpopulation than previously thought and may regulate the establishment of functional cortical circuitry in certain cortical regions and layers.
In incidental learning situations, contingencies are extracted from the environment without the intention to learn and can change behavior without awareness for the extracted regularity. The development of explicit access to the learned regularity is an important learning mechanism that is rarely examined. With a series of behavioral, electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies, we were able to show that the emergence of awareness for a hidden regularity is accompanied by an increase in neural activity and in high-frequency coupling between distant brain areas as observed with a time-frequency resolved EEG analysis. More importantly, the increase in neural coupling was observed before awareness for the learned material was established behaviorally. In addition, coupling increases were paralleled by an fMRI-signal increase in the ventral striatum and the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex directly preceding the emergence of awareness. The involvement of this system, which has already been linked to the processing of predictions and prediction errors, indicates the relevance of a reinforcement signal to generate awareness for the learned contingencies. Thus, our data provide direct evidence for the necessity of large-scale coupling and the evaluation of a predictive stimulus value as the basis for a transition from implicit to explicit memory.

Spina bifida meningomyelocele (SBM), a congenital neurodevelopmental disorder, involves dysmorphology of the cerebellum, and its most obvious manifestations are motor deficits. This paper reviews cerebellar neuropathology and motor function across several motor systems well studied in SBM in relation to current models of cerebellar motor and timing function. Children and adults with SBM have widespread motor deficits in trunk, upper limbs, eyes, and speech articulators that are broadly congruent with those observed in adults with cerebellar lesions. The structure and function of the cerebellum are correlated with a range of motor functions. While motor learning is generally preserved in SBM, those motor functions requiring predictive signals and precise calibration of the temporal features of movement are impaired, resulting in deficits in smooth movement coordination as well as in the classical cerebellar triad of dysmetria, ataxia, and dysarthria. That motor function in individuals with SBM is disordered in a manner phenotypically similar to that in adult cerebellar lesions, and appears to involve similar deficits in predictive cerebellar motor control, suggests that age-based cerebellar motor plasticity is limited in individuals with this neurodevelopmental disorder.
Pyridinium-based oxime compounds have been utilized worldwide as antidotes following exposure to anticholinesterase agents. In the event of combined chemical and biological incident, it is of vital importance to know the ability of antidotes to provide additional protection against biological threats. This paper reports results of in vitro antimicrobial and antiprotozoal activities of a series of quaternary pyridinium oximes against a number of lower pathogenicity BSL-1 and 2 agents. In general, our compound panel had little to no antimicrobial action except for thiophene- and benzothiophene-substituted monoquaternary pyridinium compounds 21 and 24 that showed moderate antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus aureus and methicillin-resistant S. aureus with IC(50) values ranging from 12.2 to 17.7 g/mL. Compounds 21 and 24 also exhibited antileishmanial activity against Leishmania donovani with IC(50) values of 19 and 18 g/mL, respectively. Another monoquaternary pyridinium compound with a bromobutyl side chain 17 showed antimalarial activity against both a chloroquine sensitive and resistant strains of Plasmodium falciparum with IC(50) values of 3.7 and 4.0 g/mL, respectively. None of the bisquaternary pyridinium compounds showed antimicrobial or antiprotozoal activity. None of the compounds showed cytotoxic effects toward mammalian kidney fibroblasts. Results of this study indicate that the pyridinium compounds, some of which are already in use as antidotes, do not have significant antimicrobial and antiprotozoal activities and cannot be relied upon for additional protection in the event of combined chemical-biological incident.

This review of clinical catecholamine neurochemistry is based on the Streeten Memorial Lecture at the 19th annual meeting of the American Autonomic Society and lectures at a satellite of the 6th Congress of the International Society of Autonomic Neuroscience. Here I provide historical perspective, describe sources and meanings of plasma levels of catecholamines and their metabolites, present a model of a sympathetic noradrenergic neuron that conveys how particular aspects of sympathetic nervous function affect plasma levels of catecholamines and their metabolites, and apply the model to understand plasma neurochemical patterns associated with some drugs and disease states.
Recent data show that regulatory cells with transforming growth factor (TGF)-1-dependent activity are able to restore self-tolerance in overtly diabetic non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice. Thus, TGF-1 seems to have a relevant role in protection from autoimmune diabetes. Our aim was to investigate the possible significance of serum TGF-1 measurement in the natural history of diabetes in NOD mice, as well as in children positive for at least one islet-related antibody. Serum TGF-1 (both total and active) was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay at monthly intervals in 26 NOD mice during the spontaneous development of diabetes and, on a yearly basis, in nine siblings of patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) with a follow-up of 4 years. Diabetes appeared between the 12th week of age and the end of the study period (36 weeks) in 17 mice. TGF-1 serum level variations occurred in the prediabetic period in both NOD mice and humans and diabetes diagnosis followed a continuing reduction of active TGF-1 (aTGF-1) serum levels. In mice, aTGF-1 serum levels measured at 4 weeks of age correlated positively with severity of insulitis, and negatively with percentage of insulin-positive cells. Our findings suggest that in NOD mice serum TGF-1 levels during the natural history of the diabetes reflect the course of islet inflammation. The measurement of aTGF-1 in islet-related antibody-positive subjects may provide insights into the natural history of prediabetic phase of T1D.
Adequate removal of large pituitary tumors with significant suprasellar extension remains a challenge through the trans-sphenoidal corridor because of this route's limited working window. The application of intracisternal air and intraoperative fluoroscopy is explored as a form of intraoperative imaging to maximize tumor resection and to confirm adequate suprasellar tumor decompression. The authors confirmed adequate decompression of suprasellar space using this technique of fluoroscopy with the present intrathecal air for 10 of 12 patients with giant, non-functioning pituitary tumors. Intraoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistulae prevented the use of intrathecal air in the remaining two patients.

The autophagy-lysosomal pathway is a major proteolytic pathway that in mammalian systems mainly comprises of macroautophagy and chaperone-mediated autophagy. The former is relatively non-selective and involves bulk degradation of proteins and organelles, whereas the latter is selective for certain cytosolic proteins. These autophagy pathways are important in development, differentiation, cellular remodeling and survival during nutrient starvation. Autophagy is crucial for neuronal homeostasis and acts as a local housekeeping process, since neurons are post-mitotic cells and require effective protein degradation to prevent accumulation of toxic aggregates. A growing body of evidence now suggests that dysfunction of autophagy causes accumulation of abnormal proteins and/or damaged organelles. Such accumulation has been linked to synaptic dysfunction, cellular stress and neuronal death. Abnormal autophagy may be involved in the pathology of both chronic nervous system disorders, such as proteinopathies (Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease) and acute brain injuries. Although autophagy is generally beneficial, its aberrant activation may also exert a detrimental role in neurological diseases depending on the environment and the insult, leading to autophagic neuronal death. In this review we summarize the current knowledge regarding the role of autophagy-lysosomal pathway in the central nervous system and discuss the implication of autophagy dysregulation in human neurological diseases and animal models.
Neurodegenerative disorders are devastating human diseases that include Parkinson's, Huntington's, Alzheimer's, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and the frontal temporal dementias. Although the clinical manifestations of these disorders have been known for quite some time, our understanding of the molecular underpinnings is only starting to emerge. Protein misfolding and aggregation is a common hallmark among these diseases, and produce a number of cellular and functional alterations. The loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra justified the use of dopaminergic therapies in patients. However, these strategies do not appear to confer disease-modifying effects, and do not prevent progression. The idea that neurotrophic factors might promote cell survival is an attractive one. Existing evidence from clinical trials is currently inconclusive, but some patients display clear clinical benefits. Thus, the current challenge is to develop novel strategies that make the use of neurotrophic factors more consistent.

Month-space synaesthetes experience months as sequences arranged in spatially defined configurations. While most works on synaesthesia have studied its perceptual implications, this study focuses on the synaesthetic influence on a synaesthete's action behaviour. S.M., a month-space synaesthete, and 5 matched controls performed a spatial Stroop-like task in a haptics and virtual reality combined environment, which was especially designed to simulate S.M.'s three-dimensional synaesthetic experience. In the experiment, a circle and a word were presented simultaneously. The word consisted of either a month name or a direction name and was located at the centre of the screen, while the circle was displayed in one of four peripheral positions-top, bottom, right, or left. When S.M. was asked to ignore the word and reach for the circle, no effects were found. In contrast, when she was asked to ignore the circle and reach for a location indicated by the word, a congruency effect was found for both months and direction words. Crucially, these effects were evident in all measurements of reaching performance (i.e., path, velocity, and trajectory of movement). Our findings revealed that for month-space synaesthetes, months trigger spatial shifts of attention in a similar manner as directions do. Moreover, these shifts of attention affected not only latent cognitive processes (i.e., reaction time) but also overt behaviour (i.e., entire hand movements).
Yes, another journal! The field of cognitive neuroscience continues to grow and mature, and it is important that publishing outlets continue to grow and mature in order to support the increasing volume of high-quality research. However, it is our intention that Cognitive Neuroscience will offer something genuinely different in terms of content and publishing standards. This editorial sets out the ethos behind the journal and presents some publishing statistics on our first year.
Performance in a behavioral task can be facilitated by associating stimulus properties with reward. In contrast, conflicting information is known to impede task performance. Here we investigated how reward associations influence the within-trial processing of conflicting information using a color-naming Stroop task in which a subset of ink colors (task-relevant dimension) was associated with monetary incentives. We found that color-naming performance was enhanced on trials with potential-reward versus those without. Moreover, in potential-reward trials, typical conflict-induced performance decrements were attenuated if the incongruent word (task-irrelevant dimension) was unrelated to reward. In contrast, incongruent words that were semantically related to reward-predicting ink colors interfered with performance in potential-reward trials and even more so in no-reward trials, despite the semantic meaning being entirely task-irrelevant. These observations imply that the prospect of reward enhances the processing of task-relevant stimulus information, whereas incongruent reward-related information in a task-irrelevant dimension can impede task performance.
The organization of proteins on the scale of a few tens of nanometers, such as in the postsynaptic density and the synaptic vesicles, is a key determinant of their function. However, spatial features on such a fine scale are beyond the resolving power of conventional, diffraction-limited fluorescence light microscopy. In response, several imaging modalities have recently emerged that can surpass the diffraction limit on optically benign samples in which aberration and light scattering are negligible. Although each of these techniques has its own advantages and limitations, photoactivated localization microscopy (PALM) provides the highest shown resolution in biological samples, is the most efficient in utilizing signal photons, and allows for the assessment of individual molecules. This article discusses the basic principles of PALM microscopy, its implementation, and the potential applications in neuroscience.
Conscious visual perception can fail in many circumstances. However, little is known about the causes and processes leading to failures of visual awareness. In this study, we introduce a new signal detection measure termed subjective discriminability of invisibility (SDI) that allows one to distinguish between subjective blindness due to reduction of sensory signals or to lack of attentional access to sensory signals. The SDI is computed based upon subjective confidence in reporting the absence of a target (i.e., miss and correct rejection trials). Using this new measure, we found that target misses were subjectively indistinguishable from physical absence when contrast reduction, backward masking and flash suppression were used, whereas confidence was appropriately modulated when dual task, attentional blink and spatial uncertainty methods were employed. These results show that failure of visual perception can be identified as either a result of perceptual or attentional blindness depending on the circumstances under which visual awareness was impaired.
Alexithymia is associated with emotion processing deficits, particularly for negative emotional information. However, also common are a high prevalence of somatic symptoms and the perception of somatic sensations as distressing. Although little research has yet been conducted on memory in alexithymia, we hypothesized a paradoxical effect of alexithymia on memory. Specifically, recall of negative emotional words was expected to be reduced in alexithymia, while memory for illness words was expected to be enhanced in alexithymia. Eighty-five high or low alexithymia participants viewed and rated arousing illness-related (&quot;pain&quot;), emotionally positive (&quot;thrill&quot;), negative (&quot;hatred&quot;), and neutral words (&quot;horse&quot;). Recall was assessed 45 min later. High alexithymia participants recalled significantly fewer negative emotion words but also more illness-related words than low alexithymia participants. The results suggest that personal relevance can shape cognitive processing of stimuli, even to enhance retention of a subclass of stimuli whose retention is generally impaired in alexithymia.
The nature of unconscious information processing is a heavily debated issue in cognitive science (e.g., Kouider &amp; Dehaene, 2007), and neuroscience (e.g., Crick &amp; Koch, 1998). Traditionally, it has been thought that unconscious cognitive processing is restricted to knowledge that is strongly prepared by conscious processes (e.g., Dehaene et al., 1998). In three experiments, we show that the task that is performed consciously can also be applied unconsciously to items outside the current task set. We found that a same-different judgment of two target stimuli was also performed on two subliminally presented prime stimuli. This was true for target and prime stimuli from entirely different categories, as well as for prime and target stimuli at different levels of abstraction. These results reveal that unconscious processing can generalize more widely than previously accepted.
What is the best way of assessing the extent to which people are aware of a stimulus? Here, using a masked visual identification task, we compared three measures of subjective awareness: The Perceptual Awareness Scale (PAS), through which participants are asked to rate the clarity of their visual experience; confidence ratings (CR), through which participants express their confidence in their identification decisions, and Post-decision wagering (PDW), in which participants place a monetary wager on their decisions. We conducted detailed explorations of the relationships between awareness and identification performance, looking to determine (1) which scale best correlates with performance, and (2) whether we can detect performance in the absence of awareness and how the scales differ from each other in terms of revealing such unconscious processing. Based on these findings we discuss whether perceptual awareness should be considered graded or dichotomous. Results showed that PAS showed a much stronger performance-awareness correlation than either CR or PDW, particularly for low stimulus intensities. In general, all scales indicated above-chance performance when participants claimed not to have seen anything. However, such above-chance performance only showed when we also observed a correlation between awareness and performance. Thus (1) PAS seems to be the most exhaustive measure of awareness, and (2) we find support for above-chance performance in the absence of subjective awareness, but such unconscious knowledge only contributes to performance when we observe conscious knowledge as well. Similarities and differences between scales are discussed in the light of consciousness theories and response strategies.
The last century has seen the ascendance of a core economic model, which we will refer to as Walrasian economics. This model is driven by the psychological assumptions that humans act only in a self-referential and narrowly rational way and that production can be described as a self-contained circular flow between firms and households. These assumptions have critical implications for the way economics is used to inform conservation biology. Yet the Walrasian model is inconsistent with a large body of empirical evidence about actual human behavior, and it violates a number of basic physical laws. Research in behavioral science and neuroscience shows that humans are uniquely social animals and not self-centered rational economic beings. Economic production is subject to physical laws including the laws of thermodynamics and mass balance. In addition, some contemporary economic theory, spurred by exciting new research in human behavior and a wealth of data about the negative global impact of the human economy on natural systems, is moving toward a world view that places consumption and production squarely in its behavioral and biophysical context. We argue that abandoning the straightjacket of the Walrasian core is essential to further progress in understanding the complex, coupled interactions between the human economy and the natural world. We call for a new framework for economic theory and policy that is consistent with observed human behavior, recognizes the complex and frequently irreversible interaction between human and natural systems, and directly confronts the cumulative negative effects of the human economy on the Earth's life support systems. Biophysical economics and ecological economics are two emerging economic frameworks in this movement.


Serotonin receptors are the product of 15 distinct genes, 14 of which are G protein-coupled receptors. These receptors are expressed in a wide range of cell types, including distinct neuronal populations, and promote diverse functional responses in multiple organ systems. These receptors are important for mediating the in vivo effects of their cognate neurotransmitter, serotonin, as well as the endogenous tryptamines. In addition, the actions of many drugs are mediated, either directly or indirectly, through serotonin receptors, including antidepressants, antipsychotics, anxiolytics, sleep aids, migraine therapies, gastrointestinal therapeutics and hallucinogenic drugs. It is becoming increasingly evident that serotonin receptors can engage in differential signaling that is determined by the chemical nature of the ligand and that ligands that demonstrate a predilection for inducing a particular signaling cascade are considered to have &quot;functional selectivity&quot;. The elucidation of the cellular signaling pathways that mediate the physiological responses to serotonin and other agonists is an active area of investigation and will be an onward-looking focal point for determining how to effectively and selectively promote beneficial serotonergic mimicry while avoiding unwanted clinical side effects. This review highlights the modulation of serotonin 2A, 2C, and four receptors by -arrestins, which may represent a fulcrum for biasing receptor responsiveness in vivo.
Aging and several neurodegenerative diseases bring about changes in the anatomy and physiology of the choroid plexus. The identification of specific membrane receptors that bind and internalize extracellular ligands has revolutionized the traditional roles of this tissue. Amyloid beta peptide (A), the major constituent of the amyloid core of senile plaques in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is known to contribute to disease neuropathology and progression. Recent emphasis on comorbidity of AD and a deficient clearance of A across the blood-brain barrier and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier have highlighted the importance of brain A clearance in AD. The megalin receptor has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. Faulty A clearance from the brain across the choroid plexus epithelium by megalin appears to mediate focal A accumulation in AD. Patients with AD have reduced levels of megalin at the choroid plexus, which in turn seem to increase brain levels of A through a decreased efflux of brain A. Therapies that increase megalin expression at the choroid plexus could potentially control accumulation of brain A. This review covers in depth the anatomy and function of the choroid plexus, focusing on the brain barrier at the choroid plexus, as it actively participates in A clearance. In addition, we describe the role of the choroid plexus in brain functions, aging and AD, as well as the role of megalin in the process of A clearance. Finally, we present current data on the use of choroid plexus cells to repair the damaged brain.

Fibrillar aggregates of abnormally hyperphosphorylated tau protein are the major component of the pathological entities, including intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles that define the broad class of late-onset neurodegenerative disorders called the tauopathies. Mutations in the tau gene (MAPT) causing familial frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) confirm that tau protein dysfunction could be a primary cause of neuronal loss. However, in the sporadic tauopathies such as progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD) where MAPT mutation is absent, common variation in MAPT that defines the H1 and H2 haplotype clades strongly influences disease risk. Surprisingly, this influence on risk extends to sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD), traditionally not defined as a tauopathy. This review will focus on recent work aimed at elucidating the mechanistic basis of this haplotype-specific effect on disease risk, implicating elevated levels of MAPT expression, particularly via increased transcription and/or alterations in splicing. This conforms to an emerging picture of a shared mechanism that underlies the fundamental process(es) leading to neuronal death. Increased availability of the fibrillogenic protein substrates of the pathological aggregates that define several neurodegenerative proteopathies, eg -synuclein in PD, -amyloid in AD and tau in the tauopathies, contributes to causation and risk in the familial and sporadic forms of these disorders, respectively.
Heat shock proteins are members of a large family that function normally in nascent protein folding and the removal of damaged proteins and are able to respond to cellular stresses such as thermal insult to prevent catastrophic protein aggregation. A number of the most common neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases are characterized by such abnormal protein folding and aggregation, and the induction of the heat shock response is observed in these cases through their increased expression and often localization within the inclusions. Tau proteins form the major structural component of the neurofibrillary protein aggregates that correlate with cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease, and appropriately this abnormal tau is targeted for corrective action by the heat shock proteins that recognize sequence motifs that are normally masked though microtubule binding. This specific heat shock response to the formation of abnormal tau can also be targeted pharmacologically to inhibit the refolding pathways and drive the degradation of tau species that are thought to be pathogenic. This review discusses the recent advances of the roles of heat shock proteins in this process.
Abuse of amphetamine-type stimulants (ATS), including amphetamine, methamphetamine (METH), and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy), has become a major public health problem worldwide. Use of these stimulants has significant psychiatric and medical consequences, including psychosis, dependence, overdose, and death. METH abuse in particular is an extremely serious and growing problem in many countries. The development of treatments for METH-related problems is particularly critical for users who experience persistent psychosis, pregnant women and women with children, gay and bisexual men, and users involved in the criminal justice system. However, there are currently no pharmacological treatments for the wide range of symptoms associated with METH-related problems. One of the reasons for this problem is that our knowledge of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the development of METH-induced psychosis and dependence is limited. In this article, we review recent reports on potential pharmacotherapies (naltrexone, minocycline, antioxidants, immunotherapy, and dopaminergic, serotonergic, cholinergic, and GABAergic agents) for the treatment of ATS abusers.
Brain, the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate, plays the most vital role in every function of human body. However, many neurodegenerative diseases, cancer and infections of the brain become more prevalent as populations become older. In spite of the major advances in neuroscience, many potential therapeutics are still unable to reach the central nervous system (CNS) due to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) which is formed by the tight junctions within the capillary endothelium of the vertebrate brain. This results in the capillary wall behaving as a continuous lipid bilayer and preventing the passage of polar and lipid insoluble substances. Several approaches for delivering drugs to the CNS have been developed to enhance the capacity of therapeutic molecules to cross the BBB by modifying the drug itself, or by coupling it to a vector for receptor-mediated, carrier mediated or adsorption-mediated transcytosis. The current challenge is to develop drug delivery systems that ensure the safe and effective passage of drugs across the BBB. This review focuses on the strategies and approaches developed to enhance drug delivery to the CNS.

Constipation is a common problem in the elderly, and abnormalities in the neural innervation of the colon play a significant role in abnormalities in colonic motility leading to delayed colonic transit. The scope of this review encompasses the latest advances to enhance our understanding of the aging colon with emphasis on enteric neurodegeneration, considered a likely cause for the development of constipation in the aging gut in animal models. Neural innervation of the colon and the effects of aging on intrinsic and extrinsic nerves innervating the colonic smooth muscle is discussed. Evidence supporting the concept that neurologic disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, not only affect the brain but also cause neurodegeneration within the enteric nervous system leading to colonic dysmotility is presented. Further research is needed to investigate the influence of aging on the gastrointestinal tract and to develop novel approaches to therapy directed at protecting the enteric nervous system from neurodegeneration.
The complex neurodevelopmental disorder schizophrenia is thought to be induced by an interaction between predisposing genes and environmental stressors. In order to get a better insight into the aetiology of this complex disorder, animal models have been developed. In this review, we summarize mRNA expression profiling studies on neurodevelopmental, pharmacological and genetic animal models for schizophrenia. We discuss parallels and contradictions among these studies, and propose strategies for future research.
Many studies investigated the use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in several neurological diseases other than epilepsy. These neurological disorders, usually, involve neuronal excitability through the modulating of ion channels, receptors and intracellular signaling pathways, and are the targets of the AEDs. This article provides a review of the clinical efficacy of both conventional and newer AEDs in hyperkinetic movement disorders. Some of these indications for AEDs have been established, while others are under investigation. The modulation of GABAergic transmission may explain the neuronal hyper-excitability that underlies some forms of hyperkinetic movement disorders. So, AEDs able to increase GABAergic neurotransmission may play a role in hyperkinetic movement disorders treatment. Therefore, AEDs could represent a useful therapeutic option in the management of hyperkinetic movement disorders where the available treatments are ineffective.

The adult stem/progenitor cells from bone marrow and other tissues referred to as mesenchymal stem cells or multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) display a significant therapeutic plasticity as reflected by their ability to enhance tissue repair and influence the immune response both in vitro and in vivo. In this review we will focus on the paradigmatic preclinical experience achieved testing MSCs in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model for multiple sclerosis. We will emphasize how the paradigm changed over time from the original prediction that MSCs would enhance tissue repair through their transdifferentiation into somatic cells to the current paradigm that they can produce therapeutic benefits without engraftment into the injured tissues. The data will be reviewed in terms of the potentials of MSCs for therapy of autoimmune diseases.
Although the parietal cortex is traditionally associated with spatial attention and sensorimotor integration, recent evidence also implicates it in higher order cognitive functions. We review relevant results from neuron recording studies showing that inferior parietal neurons integrate information regarding target location with a variety of non-spatial signals. Some of these signals are modulatory and alter a stimulus-evoked response according to the action, category, or reward associated with the stimulus. Other non-spatial inputs act independently, encoding the context or rules of a task even before the presentation of a specific target. Despite the ubiquity of non-spatial information in individual neurons, reversible inactivation of the parietal lobe affects only spatial orienting of attention and gaze, but not non-spatial aspects of performance. This suggests that non-spatial signals contribute to an underlying spatial computation, possibly allowing the brain to determine which targets are worthy of attention or action in a given task context.
Recent large-scale genetic studies have provided robust evidence implicating several novel susceptibility genes for schizophrenia. These include ZNF804A, TCF4 and NRGN, which contain common variants that weakly increase schizophrenia susceptibility, and NRXN1, in which rare copy number variants have a greater impact on schizophrenia risk. Investigation of these and other substantiated susceptibility genes are providing valuable insight into the primary neurobiological mechanisms underlying schizophrenia, which may lead to novel therapeutic interventions for the disorder. In the meantime, several novel pharmacological strategies, including activation of mGluRs, elevation of synaptic glycine and inhibition of phosphodiesterase 10A, have recently shown promise for the treatment of schizophrenia in clinical trials.
Acoustic communication is the major component of social behavior in anuran amphibians (frogs and toads) and has served as a neuroethological model for the nervous system's processing of social signals related to mate choice decisions. The male's advertisement or mating call is its most conspicuous social signal, and the nervous system's analysis of the call is a progressive process. As processing proceeds through neural systems, response properties become more specific to the signal and, in addition, neural activity gradually shifts from representing sensory (auditory periphery and brainstem) to sensorimotor (diencephalon) to motor (forebrain) components of a behavioral response. A comparative analysis of many anuran species shows that the first stage in biasing responses toward conspecific signals over heterospecific signals, and toward particular features of conspecific signals, lies in the tuning of the peripheral auditory system. Biases in processing signals are apparent through the brainstem auditory system, where additional feature detection neurons are added by the time processing reaches the level of the midbrain. Recent work using immediate early gene expression as a marker of neural activity suggests that by the level of the midbrain and forebrain, the differential neural representation of conspecific and heterospecific signals involves both changes in mean activity levels across multiple subnuclei, and in the functional correlations among acoustically active areas. Our data show that in frogs the auditory midbrain appears to play an important role in controlling behavioral responses to acoustic social signals by acting as a regulatory gateway between the stimulus analysis of the brainstem and the behavioral and physiological control centers of the forebrain. We predict that this will hold true for other vertebrate groups such as birds and fish that produce acoustic social signals, and perhaps also in fish where electroreception or vibratory sensing through the lateral line systems plays a role in social signaling, as in all these cases ascending sensory information converges onto midbrain nuclei which relay information to higher brain centers.
The roles of the basal ganglia (BG) in motor control are much debated. Many influential hypotheses have grown from studies in which output signals of the BG were not blocked, but pathologically disturbed. A weakness of that approach is that the resulting behavioral impairments reflect degraded function of the BG per se mixed together with secondary dysfunctions of BG-recipient brain areas. To overcome that limitation, several studies have focused on the main skeletomotor output region of the BG, the globus pallidus internus (GPi). Using single-cell recording and inactivation protocols these studies provide consistent support for two hypotheses: the BG modulates movement performance ('vigor') according to motivational factors (i.e. context-specific cost/reward functions) and the BG contributes to motor learning. Results from these studies also add to the problems that confront theories positing that the BG selects movement, inhibits unwanted motor responses, corrects errors on-line, or stores and produces well-learned motor skills.
Social status hierarchy is a ubiquitous principle of social organization across the animal kingdom. Recent findings in social neuroscience reveal distinct neural networks associated with the recognition and experience of social hierarchy in humans, as well as modulation of these networks by personality and culture. Additionally, allelic variation in the serotonin transporter gene is associated with prevalence of social hierarchy across species and cultures, suggesting the importance of the study of genetic factors underlying social hierarchy. Future studies are needed to determine how genetic and environmental factors shape neural systems involved in the production and maintenance of social hierarchy across ontogeny and phylogeny.
A large body of work spanning 25+ years provides compelling evidence for the involvement of the basal ganglia-superior colliculus pathway in the initiation of rapid, orienting movements of the eyes, called saccades. The role of this pathway in saccade control is similar to the role of the basal ganglia-thalamic pathway in the control of skeletal movement: a transient cessation in tonic inhibition supplied by the basal ganglia to motor structures releases movements via the direct pathway whereas a transient increase in inhibition by the basal ganglia to motor structures prevents movements via the indirect pathway. In parallel with recent advances in the study and treatment of patients with basal ganglia disease and in animal experiments in the skeletal motor system, the results of studies exploring the role of the basal ganglia-superior colliculus pathway in saccades highlight the need for a revisiting of our understanding of the role of this pathway in saccades. The discovery of many different response profiles of neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata of the basal ganglia and in the superior colliculus, coupled with advances in experimental and statistical techniques including sophisticated behavioral procedures and multiple neuron recording and analysis, point toward a role for the basal ganglia-superior colliculus pathway in cognitive events intervening between vision and action, such as memory, target selection and saccade choice and valuation.



Two members of the human insulin/relaxin superfamily, relaxins-2 and 3 (H2 and H3 respectively), are separated by nearly 75 years in terms of chronological identification but are both the subject of intense recent biological study. The physiological effects of H2 relaxin include vasodilatory, anti-inflammatory, extracellular matrix remodeling, and angiogenic and anti-ischemic. Because of its potent systemic and renal vasodilatory effects, it is currently undergoing phase III clinical trial for the treatment of acute heart failure. In contrast, H3 relaxin is a highly conserved neuropeptide that has rapidly emerged as an important regulator of homeostatic physiology and complex behaviors. Because of their immense clinical potential, an understanding of the structural features that control their functions is critical for rational drug design and development. The native receptor for H2 relaxin is RXFP1. It also strongly binds to the related receptor, RXFP2. The native receptor for H3 relaxin is the unrelated receptor, RXFP3; however, it also has high affinity for another related receptor, RXFP4. Interestingly, H3 relaxin also has a high affinity for RXFP1 and can interact with RXFP2 with a significantly lower affinity. H3 relaxin thus interacts with all four of the relaxin family receptors. Previous studies have shown that H2 and H3 relaxins interact with their receptors primarily using their B-chain specific residues. However, more recent studies suggest that the role of the respective A and B chains for their activity is both peptide- and receptor-dependent. This mini-review summarizes these recent findings on the structure-activity relationships of H2 and H3 relaxins.
During the past several years, we have achieved a deeper understanding of the etiology/pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). However, this improved understanding has not translated to improved treatment outcome. Treatment often results in symptomatic improvement, but not full recovery. Clinical approaches are largely trial-and-error, and when the first treatment does not result in recovery for the patient, there is little proven scientific basis for choosing the next. One approach to enhancing treatment outcomes in MDD has been the use of standardized sequential treatment algorithms and measurement-based care. Such treatment algorithms stand in contrast to the personalized medicine approach, in which biomarkers would guide decision making. Incorporation of biomarker measurements into treatment algorithms could speed recovery from MDD by shortening or eliminating lengthy and ineffective trials. Recent research results suggest several classes of physiologic biomarkers may be useful for predicting response. These include brain structural or functional findings, as well as genomic, proteomic, and metabolomic measures. Recent data indicate that such measures, at baseline or early in the course of treatment, may constitute useful predictors of treatment outcome. Once such biomarkers are validated, they could form the basis of new paradigms for antidepressant treatment selection.
Given the severity and early onset of pediatric bipolar disorder, early intervention is important to bring about recovery and alter the course of the illness. There is a new and burgeoning body of literature on the biological basis of early signs of the illness and the mechanistic understanding of treatment interventions. Biological findings based on multimodal imaging, genomic studies of cellular proteins, and performance-based findings of neurocognitive studies are beginning to assemble a cohesive and interlinked model of systems neuroscience. This offers the promise of identifying biomarkers, predictors of illness, and treatment outcomes. In complement, at the tier of clinical application is a multitude of efficacy trials, yet neither a single medication nor a combination of choices seems to suffice in reality. The current review develops a point of view bridging scientific developments to where comprehensive, multipronged treatment strategies find their clinical application-a model that is similarly applicable in adult bipolar disorder.
In children, cancers are the deadliest of diseases and second only to accidents as the leading cause of death. The deadliest of the brain cancers are the malignant gliomas. Approximately two-thirds of children can survive less malignant types of brain cancers, however, in ~67% of these survivors recurs under the current regimes of surgery followed by administration of high doses toxic drugs and exposure to high doses of radiation. Even more distressing is that fortunate survivors are generally left with life-long cognitive disabilities. A new medical approach is desperately needed. Stem cells, with their natural ability to seek out brain tumors, could be used to accurately deliver therapy directly to the cancer sparing normal tissues for suppression of tumor growth. Despite exciting initial reports, clinical potency of stem cell therapy in animal brain tumor models has to date proven disappointing. Attempts to extrapolate the animal study results to humans are stymied by the fact that stem cells are heterogeneous, resulting in differences in their efficacy. Indeed, therapeutic success relies on an effective strategy to select for a stem cell sub-population within some particular stage of the development at which they are competitive and capable of targeting brain tumors. To improve this during developmental path, concept of a 'therapeutic window' is proposed. The &quot;therapeutic window&quot; for stem cells or more specifically a &quot;biochemical therapeutic window&quot; can be determined from biochemical assays and a &quot;biological therapeutic window&quot; from biological assays or even a molecular window for genetic description. Taken together, we can use selective processes to generate more effective stem cells to treat cancers as is clearly needed today.
There is growing interest in mind-body therapies as adjuncts to mainstream cancer treatment, and an increasing number of patients turn to these interventions for the control of emotional stress associated with cancer. Increased research funding has enabled many such interventions to be evaluated for their efficacy, including studies of mind-body interventions to reduce pain, anxiety, insomnia, anticipatory, and treatment-related nauseas, hot flashes, and improved mood. Mind-body treatments evaluated for their utility in oncology include relaxation therapies, biofeedback, meditation and hypnosis, yoga, art and music therapy, tai chi, and qigong. Although studies are not always methodologically sound and results mixed, a growing number of well-designed studies provide convincing evidence that mind-body techniques are beneficial adjuncts to cancer treatment. The evidence is sufficient to recommend further investigation and adoption of these techniques in mainstream oncology care.
The morphology of dendrites and the axon determines how a neuron processes and transmits information. Neurite morphology is frequently analyzed by Sholl analysis or by counting the total number of neurites and branch tips. However, the time and resources required to perform such analysis by hand is prohibitive for the processing of large data sets and introduces problems with data auditing and reproducibility. Furthermore, analyses performed by hand or using course-grained morphometric data extraction tools can obscure subtle differences in data sets because they do not store the data in a form that facilitates the application of multiple analytical tools. To address these shortcomings, we have developed a program (titled &quot;Bonfire&quot;) to facilitate digitization of neurite morphology and subsequent Sholl analysis. Our program builds upon other available open-source morphological analysis tools by performing Sholl analysis on subregions of the neuritic arbor, enabling the detection of local level changes in dendrite and axon branching behavior. To validate this new tool, we applied Bonfire analysis to images of hippocampal neurons treated with 25 ng/ml brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and untreated control neurons. Consistent with prior findings, conventional Sholl analysis revealed that global exposure to BDNF increases the number of neuritic intersections proximal to the soma. Bonfire analysis additionally uncovers that BDNF treatment affects both root processes and terminal processes with no effect on intermediate neurites. Taken together, our data suggest that global exposure of hippocampal neurons to BDNF results in a reorganization of neuritic segments within their arbors, but not necessarily a change in their number or length. These findings were only made possible by the neurite-specific Sholl data returned by Bonfire analysis.
Dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the vertebrate di- and mesencephalon play essential roles in movement control, endocrine modulation and many other important physiological activities. To identify genes that may regulate the specification and differentiation of diencephalic DA neurons in zebrafish, the spatial and temporal expression pattern of a set of genes was investigated. In situ hybridization analysis revealed that expression of DNA binding inhibitor 3 (Id3), early B cell factor 2 (Ebf2), Ebf3, Iroquois related homeobox 1 (Irx1), Kruppel-like factor 7 (Klf7), mab-21-like 1 (Mab21l1), fatty acid binding protein 7 (Fabp7) and stathmin-like 4 (Stmn4), were enriched in the diencephalon of zebrafish. Among these genes, Id3 was expressed specifically in a subset of DA neurons in the ventral diencephalon, with co-expression of neurogenin1 (Ngn1). Alteration of expression levels of Id3 inhibited maturation of developing DA neurons. Taken together, our study provides genetic characteristics of DA neurons in the diencephalon of zebrafish.


Executive function refers to the cognitive processes necessary for goal-directed cognition and behavior, which develop across childhood and adolescence. Recent experimental research indicates that both acute and chronic aerobic exercise promote children's executive function. Furthermore, there is tentative evidence that not all forms of aerobic exercise benefit executive function equally: Cognitively-engaging exercise appears to have a stronger effect than non-engaging exercise on children's executive function. This review discusses this evidence as well as the mechanisms that may underlie the association between exercise and executive function. Research from a variety of disciplines is covered, including developmental psychology, kinesiology, cognitive neuroscience, and biopsychology. Finally, these experimental findings are placed within the larger context of known links between action and cognition in infancy and early childhood, and the clinical and practical implications of this research are discussed.
During development, motor axons navigate from the spinal cord to their muscle targets in the periphery using stereotyped pathways. These pathways are broken down into shorter segments by intermediate targets where axon growth cones are believed to coordinate guidance cues. In zebrafish stumpy mutants, embryonic development proceeds normally; however, as trunk motor axons stall at their intermediate targets, suggesting that Stumpy is needed specifically for motor axon growth cones to proceed past intermediate targets. Fine mapping and positional cloning revealed that stumpy was the zebrafish homolog of the atypical FACIT collagen collagenXIXa1 (colXIX). colXIX expression was observed in a temporal and spatial pattern, consistent with a role in motor axon guidance at intermediate targets. Knocking down zebrafish ColXIX phenocopied the stumpy phenotype and this morpholino phenotype could be rescued by adding back either mouse or zebrafish colXIX RNA. The stumpy phenotype was also partially rescued in mutants by first knocking down zebrafish ColXIX and adding back colXIX RNA, suggesting that the mutation is acting as a dominant negative. Together, these results demonstrate a novel function for a FACIT collagen in guiding vertebrate motor axons through intermediate targets.
Polarized radial glia are crucial to the formation of the cerebral cortex. They serve as neural progenitors and as guides for neuronal placement in the developing cerebral cortex. The maintenance of polarized morphology is essential for radial glial functions, but the extent to which the polarized radial glial scaffold is static or dynamic during corticogenesis remains an open question. The developmental dynamics of radial glial morphology, inter-radial glial interactions during corticogenesis, and the role of the cell polarity complexes in these activities remain undefined. Here, using real-time imaging of cohorts of mouse radial glia cells, we show that the radial glial scaffold, upon which the cortex is constructed, is highly dynamic. Radial glial cells within the scaffold constantly interact with one another. These interactions are mediated by growth cone-like endfeet and filopodia-like protrusions. Polarized expression of the cell polarity regulator Cdc42 in radial glia regulates glial endfeet activities and inter-radial glial interactions. Furthermore, appropriate regulation of Gsk3 activity is required to maintain the overall polarity of the radial glia scaffold. These findings reveal dynamism and interactions among radial glia that appear to be crucial contributors to the formation of the cerebral cortex. Related cell polarity determinants (Cdc42, Gsk3) differentially influence radial glial activities within the evolving radial glia scaffold to coordinate the formation of cerebral cortex.

Cognitive deficits that are reported in heavy marijuana users (attention, memory, affect perception, decision-making) appear to be completely reversible after a prolonged abstinence period of about 28 days. However, it remains unclear whether the reversibility of these cognitive deficits indicates that (1) chronic marijuana use is not associated with long-lasting changes in cortical networks or (2) that such changes occur but the brain adapts to and compensates for the drug-induced changes. Therefore, we examined whether chronic marijuana smokers would demonstrate a differential pattern of response in comparison to healthy volunteers on a decision-making paradigm (Risk Task) while undergoing sham or active transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Twenty-five chronic marijuana users who were abstinent for at least 24h were randomly assigned to receive left anodal/right cathodal tDCS of DLPFC (n=8), right anodal/left cathodal tDCS of DLPFC (n=9), or sham stimulation (n=8); results on Risk Task during sham/active tDCS were compared to healthy volunteers from a previously published dataset. Chronic marijuana users demonstrated more conservative (i.e. less risky) decision-making during sham stimulation. While right anodal stimulation of the DLPFC enhanced conservative decision-making in healthy volunteers, both right anodal and left anodal DLPFC stimulation increased the propensity for risk-taking in marijuana users. These findings reveal alterations in the decision-making neural networks among chronic marijuana users. Finally, we also assessed the effects of tDCS on marijuana craving and observed that right anodal/left cathodal tDCS of DLPFC is significantly associated with a diminished craving for marijuana.


Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is an evolutionarily conserved mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase kinase which plays important roles in stress and immune responses. Here, we show that ASK1 deficiency attenuates neuroinflammation in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), without affecting the proliferation capability of T cells. Moreover, we found that EAE upregulates expression of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) in activated astrocytes and microglia, and that TLRs can synergize with ASK1-p38 MAPK signalling in the release of key chemokines from astrocytes. Consequently, oral treatment with a specific small molecular weight inhibitor of ASK1 suppressed EAE-induced autoimmune inflammation in both spinal cords and optic nerves. These results suggest that the TLR-ASK1-p38 pathway in glial cells may serve as a valid therapeutic target for autoimmune demyelinating disorders including multiple sclerosis.
Good news on chronobiological models of affective disorders are coming from a therapeutic innovation in the field of antidepressive action. Coming back to fundamentals by reconsidering the importance of the role of biological rhythms impairment in dysthymic pathology, a new interest bored on studies exploring short periodicities, so-called &quot;ultradian&quot; ones, on the basis of pharmacodynamics in the concept of therapeutic &quot;window&quot; of administration. The priority of circadian rhythms due to the major external biological desynchronization in depression, as well as the importance of sleep and alertness pathology, the spectacular relief of the depressive mood upon sleep deprivation, and the strong reduction of sleep need in mania, delayed exploration of ultradian exaltation of harmonic circadian components, marking a &quot;buzz&quot; of rhythmic structure and calling a &quot;chronobiotic compound&quot; which would be able to apply a &quot;reset&quot; to the temporal organisation. Another return to the origin leads to the experimental genomics, informing nor the &quot;depressivity&quot; but manic pathogenesis, in a mouse gene model which queries on the share of addictive and affective disorders.
Depression is a recurrent pathology with a self-induced vulnerability. To explain this spontaneous aggravation, we have been mainly focusing on the Kindling hypothesis. However, the kindling phenomenon only reflects the concept of vulnerability but omits explaining its mechanisms. Both data of imaging and clinical studies showed evidence that the length and the repetition of major depressive episodes increase the risk for more frequent new episodes, i.e. that depressive episodes could be neurotoxic per se. This neurotoxicity hypothesis of major depressive disorder, apart from allowing a different way of communicating with our patients and to facilitate their compliance, strengthen the necessity to prevent recurrent depressive episodes.
Depressive disorders are currently the expression of psychological and neurological vulnerabilities, which may be induced or increased by depression. Recurrence or chronic course of depressive episodes is more frequently associated with short-term or persistent cognitive deficits, and may increase the risk of dementia. This raises the question of shared pathophysiological factors. It is of major importance to assess the evolution of cognitive functioning after late-onset depressive episodes or after multiple episodes. This is one of the main reasons to prevent recurrence of depression, especially in the second part of life.
Endocrine pituitary cells are neuronlike; they express numerous voltage-gated sodium, calcium, potassium, and chloride channels and fire action potentials spontaneously, accompanied by a rise in intracellular calcium. In some cells, spontaneous electrical activity is sufficient to drive the intracellular calcium concentration above the threshold for stimulus-secretion and stimulus-transcription coupling. In others, the function of these action potentials is to maintain the cells in a responsive state with cytosolic calcium near, but below, the threshold level. Some pituitary cells also express gap junction channels, which could be used for intercellular Ca(2+) signaling in these cells. Endocrine cells also express extracellular ligand-gated ion channels, and their activation by hypothalamic and intrapituitary hormones leads to amplification of the pacemaking activity and facilitation of calcium influx and hormone release. These cells also express numerous G protein-coupled receptors, which can stimulate or silence electrical activity and action potential-dependent calcium influx and hormone release. Other members of this receptor family can activate calcium channels in the endoplasmic reticulum, leading to a cell type-specific modulation of electrical activity. This review summarizes recent findings in this field and our current understanding of the complex relationship between voltage-gated ion channels, ligand-gated ion channels, gap junction channels, and G protein-coupled receptors in pituitary cells.
Previously, we demonstrated that progesterone (P(4)) promoted adult rat neural progenitor cell (rNPC) proliferation with concomitant regulation of cell-cycle gene expression via the P(4) receptor membrane component/ERK pathway. Here, we report the efficacy of seven clinically relevant progestins alone or in combination with 17-estradiol (E(2)) on adult rNPC proliferation and hippocampal cell viability in vitro and in vivo. In vitro analyses indicated that P(4), norgestimate, Nestorone, norethynodrel, norethindrone, and levonorgestrel (LNG) significantly increased in rNPC proliferation, whereas norethindrone acetate was without effect, and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) inhibited rNPC proliferation. Proliferative progestins in vitro were also neuroprotective. Acute in vivo exposure to P(4) and Nestorone significantly increased proliferating cell nuclear antigen and cell division cycle 2 expression and total number of hippocampal 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells, whereas LNG and MPA were without effect. Mechanistically, neurogenic progestins required activation of MAPK to promote proliferation. P(4), Nestorone, and LNG significantly increased ATP synthase subunit  (complex V, subunit ) expression, whereas MPA was without effect. In combination with E(2), P(4), Nestorone, LNG, and MPA significantly increased BrdU incorporation. However, BrdU incorporation induced by E(2) plus LNG or MPA was paralleled by a significant increase in apoptosis. A rise in Bax/Bcl-2 ratio paralleled apoptosis induced by LNG and MPA. With the exception of P(4), clinical progestins antagonized E(2)-induced rise in complex V, subunit . These preclinical translational findings indicate that the neurogenic response to clinical progestins varies dramatically. Progestin impact on the regenerative capacity of the brain has clinical implications for contraceptive and hormone therapy formulations prescribed for pre- and postmenopausal women.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease which is clinically heterogeneous and pathologically consists of loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and intracytoplasmic neuronal inclusions containing alpha-synuclein aggregations known as Lewy bodies. Although the majority of PD is idiopathic, pathogenic mutations in several mendelian genes have been successfully identified through linkage analyses. To identify susceptibility loci for idiopathic PD, several genome-wide association studies (GWAS) within different populations have recently been conducted in both idiopathic and familial forms of PD. These analyses have confirmed SNCA and MAPT as loci harboring PD susceptibility. In addition, the GWAS identified several other genetic loci suggestively associated with the risk of PD; among these, only one was replicated by two different studies of European and Asian ancestries. Hence, we investigated this novel locus known as PARK16 for coding mutations in a large series of idiopathic pathologically proven PD cases, and also conducted an association study in a case-control cohort from the United Kingdom. An association between a novel RAB7L1 mutation, c.379-12insT, and disease (P-value=0.0325) was identified. Two novel coding variants present only in the PD cohort were also identified within the RAB7L1 (p.K157R) and SLC41A1 (p.A350V) genes. No copy number variation analyses have yet been performed within this recently identified locus. We concluded that, although both coding variants and risk alleles within the PARK16 locus seem to be rare, further molecular analyses within the PARK16 locus and within different populations are required in order to examine its biochemical role in the disease process.
Multiple sclerosis, MS (OMIM No. 126200), is a complex inflammatory disease that is characterized by lesions in the central nervous system. Both genes and other environmental factors influence disease susceptibility. One of the environmental factors that has been implicated in MS and autoimmune disease, such as type 1 diabetes, is vitamin D deficiency, in which patients have lower levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25-OHD(3)) in blood than do controls. Previtamin D(3) is produced in the skin, and turned into 25-OHD(3) in the liver. In the kidney, skin and immune cells, 25-OHD(3) is turned into bioactive 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) by the enzyme coded by CYP27B1 (cytochrome P450 family 27 subfamily B peptide 1) on chromosome 12q13.1-3. 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) binds to the vitamin D receptor, expressed in T cells and antigen-presenting cells. 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) has a suppressive role in the adaptive immune system, decreasing T-cell and dendritic cell maturation, proliferation and differentiation, shifting the balance between T-helper 1 (Th1) and Th2 cells in favor of Th2 cells and increasing the suppressive function of regulatory T cells. Rs703842 in the 12q13-14 region was associated with MS in a recent study by the Australian and New Zealand Multiple Sclerosis Genetics Consortium (ANZgene). We show associations with three SNPs in this region in our Swedish materials (2158 cases, 1759 controls) rs4646536, rs10877012 and rs10877015 (P=0.01, 0.01 and 3.5  10(-3), respectively). We imputed rs703842 SNP and performed a joint analysis with the ANZgene results, reaching a significant association for rs703842 (P=5.1  10(-11); odds ratio 0.83; 95% confidence interval 0.79-0.88). Owing to its close association with 25-OHD(3), our results lend further support to the role of vitamin D in MS pathology.
The brain of adult homeothermic vertebrates exhibits a higher degree of morphological neuroplasticity than previously thought, and this plasticity is especially prominent in birds. In particular, incorporation of new neurons is widespread throughout the adult avian forebrain, and the volumes of specific nuclei vary seasonally in a prominent manner. We review here work on steroid-dependent plasticity in birds, based on two cases: the medial preoptic nucleus (POM) of Japanese quail in relation to male sexual behavior, and nucleus HVC in canaries, which regulates song behavior. In male quail, POM volume changes seasonally, and in castrated subjects testosterone almost doubles POM volume within 2 weeks. Significant volume increases are, however, already observable after 1 day. Steroid receptor coactivator-1 is part of the mechanism mediating these effects. Increases in POM volume reflect changes in cell size or spacing and dendritic branching, but are not associated with an increase in neuron number. In contrast, seasonal changes in HVC volume reflect incorporation of newborn neurons in addition to changes in cell size and spacing. These are induced by treatments with exogenous testosterone or its metabolites. Expression of doublecortin, a microtubule-associated protein, is increased by testosterone in the HVC but not in the adjacent nidopallium, suggesting that neuron production in the subventricular zone, the birthplace of newborn neurons, is not affected. Together, these data illustrate the high degree of plasticity that extends into adulthood and is characteristic of avian brain structures. Many questions still remain concerning the regulation and specific function of this plasticity.
Steroid hormones of gonadal origin act on the neonatal brain, particularly the hypothalamus, to produce sex differences that underlie copulatory behavior. Neuroanatomical sex differences include regional volume, cell number, connectivity, morphology, physiology, neurotransmitter phenotype and molecular signaling, all of which are determined by the action of steroid hormones, particularly by estradiol in males, and are established by diverse downstream effects. Sex differences in distinct hypothalamic regions can be organized by the same steroid hormone, but the direction of a sex difference is often specific to one region or cell type, illustrating the wide range of effects that steroid hormones have on the developing brain. Substantial progress has been made in elucidating the downstream mechanisms through which gonadal hormones sexually differentiate the brain, but gaps remain in establishing the precise relationship between changes in neuronal morphology and behavior. A complete understanding of sexual differentiation will require integrating the diverse mechanisms across multiple brain regions into a functional network that regulates behavioral output.
The release of vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone) plays a key role in the osmoregulatory response of mammals to changes in salt or water intake and in the rate of water loss through evaporation during thermoregulatory cooling. Previous work has shown that the hypothalamus encloses the sensory elements that modulate vasopressin release during systemic changes in fluid osmolality or body temperature. These responses depend in part on a synaptic regulation of vasopressin neurons by afferent inputs arising from osmosensory and thermosensory neurons in the preoptic area. However, recent studies in rats and mice have shown that vasopressin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus also display intrinsic osmosensory and thermosensory properties. Isolated vasopressin neurons exposed to increases in perfusate temperature or osmolality generate increases in non-selective cation channel activity that cause membrane depolarization and increase neuronal excitability. These channels are calcium-permeable and can be blocked by ruthenium red. Moreover, intrinsic responses to osmotic and thermal stimuli are absent in magnocellular neurosecretory cells isolated from mice lacking the transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (trpv1) gene, which encodes the capsaicin receptor. Immunostaining of vasopressin-releasing neurons with anti-TRPV1 antibodies reveals the presence of amino acids present in the carboxy terminus of the protein, but not those lying in the amino terminal domain. Thus, magnocellular neurosecretory neurons appear to express an N-terminal variant of trpv1 which lacks sensitivity to capsaicin, but which enables osmosensing and thermosensing.
Mammalian puberty is initiated by an increased pulsatile release of the neuropeptide gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from hypothalamic neuroendocrine neurons. Although this increase is primarily set in motion by neuronal networks synaptically connected to GnRH neurons, glial cells contribute to the process via at least two mechanisms. One involves production of growth factors acting via receptors endowed with either serine-threonine kinase or tyrosine kinase activity. The other involves plastic rearrangements of glia-GnRH neuron adhesiveness. Growth factors of the epidermal growth factor family acting via erbB receptors play a major role in glia-to-GnRH neuron communication. In turn, neurons facilitate astrocytic erbB signaling via glutamate-dependent cleavage of erbB ligand precursors. The genetic disruption of erbB receptors delays female sexual development due to impaired erbB ligand-induced glial prostaglandin E(2) release. The adhesiveness of glial cells to GnRH neurons involves at least two different cell-cell communication systems endowed with both adhesive and intracellular signaling capabilities. One is provided by synaptic cell adhesion molecule (SynCAM1), which establishes astrocyte-GnRH neuron adhesiveness via homophilic interactions and the other involves the heterophilic interaction of neuronal contactin with glial receptor-like protein tyrosine phosphatase-. These findings indicate that the interaction of glial cells with GnRH neurons involves not only secreted bioactive molecules, but also cell-surface adhesive proteins able to set in motion intracellular signaling cascades.
Postnatal day (P)20 rats are sensitive to CA1 injury following a single injection of kainic acid (KA) but are resistant to this injury when animals have a history of two neonatal seizures. We hypothesized that the two earlier seizures led to neuroprotection by a preconditioning mechanism. Therefore, morphology, [Ca(2+)](i) and NMDA subunit proteins of the hippocampus were examined after KA was administered once (1  KA, on P6, P9, P13 or P20), twice (2  KA, on P6 and P9) or three times (3  KA, on P6, P9, P13 or P20). After 1  KA on P20, the Golgi method revealed marked decreases in spine densities and aborization of CA1 and CA3 apical dendrites. After 3  KA, morphological alterations were attenuated in CA1 neurons and were similar to pruning observed after 1  KA on P6 or 2  KA. After 1  KA at P13, baseline [Ca(2+)](i) was elevated within pyramidal and dentate granule cells. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) responses were simultaneously enhanced. After 3  KA, Ca(2+) elevations were attenuated. Immunohistochemistry revealed selective depletion of the NR2A/B subunit modulator in the same areas. NR1 subunit expression was downregulated in the subiculum and increased in the CA3, causing a significant shift in the NR1:NR2A/B ratio throughout the hippocampus. After 1  KA or 3  KA at P20, reduced expression was only observed in areas of cell injury. Results indicate that different changes in morphology and excitatory responses occur depending upon when seizures begin. Partial pruning and persistent shift in the NR1:NR2A/B ratio among excitatory synapses of the hippocampus early in life may produce epileptic tolerance and protect against subsequent insults.
ROCK, a serine/threonine protein kinase that has been identified as a Rho GTP-binding protein, is a promising target for neuropsychiatric disorders. The selective ROCK inhibitor Y-27632 has been shown to induce neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. However, the precise cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying ROCK inhibition-induced neurite outgrowth are not fully understood. In this study, we examined the roles of cellular signaling pathways in the potentiation of nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth by Y-27632. Y-27632 significantly potentiated NGF (2.5 ng/ml)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, in a concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, another ROCK inhibitor, H-1152, and the Rho inhibitor botulinum exoenzyme C3 also potentiated NGF (2.5 ng/ml)-induced neurite outgrowth. The effects by Y-27632 were antagonized by co-administration of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor antagonists (xestospongin C or 2-aminoethoxydiphenylborate (2-APB)). Moreover, the potentiation by Y-27632 was blocked by co-administration of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002 or an Akt inhibitor. In contrast, the specific inhibitors of phospholipase C (PLC-), p38MAPK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and the Ras/Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways did not affect the potentiation of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth by Y-27632. The results of double-staining immunocytochemistry suggested that both ROCK1 and type-1 IP receptors may be co-localized in the cell body of PC12 cells. In conclusion, these findings suggest that IP receptors and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways might be involved in the mechanisms of potentiation of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth by ROCK inhibitors.
Scoliosis is an important cause of disability in childhood, due to its incidence and limitation on ability. In neurodevelopmental disabilities, scoliosis worsens the already limited functional capacities of the child and can thwart abilities partially recovered through rehabilitation. In celebral palsied children (CP), scoliosis is considered a consequence of damage to the central nervous system or a complication of a peripheral impairment, in particular, through obliquity of pelvis, of the unilateral dislocation of hip. In order to explain the scoliosis of central origin, primitive and pathological reflexes, reactions or automatisms must be taken into account, especially the asymmetrical ones. This contradicts the absence of scoliosis in hemiplegia. On the contrary, symmetrical patterns should act as protective factors. However, the greater incidence of scoliosis in tetraplegia than in dipegia does not confirm this idea. Scoliosis is secondary when it is linked to an unilateral hip dislocation for side of convexity, proximity, measure and timing sequence. In childhood neuromuscular diseases (NMD), scoliosis is the unavoidable consequence of muscle weakness. The only protective factor may be muscle stiffness in case of fibrotic degeneration. The main curve is reducible for longer periods, while the less reducible secondary one at cervical level can limit the correction possibilities, due to the need to keep the head aliened. In spina bifida (SB) children, lesional and supralesional scoliosis can be present. In the former, the malformative ones directly derive from the vertebrae involved in the myelomeningocele and the secondary ones develop from the unilateral hip dislocation similar to CP, or from muscular imbalance (a typical feature of SB, especially for lower lumbar levels) or from primitive skeletal malformations of pelvic girdle or lower limbs. The acquired ones are caused by muscle weakness as in NMD. In the supralesional scoliosis, the curve is the consequence of an impairment in neurological structures especially of ponto-cerebellar carrefour or of an acquired tethered cord and may affect any segment of spinal column, also above the primitive lesion level. The scoliosis in neurodevelopmental disabilities can be treated conservatively with corsets and postural systems, with limited results. or through a surgical approach, often made difficult due to the multiple impairments present in the same patient.


Cerebral grey matter volume reductions are progressive in schizophrenia, with larger grey matter volume decreases associated with cannabis use. It is unknown whether this grey matter loss is globally distributed over the entire brain or more pronounced in specific cortical brain regions. Fifty-one patients with recent-onset schizophrenia and 31 matched healthy subjects were included. For all subjects, magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained at inclusion and at 5-year follow-up. Nineteen patients (ab-)used cannabis but no other illicit drugs; 32 patients and the healthy comparison subjects did not use any drugs during the 5-year follow-up. At follow-up, clinical outcome was measured. To evaluate the local differences in cortical thickness change over five years between the two groups regression analysis was carried out over the cortical surface. At inclusion cortical thickness did not differ between patients and controls and between cannabis-using and non-using patients. Over the follow-up period we found excessive thinning of the right supplementary motor cortex, inferior frontal cortex, superior temporal gyrus, angular gyrus, occipital and parietal lobe in patients relative to controls after controlling for cannabis use. Patients who used cannabis showed additional thinning in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), left anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and left occipital lobe as compared to those patients that did not use cannabis during the scan interval. First-episode schizophrenia patients who use cannabis show a more pronounced cortical thinning than non-using patients in areas known for their high density of CB1 receptors, such as the ACC and the DLPFC.


The human skin is innervated by a network of thin, slow-conducting afferent (C and A) fibers, transmitting a diverse range of information. Classically, these fibers are described as thermo-, noci- or chemoreceptive, whereas mechanoreception is attributed exclusively to thick, fast-conducting (A) afferents. A growing body of evidence, however, supports the notion that C tactile afferents comprise a second anatomically and functionally distinct system signaling touch in humans. This review discusses established as well as recent findings which highlight fundamental differences in peripheral and central information coding and processing between A and C mechanoreception. We conclude that from the skin through the brain, C touch shares more characteristics with interoceptive modalities (e.g. pain, temperature, and itch) than exteroceptive A touch, vision or hearing. In this light, we discuss the motivational-affective role of C touch as an integral part of a thin-fiber afferent homeostatic network for the maintenance of physical and social well-being.
During visual pursuit of a moving target, expected changes in its trajectory often evoke anticipatory smooth pursuit responses. In the present study, we investigated characteristics of anticipatory smooth pursuit decelerations before a change or the end of a target trajectory. Healthy humans had to pursue with the eyes a target moving along a circular path that predictably or unpredictably reversed direction and then retraced its movement back to the starting position. We found that anticipatory eye decelerations were often evoked in temporal expectation of target reversal and of the end of the trajectory. The latency of anticipatory decelerations initiated before target reversal was variable, had poor temporal accuracy and depended on the history of previous trials. Anticipations of the end of the trajectory were more accurate, more precise and were not influenced by previous trials. In this case, subjects probably based their estimate of the end of the trajectory on the duration just experienced before target motion reversal. These results suggest that anticipatory eye decelerations are based on the characteristics of the current or preceding trials depending on the most reliable information available.
Cone photoreceptor death is a leading cause of blindness in industrialised countries. Despite this, there are few mammalian models available to study cone pathophysiology. The diurnal rodent Arvicanthis possesses a high cone percentage and ease of maintenance. We recently described the effect of ambient light conditions on cyclic disc shedding, and observed that 24 h of constant illumination (&quot;LL&quot;) completely disrupted the normal rhythmic process and increased cone shedding fourfold. The current study was undertaken to see whether protracted constant illumination (7 days LL) would further perturb cone (and rod) turnover, and possibly lead to photoreceptor degeneration. Whereas control (cyclic lighting) retinas exhibited a typical early morning burst in phagosomes, LL retinas exhibited only low uniform numbers of rod and cone phagosomes across 24 h, with no peak of shedding at any time. Morphometric and immunohistochemical analyses of Arvicanthis retinas after 7 days LL (300 lux) showed no structural changes compared to control retinas.
Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) induces apoptosis or autophagy in dependence on the cell type. We here investigated the effect of oxLDL on the B104 neuroblastoma and RN22 schwannoma cells being popular in neuroscience research. Cells were cultivated with and without oxLDL. To generate oxLDL, we added 50 g/ml nLDL and 50 M CuSO(4) into the culture medium. After a 24-h-long treatment, oxLDL was detectable in media from both cell culture types and its concentration was approximately 16 g/ml. In the oxLDL-treated B104 neuroblastoma cell cultures 75% cells died after the 24-h exposure. The intact cells showed impaired mitochondria at the ultrastructural level. Western blot analysis revealed the increased expression of AIF 57 kDa (AIF(57)) protein, as a sign of caspase-independent cell death. In RN22 schwannoma cell cultures, oxLDL did not have any effect on cleaved caspase-3 and AIF(57) protein levels indicating absence of cell death. Treated RN22 schwannoma cells underwent survival autophagy by forming conspicuous autophagosomes and by processing LC3-I into LC3-II protein. Collectively, oxLDL induces AIF-dependent cell death in B104 neuroblastoma cells whereas in RN22 schwannoma cells enhanced signs of survival autophagy are noted.
Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia, is characterized by two major pathological hallmarks: amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Based on these two indicators, an amyloid cascade hypothesis was proposed, and accordingly, most current therapeutic approaches are now focused on the removal of -amyloid peptides (A from the brain. Additionally, strategies for blocking tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation have been suggested, including the development of drugs that can block the formation of tangles. However, there are no true disease-modifying drugs in the current market, though many drugs based on theories other than A and tau pathology are under development. The purpose of this review was to provide information on the current development of AD drugs and to discuss the issues related to drug development.
Electrical stimulation of the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dlPAG) has frequently been shown to induce escape and freezing/decreased locomotion responses which mimic panic- and fear-like behaviour. In the present study we tested whether such spontaneous fear-like behaviour could be observed in an open-field test 12 h after dlPAG stimulation. Further, we tested whether this fear-like behaviour could be attenuated by acute or chronic administration of buspirone and escitalopram. Our data demonstrate for the first time that animals showed fear-like behaviour 12 h after dlPAG stimulation, which may possibly reflect panic disorder with anticipatory anxiety/agoraphobic symptoms. Acute and chronic escitalopram, but not buspirone, treatment attenuated the fear-related behaviour. Besides, our data also showed that the stimulation intensities to evoke an escape reaction, a panicogenic response, were significantly higher after chronic buspirone and escitalopram treatment. These results suggest that the fear-like response, which was observed 12 h after dlPAG stimulation, could be considered as a relevant animal model for panic disorder with anticipatory anxiety/agoraphobic symptoms.
Cisplatin, paclitaxel and bortezomib belong to some of the most effective families of chemotherapy drugs for solid and haematological cancers. Epothilones represent a new family of very promising antitubulin agents. The clinical use of all these drugs is limited by their severe peripheral neurotoxicity. Several in vivo rat models have reproduced the characteristics of the peripheral neurotoxicity of these drugs. However, since only a very limited number of cancer types can be studied in immunocompetent rats, these animal models do not represent an effective way to evaluate, at the same time, the antineoplastic activity and the neurotoxic effects of the anticancer compounds. In this study, we characterized the neurophysiological impairment induced by chronic chemotherapy treatment in BALB/c mice, a strain suitable for assessing the activity of anticancer treatments. At the end of a 4-week period of treatment with cisplatin, paclitaxel, epothilone-B or bortezomib, sensory and sensory/motor nerve conduction velocities (NCV) were determined in the caudal and digital nerves and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and sciatic nerves were collected for histopathological analysis. The electrophysiological studies revealed that all the compounds caused a statistically significant reduction in the caudal NCV, while impairment of the digital NCV was less severe. This functional damage was confirmed by the histopathological observations evidencing axonal degeneration in the sciatic nerve induced by all the drugs associated with pathological changes in DRG induced only by cisplatin and bortezomib. These results confirm the possibility to use our models to combine the study of the antineoplastic activity of anticancer drugs and of their toxic effects on the peripheral nervous system in the BALB/c mouse strain.
The cerebral cortex is tightly and reciprocally linked to the cerebellum and the ascending dentato-thalalmo-cortical pathway influences widespread cortical regions. Using a rodent model of middle cerebral artery stroke, we showed previously that chronic, 20 Hz stimulation of the contralateral lateral cerebellar nucleus (LCN) improved motor recovery, while 50 Hz stimulation did not. Using motor evoked potentials (MEP) elicited by intracortical microstimulation, we now show the effect of LCN stimulation on motor cortex excitability as a function of pulse frequency in propofol-anesthetized rats. MEPs were recorded serially, at 15-s intervals, with cerebellar stimulation delivered in 10-min blocks at rates of 20, 30, 40, 50 or 100 Hz. Stimulation at 20, 30, 40 or 50 Hz enhanced the average MEP response across the block, with the maximal overall increase observed during 30 Hz stimulation. However, the effect varied as a function of both repeated trials within the block and LCN stimulation frequency, such that 40 Hz and 50 Hz stimulation showed a reduced effect over time. Stimulation at 100 Hz produced a transient increase in MEP amplitude in some animals; however the overall effect across the block was a trend towards reduced cortical excitability. These results suggest that direct stimulation of the LCN can yield frequency-dependent changes in cortical excitability and may provide a therapeutic approach to modulating cortical activity for the treatment of strokes or other focal cortical lesions, movement disorders and epilepsy.
Evaluation of: Ivanova JI, Birnbaum HG, Kidolezi Y et al. Economic burden of epilepsy among the privately insured in the US. Pharmacoeconomics 28(8), 675-685 (2010). Epilepsy is a chronic condition characterized by recurrent unprovoked seizures. Epilepsy is typically treated with antiepileptic drugs, although surgery is superior to medical therapy for those who are resistant to medications, and is more more cost effective when successful. The discussion article examines the direct medical costs of epilepsy and the rate of medically related absenteeism compared with a matched control group in the USA. Individuals with epilepsy were found to have significantly higher medical costs and more short- and long-term disability days. This article demonstrates that claims data can be used to assess the indirect impact of epilepsy on employment; however, the addition of other datasets is necessary to more comprehensively assess the impact of epilepsy on employment-related outcomes.
The budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is the best-studied eukaryotic cell, at both genetic and physiological levels. As a eukaryote, yeast shares highly conserved molecular and cellular mechanisms with human cells. Thus, this simple fungus is an invaluable model to study the fundamental molecular mechanisms involved in several human diseases. In the particular case of neurodegenerative disorders, yeast models have been able to recapitulate several important features of complex and devastating disorders, such as Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases. Once validated, these models have also been used to accelerate the identification of both novel therapeutic targets and compounds with therapeutic potential. Here, we review the recent contributions of this simple, but powerful model organism toward our understanding of neurodegeneration.
Type II diabetes is characterized by elevated serum glucose levels and altered lipid metabolism due to peripheral insulin resistance and defects of insulin secretion in the pancreatic -cells. While some cases of obesity and Type II diabetes result from genetic dysfunction, the increased worldwide incidence of these two disorders strongly suggest that the contribution of environmental factors such as sedentary lifestyles and high-calorie intake may disrupt energy balance. AMP-activated protein kinase and its upstream kinase liver kinase B1 are conserved serine/threonine kinases regulating anabolic and catabolic metabolic processes, therefore representing attractive therapeutic targets for the treatment of obesity and Type II diabetes. In this review, we will discuss the advantages of targeting the liver kinase B1/AMP-activated protein kinase pathway for the treatment of metabolic diseases.
Several single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have been completed in multiple sclerosis (MS). Follow-up studies of the variants with the most promising rankings, especially when supplemented by informed candidate gene selection, have proven to be extremely successful. In this study we report the results of a multi-stage replication analysis of the putatively associated SNPs identified in the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium non-synonymous SNP (nsSNP) screen. In total, the replication sample consisted of 3444 patients and 2595 controls. A combined analysis of the nsSNP screen and replication data provides evidence implicating a novel additional locus, rs3748816 in membrane metalloendopeptidase-like 1 (MMEL1; odds ratio=1.16, P=3.54  10) in MS susceptibility.
Despite the phagocytic machinery available to microglia the aberrant amyloid proteins produced during Alzheimer's and prion disease, amyloid- and PrP(Sc), are inefficiently cleared. We have shown that microglia in the ME7 model of prion disease show morphological evidence of activation, synthesize low levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and are primed to produce exaggerated responses to subsequent inflammatory challenges. Whether these microglia engage in significant phagocytic activity in the disease per se, or upon subsequent inflammatory challenge is not clear. In the present study we show transcriptional activation of a large number of scavenger receptors (SRs), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), oxidative enzymes, and cathepsins in ME7 animals. Hippocampally-injected inert latex beads (6 m) are efficiently phagocytosed by microglia of ME7 prion-diseased animals, but not by microglia in normal animals. Stimulation of ME7 animals with systemic bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) induced further increases in SR-A2, MMP3, and urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) but decreased, or did not alter, transcription of most phagocytosis-related genes examined and did not enhance clearance of deposited PrP(Sc). Furthermore, intracerebral injection with LPS (0.5 g) induced marked microglial production of IL-1, robust cellular infiltration and marked apoptosis but also did not induce further clearance of PrP(Sc). These data indicate that microglia in the prion-diseased brain are capable of phagocytosis per se, but show limited efficacy in removing PrP(Sc) even upon marked escalation of CNS inflammation. Furthermore, microglia/macrophages remain IL-1-negative during phagocytosis of apoptotic cells. The data demonstrate that phagocytic activity and pro-inflammatory microglial phenotype do not necessarily correlate.
Numerous transgenic and knockout mouse models of human hereditary neuropathies have become available over the past decade. We describe a simple, reproducible, and safe biopsy of mouse skin for histopathological evaluation of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) in models of hereditary neuropathies. We compared the diagnostic outcome between sciatic nerve and dermal nerves found in skin biopsy (SB) from the hind foot. A total of five animal models of different Charcot-Marie-Tooth neuropathies, and one model of congenital muscular dystrophy associated neuropathy were examined. In wild type mice, dermal nerve fibers were readily identified by immunohistochemistry, light, and electron microscopy and they appeared similar to myelinated fibers in sciatic nerve. In mutant mice, SB manifested myelin abnormalities similar to those observed in sciatic nerves, including hypomyelination, onion bulbs, myelin outfolding, redundant loops, and tomacula. In many strains, however, SB showed additional abnormalities--fiber loss, dense neurofilament packing with lower phosphorylation status, and axonal degeneration-undetected in sciatic nerve, possibly because SB samples distal nerves. SB, a reliable technique to investigate peripheral neuropathies in human beings, is also useful to investigate animal models of hereditary neuropathies. Our data indicate that SB may reveal distal axonal pathology in mouse models and permits sequential follow-up of the neuropathy in an individual mouse, thereby reducing the number of mice necessary to document pathology of the PNS.
Neuronal activity leads to arteriole dilation and increased blood flow in retinal vessels. This response, termed functional hyperemia, is diminished in the retinas of diabetic patients, possibly contributing to the development of diabetic retinopathy. The mechanism responsible for this loss is unknown. Here we show that light-evoked arteriole dilation was reduced by 58% in a streptozotocin-induced rat model of type 1 diabetes. Functional hyperemia is believed to be mediated by glial cells and we found that glial-evoked vasodilation was reduced by 60% in diabetic animals. The diabetic retinas showed neither a decrease in the thickness of the retinal layers nor an increase in neuronal loss, although signs of early glial reactivity and an upregulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were detected. Inhibition of iNOS restored both light- and glial-evoked dilations to control levels. These findings suggest that high NO levels resulting from iNOS upregulation alters glial control of vessel diameter and may underlie the loss of functional hyperemia observed in diabetic retinopathy. Restoring functional hyperemia by iNOS inhibition may limit the progression of retinopathy in diabetic patients.
Growing evidence indicates that collagens perform crucial functions during the development and organization of the nervous system. Collagen XXVIII is a recently discovered collagen almost exclusively expressed in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In this study, we show that this collagen is associated with nonmyelinated regions of the PNS. With the notable exception of type II terminal Schwann cell in the hairy skin, collagen XXVIII surrounds all nonmyelinating glial cells studied. This includes satellite glial cells of the dorsal root ganglia, terminal Schwann cells type I around mechanoceptors in the skin, terminal Schwann cells around proprioceptors in the muscle spindle or at the neuromuscular junction and olfactory ensheathing cells. Collagen XXVIII is also detected at nodes of Ranvier where the myelin sheath of myelinated fibers is interrupted and is thus a distinctive component of the PNS nodal gap. The correlation between the absence of myelin and the presence of collagen XXVIII is confirmed in a mouse model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth characterized by dysmyelinated nerve fibers, in which enhancement of collagen XXVIII labeling is observed.
Diabetic gastroparesis is a disorder that occurs in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. It is associated with considerable morbidity among these patients and with the resultant economic burden on the health system. It is primarily a disease seen in middle-aged women, although the increased predisposition in women still remains unexplained. Patients often present with nausea, vomiting, bloating, early satiety and abdominal pain. The pathogenesis of this complex disorder is still not well understood but involves abnormalities in multiple interacting cell types including the extrinsic nervous system, enteric nervous system, interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs), smooth muscles and immune cells. The primary diagnostic test remains gastric scintigraphy, although other modalities such as breath test, capsule, ultrasound, MRI and single photon emission CT imaging show promise as alternative diagnostic modalities. The mainstay of treatment for diabetic gastroparesis has been antiemetics, prokinetics, nutritional support and pain control. In recent years, gastric stimulation has been used in refractory cases with nausea and vomiting. As we better understand the pathophysiology, newer treatment modalities are emerging with the aim of correcting the underlying defect. In this review, what has been learned about diabetic gastroparesis in the past 5 years is highlighted. The epidemiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment of diabetic gastroparesis are reviewed, focusing on the areas that are still controversial and those that require more studies. There is also a focus on advances in our understanding of the cellular changes that underlie development of diabetic gastroparesis, highlighting new opportunities for targeted treatment.
The present study used eight normal-hearing (NH) subjects, listening to acoustic cochlear implant (CI) simulations, to examine the effects of spectral shifting on speech recognition in noise. Speech recognition was measured using spectrally matched and shifted speech (vowels, consonants, and IEEE sentences), generated by 8-channel, sine-wave vocoder. Measurements were made in quiet and in noise (speech-shaped static noise and speech-babble at 5 dB signal-to-noise ratio). One spectral match condition and four spectral shift conditions were investigated: 2 mm, 3 mm, and 4 mm linear shift, and 3 mm shift with compression, in terms of cochlear distance. Results showed that speech recognition scores dropped because of noise and spectral shifting, and that the interactive effects of spectral shifting and background conditions depended on the degree/type of spectral shift, background conditions, and the speech test materials. There was no significant interaction between spectral shifting and two noise conditions for all speech test materials. However, significant interactions between linear spectral shifts and all background conditions were found in sentence recognition; significant interactions between spectral shift types and all background conditions were found in vowel recognition. Overall, the results suggest that tonotopic mismatch may affect performance of CI users in complex listening environments.
Cochlear implant (CI) users' spectral resolution is limited by the number of implanted electrodes, interactions between the electrodes, and the underlying neural population. Current steering has been proposed to increase the number of spectral channels beyond the number of physical electrodes, however, electric field interactions may limit CI users' access to current-steered virtual channels (VCs). Current focusing (e.g tripolar stimulation) has been proposed to reduce current spread and thereby reduce interactions. In this study, current steering and current focusing were combined in a four-electrode stimulation pattern, i.e quadrupolar virtual channels (QPVCs). The spread of excitation was measured and compared between QPVC and Monopolar VC (MPVC) stimuli using a forward masking task. Results showed a sharper peak in the excitation pattern and reduced spread of masking for QPVC stimuli. Results from the forward masking study were compared with a previous study measuring VC discrimination ability and showed a weak relationship between spread of excitation and VC discriminability. The results suggest that CI signal processing strategies that utilize both current steering and current focusing might increase CI users' functional spectral resolution by transmitting more channels and reducing channel interactions.
The majority of auditory nerve fibers exhibit prominent spontaneous activity in the absence of sound. More than half of all auditory nerve fibers in CBA mice have spontaneous firing rates higher than 20 spikes/s, with some fibers exceeding 100 spikes/s. We tested whether and to what extent endbulb synapses are depressed by activity between 10 and 100 Hz, within the spontaneous firing rates of auditory nerve fibers. In contrast to rate-dependent depression seen at rates &gt;100 Hz, we found that the extent of depression was essentially rate-independent (35%) between 10 and 100 Hz. Neither cyclothiazide nor -d-glutamylglycine altered the rate-independent depression, arguing against receptor desensitization and/or vesicle depletion as major contributors for the depression. When endbulb synaptic transmission was more than half-blocked with the P/Q Ca(2+) channel blocker -agatoxin IVA, depression during 25 and 100 Hz trains was significantly attenuated, indicating P/Q Ca(2+) channel inactivation may contribute to low frequency synaptic depression. Following conditioning with a 100 Hz Poisson train, the EPSC paired-pulse ratio was increased, suggesting a reduced release probability. This in turn should reduce subsequent depletion-based synaptic depression at higher activation rates. To probe whether this conditioning of the synapse improves the reliability of postsynaptic responses, we tested the firing reliability of bushy neurons to 200 Hz stimulation after conditioning the endbulb with a 25 Hz or 100 Hz stimulus train. Although immediately following the conditioning train, bushy cells responded to minimal suprathreshold stimulation less reliably, the firing reliability eventually settled to the same level (&lt;50%) regardless of the presence or absence of the preconditioning. However, when multiple presynaptic fibers were activated simultaneously, the postsynaptic response reliability did not drop significantly below 90%. These results suggest that single endbulb terminals do not reliably trigger action potentials in bushy cells under &quot;normal&quot; operating conditions. We conclude that the endbulb synapses are chronically depressed even by low rates of spontaneous activity, and are more resistant to further depression when challenged with a higher rate of activity. However, there seems to be no beneficial effect as assessed by the firing reliability of postsynaptic neurons for transmitting information about higher rates of activity.

The aim was to investigate treatment effects of the antidepressant imipramine on the markers of neuronal plasticity. We investigated changes in neuron and synapse numbers in a rat strain that displays a genetic susceptibility to depressive behavior, the Flinders Sensitive and Resistant Lines (FSL/FRL). All rats were treated with imipramine (15 mg/kg) or saline (i.p) once daily for 25 days. The volume, neuron and synapse numbers in the hippocampus were estimated using design-based stereological methods. Under untreated conditions, the volume and the number of neurons and synapses were significantly smaller in the FSL saline group (untreated &quot;depressed&quot; rats) compared with the FRL saline group (normal rats), showing correlation to the observed decreased immobility in the forced swim test. Imipramine treatment significantly increased the number of neurons in the granule cell layer (GCL) and spine synapses in the CA1 in the FSL imipramine group (treated &quot;depressed&quot; rats) compared with the FSL saline group. The neuron numbers in the GCL and Hilus showed no differences in the FSL imipramine group compared to the FRL saline group. In conclusion, baseline levels of the volume and the number of neurons and spine synapses in hippocampus were significantly smaller in the untreated FSL rats. Our findings indicate that chronic imipramine treatment reverses the suppression of neurogenesis and synaptogenesis in the hippocampus of the &quot;depressed&quot; FSL rats, and this occurs in correlation with behavioral effects. Our results support the neuronal plasticity hypothesis that depressive disorders may be related to impairments of structural plasticity and neuronal viability in hippocampus, furthermore, antidepressant treatment counteracts the structural impairments.
With the number of scientific papers published in journals, conference proceedings, and international literature ever increasing, authors and reviewers are not only facilitated with an abundance of information, but unfortunately continuously confronted with risks associated with the erroneous copy of another's material. In parallel, Information Communication Technology (ICT) tools provide to researchers novel and continuously more effective ways to analyze and present their work. Software tools regarding statistical analysis offer scientists the chance to validate their work and enhance the quality of published papers. Moreover, from the reviewers and the editor's perspective, it is now possible to ensure the (text-content) originality of a scientific article with automated software tools for plagiarism detection. In this paper, we provide a step-bystep demonstration of two categories of tools, namely, statistical analysis and plagiarism detection. The aim is not to come up with a specific tool recommendation, but rather to provide useful guidelines on the proper use and efficiency of either category of tools. In the context of this special issue, this paper offers a useful tutorial to specific problems concerned with scientific writing and review discourse. A specific neuroscience experimental case example is utilized to illustrate the young researcher's statistical analysis burden, while a test scenario is purpose-built using open access journal articles to exemplify the use and comparative outputs of seven plagiarism detection software pieces.
The etiology of transient global amnesia (TGA) is not well understood. MR studies, including studies using diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), have been used to investigate the pathophysiology of TGA, and focal hippocampal lesions have been detected in some studies. The aim of this study was to investigate serial changes in MR images from the patients with TGA. In seven TGA patients, serial MRI scans (from the same day of the onset to several days after the onset of symptoms) using a 1.5-T MR unit were prospectively evaluated. In four patients, the duration of TGA was over 12 hr. Three of those patients showed small punctate hippocampal hypersensitivity with decreased ADC values on DW images. These lesions were detected in the postacute phase (a time window of 24 - 48 hr after the onset of symptoms). In follow-up studies performed several days after the onset of symptoms, DWI lesions had disappeared in the subacute phase (7-10 days after the TGA episode). The delayed hippocampal lesion on DW images with 1.5-T MRI in patients with TGA appears to be associated with longer duration of symptoms, to persist for several days and to disappear in the chronic phase.
Studies have shown that, depending on intensity, endurance exercise increases neurotrophins and thereby induces neuroplasticity. However, data on the effect of acute resistance exercise at different intensities on neurotrophins is not yet available. Thus, we conducted 2 trials to determine the serum concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) before and after a low or high intensity resistance exercise in 11 healthy humans. Exercise load was related to 3 repetitions of maximal effort isokinetic work involving knee extension under alternating concentric and eccentric conditions for muscle work at a velocity of 60s-1 registered during a familiarization session. The torque angle diagrams from these 3 repetitions were averaged and displayed as target curves in the test sessions, the intensity of resistance exercise was set at 40% (trial: R1) or 110% (trial: R2) of the averaged individual maximal effort curve, respectively. After resistance exercise, serum IGF-1 was increased significantly (p&lt;0.01) by 28% in R1 and 16% in R2 compared to pre-exercise levels. Resistance exercise did not increase serum VEGF at any time point. Serum BDNF increased during exercise compared to post-exercise, but did not achieve significant difference from pre-exercise values. The present study shows that either low or high resistance exercise increases levels of IGF-1, but not of BDNF or VEGF. This finding is of importance for health promotion by means of resistance exercise because circulating serum IGF-1 has been demonstrated to mediate positive effects of exercise on brain functions.
Multicenter structural MRI studies can have greater statistical power than single-center studies. However, across-center differences in contrast sensitivity, spatial uniformity, etc., may lead to tissue classification or image registration differences that could reduce or wholly offset the enhanced statistical power of multicenter data. Prior work has validated volumetric multicenter MRI, but robust methods for assessing reliability and power of multisite analyses with voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and cortical thickness measurement (CORT) are not yet available. We developed quantitative methods to investigate the reproducibility of VBM and CORT to detect group differences and estimate heritability when MRI scans from different scanners running different acquisition protocols in a multicenter setup are included. The method produces brain maps displaying information such as lowest detectable effect size (or heritability) and effective number of subjects in the multicenter study. We applied the method to a five-site multicenter calibration study using scanners from four different manufacturers, running different acquisition protocols. The reliability maps showed an overall good comparability between the sites, providing a reasonable gain in sensitivity in most parts of the brain. In large parts of the cerebrum and cortex scan pooling improved heritability estimates, with &quot;effective-N&quot; values upto the theoretical maximum. For some areas, &quot;optimal-pool&quot; maps indicated that leaving out a site would give better results. The reliability maps also reveal which brain regions are in any case difficult to measure reliably (e.g., around the thalamus). These tools will facilitate the design and analysis of multisite VBM and CORT studies for detecting group differences and estimating heritability.
Beamforming approaches have recently been developed for the field of electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) source analysis and opened up new applications within various fields of neuroscience. While the number of beamformer applications thus increases fast-paced, fundamental methodological considerations, especially the dependence of beamformer performance on leadfield accuracy, is still quite unclear. In this article, we present a systematic study on the influence of improper volume conductor modeling on the source reconstruction performance of an EEG-data based synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM) beamforming approach. A finite element model of a human head is derived from multimodal MR images and serves as a realistic volume conductor model. By means of a theoretical analysis followed by a series of computer simulations insight is gained into beamformer performance with respect to reconstruction errors in peak location, peak amplitude, and peak width resulting from geometry and anisotropy volume conductor misspecifications, sensor noise, and insufficient sensor coverage. We conclude that depending on source position, sensor coverage, and accuracy of the volume conductor model, localization errors up to several centimeters must be expected. As we could show that the beamformer tries to find the best fitting leadfield (least squares) with respect to its scanning space, this result can be generalized to other localization methods. More specific, amplitude, and width of the beamformer peaks significantly depend on the interaction between noise and accuracy of the volume conductor model. The beamformer can strongly profit from a high signal-to-noise ratio, but this requires a sufficiently realistic volume conductor model.
Emerging noninvasive neuroimaging techniques allow for the morphometric analysis of patterns of gray and white matter degeneration in vivo, which may help explain and predict the occurrence of cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. A single center prospective follow-up study (Radboud University Nijmegen Diffusion tensor and Magnetic resonance imaging Cohort study (RUN DMC)) was performed involving 503 nondemented elderly individuals (50-85 years) with a history of symptomatic cerebral small vessel disease (SVD). Age was associated with a global reduction in cortical thickness, and this relationship was strongest for ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, auditory cortex, Wernicke's area, superior temporal lobe, and primary visual cortex. Right and left hemispheres differed in the thickness of language-related areas. White matter (WM) lesions were generally negatively correlated with cortical thickness, primarily in individuals over the age of 60, with the notable exception of Brodmann areas 4 and 5, which were positively correlated in age groups 50-60 and 60-70, respectively. The observed pattern of age-related decline may explain problems in memory and executive functions, which are already well documented in individuals with SVD. The additional gray matter loss affecting visual and auditory cortex, and specifically the head region of primary motor cortex, may indicate morphological correlates of impaired sensory and motor functions. The paradoxical positive relationship between WM lesion volume and cortical thickness in some areas may reflect early compensatory hypertrophy. This study raises a further interest in the mechanisms underlying cerebral gray and white matter degeneration in association with SVD, which will require further investigation with diffusion weighted and longitudinal MR studies.
Functional reorganization of the motor system occurs in response to both aging and Parkinson's disease (PD). Since PD typically develops in older adults, disease progression and the effects of treatment may interact with normal aging. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, we studied patients &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; their normal dopaminergic medication, age-matched controls and younger adults on tasks of action and action selection. For manual movements, aging increased activity in bilateral motor, premotor and cingulate cortex. Activation in the premotor regions of &quot;on&quot; patients was higher relative to age-matched controls. However, in contrast to controls and &quot;off&quot; patients, the activations for patients when &quot;on&quot; decreased with age. Voluntary selection of actions was associated with activation in a bilateral network of fronto-parietal cortex. Within this network, advancing severity of PD was associated with decreased activity particularly in premotor and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Together, these results reveal very different patterns of age-related changes in health and PD. Younger patients are able to exert greater compensatory activity in premotor cortex than older patients, even after correction for disease severity. This effect is dopamine dependant, and may in part explain the clinical observation of reduced dopamine responsiveness in older patients with PD.
Diffusion tensor MRI-based tractography was used to investigate white matter (WM) changes in the major limbic (i.e., fornix and cingulum) and cortico-cortical association pathways [i.e., the uncinate fasciculus, the inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, the inferior longitudinal fasciculus (ILF), the superior longitudinal fasciculus, and the corpus callosum] in 25 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 19 amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) patients, and 15 healthy controls (HC). Mean diffusivity (MD), fractional anisotropy (FA), as well as axial (DA) and radial (DR) diffusivities were measured for each tract, using an atlas-based tractography approach. The association of WM tract integrity with hippocampal volume was also assessed. MD values were significantly different among groups in all WM tracts (P values ranging from 0.002 to 0.03), except in the fornix (P = 0.06) and the inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus (P = 0.09). Conversely, FA was significantly different among groups in the fornix only (P = 0.02). DA values were significantly different among groups in all WM tracts (P values ranging from 0.001 to 0.01), except in the fornix (P = 0.13) and the cingulum (P = 0.29). Significantly different DR values among groups were found in the fornix (P = 0.02) and the ILF (P = 0.01). In the fornix and cingulum, DR was significantly more increased than DA in both patient groups compared to HC. No difference in DA versus DR was found in cortico-cortical WM tracts. DA values in the fornix were significantly correlated with the hippocampal volume. This study demonstrates a different pattern of WM involvement in the limbic and cortico-cortical association pathways in aMCI and AD patients.
Lafora disease (LD) is an autosomal recessive progressive myoclonic epilepsy characterized by the presence of intracellular polyglucosan inclusions commonly known as Lafora bodies in many tissues, including the brain, liver and skin. The disease is caused by mutations in either EPM2A gene, encoding the protein phosphatase, laforin, or EPM2B gene, encoding the ubiquitin ligase, malin. But how mutations in these two genes cause disease pathogenesis is poorly understood. In this study, we show that the Lafora bodies in the axillary skin and brain stain positively for the ubiquitin, the 20S proteasome and the molecular chaperones Hsp70/Hsc70. Interestingly, mutant malins that are misfolded also frequently colocalizes with Lafora bodies in the skin biopsy sample of the respective LD patient. The expression of disease-causing mutations of malin in Cos-7 cells results in the formation of the profuse cytoplasmic aggregates that colocalize with the Hsp70/Hsc70 chaperones and the 20S proteasome. The mutant malin expressing cells also exhibit proteasomal dysfunction and cell death. Overexpression of Hsp70 decreases the frequency of the mutant malin aggregation and protects from mutant malin-induced cell death. These findings suggest that Lafora bodies consist of abnormal proteins, including mutant malin, targeted by the chaperones or the proteasome for their refolding or clearance, and failure of these quality control systems could lead to LD pathogenesis. Our data also indicate that the Hsp70 chaperone could be a potential therapeutic target of LD.
Crooked tail (Cd) mice bear a gain-of-function mutation in Lrp6, a co-receptor for canonical WNT signaling, and are a model of neural tube defects (NTDs), preventable with dietary folic acid (FA) supplementation. Whether the FA response reflects a direct influence of FA on LRP6 function was tested with prenatal supplementation in LRP6-deficient embryos. The enriched FA (10 ppm) diet reduced the occurrence of birth defects among all litters compared with the control (2 ppm FA) diet, but did so by increasing early lethality of Lrp6(-/-) embryos while actually increasing NTDs among nulls alive at embryonic days 10-13 (E10-13). Proliferation in cranial neural folds was reduced in homozygous Lrp6(-/-) mutants versus wild-type embryos at E10, and FA supplementation increased proliferation in wild-type but not mutant neuroepithelia. Canonical WNT activity was reduced in LRP6-deficient midbrain-hindbrain at E9.5, demonstrated in vivo by a TCF/LEF-reporter transgene. FA levels in media modulated the canonical WNT response in NIH3T3 cells, suggesting that although FA was required for optimal WNT signaling, even modest FA elevations attenuated LRP5/6-dependent canonical WNT responses. Gene expression analysis in embryos and adults showed striking interactions between targeted Lrp6 deficiency and FA supplementation, especially for mitochondrial function, folate and methionine metabolism, WNT signaling and cytoskeletal regulation that together implicate relevant signaling and metabolic pathways supporting cell proliferation, morphology and differentiation. We propose that FA supplementation rescues Lrp6(Cd/Cd) fetuses by normalizing hyperactive WNT activity, whereas in LRP6-deficient embryos, added FA further attenuates reduced WNT activity, thereby compromising development.
LX-1031, being developed by Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, is an oral, small-molecule tryptophan 5-hydroxylase (TPH) inhibitor that reduces 5-HT synthesis peripherally. LX-1031 is being developed for the potential treatment of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D), which is characterized by excess 5-HT. In preclinical studies, LX-1031 dose-dependently reduced expression of 5-HT in the duodenum, jejunum and ileum, but had no effect on brain 5-HT levels. In ascending single-dose and multiple-dose (14 day) phase I clinical trials in healthy volunteers, LX-1031 significantly reduced urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA; a marker of 5-HT metabolism) levels, starting by day 5 and persisting over the duration of exposure. In a phase II clinical trial in patients with IBS-D, a 1000-mg qid dose of LX-1031 was associated with improved weekly global scores and stool consistency, and lower urinary 5-HIAA levels over a 28-day treatment period. LX-1031 was well tolerated in trials to date. In conclusion, LX-1031 appears promising for IBS-D. Optimal doses, efficacy in IBS clinical trials and safety need to be fully elucidated.
Dexpramipexole (KNS-760704), the R(+) enantiomer of pramipexole, is under development by Knopp Neurosciences and Biogen Idec as a potential neuroprotective therapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a universally fatal neurodegenerative disease. Pramipexole, exclusively the S(-) enantiomer, is a non-ergot dopaminergic autoreceptor agonist that is currently marketed for use in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and restless legs syndrome. Pramipexole has been proposed to exert a broad spectrum of neuroprotective properties, primarily through antioxidant effects, inhibiting apoptotic enzymes and preserving mitochondrial structure and activity. More recent work has suggested that pramipexole possesses anti-excitotoxic properties, raising the possibility of beneficial effects in patients with ALS. However, pramipexole has high intrinsic dopaminergic receptor activity and, consequently, dose-limiting side effects, including orthostatic hypotension and hallucination, are frequent. Dexpramipexole exhibits significantly lower affinity for dopaminergic receptors, thereby making it unlikely to be associated with dopaminergic side effects. In clinical trials to date, dexpramipexole has been safe and well tolerated at doses up to 67-fold higher than the maximum recommended daily dose of pramipexole in patients with Parkinson's disease, and has demonstrated signs of neuroprotective benefit. This report summarizes the chemical and pharmacological properties of dexpramipexole and describes the potential utility of the drug in the pharmaceutical development pipeline.
We present an inductively powered 32-channel wireless integrated neural recording (WINeR) system-on-a-chip (SoC) to be ultimately used for one or more small freely behaving animals. The inductive powering is intended to relieve the animals from carrying bulky batteries used in other wireless systems, and enables long recording sessions. The WINeR system uses time-division multiplexing along with a novel power scheduling method that reduces the current in unused low-noise amplifiers (LNAs) to cut the total SoC power consumption. In addition, an on-chip high-efficiency active rectifier with optimized coils help improve the overall system power efficiency, which is controlled in a closed loop to supply stable power to the WINeR regardless of the coil displacements. The WINeR SoC has been implemented in a 0.5- m standard complementary metal-oxide semiconductor process, measuring 4.93.3 mm(2) and consuming 5.85 mW at 1.5 V when 12 out of 32 LNAs are active at any time by power scheduling. Measured input-referred noise for the entire system, including the receiver located at 1.2 m, is 4.95 Vrms in the 1 Hz~10 kHz range when the system is inductively powered with 7-cm separation between aligned coils.
Tremor is defined as the involuntary rhythmic or quasi-rhythmic oscillation of a body part, resulting from alternating or simultaneous contractions of antagonistic muscle groups. While tremor may be physiological, those who have disabling pathological tremors find that performing typical activities for daily living to be physically challenging and emotionally draining. Detecting the presence of tremor and its proper identification are crucial in prescribing the appropriate therapy to lessen its deleterious physical, emotional, psychological, and social impact. While diagnosis relies heavily on clinical evaluation, pattern analysis of surface electromyogram (sEMG) signals can be a useful diagnostic aid for an objective identification of tremor types. Using sEMG system attached to several parts of the patient's body while performing several tasks, this research aims to develop a classifier system that automates the process of tremor types recognition. Finding the optimal model and its corresponding parameters is not a straightforward process. The resulting workflow, however, provides valuable information in understanding the interplay and impact of the different features and their parameters to the behavior and performance of the classifier system. The resulting model analysis helps identify the necessary locations for the placement of sEMG electrodes and relevant features that have significant impact in the process of classification. These information can help clinicians in streamlining the process of diagnosis without sacrificing its accuracy.
Films like Firefox, Surrogates, and Avatar have explored the possibilities of using brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) to control machines and replacement bodies with only thought. Real world BCIs have made great progress toward that end. Invasive BCIs have enabled monkeys to fully explore 3-D space using neuroprosthetics. However, noninvasive BCIs have not been able to demonstrate such mastery of 3-D space. Here, we report our work, which demonstrates that human subjects can use a noninvasive BCI to fly a virtual helicopter to any point in a 3-D world. Through use of intelligent control strategies, we have facilitated the realization of controlled flight in 3-D space. We accomplished this through a reductionist approach that assigns subject-specific control signals to the crucial components of 3-D flight. Subject control of the helicopter was comparable when using either the BCI or a keyboard. By using intelligent control strategies, the strengths of both the user and the BCI system were leveraged and accentuated. Intelligent control strategies in BCI systems such as those presented here may prove to be the foundation for complex BCIs capable of doing more than we ever imagined.



The European Hypothermia Stroke Research Workshop was held in January 2010, in response to the alarming prospects of a significant increase of stroke expected in the coming years globally. Considering that a minority of patients (around 10%) are currently eligible for thrombolytic treatment, there is a need for an efficacious, cost-effective novel therapy that can be implemented broadly within European health care systems. Accordingly, the primary objective of the workshop was the definition of a research agenda aiming to assess the therapeutic benefits of hypothermia in patients with acute ischaemic stroke. The meeting was organised by the European Stroke Research Network for Hypothermia (EuroHyp) and attended by the representatives of World Stroke Organisation, European Stroke Organisation, Stroke Alliance for Europe, Society for Cryobiology and other organisations--specifically the European Space Agency, and small- and medium-sized enterprises based in EU member states. The participants adopted the 'Hypothermia for Stroke--Call to Action 2010', a declaration specifying the priorities for hypothermia research in acute ischaemic stroke. The research programme outlined--a clinical study programme designed to identify and validate therapeutic cooling as a novel treatment providing benefit to a large number of stroke patients--contains a well-integrated series of Phase II studies aiming to refine the intervention (depth, duration, and mode of cooling; antishivering strategy; patient selection) and a pivotal Phase III clinical trial. The proposed integrated Phase II and III clinical study programme would test the effectiveness of this optimised intervention, and would allow the development of evidence-based Clinical Practice Guidelines describing the optimal use of therapeutic hypothermia as a treatment strategy for stroke.

This cross-sectional descriptive survey examined use (knowledge, perception and practices) of water-filled gloves (WFGs) by nurses in the prevention of heel pressure ulcer (PU) in the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Nigeria. Participants were 250 purposively selected nurses working in the Neurosciences and Surgical units. Quantitative data were generated through the administration of a semi-structured questionnaire, whereas the qualitative data were collected through in-depth interview. Hypotheses were tested using chi-square analysis at a significance level of 0.05, whereas the manual content analysis was used to analyse the qualitative data. Results showed that a significant number of nurses at UCH, Ibadan, were knowledgeable about WFGs and actually used them in their clinical practice. Years of experience in clinical practice was found to be significantly related to knowledge and use of WFGs in heel PU (X(2) = 41677; DF = 5; P = 0001). Nurses with adequate knowledge of risk factors in the development of PU used WFGs more than those who were not aware (X(2) = 44907; DF = 3; P = 0009). Nurses' perception about WFGs was also significantly related to its use (X(2) = 4527; DF = 1; P = 0033). Although knowledge level and perception of WFGs and its use by nurses was fairly adequate, continuous education for practicing nurses should be encouraged in resource-limited settings.
Against the backdrop of the scenic Lake Mendota, the C. elegans Neurobiology Meeting came to a head. Expertly organised by Brian Ackley and Bruce Bamber and hosted at the accommodating University of Wisconsin, the meeting brought together recent contributions from many of the major research groups working on the neurobiology of C. elegans. With seven keynote speakers, 57 verbal presentations and hundreds of posters, this exciting event spanned a fascinating 3days from 27 June to 30 June 2010. In keeping with the tradition of this conference, the event on the whole was spearheaded by young investigators from several research institutions. The meeting served to emphasise the gains enjoyed by taking advantage of the genetic tractability of the worm. A thread that ran through the meeting was the importance of integrating data across different levels of biological organisation to permit delineation of the physiology underpinning discrete behavioural states. Recent advances in optogenetics and microfluidics were at the forefront of refining these analyses. The presentations discussed in this meeting report are a selection which reflects this overarching theme.




Using conformal mapping, fluid motion inside the cochlear duct is derived from fluid motion in an infinite half plane. The cochlear duct is represented by a two-dimensional half-open box. Motion of the cochlear fluid creates a force acting on the cochlear partition, modeled by damped oscillators. The resulting equation is one-dimensional, more realistic, and can be handled more easily than existing ones derived by the method of images, making it useful for fast computations of physically plausible cochlear responses. Solving the equation of motion numerically, its ability to reproduce the essential features of cochlear partition motion is demonstrated. Because fluid coupling can be changed independently of any other physical parameter in this model, it allows the significance of hydrodynamic coupling of the cochlear partition to itself to be quantitatively studied. For the model parameters chosen, as hydrodynamic coupling is increased, the simple resonant frequency response becomes increasingly asymmetric. The stronger the hydrodynamic coupling is, the slower the velocity of the resulting traveling wave at the low frequency side is. The model's simplicity and straightforward mathematics make it useful for evaluating more complicated models and for education in hydrodynamics and biophysics of hearing.






Fibrillin microfibrils constitute a scaffold for elastin deposition in the wall of arteries and form the anchoring filaments that connect the lymphatic endothelium to surrounding elastic fibers. We previously reported that fibrillin is deposited in a honeycomb pattern in bovine arterial endothelial cells, which also deposit microfibril-associated glycoprotein (MAGP)-1, whereas thoracic duct endothelial cells form an irregular web. The present immunohistochemical study was designed to verify whether lymphatic and blood human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMECs) isolated from human foreskin by the sequential use of a pan-endothelial marker, CD31, and the lymphatic specific marker, D2-40, deposit fibrillin and MAGP-1. In both cell types, fibrillin and MAGP-1 co-localized and were deposited with different patterns of increasing complexity co-existing in the same culture. Fibrillin microfibrils formed a wide-mesh honeycomb leaving fibrillin-free spaces that were gradually filled. This modality of fibrillin deposition, similar to that of bovine large artery endothelial cells, was basically the same in blood and lymphatic HDMECs. In some lymphatic HDMECs, fibrillin was initially deposited as uniformly scattered short fibrillin strands probably as a result of anchoring filaments carried over from the vessels of origin. Our findings show that blood and lymphatic endothelial cells participate in fibrillin deposition in human skin.

There are numerous studies measuring the transfer functions representing signal transformation between a source and each ear canal, i.e., the head-related transfer functions (HRTFs), for various species. However, only a handful of these address the effects of sound source distance on HRTFs. This is the first study of HRTFs in the rabbit where the emphasis is on the effects of sound source distance and azimuth on HRTFs. With the rabbit placed in an anechoic chamber, we made acoustic measurements with miniature microphones placed deep in each ear canal to a sound source at different positions (10-160cm distance, 150 azimuth). The sound was a logarithmically swept broadband chirp. For comparisons, we also obtained the HRTFs from a racquetball and a computational model for a rigid sphere. We found that (1) the spectral shape of the HRTF in each ear changed with sound source location; (2) interaural level difference (ILD) increased with decreasing distance and with increasing frequency. Furthermore, ILDs can be substantial even at low frequencies when distance is close; and (3) interaural time difference (ITD) decreased with decreasing distance and generally increased with decreasing frequency. The observations in the rabbit were reproduced, in general, by those in the racquetball, albeit greater in magnitude in the rabbit. In the sphere model, the results were partly similar and partly different than those in the racquetball and the rabbit. These findings refute the common notions that ILD is negligible at low frequencies and that ITD is constant across frequency. These misconceptions became evident when distance-dependent changes were examined.
The functional link between genetic alteration and behavioral end-state is rarely straightforward and never linear. Cases where neurodevelopmental conditions defined by a distinct genetic etiology share behavioral phenotypes are exemplary, as is the case for autism and Fragile X Syndrome (FXS). In this paper and its companion paper, we propose a method for assessing the functional link between genotype and neural alteration across these target conditions by comparing their perceptual signatures. In the present paper, we discuss how such signatures can be used to (1) define and differentiate various aspects of neural functioning in autism and FXS, and subsequently, (2) to infer candidate causal (genetic) mechanisms based on such signatures (see companion paper, this issue).
We have previously described (see companion paper, this issue) the utility of using perceptual signatures for defining and dissociating condition-specific neural functioning underlying early visual processes in autism and FXS. These perceptually-driven hypotheses are based on differential performance evidenced only at the earliest stages of visual information processing, mediated by local neural network functioning. In this paper, we first review how most large-scale neural models are unable to address atypical low-level perceptual functioning in autism, and then suggest how condition-specific, local neural endophenotypes (described in our companion paper) can be incorporated into causal models to infer target candidate gene or gene clusters that are implicated in autism's pathogenesis. The usefulness of such a translational research approach is discussed.
Anxiety disorders and sensory over-responsivity (SOR) are common in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD), and there is evidence for an association between these two conditions. Currently, it is unclear what causal mechanisms may exist between SOR and anxiety. We propose three possible theories to explain the association between anxiety and SOR: (a) SOR is caused by anxiety; (b) Anxiety is caused by SOR; or (c) SOR and anxiety are causally unrelated but are associated through a common risk factor or diagnostic overlap. In this paper, we examine support for each theory in the existing anxiety, autism, and neuroscience literature, and discuss how each theory informs choice of interventions and implications for future studies.
Thought-shape fusion (TSF) is a cognitive distortion that can be induced by imagining eating high-caloric foods, and involves increased guilt, feelings of fatness, and perceptions of weight gain and moral wrong-doing. Two studies were conducted to further elucidate this phenomenon. Study 1 investigated whether merely being exposed to fattening foods (without being asked to think about these foods) could induce a TSF-like experience. Study 2 investigated the relationship between negative affect and TSF-like experiences. The results suggested that TSF is specific to thinking about eating fattening foods, as mere exposure to high-caloric foods did not increase state TSF scores in healthy females relative to a neutral control condition. Furthermore, susceptibility to TSF is associated with negative affect. Healthy females with low levels of negative affect appear to be protected against TSF, medium negative affect is associated with susceptibility to TSF inductions, while those with high levels of negative affect appear to be particularly vulnerable to TSF-like experiences (even after imagining a neutral situation). Overall, the studies suggest that negative affect is associated with a TSF-like experience, and that TSF is a phenomenon that is experienced (to at least some extent) by females in the general population.
Individuals who report to have recovered memories of childhood sexual abuse (CSA) almost by definition believe that these memories were previously inaccessible for them. We examined whether poor autobiographical memory specificity for all kinds of events (i.e., events not necessarily related to CSA) may underlie such impressions of amnesia. Thus, we examined whether people who report recovered memories of CSA (n=44) would exhibit more difficulty retrieving specific autobiographical memories compared to people who never forgot their abuse experiences (continuous memory group; n=42) and people without a history of abuse (controls; n=26). The standard Autobiographical Memory Test (AMT) was administered to these 3 groups along with measures of depression and posttraumatic stress disorder symptomatology. Controls were significantly better at retrieving specific autobiographical memories relative to individuals with continuous and recovered CSA memories, who did not differ from each other. Thus, reduced autobiographical memory specificity was not particularly pronounced in people with recovered memories of CSA. Poor autobiographical memory specificity is unlikely to explain the impression of amnesia reported by this group.
The transcriptional feedback circuit, which is at the core of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) circadian (i.e., 24 h) clock, is tightly coupled to both external entrainment cues, such as light, as well as rhythmic cues that arise on a system-wide level within the SCN. One potential signaling pathway by which these cues are conveyed to the molecular clock is the CREB/CRE transcriptional cascade. In this study, we employed a tetracycline-inducible CREB repressor mouse strain, in which approximately 60% of the SCN neurons express the transgene, to test CREB functionality in the clock and its effects on overt rhythmicity. We show that attenuated CREB signaling in the SCN led to a significant reduction in light-evoked clock entrainment. An examination of circadian timing revealed that CREB repressor mice exhibited normal free-running rhythms in the absence of external lighting cues. However, under conditions of constant light, which typically leads to a lengthening of the circadian period, CREB repressor mice exhibited a dramatic arrhythmic phenotype, which could be reversed with doxycycline. At a cellular level, the repression of CREB led to a significant reduction in both the expression of the circadian clock proteins PERIOD1 and PERIOD2 and the clock output hormones AVP and VIP. Together, these data support the idea that the CRE transcriptional pathway orchestrates transcriptional events that are essential for both the maintenance of SCN timing and light entrainment of the circadian clock.
The cardiac acetylcholine-activated K(+) channel (I(K,Ach)) represents a novel target for drug therapy in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF). This channel is a member of the G-protein-coupled inward rectifier K(+) (GIRK) channel superfamily and is composed of the GIRK1/4 (Kir3.1 and Kir3.4) subunits. The goal of this study was to develop a cell-based screening assay for identifying new blockers of the GIRK1/4 channel. The mouse atrial HL-1 cell line, expressing the GIRK1/4 channel, was plated in 96-well plate format, loaded with the fluorescent membrane potential-sensitive dye bis-(1,3-dibutylbarbituric acid) trimethine oxonol (DiBAC(4)(3)) and measured using a fluorescent imaging plate reader (FLIPR). Application of the muscarinic agonist carbachol to the cells caused a rapid, time-dependent decrease in the fluorescent signal, indicative of K(+) efflux through the GIRK1/4 channel (carbachol vs. control solution, Z' factor = 0.5-0.6). The GIRK1/4 channel fluorescent signal was blocked by BaCl(2) and enhanced by increasing the driving force for K(+) across the cell membrane. To test the utility of the assay for screening GIRK1/4 channel blockers, cells were treated with a small compound library of Na(+) and K(+) channel modulators. Analogues of amiloride and propafenone were identified as channel blockers at concentrations less than 1 M. Thus, the GIRK1/4 channel assay may be used in the development of new and selective agents for treating AF.
The increased skin cancer incidences are important public health problems. In spite of the strong promotion of the UV-index as essential UV risk education tool, only few studies have investigated peoples understanding of the UV-index. This paper is the first to present representative data on UV-index understanding in Germany. In 2007, a representative telephone survey was carried out among 1,501 German residents aged 14 years and older. Only 27% of the respondents had heard of the UV-index before and 17% of the German respondents claimed to consider the index for their sun habits. Less than 10% of the German population was able to attribute the correct meaning to the UV-index as well as know their own skin type. The results of the present study suggest that informing the public about the UV-index has very limited impact on the public's understanding of the UV-index as well as on their attitude toward sun exposure. The results warrant the question whether the UV-index in the present form is a useful education tool in UV risk communication.
Thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) improves outcome in animal models of stroke and in clinical trial, but is associated with increased intracranial hemorrhage. Here, we explore the impact of biologic and experimental design factors on efficacy and bleeding. We conducted a systematic review of studies describing the effect of tPA in thrombotic occlusion models of ischemic stroke followed by random effects meta-analysis, meta-regression, and trim and fill. We identified 202, 66, 128, and 54 comparisons reporting infarct volume, neurobehavioral score, hemorrhage, and mortality, respectively. The rtPA reduced infarct volume by 25.2% (95% confidence interval=21.8 to 28.6, 3388 animals), improved neurobehavioral score by 18.0% (12.6% to 23.3%, n=1243), increased the risk of hemorrhage (odds ratio=1.71, 1.42 to 2.07, n=2833) and had no significant effect on mortality (odds ratio=0.82, 0.62 to 1.08, n=1274). There was an absolute reduction in efficacy of 1.1% (0.7% to 1.4%) for every 10minutes delay to treatment. Cumulative meta-analysis showed that the estimate of efficacy fell as more data became available. Publication bias inflated efficacy by 5.1% (infarct volume) and 8.1% (neurobehavioral score). This data set was large enough to be adequately powered to estimate with precision the impact of biologic and experimental factors on the efficacy and safety of rtPA.
Kappa-opioid receptors (OR) are positioned to modulate pre- and post-synaptic responses of norepinephrine-containing neurons in the rat locus coeruleus (LC). The ability of an acute systemic injection of a long acting OR agonist, U50,488, to induce trafficking of OR was assessed in the LC using immunogold-silver detection in male Sprague-Dawley rats. U50,488 administration shifted immunogold-silver labeling indicative of OR from primarily plasmalemmal sites to intracellular sites when compared to vehicle-treated subjects. This translocation from the plasma membrane to the cytoplasmic compartment was prevented by pre-treatment with the OR antagonist, norbinaltorphimine (norBNI). To determine whether agonist stimulation could induce adaptations in the expression of the noradrenergic synthesizing enzyme, dopamine beta hydroxylase (DH), and OR expression, Western blot analysis was used to compare expression levels of DH and OR following U50,488 administration. Expression levels for DH and OR were significantly increased following U50,488 administration when compared to controls. These data indicate that a systemic injection of a OR agonist stimulates internalization of ORs in noradrenergic neurons and can impact OR and DH expression levels in this stress-sensitive brain region.

Spontaneous rupture of craniopharyngioma is a rare condition described mainly in adults. Chemical meningitis or improvements in clinical symptomatology are the usual events heralding such rupture. Spontaneous rupture of a craniopharyngioma cyst in a child is uncommon; such a rupture being asymptomatic being exceptionally rare. Four cases of craniopharyngioma cyst rupture in the pediatric population have been reported in the literature, only 1 of them being asymptomatic. The authors report a case of spontaneous asymptomatic craniopharyngioma cyst rupture in a 13-year-old child which was diagnosed when repeat imaging was performed before operative intervention. Although rare, such rupture is of clinical significance as it can lead to alterations in management strategy.
Studies of autobiographical recall in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) reveal overgeneralization, where autobiographical memory (AM) comprises primarily factual or repeated information as opposed to details specific in time and in place and definitive of episodic re-experiencing. In addition to reviewing AM impairment in MDD, we explore the contribution of key method, demographic, and clinical variables to this dysfunction. Several candidate variables emerge, including testing method, emotion, mood state, illness burden, medication status, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), comorbidity, trauma, age, ruminative state, and executive and memory function. These variables appear to interact in a complex manner to influence AM performance in MDD.
HIV+ substance-dependent individuals (SDIs) show emotional distress and executive impairment, but in isolation these poorly predict sexual risk. We hypothesized that an executive measure sensitive to emotional aspects of judgment (Iowa Gambling Task; IGT) would identify HIV+ SDIs whose sexual risks were influenced by emotional distress. We assessed emotional distress and performance on several executive tasks in 190 HIV+ SDIs. IGT performance interacted significantly with emotional distress, such that only in better performers were distress and risk related. Our results are interpreted using the somatic marker hypothesis and indicate that the IGT identifies HIV+ SDIs for whom psychological distress influences HIV risk.

Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy represents a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of myopathies. Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy Type 2A, which is transmitted in an autosomal-recessive pattern, is caused by mutations in the calpain-3 (CAPN3) gene. A number of mutations have been reported in patients from throughout the world but not in the Asian-Indian population. We describe a genotype/phenotype analysis of an Asian-Indian patient with a history, neurologic examination, and investigations consistent with muscular dystrophy. Genetic analysis of this patient showed a homozygous G2338C transversion resulting in an amino acid change from aspartic acid 780 histidine in the CAPN3 gene confirming Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy Type 2A. Subsequent testing of the patient's family revealed that his parents and sister were heterozygous unaffected carriers. The G2338C transversion was detected as a compound heterozygous mutation in one patient in Germany. We report a homozygous case and expand the clinical spectrum of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy Type 2A to include Asian-Indians.
In epileptic patients candidate to surgery, the interpretation of EEG signals recorded either within (depth EEG) or at the surface (scalp EEG) of the head is a crucial issue to determine epileptogenic brain regions and to define subsequent surgical strategy. This task remains difficult as there is no simple relationship between the spatiotemporal features of neuronal generators (convoluted cortical dipole layers) and the electric field potentials recorded by the electrodes. Indeed, this relationship depends on the complex interaction of several factors regarding involved cortical sources: location, area, geometry, and synchronization of neuronal activity. A computational model is proposed to address this issue. It relies on a neurophysiologically relevant model of EEG signals, which combines an accurate description of both the intracerebral sources of activity and the transfer function between dipole layers and recorded field potentials. The model is used, on the one hand, to quantitatively study the influence of source-related parameters on the properties of simulated signals, and on the other hand, to jointly analyze depth EEG and scalp EEG signals. In this article, the authors review some of the results obtained from the model with respect to the literature on the interpretation of EEG signals in the context of epilepsy.
Hyperventilation (HV) is considered to be one of the activation procedures that provokes epileptic potentials and clinical seizures. However, the true clinical yield of HV is not well established. We retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients admitted to JFK Hospital, Edison, New Jersey, between October 2001 and December 2004 for long-term video-electroencephalography (EEG). A total of 475 patients (193 males; 282 females; age range 5-89 years) were included in the study. All patients underwent routine 3-minute HV as part of the evaluation of their clinical episodes. During the initial assessment, 165 patients did not experience a seizure event, 92 had non-epileptic events, 16 experienced psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) and six had a clinical event. During HV, of the 43 patients who had primary generalized epilepsy, nine had an abnormal EEG and two experienced seizures; however, out of the 159 patients who had partial seizures, only one patient demonstrated an abnormal EEG. Our study demonstrates that routine HV generally has a very low yield in our Epilepsy-Monitoring Unit. This finding also lends support to the idea that partial seizures are relatively resistant to HV activation.



Maintaining spatial orientation while travelling requires integrating spatial information encountered from an egocentric viewpoint with accumulated information represented within egocentric and/or allocentric reference frames. Here, we report changes in high-density EEG activity during a virtual tunnel passage task in which subjects respond to a postnavigation homing challenge in distinctly different ways--either compatible with a continued experience of the virtual environment from a solely egocentric perspective or as if also maintaining their original entrance orientation, indicating use of a parallel allocentric reference frame. By spatially filtering the EEG data using independent component analysis, we found that these two equal subject subgroups exhibited differences in EEG power spectral modulation during tunnel passages in only a few cortical areas. During tunnel turns, stronger alpha blocking occurred only in or near right primary visual cortex of subjects whose homing responses were compatible with continued use of an egocentric reference frame. In contrast, approaching and during tunnel turns, subjects who responded in a way compatible with use of an allocentric reference frame exhibited stronger alpha blocking of occipito-temporal, bilateral inferior parietal, and retrosplenial cortical areas, all areas implicated by hemodynamic imaging and neuropsychological observation in construction and maintenance of an allocentric reference frame. We conclude that in these subjects, stronger activation of retrosplenial and related cortical areas during turns support a continuous translation of egocentrically experienced visual flow into an allocentric model of their virtual position and movement.
How cognitive control is recruited and implemented has become a major focus of researchers in cognitive psychology and neuroscience. Current theories posit that cognitive control operates at the level of general rules--for example, in a Stroop task, &quot;attend to the color of the stimulus.&quot; Here we report behavioral evidence suggesting that cognitive control is implemented much more locally, operating at the level of specific stimuli appearing in a task block. In addition, we report neural evidence that many of the regions implicated in cognitive control on the Stroop task, including anterior cingulate cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, operate at a local level.
The diversity of premotor interneurons in the mammalian spinal cord is generated from a few phylogenetically conserved embryonic classes of interneurons (V0, V1, V2, V3). Their mechanisms of diversification remain unresolved, although these are clearly important to understand motor circuit assembly in the spinal cord. Some Ia inhibitory interneurons (IaINs) and all Renshaw cells (RCs) derive from embryonic V1 interneurons; however, in adult they display distinct functional properties and synaptic inputs, for example proprioceptive inputs preferentially target IaINs, while motor axons target RCs. Previously, we found that both inputs converge on RCs in neonates, raising the possibility that proprioceptive (VGLUT1-positive) and motor axon synapses (VAChT-positive) initially target several different V1 interneurons populations and then become selected or deselected postnatally. Alternatively, specific inputs might precisely connect only with predefined groups of V1 interneurons. To test these hypotheses we analyzed synaptic development on V1-derived IaINs and compared them to RCs of the same age and spinal cord levels. V1-interneurons were labeled using genetically encoded lineage markers in mice. The results show that although neonatal V1-derived IaINs and RCs are competent to receive proprioceptive synapses, these synapses preferentially target the proximal somato-dendritic regions of IaINs and postnatally proliferate on IaINs, but not on RCs. In contrast, cholinergic synapses on RCs are specifically derived from motor axons, while on IaINs they originate from Pitx2 V0c interneurons. Thus, motor, proprioceptive, and even some interneuron inputs are biased toward specific subtypes of V1-interneurons. Postnatal strengthening of these inputs is later superimposed on this initial preferential targeting.
Bushcrickets have a tonotopically organised hearing organ, the so-called crista acustica, in the tibia of the forelegs. This organ responds to a frequency range of about 5-80 kHz and lies behind the anterior tympanum on top of a trachea branch. We analyzed the sound-induced vibration pattern of the anterior tympanum, using a Laser-Doppler-Vibrometer Scanning microscope system, in order to identify frequency-dependent amplitude and phase of displacement. The vibration pattern evoked by a frequency sweep (4-79 kHz) showed an amplitude maximum which would correspond to the resonance frequency of an open tube system. At higher frequencies of about 30 kHz a difference in the amplitude and phase response between the distal and the proximal part of the tympanum was detected. The inner plate of the tympanum starts to wobble at this frequency. This higher mode in the motion pattern is not explained by purely acoustic characteristics of the tracheal space below the tympanum but may depend on the mechanical impedance of the tympanum plate. In accordance with a previous hypothesis, the tympanum moves over the whole tested frequency range in the dorso-ventral direction like a hinged flap with the largest displacement in its ventral part and no higher modes of vibration.
The resistive or non-resistive nature of the extracellular space in the brain is still debated, and is an important issue for correctly modeling extracellular potentials. Here, we first show theoretically that if the medium is resistive, the frequency scaling should be the same for electroencephalogram (EEG) and magnetoencephalogram (MEG) signals at low frequencies (&lt;10 Hz). To test this prediction, we analyzed the spectrum of simultaneous EEG and MEG measurements in four human subjects. The frequency scaling of EEG displays coherent variations across the brain, in general between 1/f and 1/f(2), and tends to be smaller in parietal/temporal regions. In a given region, although the variability of the frequency scaling exponent was higher for MEG compared to EEG, both signals consistently scale with a different exponent. In some cases, the scaling was similar, but only when the signal-to-noise ratio of the MEG was low. Several methods of noise correction for environmental and instrumental noise were tested, and they all increased the difference between EEG and MEG scaling. In conclusion, there is a significant difference in frequency scaling between EEG and MEG, which can be explained if the extracellular medium (including other layers such as dura matter and skull) is globally non-resistive.
We examine the properties of the transfer function F(T)=V(m)/V(LFP) between the intracellular membrane potential (V(m)) and the local field potential (V(LFP)) in cerebral cortex. We first show theoretically that, in the subthreshold regime, the frequency dependence of the extracellular medium and that of the membrane potential have a clear incidence on F(T). The calculation of F(T) from experiments and the matching with theoretical expressions is possible for desynchronized states where individual current sources can be considered as independent. Using a mean-field approximation, we obtain a method to estimate the impedance of the extracellular medium without injecting currents. We examine the transfer function for bipolar (differential) LFPs and compare to simultaneous recordings of V(m) and V(LFP) during desynchronized states in rat barrel cortex in vivo. The experimentally derived F(T) matches the one derived theoretically, only if one assumes that the impedance of the extracellular medium is frequency-dependent, and varies as 1/ (Warburg impedance) for frequencies between 3 and 500 Hz. This constitutes indirect evidence that the extracellular medium is non-resistive, which has many possible consequences for modeling LFPs.
Paired-pulse inhibition (PPI) of the population spike observed in extracellular field recordings is widely used as a read-out of hippocampal network inhibition. PPI reflects GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition of principal neurons through local interneurons. However, because of its polysynaptic nature, it is difficult to assign PPI changes to precise synaptic mechanisms. Here we used a detailed network model of the dentate gyrus to simulate PPI of granule cell action potentials and analyze its network properties. Our computational analysis indicates that PPI results mainly from a combination of perisomatic feed-forward and feedback inhibition of granule cells by basket cells. Feed-forward inhibition mediated by basket cells appeared to be the most significant source of PPI. Our simulations suggest that PPI depends more on somatic than on dendritic inhibition of granule cells. Furthermore, PPI was modulated by changes in GABA(A) reversal potential (E(GABA)) and by alterations in intrinsic excitability of granule cells. In summary, computer modeling provides a useful tool for determining the role of synaptic and intrinsic cellular mechanisms in paired-pulse field potential responses.
In this article, we applied a marginal structural model (MSM) to estimate the effect on later drug use of drug treatments occurring over 10 years following first use of the primary drug. The study was based on the longitudinal data that were collected in three projects among 421 subjects and covered 15 years since first use of their primary drug. The cumulative treatment effect was estimated by the inverse-probability of treatment weighted estimators of MSM as well as the traditional regression analysis. Contrary to the traditional regression analysis, results of the MSM showed that the cumulative treatment occurring over the 10 years significantly increased the likelihood of drug use abstinence in the subsequent 5-year period. From both the statistical and empirical point of view, MSM is a better approach to assessing cumulative treatment effects, considering its advantage of controlling for self-selection bias over time.
This paper examines the arrest trajectories of adult men and women, drawn from a sample of clients admitted to substance abuse treatment. Growth-mixture modeling was used to identify distinctive trajectories in arrests for men and women between ages 18 and 45. In addition, the characteristics of men and women in each of the trajectory groups were compared by gender, arrest trajectory, and the interaction of gender and arrest trajectory. Findings indicated that while the shape of the five trajectories was similar for men and women, higher percentages of men than women were in the High trajectory group (12.5% vs. 8.5%), the Moderate group (27.9% vs. 20.9%), and Slow Increase group (25.5% vs. 20.6%), with more women than men being in the Low group (34.1% vs. 27.1%). Although arrests declined as men and women aged, there did not appear to be many individuals who had terminated their criminal career by age 45. Overall, more similarities than differences were observed in the characteristics of men and women across trajectories. Additional research should examine whether the causal factors influencing arrest trajectories differ by gender.
Studies examining differences in mortality among long-term drug users have been limited. In this paper, we introduce a Bayesian framework that jointly models survival data using a Weibull proportional hazard model with frailty, and substance and alcohol data using mixed-effects models, to examine differences in mortality among heroin, cocaine, and methamphetamine users from five long-term follow-up studies. The traditional approach to analyzing combined survival data from numerous studies assumes that the studies are homogeneous, thus the estimates may be biased due to unobserved heterogeneity among studies. Our approach allows us to structurally combine the data from different studies while accounting for correlation among subjects within each study. Markov chain Monte Carlo facilitates the implementation of Bayesian analyses. Despite the complexity of the model, our approach is relatively straightforward to implement using WinBUGS. We demonstrate our joint modeling approach to the combined data and discuss the results from both approaches.
Delirious mania also known as Bell mania is a syndrome of excitement, delirium, and psychosis, of acute onset. We report 2 patients who presented with acute onset of disorientation, aggressive behavior, double incontinence, grandiose ideas, and auditory hallucinations. Results of investigations to rule out organic etiology such as computed tomographic scan of brain, cerebrospinal fluid examination, and biochemical parameters were normal. Creatine kinase levels were only moderately elevated. A provisional diagnosis of delirious mania was made, and patients were empirically started on electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) session. Delirium resolved by the second ECT session, unmasking manic symptoms, and recovered completely at the end of sixth ECT session. Prophylactic lithium was started, and both patients continue to be in remission after 1 year. Differential diagnosis of the above clinical presentation includes neuroleptic malignant syndrome and malignant catatonia. Delirious mania is clinically important owing to the potential for diagnostic confusion and good response to ECTs.


Crowding refers to impaired target recognition caused by surrounding contours. We investigated the development of crowding in central vision by comparing single-letter and crowding thresholds in groups of 5-year-olds, 8-year-olds, 11-year-olds, and adults. The task was to discriminate the orientation of a Sloan letter E. Single-letter thresholds, defined as the stroke width forming the smallest discriminable E, were worse than those of adults (0.83 arcmin) at 5 years of age (1.05 arcmin) but not at older ages (8-year-olds: 0.81 arcmin; 11-year-olds: 0.78 arcmin). The maximum distances over which crowding occurred, as measured in multiples of threshold stroke width, were smaller in adults (2.83) than in the three groups of children, who did not differ from each other (5-year-olds: 7.03; 8-year-olds: 7.84; 11-year-olds: 7.13). Thus, even 11-year-olds are more affected than adults by surrounding contours despite having single-letter acuity that has been mature for several years. The stronger influence of crowding in children may be caused by immaturities in the brain areas beyond the primary visual cortex (V1) where early visual inputs are combined and may contribute to their slower reading speed.
Load theory of attention proposes that distractor processing is reduced in tasks with high perceptual load that exhaust attentional capacity within task-relevant processing. In contrast, tasks of low perceptual load leave spare capacity that spills over, resulting in the perception of task-irrelevant, potentially distracting stimuli. Tsal and Benoni (2010) find that distractor response competition effects can be reduced under conditions with a high search set size but low perceptual load (due to a singleton color target). They claim that the usual effect of search set size on distractor processing is not due to attentional load but instead attribute this to lower level visual interference. Here, we propose an account for their findings within load theory. We argue that in tasks of low perceptual load but high set size, an irrelevant distractor competes with the search nontargets for remaining capacity. Thus, distractor processing is reduced under conditions in which the search nontargets receive the spillover of capacity instead of the irrelevant distractor. We report a new experiment testing this prediction. Our new results demonstrate that, when peripheral distractor processing is reduced, it is the search nontargets nearest to the target that are perceived instead. Our findings provide new evidence for the spare capacity spillover hypothesis made by load theory and rule out accounts in terms of lower level visual interference (or mere &quot;dilution&quot;) for cases of reduced distractor processing under low load in displays of high set size. We also discuss additional evidence that discounts the viability of Tsal and Benoni's dilution account as an alternative to perceptual load.
Predicting the consequences of actions is fundamental for skilled motor behavior. We investigated whether motor prediction is influenced by the fact that some movements are easier to perform and stabilize than others. Twelve subjects performed a bimanual rhythmical task either symmetrically or asymmetrically (the latter being more difficult and less stable) while oscillating in each hand an object attached to an elastic cord. Motor prediction was monitored through the adequacy of anticipatory grip force adjustments with respect to the elastic resisting force. Results showed less adequate predictive control during asymmetrical movements (compared with symmetrical ones). Furthermore, switching between modes of coordination induced even larger alterations. An interesting finding was that grip force control did not always stabilize around the expected value after voluntary transition. We conclude that motor prediction is affected by the degree of coordination between the upper limbs and by phase transitions and is prone to carryover effects.
The four voltage sensors in voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels activate upon membrane depolarization and open the pore. The location and motion of the voltage-sensing S4 helix during the early activation steps and the final opening transition are unresolved. We studied Zn(2+) bridges between two introduced His residues in Shaker Kv channels: one in the R1 position at the outer end of the S4 helix (R362H), and another in the S5 helix of the pore domain (A419H or F416H). Zn(2+) bridges readily form between R362H and A419H in open channels after the S4 helix has undergone its final motion. In contrast, a distinct bridge forms between R362H and F416H after early S4 activation, but before the final S4 motion. Both bridges form rapidly, providing constraints on the average position of S4 relative to the pore. These results demonstrate that the outer ends of S4 and S5 remain in close proximity during the final opening transition, with the S4 helix translating a significant distance normal to the membrane plane.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is an often fatal demyelinating disease caused by lytic infection of oligodendrocytes with JC virus (JCV). The development of PML in non-immunosuppressed individuals is a growing concern with reports of mortality in patients treated with mAb therapies. JCV can persist in the kidneys, lymphoid tissue and bone marrow. JCV gene expression is restricted by non-coding viral regulatory region sequence variation and cellular transcription factors. Because JCV latency has been associated with cells undergoing haematopoietic development, transcription factors previously reported as lymphoid specific may regulate JCV gene expression. This study demonstrates that one such transcription factor, Spi-B, binds to sequences present in the JCV promoter/enhancer and may affect early virus gene expression in cells obtained from human brain tissue. We identified four potential Spi-B-binding sites present in the promoter/enhancer elements of JCV sequences from PML variants and the non-pathogenic archetype. Spi-B sites present in the promoter/enhancers of PML variants alone bound protein expressed in JCV susceptible brain and lymphoid-derived cell lines by electromobility shift assays. Expression of exogenous Spi-B in semi- and non-permissive cells increased early viral gene expression. Strikingly, mutation of the Spi-B core in a binding site unique to the Mad-4 variant was sufficient to abrogate viral activity in progenitor-derived astrocytes. These results suggest that Spi-B could regulate JCV gene expression in susceptible cells, and may play an important role in JCV activity in the immune and nervous systems.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory neurodegenerative disease of the CNS. Recent advances in whole-genome screening tools have enabled discovery of several MS risk genes, the majority of which have known immune-related functions. However, disease heterogeneity and low tissue accessibility hinder functional studies of established MS risk genes. For this reason, the MS model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is often used to study neuroinflammatory disease mechanisms. In this study, we performed high-resolution linkage analysis in a rat advanced intercross line to identify an EAE-regulating quantitative trait locus, Eae29, on rat chromosome 1. Eae29 alleles from the resistant strain both conferred milder EAE and lower production of proinflammatory molecules in macrophages, as demonstrated by the congenic line, DA.PVG-Eae29 (Dc1P). The soluble IL-22R 2 gene (Il-22ra2) lies within the Eae29 locus, and its expression was reduced in Dc1P, both in activated macrophages and splenocytes from immunized rats. Moreover, a single nucleotide polymorphism located at the end of IL-22RA2 associated with MS risk in a combined Swedish and Norwegian cohort comprising 5019 subjects, displaying an odds ratio of 1.26 (p = 8.0  10(-4)). IL-22 and its receptors have been implicated in chronic inflammation, suggesting that IL-22RA2 regulates a central immune pathway. Through a combined approach including genetic and immunological investigation in an animal model and large-scale association studies of MS patients, we establish IL-22RA2 as an MS risk gene.
GM2 gangliosidosis type Sandhoff is caused by a defect of beta-hexosaminidase, an enzyme involved in the catabolism of gangliosides. It has been proposed that substrate reduction therapy using N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin (miglustat) may delay neurological progression, at least in late-onset forms of GM2 gangliosidosis. We report the results of a 3-year treatment with miglustat (100 mg t.i.d) in a patient with chronic Sandhoff disease manifesting with an atypical, spinal muscular atrophy phenotype. The follow-up included serial neurological examinations, blood tests, abdominal ultrasound, and neurophysiologic, cognitive, brain, and muscle MRI studies. We document some minor effects on neurological progression in chronic Sandhoff disease by miglustat treatment, confirming the necessity of phase II therapeutic trials including early-stage patients in order to assess its putative efficacy in chronic Sandhoff disease.

For the purpose of statistical characterization of the spatio-temporal correlation structure of brain functioning from high-dimensional fMRI time series, we introduce an innovation approach. This is based on whitening the data by the Nearest-Neighbors AutoRegressive model with external inputs (NN-ARx). Correlations between the resulting innovations are an extension of the usual correlations, in which mean-correction is carried out by the dynamic NN-ARx model instead of the static, standard linear model for fMRI time series. Measures of dependencies between regions are defined by summarizing correlations among innovations at several time lags over pairs of voxels. Such summarization does not involve averaging the data over each region, which prevents loss of information in case of non-homogeneous regions. Statistical tests based on these measures are elaborated, which allow for assessing the correlation structure in search of connectivity. Results of application of the NN-ARx approach to fMRI data recorded in visual stimuli experiments are shown. Finally, a number of issues related with its potential and limitations are commented.
Individuals at ultra-high-risk (UHR) for psychosis have become a major focus for research designed to explore markers for early detection of and clinical intervention in schizophrenia. In particular, structural magnetic resonance imaging studies in UHR individuals have provided important insight into the neurobiological basis of psychosis and have shown the brain changes associated with clinical risk factors. In this review, we describe the structural brain abnormalities in magnetic resonance images in UHR individuals. The current accumulated data demonstrate that abnormalities in the prefrontal and temporal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex occur before illness onset. These regions are compatible with the regions of structural deficits found in schizophrenia and first-episode patients. In addition, the burgeoning evidence suggests that such structural abnormalities are potential markers for the transition to psychosis. However, most findings to date are limited because they are from cross-sectional rather than longitudinal studies. Recently, researchers have emphasized neurodevelopmental considerations with respect to brain structural alterations in UHR individuals. Future studies should be conducted to characterize the differences in the brain developmental trajectory between UHR individuals and healthy controls using a longitudinal design. These new studies should contribute to early detection and management as well as provide more predictive markers of later psychosis.
Double- or two-wave-vector diffusion-weighting experiments with short mixing times in which two diffusion-weighting periods are applied in direct succession, are a promising tool to estimate cell sizes in the living tissue. However, the underlying effect, a signal difference between parallel and antiparallel wave vector orientations, is considerably reduced for the long gradient pulses required on whole-body MR systems. Recently, it has been shown that multiple concatenations of the two wave vectors in a single acquisition can double the modulation amplitude if short gradient pulses are used. In this study, numerical simulations of such experiments were performed with parameters achievable with whole-body MR systems. It is shown that the theoretical model yields a good approximation of the signal behavior if an additional term describing free diffusion is included. More importantly, it is demonstrated that the shorter gradient pulses sufficient to achieve the desired diffusion weighting for multiple concatenations, increase the signal modulation considerably, e.g. by a factor of about five for five concatenations. Even at identical echo times, achieved by a shortened diffusion time, a moderate number of concatenations significantly improves the signal modulation. Thus, experiments on whole-body MR systems may benefit from multiple concatenations.
Phosphoinositide 3 kinase Class III (PIK3C3) or VPS34-Beclin 1 complex plays a key role in the autophagy-lysosome pathway. Previous identification of numerous binding partners for VPS34-Beclin 1 suggested a complex scheme of the autophagy control mechanism. Recent large-scale screening of autophagy network and signaling pathways in mammalian cells not only confirms the previous binding partners, but also reveals additional interactors and intricate connections of VPS34-Beclin 1 complex to other functional groups of autophagy, yielding a wealth of information that will direct future detailed study of the central control mechanism of autophagy mediated by VPS34-Beclin 1 and other regulators.
Environmental enrichment is used to enhance mental stimulation and physical activity and has been shown to delay onset and progression of a range of brain disorders. Now, Cao et al. (2010) report in Cell that this paradigm also exerts strong influences beyond the brain and is capable of suppressing tumor growth in mice.
Clinical trials involving technologically involved novel treatments such as gene therapy delivered through hematopoietic stem cells as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) treatment will need to recruit ethnically diverse patients to ensure the acceptance among broad groups of individuals and generalizability of research findings. Five focus groups of 47 HIV-positive men and women, religious and community leaders and health providers, mostly from African American and low-income communities, were conducted to examine knowledge about gene therapy and stem cell research and to assess the moral and ethical beliefs that might influence participation in clinical trials. Three themes emerged from these groups: (1) the need for clarification of terminology and the ethics of understanding gene therapy-stem cell research, (2) strategies to avoid mistrust of medical procedures and provider mistrust, and (3) the conflict between science and religious beliefs as it pertains to gene therapy-stem cell research.
The lifetime prevalence of depression, anxiety, and stress among adolescents and young adults around the world is currently estimated to range from 5% to 70%, with an Indian study reporting no depression among college going adolescents. This cross-sectional study was conducted to determine prevalence of current depressive, anxiety, and stress-related symptoms on a Dimensional and Categorical basis among young adults in Ranchi city of India. A stratified sample of 500 students was selected to be representative of the city's college going population (n = 50,000) of which 405 were taken up for final analysis. Data were obtained using Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale to assess symptoms on dimensional basis and using Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview to diagnose on categorical basis. Mean age of students was 19.3 years with an average education of 14.7 years. Ranging from mild to extremely severe, depressive symptoms were present in 18.5% of the population, anxiety in 24.4%, and stress in 20%. Clinical depression was present in 12.1% and generalized anxiety disorder in 19.0%. Comorbid anxiety and depression was high, with about 87% of those having depression also suffering from anxiety disorder. Detecting depressive, anxiety, and stress-related symptoms in the college population is a critical preventive strategy, which can help in preventing disruption to the learning process. Health policies must integrate young adults' depression, stress, and anxiety as a disorder of public health significance.
Although major advances have been made in the development of motor prostheses, fine motor control requires intuitive somatosensory feedback. Here we explored whether a thalamic site for a somatosensory neural prosthetic could provide natural somatic sensation to humans. Different patterns of electrical stimulation (obtained from thalamic spike trains) were applied in patients undergoing deep brain stimulation surgery. Changes in pattern produced different sensations, while preserving somatotopic representation. While most percepts were reported as 'unnatural', some stimulations produced more 'natural' sensations than others. However, the additional patterns did not elicit more 'natural' percepts than high-frequency (333 Hz) electrical stimulation. These features suggest that despite some limitations, the thalamus may be a feasible site for a somatosensory neural prosthesis and different stimulation patterns may be useful in its development.
Cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk)5 is a proline-directed Ser/Thr protein kinase that functions mainly in neurons and is activated by binding to a regulatory subunit, p35 or p39. Kinase activity is mainly determined by the amount of p35 available, which is controlled by a balance between synthesis and degradation. Kinase activity is also regulated by Cdk5 phosphorylation, but the activity of phosphorylated Cdk5 is in contrast to that of cycling Cdks. Cdk5 is a versatile protein kinase that regulates multiple neuronal activities including neuronal migration and synaptic signaling. Further, Cdk5 plays a role in both survival and death of neurons. Long-term inactivation of Cdk5 triggers cell death, and the survival activity of Cdk5 is apparent when neurons suffer from stress. In contrast, hyper-activation of Cdk5 by p25 promotes cell death, probably by reactivating cell-cycle machinery in the nucleus. The pro-death activity is suppressed by membrane association of Cdk5 via myristoylation of p35. Appropriate activity, localization, and regulation of Cdk5 may be critical for long-term survival of neurons, which is more than 80 years in the case of humans.
Hippocampal excitability and the metabolic glial-neuronal interactions were investigated in 22-week-old mice with motor neuron degeneration (mnd), a model of progressive epilepsy with mental retardation. Mnd mice developed spontaneous spikes in the hippocampus and were more susceptible to kainate-induced seizures compared with control mice. Neuronal hyperexcitability in their hippocampus was confirmed by the selective increase of c-Fos positive nuclei. Glial activation and pro-inflammatory cytokines over-expression were observed in the hippocampus of mnd mice, even in the absence of marked hippocampal neurodegeneration, as suggested by unchanged amounts of neuroactive amino acids and N-acetyl aspartate. Concentration of other amino acids, including GABA and glutamate, was not changed as well. However, ex vivo(13) C magnetic resonance spectroscopy, after simultaneous injection of [1-(13) C]glucose and [1,2-(13) C]acetate, followed by decapitation, showed decreased [1,2-(13) C]GABA formation from hippocampal astrocytic precursors and a marked reduction in [4,5-(13) C]glutamate derived from glutamine. We suggest that astrocyte dysfunction plays a primary role in the pathology and that mnd mice are of value to investigate early pathogenetic mechanism of progressive epilepsy with mental retardation.
Type I interferons (IFNs) are known to cause neuropsychiatric side effects, which have been proposed to be mediated by either peripheral actions or activation of glial cells. In the present study, we have investigated whether these cytokines could act directly on neuronal cells and regulate signaling pathways involved in cell death. In human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells, type I IFNs rapidly stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of Janus kinase and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) through type I IFN receptor. Prolonged exposure to IFN- induced apoptotic cell death accompanied by cytochrome C release, cleavage of caspases 9, 7, 3 and poly-(ADP ribose) polymerase and DNA fragmentation. Janus kinase inhibition reduced IFN--stimulated TyK2 and STAT1 phosphorylation, STAT1 transcriptional activity, induction of double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase (PKR) and caspase cleavage. PKR induction was associated with enhanced PKR activity and chemical inhibition of PKR reduced IFN-stimulated caspase activation. Moreover, long-term IFN- treatment led to down-regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling and IFN--induced apoptosis was attenuated in cells expressing constitutively active Akt. Similarly, in mouse primary neurons IFN- induced STAT phosphorylation, caspase 3 cleavage and inhibition of Akt signaling. Thus, type I IFNs can directly impair neuronal survival by regulating multiple signaling molecules promoting the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. This effect may contribute to the cytokine neurotoxicity.
GABA is synthesized from glutamate by glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), which exists in two isoforms, that is, GAD65 and GAD67. In line with GAD65 being located in the GABAergic synapse, several studies have demonstrated that this isoform is important during sustained synaptic transmission. In contrast, the functional significance of GAD65 in the maintenance of GABA destined for extrasynaptic tonic inhibition is less well studied. Using GAD65-/- and wild type GAD65+/+ mice, this was examined employing the cortical wedge preparation, a model suitable for investigating extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptor activity. An impaired tonic inhibition in GAD65-/- mice was revealed demonstrating a significant role of GAD65 in the synthesis of GABA acting extrasynaptically. The correlation between an altered tonic inhibition and metabolic events as well as the functional and metabolic role of GABA synthesized by GAD65 was further investigated in vivo. Tonic inhibition and the demand for biosynthesis of GABA were augmented by injection of kainate into GAD65-/- and GAD65+/+ mice. Moreover, [1-(13) C]glucose and [1,2-(13) C]acetate were administered to study neuronal and astrocytic metabolism concomitantly. Subsequently, cortical and hippocampal extracts were analyzed by NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry, respectively. Although seizure activity was induced by kainate, neuronal hypometabolism was observed in GAD65+/+ mice. In contrast, kainate evoked hypermetabolism in GAD65-/- mice exhibiting deficiencies in tonic inhibition. These findings underline the importance of GAD65 for synthesis of GABA destined for extrasynaptic tonic inhibition, regulating epileptiform activity.
Microglia are known to be a primary inflammatory cell type in the brain. However, microglial inflammatory responses are attenuated in the injured brain compared to those in cultured pure microglia. In the present study, we found that astrocytes challenged by oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) or H(2) O(2) released soluble factor(s) and attenuated microglial inflammatory responses. Conditioned medium prepared from astrocytes treated with OGD (OGD-ACM) or H(2) O(2) (H(2) O(2) -ACM) significantly reduced the levels of interferon- (IFN-)-induced microglial inflammatory mediators, including inducible nitric oxide synthase, at both the mRNA and protein levels. The anti-inflammatory effect of astrocytes appeared very rapidly (within 5min), but was not closely correlated with the extent of astrocyte damage. Both OGD-ACM and H(2) O(2) -ACM inhibited STAT nuclear signaling, as evidenced by a reduction in both STAT-1/3 binding to the IFN--activated site and IFN--activated site promoter activity. However, both phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of STAT-1/3 was unchanged in IFN--treated microglia. The active component(s) in OGD-ACM were smaller than 3kDa, and displayed anti-inflammatory effects independent of protein synthesis. These results suggest that, in the injured brain, astrocytes may act as a controller to rapidly suppress microglial activation.
While both 17-estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4) are neuroprotective in several experimental paradigms, P4 also counteracts E2 neuroprotective effects. We recently reported that a 4-h treatment of cultured hippocampal slices with P4 following a prolonged (20h) treatment with E2 eliminated estrogenic neuroprotection against NMDA toxicity and induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of the same treatment on levels of estrogen receptors, ER and ER, and BDNF using a similar paradigm. E2 treatment resulted in elevated ER mRNA and protein levels, did not modify ER mRNA, but increased ER protein levels, and increased BDNF mRNA levels. P4 reversed E2-elicited increases in ER mRNA and protein levels, in ER protein levels, and in BDNF mRNA levels. Experiments with an ER-specific antagonist, PHTPP, and specific agonists of ER and ER, propylpyrazoletriol and diarylpropionitrile, respectively, indicated that E2-mediated neuroprotection against NMDA toxicity was, at least in part, mediated via ER receptor. In support of this conclusion, E2 did not protect against NMDA toxicity in cultured hippocampal slices from ER-/- mice. Thus, E2-mediated neuroprotection against NMDA toxicity may be because of estrogenic induction of BDNF via its ER receptor, and P4-mediated inhibition of E2 neuroprotective effects treatment to P4-induced down-regulation of ER and BDNF.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) co-agonist D-serine is important in a number of different processes in the CNS, ranging from synaptic plasticity to disease states, including schizophrenia. D-serine appears to be the major co-agonist acting on retinal ganglion cell NMDA receptors, but the cell type from which it originates and whether its release can be modulated by activity are unknown. In this study, we utilized a mutant mouse line with elevated d-serine to investigate this question. Direct measurements of extracellular D-serine using capillary electrophoresis demonstrate that D-serine can be released from the intact mouse retina through an -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor (AMPAR) dependent mechanism. -Amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate-evoked D-serine release persisted in the presence of a cocktail of neural inhibitors but was abolished after administration of a glial toxin. These findings provide the first evidence that extracellular D-serine levels in the retina can be modulated, and that such modulation is contingent upon glial cell activity.
Amphetamine can improve cognition in healthy subjects and patients with schizophrenia, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, and other neuropsychiatric diseases; higher doses, however, can impair cognitive function, especially those mediated by the prefrontal cortex. We investigated how amphetamine affects prefrontal cortex long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular correlate of learning and memory, in normal and hyperdopaminergic mice lacking the dopamine transporter. Acute amphetamine treatment in wild-type mice produced a biphasic dose-response modulation of LTP, with a low dose enhancing LTP and a high dose impairing it. Amphetamine-induced LTP enhancement was prevented by pharmacological blockade of D(1) - (but not D(2)-) class dopamine receptors, by blockade of -adrenergic receptors, or by inhibition of cAMP-PKA signaling. In contrast, amphetamine-induced LTP impairment was prevented by inhibition of post-synaptic protein phosphatase-1, a downstream target of PKA signaling, or by blockade of either D(1) - or D(2)-class dopamine, but not noradrenergic, receptors. Thus, amphetamine biphasically modulates LTP via cAMP-PKA signaling orchestrated mainly through dopamine receptors. Unexpectedly, amphetamine restored the loss of LTP in dopamine transporter-knockout mice primarily by activation of the noradrenergic system. Our results mirror the biphasic effectiveness of amphetamine in humans and provide new mechanistic insights into its effects on cognition under normal and hyperdopaminergic conditions.
The neurochemical profile of the cortex develops in a region and time specific manner, which can be distorted by psychiatric and other neurological pathologies. Pre-clinical studies often involve experimental mouse models. In this study, we determined the neurochemical profile of C57BL/6 mice in a longitudinal study design to provide a reference frame for the normal developing mouse cortex. Using in vivo proton NMR spectroscopy at 14 T, we measured the concentrations of 18 metabolites in the anterior and posterior cortex on postnatal days (P) 10, 20, 30, 60 and 90. Cortical development was marked by alterations of highly concentrated metabolites, such as N-acetylaspartate, glutamate, taurine and creatine. Regional specificity was represented by early variations in the concentration of glutamine, aspartate and choline. In adult animals, regional concentration differences were found for N-acetylaspartate, creatine and myo-inositol. In this study, animals were exposed to recurrent isoflurane anaesthesia. Additional experiments showed that the latter was devoid of major effects on behaviour or cortical neurochemical profile. In conclusion, the high sensitivity and reproducibility of the measurements achieved at 14 T allowed us to identify developmental variations of cortical areas within the mouse cortex.

Plumbagin (5-hydroxy-2-methyl-1,4 naphthoquinone) is a naturally occurring low molecular weight lipophilic phytochemical derived from roots of plants of the Plumbago genus. Plumbagin has been reported to have several clinically relevant biological activities in non-neural cells, including anti-atherosclerotic, anticoagulant, anticarcinogenic, antitumor, and bactericidal effects. In a recent screen of a panel of botanical pesticides, we identified plumbagin as having neuroprotective activity. In this study, we determined if plumbagin could modify the developmental fate of rat E14.5 embryonic neural progenitor cells (NPC). Plumbagin exhibited no cytotoxicity when applied to cultured NPC at concentrations below 1 M. At a concentration of 0.1 M, plumbagin significantly enhanced the proliferation of NPC as indicated by a 17% increase in the percentage of cells incorporating bromo-deoxyuridine. Plumbagin at a concentration of 0.1 pM (but not 0.1 M), stimulated the production of astrocytes as indicated by increased GFAP expression. Plumbagin selectively induced the proliferation and differentiation of glial progenitor cells without affecting the proliferation or differentiation of neuron-restricted progenitors. Plumbagin (0.1 pM) rapidly activated the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) in NPC, and a Stat3 inhibitor peptide prevented both plumbagin-induced astrocyte formation and proliferation. These findings demonstrate the ability of a low molecular weight naturally occurring phytochemical to control the fate of glial progenitor cells by a mechanism involving the Stat3 signaling pathway.
Ultradian pulsatile hormone secretion underlies the activity of most neuroendocrine systems, including the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) and gonadal (HPG) axes, and this pulsatile mode of signalling permits the encoding of information through both amplitude and frequency modulation. In the HPA axis, glucocorticoid pulse amplitude increases in anticipation of waking, and, in the HPG axis, changing gonadotrophin-releasing hormone pulse frequency is the primary means by which the body alters its reproductive status during development (i.e. puberty). The prevalence of hormone pulsatility raises two crucial questions: how are ultradian pulses encoded (or generated) by these systems, and how are these pulses decoded (or interpreted) at their target sites? We have looked at mechanisms within the HPA axis responsible for encoding the pulsatile mode of glucocorticoid signalling that we observe in vivo. We review evidence regarding the 'hypothalamic pulse generator' hypothesis, and describe an alternative model for pulse generation, which involves steroid feedback-dependent endogenous rhythmic activity throughout the HPA axis. We consider the decoding of hormone pulsatility by taking the HPG axis as a model system and focussing on molecular mechanisms of frequency decoding by pituitary gonadotrophs.
Reading the spike coding of hypothalamic neurones presents a considerable challenge because they exhibit highly irregular firing patterns. Electrophysiologists working in the motor and sensory systems, in which neurones fire more regularly, have devised satisfactory methods to describe the firing of cells, although the statistical assumptions that underlie the methods do not apply to hypothalamic neurones. Measurement of neural activity is nevertheless vital to characterise the activity of neuroendocrine cells. It has thus become necessary to develop methods suitable for the analysis of the highly irregular spike discharge patterns of both spontaneous and stimulus-evoked firing of hypothalamic neurones. We review techniques used to meet this challenge and demonstrate their considerable capacity to address important physiological questions. We also introduce a novel approach for valid statistical estimation of the information conveyed by the response of a single neurone to a periodic stimulus. The approach demonstrated significant diurnal rhythms of synaptic connectivity between hypothalamic nuclei.
Cell responses are commonly heterogeneous, even within a subpopulation. In the present study, we investigate the source of heterogeneity in the Ca(2+) response of anterior pituitary lactotrophs to a Ca(2+) mobilisation agonist, thyrotrophin-releasing hormone. This response is characterised by a sharp increase of cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration as a result of mobilisation of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores, followed by a decrease to an elevated plateau level that results from Ca(2+) influx. We focus on heterogeneity of the evoked Ca(2+) spike under extracellular Ca(2+) free conditions. We introduce a method that uses the information provided by a mathematical model to characterise the source of heterogeneity. This method compares scatter plots of features of the Ca(2+) response obtained experimentally with those made from the mathematical model. The model scatter plots reflect random variation of parameters over different ranges, and matching the experimental and model scatter plots allows us to predict which parameters are most variable. We find that a large degree of variation in Ca(2+) efflux is a likely key contributor to the heterogeneity of Ca(2+) responses to thyrotrophin-releasing hormone in lactotrophs. This technique is applicable to any situation in which the heterogeneous biological response is described by a mathematical model.

In the pre-highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) era, prenatal &quot;vertical&quot; mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV was about 25% and exposure of pregnant mothers to drugs of abuse (illicit drugs and tobacco smoking) was a significant contributory factor of MTCT. However, with the introduction of HAART, the rate of MTCT of HIV has decreased to less that 2%. But, it is estimated that currently about 5.1% of pregnant women use illicit drugs and 16.4% smoke tobacco. The residual prevalence of MTCT is of concern and may be related to this continued prevalence of substance use among pregnant mothers. In this report, we review and present evidence that supports the hypothesis that drugs of abuse do have the potential to increase MTCT of HIV in the presence of HAART. Exposure to drugs of abuse during pregnancy may increase MTCT of HIV through a variety of mechanisms that are addressed in detail including possible damage to the placenta, induction of preterm birth, and increasing maternal plasma viral load though a variety of putative mechanisms such as: (a) promoting HIV replication in monocyte/macrophages; (b) increasing the expression of CCR5 receptors; (c) decreasing the expression of CCR5 receptor ligands; (d) increasing the expression of CXCR4 receptors; (e) increasing the expression of DC-SIGN; (f) impairing the efficacy of HAART through drug-drug interaction; and (g) promoting HIV mutation and replication through non-adherence to HAART.
Secretion of pro-inflammatory molecules by astrocytes after alcohol treatment was shown to be associated with neuroinflammation. We hypothesized that activation of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) and cyclooxygenase (COX-2) by ethanol in astrocytes enhanced the secretion of inflammatory agents via the interactive tyrosine phosphorylation of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and Src kinase. To test this hypothesis, we treated primary human astrocytes with 20mM ethanol for 48h at 37C. Ethanol exposure elevated cytochrome P450-2E1 activity, reactive oxygen species levels, and secretion of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in these cells. Secretion of PGE2 was associated with induction of cPLA2 activity and protein content as well as COX-2 protein level in a Src phosphorylation-dependent manner that occurred by enhanced transcription. Immunoprecipitation and Western blot analyses indicated that the interactive tyrosine phosphorylation of TLR4-Src complex at the cell membrane triggered the activation of cPLA2 and COX-2 in the cytoplasm through a Src signaling intermediate. Inhibition of ethanol metabolism, blockage of Src activity, or inactivation of TLR4 prevented the activation of cPLA2 and COX-2 as well as diminished PGE2 production, suggesting that interactive phosphorylation of TLR4-Src regulated the pro-inflammatory response in astrocytes. Experiments with small interfering RNA knockdown of TLR4 in human astrocytes confirmed that silencing expression also abolished the interactive phosphorylation of both TLR4 and Src in the presence of ethanol.
During the course of HIV-1 disease, virus neuroinvasion occurs as an early event, within weeks following infection. Intriguingly, subsequent central nervous system (CNS) complications manifest only decades after the initial virus exposure. Although CNS is commonly regarded as an immune-privileged site, emerging evidence indicates that innate immunity elicited by the CNS glial cells is a critical determinant for the establishment of protective immunity. Sustained expression of these protective immune responses, however, can be a double-edged sword. As protective immune mediators, cytokines have the ability to function in networks and co-operate with other host/viral mediators to tip the balance from a protective to toxic state in the CNS. Herein, we present an overview of some of the essential elements of the cerebral innate immunity in HIV neuropathogenesis including the key immune cell types of the CNS with their respective soluble immune mediators: (1) cooperative interaction of IFN- with the host/virus factor (platelet-derived host factor (PDGF)/viral Tat) in the induction of neurotoxic chemokine CXCL10 by macrophages, (2) response of astrocytes to viral infection, and (3) protective role of PDGF and MCP-1 in neuronal survival against HIV Tat toxicity. These components of the cerebral innate immunity do not act separately from each other but form a functional immunity network. The ultimate outcome of HIV infection in the CNS will thus be dependent on the regulation of the net balance of cell-specific protective versus detrimental responses.
We posit that improvements in pharmacokinetics and biodistributions of antiretroviral therapies (ART) for human immunodeficiency virus type one-infected people can be achieved through nanoformulationed drug delivery systems. To this end, we manufactured nanoparticles of atazanavir, efavirenz, and ritonavir (termed nanoART) and treated human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) in combination therapies to assess antiretroviral responses. This resulted in improved drug uptake, release, and antiretroviral efficacy over monotherapy. MDM rapidly, within minutes, ingested nanoART combinations, at equal or similar rates, as individual formulations. Combination nanoART ingested by MDM facilitated individual drug release from 15 to &gt;20 days. These findings are noteworthy as a nanoART cell-mediated drug delivery provides a means to deliver therapeutics to viral sanctuaries, such as the central nervous system during progressive human immunodeficiency virus type one infection. The work brings us yet another step closer to realizing the utility of nanoART for virus-infected people.

This short review summarises the research articles related to neuromuscular disorders published in the Journal of Neurology over the last year from May 2009 to July 2010.
Patients who recover from aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) often remain disabled or have persisting symptoms with a reduced quality of life (QoL). We assessed functional outcome and QoL 5 and 12.5 years after SAH. In a consecutive series of 64 patients with mean age at SAH of 51 years, initial outcome assessments had been performed at 4 and 18 months after SAH. At the initial and current outcome assessments, functional outcome was measured with the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and QoL with the SF-36 and a visual analogue scale (VAS). We studied the change in outcome measurements over time. We used the non-parametric Wilcoxon test to compare differences in mRS grades and calculated differences with corresponding 95% confidence intervals in the domain scores of the SF-36 and the VAS. After 5 years, seven patients had died and five patients had missing data. Compared with the 4-month follow-up, the mRS had improved in 29 of the 52 patients, remained similar in 19 patients. The overall QoL (SF-36 domains and VAS score) was better. At 12.5 years an additional six patients had died. Compared to the 4-month study, 25 of the 46 remaining patients had improved mRS, 12 had remained the same and in nine patients the mRS had worsened. Between the 5 and the 12.5 years follow-up, the improvement in mRS had decreased but patients reported overall a better QoL. Among long-time survivors, QoL may improve more than a decade after SAH.
Much evidence suggests that restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a disorder characterized by an unsuppressed response to sensory urges due to abnormalities in inhibitory pathways that specifically link sensory input and motor output. Therefore, in the present study, we tested sensory-motor integration in patients with RLS, measured by short latency afferent inhibition (SAI) and long latency afferent inhibition (LAI). SAI and LAI were determined using transcranial magnetic stimulation before and after 1 month of dopaminergic treatment in RLS patients. Ten nave patients with idiopathic RLS and ten healthy age-matched controls were recruited. Patients with secondary causes for RLS (e.g. renal failure, anaemia, low iron and ferritin) were excluded, as well as those with other sleep disorders. Untreated RLS patients demonstrated deficient SAI in the human motor cortex, which proved revertible toward normal values after dopaminergic treatment. We demonstrated an alteration of sensory-motor integration, which is normalized by dopaminergic treatment, in patients affected by RLS. It is likely that the reduction of SAI might contribute significantly to the release of the involuntary movements and might account for the sensory urge typical of this condition.
The annual incidence of myasthenia gravis (MG) ranges from 3 to 30 per 1,000,000 people. Since the mid-1980s, an increasing incidence has been reported, mainly due to late-onset MG. Whether the increase was due to population aging, improved diagnosis and case collection, or a true excess of incidence cases is still under debate. We used a complete enumeration approach by reviewing all possible sources of case collection in the province of Ferrara, Italy, to estimate the MG incidence and its temporal trend over the study period (1985-2007). The mean annual age-adjusted incidence of MG was 18 per 1,000,000, without any significant temporal trend. The incidence rates in the period 1985-1990 were 14 both for early and late-onset MG. Thereafter, a significant increase in incidence of late-onset MG (p &lt; 0.05), and a decrease in early onset MG were detected (p &lt; 0.01). These findings were related to nonthymoma MG. The median age at onset of the disease steadily increased over time. A changing pattern of MG incidence with an increase in frequency of late-onset and a decrease of early onset MG was found in the last years, giving a significant shift to older age at onset of the disease. Unknown environmental factors may have driven this change in MG epidemiology.
Emotional processing may be abnormal in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Our aim was to explore functional anatomical correlates in the processing of aversive information in ALS patients. We examined the performance of nine non-demented ALS patients and 10 healthy controls on two functional MRI (fMRI) tasks, consisting of an emotional attribution task and a memory recognition task of unpleasant versus neutral stimuli. During the emotional decision task, subjects were asked to select one of three unpleasant or neutral words. During the memory task, subjects were asked to recognize words presented during the previous task. Controls showed, as expected, greater activation in the right middle frontal gyrus during selection of unpleasant than neutral words, and a greater activation mainly in right-sided cerebral areas during the emotional recognition task. Conversely, patients showed a general increase in activation of the left hemisphere, and reduced activation in right hemisphere in both emotional tasks. Such findings may suggest extra-motor neurodegeneration involving key circuits of emotions, mostly negative, commonly involved in FTD.


The proteins ClC-6 and ClC-7 are expressed in the endosomal-lysosomal system. Because Clcn6-deficient mice display some features of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL), CLCN6 may be a candidate gene for novel forms of NCL. Using landmarks of disease progression from NCL mouse models as a guide, we examined neuropathologic alterations in the central nervous system of Clcn6(-/-), Clcn7(-/-), andgl mice. gl mice bear a mutation in Ostm1, the -subunit critical for Clcn7 function. Severely affected Clcn7(-/-) and gl mice have remarkably similar neuropathologic phenotypes, with pronounced reactive changes and neuron loss in the thalamocortical system, similar to findings in early-onset forms of NCL. In contrast, Clcn6(-/-) mice display slowly progressive, milder neuropathologic features with very little thalamic involvement or microglial activation. These findings detail for the first time the markedly different neuropathologic consequences of mutations in these two CLC genes. Clcn7(-/-) and gl mice bear a close resemblance to the progressive neuropathologic phenotypes of early onset forms of NCL, whereas the distinct phenotype of Clcn6-deficient mice suggests that this gene could be a candidate for a later-onset form of mild neurologic dysfunction with some NCL-like features.
Viral infection of the central nervous system can lead to long-term neurologic defects, including increased risk for the development of epilepsy. We describe the development of the first mouse model of viral-induced epilepsy after intracerebral infection with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus. Mice were monitored with long-term video-electroencephalogram at multiple time points after infection. Most mice exhibited short-term symptomatic seizures within 3 to 7 days of infection. This was followed by a distinct latent period in which no seizures were observed. Prolonged video-electroencephalogram recordings at 2, 4, and 7 months after the initial infection revealed that a significant proportion of the mice developed profound, spontaneous epileptic seizures. Neuropathologic examination revealed hippocampal sclerosis in animals with epilepsy. Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus-infected C57BL/6 mice represent a novel &quot;hit-and-run&quot; model to investigate mechanisms underlying viral-induced short-term symptomatic seizures, epileptogenesis, and epilepsy. Importantly, this model will also be useful to investigate novel therapies for the treatment and prevention of epilepsy.
An important question in auditory neuroscience concerns how the neural representation of sound features changes from the periphery to the cortex. Here we focused on the encoding of sound onsets and we used a modeling approach to explore the degree to which auditory cortical neurons follow a similar envelope integration mechanism found at the auditory periphery. Our &quot;forward&quot; model was able to predict relatively accurately the timing of first spikes evoked by natural communication calls in the auditory cortex of awake, head-restrained mice, but only for a subset of cortical neurons. These neurons were systematically different in their encoding of the calls, exhibiting less call selectivity, shorter latency, greater precision, and more transient spiking compared with the same factors of their poorly predicted counterparts. Importantly, neurons that fell into this best-predicted group all had thin spike waveforms, suggestive of suspected interneurons conveying feedforward inhibition. Indeed, our population of call-excited thin spike neurons had significantly higher spontaneous rates and larger frequency tuning bandwidths than those of thick spike neurons. Thus the fidelity of our model's first spike predictions segregated neurons into one earlier responding subset, potentially dominated by suspected interneurons, which preserved a peripheral mechanism for encoding sound onsets and another longer latency subset that reflected higher, likely centrally constructed nonlinearities. These results therefore provide support for the hypothesis that physiologically distinct subclasses of neurons in the auditory cortex may contribute hierarchically to the representation of natural stimuli.
Flexor digitorum profundus (FDP), the sole flexor of the fingertips, is critical for tasks such as grasping. It is a compartmentalized multitendoned muscle with both neural and mechanical links between the fingers. We determined whether voluntary activation (VA), the level of neural drive to muscle, could be measured separately in its four compartments, whether VA differed between the fingers, and whether maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) force and VA changed when the non-test fingers were extended from full flexion to 90 flexion to partially &quot;disengage&quot; the test finger. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex was used to measure VA, in a position in which only FDP generated force at the fingertip. Despite differences among the fingers in MVCs, VA for each finger was 92% (n = 8), with no differences between fingers. When the test finger was partially disengaged by extending the other fingers to 90 flexion, performance was more variable both within and between subjects. MVCs decreased significantly by about 25-40% for the four fingers. However, VA was not significantly changed (n = 6) and was similar for the four fingers. In both positions, there were strong linear relationships between the voluntary forces and the superimposed twitch sizes, indicating that the method to measure VA was very reliable. Our results indicate that maximal VA is similar for all four compartments of FDP when force production by the other fingers is unconstrained. When altered mechanical connections between the compartments decrease voluntary force output there is little difference in neural drive.
In voluntary control, supraspinal motor systems select the appropriate response and plan movement mechanics to match task constraints. Spinal circuits translate supraspinal drive into action. We studied the interplay between motor cortex (M1) and spinal circuits during voluntary movements in wild-type (WT) mice and mice lacking the 2-chimaerin gene (Chn1(-/-)), necessary for ephrinB3-EphA4 signaling. Chn1(-/-) mice have aberrant bilateral corticospinal systems, aberrant bilateral-projecting spinal interneurons, and disordered voluntary control because they express a hopping gait, which may be akin to mirror movements. We addressed three issues. First, we determined the role of the corticospinal system in adaptive control. We trained mice to step over obstacles during treadmill locomotion. We compared performance before and after bilateral M1 ablation. WT mice adaptively modified their trajectory to step over obstacles, and M1 ablation increased substantially the incidence of errant steps over the obstacle. Chn1(-/-) mice randomly stepped or hopped during unobstructed locomotion but hopped over the obstacle. Bilateral M1 ablation eliminated this obstacle-dependent hop selection and increased forelimb obstacle contact errors. Second, we characterized the laterality of corticospinal action in Chn1(-/-) mice using pseudorabies virus retrograde transneuronal transport and intracortical microstimulation. We showed bilateral connections between M1 and forelimb muscles in Chn1(-/-) and unilateral connections in WT mice. Third, in Chn1(-/-) mice, we studied adaptive responses before and after unilateral M1 ablation. We identified a more important role for contralateral than ipsilateral M1 in hopping over the obstacle. Our findings suggest an important role for M1 in the mouse in moment-to-moment adaptive control, and further, using Chn1(-/-) mice, a role in mediating task-dependent selection of mirror-like hopping movements over the obstacle. Our findings also stress the importance of subcortical control during adaptive locomotion because key features of the trajectory remained largely intact after M1 ablation.
Group Ia afferents are activated vigorously with high-frequency tendon vibration and provide excitatory input to the agonist muscle and inhibitory input to the antagonist muscle group via inhibitory interneurons. The purpose of this experiment was to determine whether the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) time course in humans is altered in response to tendon vibration. The AHP time course is estimated using the interval death rate (IDR) analysis, a transform of the motor unit action potential train. Single motor units from tibialis anterior (TA) were recorded as subjects held low force dorsiflexor contractions for 600 s with and without vibration. The vibratory stimulus was superimposed on the low force contraction either to the tendon of the TA or the antagonist Achilles tendon. During TA tendon vibration, the time course of the AHP, as expressed by its time constant (), decreased from 35.5 ms in the previbration control condition to 31.3 ms during the vibration (P = 0.003) and returned to 36.3 ms after the vibration was removed (P = 0.002). The AHP  during vibration of the antagonist Achilles tendon (38.6 ms) was greater than the previbration control condition (33.6 ms; P = 0.001). It is speculated that the reduction in AHP time constant with TA vibration may have resulted alone or in combination with a modulation of motoneuron gain, an alteration of persistent inward currents and/or the restructuring of synaptic noise. A decrease in firing probability, possibly reflecting Ia reciprocal inhibition, may have been responsible for the larger AHP time constant.
Following spinal cord injury (SCI) neurons caudal to the injury are capable of rhythmic locomotor-related activity that can form the basis for substantial functional recovery of stepping despite the loss of crucial brain stem-derived neuromodulators like serotonin (5-HT). Here we investigated the contribution of constitutive 5-HT(2) receptor activity (activity in the absence of 5-HT) to locomotion after SCI. We used a staggered hemisection injury model in rats to study this because these rats showed a robust recovery of locomotor function and yet a loss of most descending axons. Immunolabeling for 5-HT showed little remaining 5-HT below the injury, and locomotor ability was not correlated with the amount of residual 5-HT. Furthermore, blocking 5-HT(2) receptors with an intrathecal (IT) application of the neutral antagonist SB242084 did not affect locomotion (locomotor score and kinematics were unaffected), further indicating that residual 5-HT below the injury did not contribute to generation of locomotion. As a positive control, we found that the same application of SB242084 completely antagonized the muscle activity induced by exogenous application of the 5-HT(2) receptor agonists alpha-methyl-5-HT (IT). In contrast, blocking constitutive 5-HT(2) receptor activity with the potent inverse agonist SB206553 (IT) severely impaired stepping as assessed with kinematic recordings, eliminating most hindlimb weight support and overall reducing the locomotor score in both hind legs. However, even in the most severely impaired animals, rhythmic sweeping movements of the hindlimb feet were still visible during forelimb locomotion, suggesting that SB206553 did not completely eliminate locomotor drive to the motoneurons or motoneuron excitability. The same application of SB206553 had no affect on stepping in normal rats. Thus while normal rats can compensate for loss of 5-HT(2) receptor activity, after severe spinal cord injury rats require constitutive activity in these 5-HT(2) receptors to produce locomotion.
Animals assess the values of rewards to learn and choose the best possible outcomes. We studied how single neurons in the primate amygdala coded reward magnitude, an important variable determining the value of rewards. A single, Pavlovian-conditioned visual stimulus predicted fruit juice to be delivered with one of three equiprobable volumes (P = 1/3). A population of amygdala neurons showed increased activity after reward delivery, and almost one half of these responses covaried with reward magnitude in a monotonically increasing or decreasing fashion. A subset of the reward responding neurons were tested with two different probability distributions of reward magnitude; the reward responses in almost one half of them adapted to the predicted distribution and thus showed reference-dependent coding. These data suggest parametric reward value coding in the amygdala as a characteristic component of its function in reinforcement learning and economic decision making.
Visually guided hand movements in primates require an interconnected network of various cortical areas. Single unit firing rate from area 7a and dorsal prelunate (DP) neurons of macaque posterior parietal cortex (PPC) was recorded during reaching movements to targets at variable locations and under different eye position conditions. In the eye position-varied task, the reach target was always foveated; thus eye position varied with reach target location. In the retinal-varied task, the monkey reached to targets at variable retinotopic locations while eye position was kept constant in the center. Spatial tuning was examined with respect to temporal (task epoch) and contextual (task condition) aspects, and response fields were compared. The analysis showed distinct tuning types. The majority of neurons changed their gain field tuning and retinotopic tuning between different phases of the task. Between the onset of visual stimulation and the preparatory phase (before the go signal), about one half the neurons altered their firing rate significantly. Spatial response fields during preparation and initiation epochs were strongly influenced by the task condition (eye position varied vs. retinal varied), supporting a strong role of eye position during visually guided reaching. DP neurons, classically considered visual, showed reach related modulation similar to 7a neurons. This study shows that both area 7a and DP are modulated during reaching behavior in primates. The various tuning types in both areas suggest distinct populations recruiting different circuits during visually guided reaching.
The activity in the primary motor cortex (M1) reflects the direction of movements, but little is known about physiological changes in the M1 during generation of bilateral isometric forces in different directions. Here, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation to examine motor evoked potentials (MEPs), short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), and interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) in the left first dorsal interosseous (FDI) during isometric index finger abduction while the right index finger remained at rest or performed isometric forces in different directions (abduction or adduction) and in different postures (prone and supine). Left FDI MEPs were suppressed during bilateral compared with unilateral forces, with a stronger suppression when the right index finger force was exerted in the adduction direction regardless of hand posture. IHI targeting the left FDI increased during bilateral compared with unilateral forces and this increase was stronger during right index finger adduction despite the posture of the right hand. SICI decreased to a similar extent during both bilateral forces in both hand postures. Thus generation of index finger isometric forces away from the body midline (adduction direction), regardless of the muscle engaged in the task, down-regulates corticospinal output in the contralateral active hand to a greater extent than forces exerted toward the body midline (abduction direction). Transcallosal inhibition, but not GABAergic intracortical circuits, was modulated by the direction of the force. These findings suggest that during generation of bimanual isometric forces the M1 is driven by &quot;extrinsic&quot; parameters related to the hand action.
Fluorescent calcium indicators are becoming increasingly popular as a means for observing the spiking activity of large neuronal populations. Unfortunately, extracting the spike train of each neuron from a raw fluorescence movie is a nontrivial problem. This work presents a fast nonnegative deconvolution filter to infer the approximately most likely spike train of each neuron, given the fluorescence observations. This algorithm outperforms optimal linear deconvolution (Wiener filtering) on both simulated and biological data. The performance gains come from restricting the inferred spike trains to be positive (using an interior-point method), unlike the Wiener filter. The algorithm runs in linear time, and is fast enough that even when simultaneously imaging &gt;100 neurons, inference can be performed on the set of all observed traces faster than real time. Performing optimal spatial filtering on the images further refines the inferred spike train estimates. Importantly, all the parameters required to perform the inference can be estimated using only the fluorescence data, obviating the need to perform joint electrophysiological and imaging calibration experiments.
Throughout the nervous system, neurons restrict their connections to specific depths or &quot;layers&quot; of their targets to constrain the type and number of synapses they make. Despite the importance of lamina-specific synaptic connectivity, the mechanisms that give rise to this feature in mammals remain poorly understood. Here we examined the cellular events underlying the formation of lamina-specific retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axonal projections to the superior colliculus (SC) of the mouse. By combining a genetically encoded marker of a defined RGC subtype (OFF-RGCs) with serial immunoelectron microscopy, we resolved the ultrastructure of axon terminals fated for laminar stabilization versus those fated for removal. We found that OFF-RGCs form synapses across the full depth of the retinorecipient SC before undergoing lamina-specific arbor retraction and synapse elimination to arrive at their mature, restricted pattern of connectivity. Interestingly, we did not observe evidence of axon degeneration or glia-induced synapse engulfment during this process. These findings indicate that lamina-specific visual connections are generated through the selective stabilization of correctly targeted axon arbors and suggest that the decision to maintain or eliminate an axonal projection reflects the molecular compatibility of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons at a given laminar depth.
Sympathetic neurons can switch their neurotransmitter phenotype from noradrenergic to cholinergic on exposure to neuropoietic cytokines in vitro and in vivo. Here, we provide evidence that this transspecification is regulated by the chromatin architecture protein Satb2. Treatment with the neuropoietic cytokines ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and leukemia inhibitory factor rapidly and strongly increases Satb2 transcript and protein levels in cultures of rat superior cervical ganglia neurons. Knockdown of endogenous Satb2 by short interfering RNA prevents the upregulation of choline acetyltransferase (Chat) and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (Vacht) by CNTF as well as the loss of norepinephrine transporter (Net). Conversely, overexpression of Satb2 in the noradrenergic sympathetic phenotype results in a marked increase of Chat and Vacht expression and reduced Net mRNA levels in the absence of neuropoietic cytokines. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis in primary sympathetic neurons reveals that Satb2 binds to matrix attachment regions (MARs) within the Chat locus. In vivo, in the rat stellate ganglion, Satb2 is expressed exclusively in sudomotor cholinergic neurons innervating the sweat glands and only after establishment of contact between neurons and target. These findings demonstrate a function of the MAR-binding protein Satb2 in growth factor-dependent neurotransmitter plasticity in postmitotic neurons.
Most mental processes consist of a number of processing steps that are executed sequentially. The timing of the individual mental operations can usually only be estimated indirectly, from the pattern of reaction times. In vision, however, many processing steps are associated with the modulation of neuronal activity in early visual areas. Here we exploited this association to elucidate the time course of neuronal activity related to each of the self-paced mental processing steps in complex visual tasks. We trained monkeys to perform two tasks, search-trace and trace-search, which required performing a sequence of two operations: a visual search for a specific color and the mental tracing of a curve. We used multielectrode recording techniques to monitor the representations of multiple visual items in area V1 at the same time and found that the relevant curve as well as the target of visual search evoked enhanced neuronal activity with a timing that depended on the order of operations. This modulation of neuronal activity in early visual areas could allow these areas to (1) act as a cognitive blackboard that permits the exchange of information between successive processing steps of a sequential visual task and to (2) contribute to the orderly progression of task-dependent endogenous attention shifts that are driven by task structure and evolve over hundreds of milliseconds.
A small subset of ganglion cells in the mammalian retina express the photopigment melanopsin and are intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs). These cells are the primary conduits through which photic information is relayed to non-image-forming visual centers that mediate behaviors such as the pupillary light reflex and circadian entrainment. M1 and M2 cells comprise distinct morphological subpopulations of ipRGC, and possess physiological diversity in their intrinsic membrane properties and intrinsic light responses. Additionally, evidence now indicates that all ipRGCs receive photic information from rods/cones via synaptic signaling. It has recently been reported that Off-stratifying M1 cells paradoxically receive input from the On pathway within the Off sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. The purpose of the current study was to examine the functional consequences of cone pathway signaling to M1 and M2 cells. Using pharmacological tools and single-cell recordings of synaptic responses in wild-type and melanopsin-null mice, we found that the On pathway forms the primary excitatory synaptic input to both M1 and M2 cells. This input was much more influential in shaping the light-evoked responses and resting membrane properties of M2 cells than M1 cells. These findings indicate a surprising differential reliance upon cone-mediated phototransduction by ipRGC subpopulations. These findings also suggest that ipRGC subtypes signal diverse photic information to various non-image-forming visual centers.
Developing neural circuits face the dual challenge of growing in an activity-induced fashion and maintaining stability through homeostatic mechanisms. Compared to our understanding of homeostatic regulation of excitatory synapses, relatively little is known about the mechanism mediating homeostatic plasticity of inhibitory synapses, especially that following activity elevation. Here, we found that elevating neuronal activity in cultured hippocampal neurons for 4 h significantly increased the frequency and amplitude of mIPSCs, before detectable change at excitatory synapses. Consistently, we observed increases in presynaptic and postsynaptic proteins of GABAergic synapses, including GAD65, vGAT, and GABA(A)R1. By suppressing activity-induced increase of neuronal firing with expression of the inward rectifier potassium channel Kir2.1 in individual neurons, we showed that elevation in postsynaptic spiking activity is required for activity-dependent increase in the frequency and amplitude of mIPSCs. Importantly, directly elevating spiking in individual postsynaptic neurons, by capsaicin activation of overexpressed TRPV1 channels, was sufficient to induce increased mIPSC amplitude and frequency, mimicking the effect of elevated neuronal activity. Downregulating BDNF expression in the postsynaptic neuron or its extracellular scavenging prevented activity-induced increase in mIPSC frequency, consistent with a role of BDNF-dependent retrograde signaling in this process. Finally, elevating activity in vivo by kainate injection increased both mIPSC amplitude and frequency in CA1 pyramidal neurons. Thus, spiking-induced, cell-autonomous upregulation of GABAergic synaptic inputs, through retrograde BDNF signaling, represents an early adaptive response of neural circuits to elevated network activity.
Acute stress exposure enhances classical eyeblink conditioning in male rats, whereas exposure to the same event dramatically impairs performance in females (Wood and Shors, 1998; Wood et al., 2001). We hypothesized that stress affects learning differently in males and females because different brain regions and circuits are being activated. In the first experiment, we determined that neuronal activity within the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) during the stressful event is necessary to disrupt learning in females. In both males and females, the mPFC was bilaterally inactivated with GABA agonist muscimol before the stressor. Inactivation prevented only the impaired performance in females; it had no consequence for performance in males. However, in the second experiment, excitation of the mPFC alone with GABA antagonist picrotoxin was insufficient to elicit the stress effect that was prevented through the inactivation of this region in females. Therefore, we hypothesized that the mPFC communicates with the basolateral amygdala to disrupt learning in females after the stressor. To test this hypothesis, these structures were disconnected from each other with unilateral excitotoxic (NMDA) lesions on either the same or opposite sides of the brain. Females with contralateral lesions, which disrupt the connections on both sides of the brain, were able to learn after the stressful event, whereas those with ipsilateral lesions, which disrupt only one connection, did not learn after the stressor. Together, these data indicate that the mPFC is critically involved in females during stress to impair subsequent learning and does so via communication with the amygdala.
A subset of neurodegenerative tauopathies is characterized by abundant filamentous inclusions of hyperphosphorylated tau in both neurons and glia. Although the contribution of neuronal tau to behavioral changes and neuronal loss in neurodegenerative diseases has been studied extensively, the functional consequences of tau deposition in glial cells have been less well characterized. To investigate the role of abnormal tau accumulation and aggregation in glial cells, we created a Drosophila model of glial tauopathy by expressing human wild-type tau in adult fly glial cells. Glial expression of tau resulted in robust aggregation of phosphorylated tau into fibrillary inclusions similar to human glial tangles. Tangle formation was accompanied by shortened lifespan and age-dependent apoptotic cell death of both glia and neurons. Genetic manipulation of Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling modified toxicity of glial tau. We also identified a synergistic interaction of combined tau expression in neurons and glial cells. In summary, we present a genetically tractable model of glial fibrillary tau tangle formation and identify JAK/STAT signaling as mediating the death of both glia and neurons in this model.
Brain stimulation and imaging studies in humans have highlighted a key role for the prefrontal cortex in clinical depression; however, it remains unknown whether excitation or inhibition of prefrontal cortical neuronal activity is associated with antidepressant responses. Here, we examined cellular indicators of functional activity, including the immediate early genes (IEGs) zif268 (egr1), c-fos, and arc, in the prefrontal cortex of clinically depressed humans obtained postmortem. We also examined these genes in the ventral portion of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of mice after chronic social defeat stress, a mouse model of depression. In addition, we used viral vectors to overexpress channel rhodopsin 2 (a light-activated cation channel) in mouse mPFC to optogenetically drive &quot;burst&quot; patterns of cortical firing in vivo and examine the behavioral consequences. Prefrontal cortical tissue derived from clinically depressed humans displayed significant reductions in IEG expression, consistent with a deficit in neuronal activity within this brain region. Mice subjected to chronic social defeat stress exhibited similar reductions in levels of IEG expression in mPFC. Interestingly, some of these changes were not observed in defeated mice that escape the deleterious consequences of the stress, i.e., resilient animals. In those mice that expressed a strong depressive-like phenotype, i.e., susceptible animals, optogenetic stimulation of mPFC exerted potent antidepressant-like effects, without affecting general locomotor activity, anxiety-like behaviors, or social memory. These results indicate that the activity of the mPFC is a key determinant of depression-like behavior, as well as antidepressant responses.
Dorsolateral prefrontal areas 46 and 10 are involved in distinct aspects of cognition. Area 46 has a key role in working memory tasks, and frontopolar area 10 is recruited in complex multitask operations. Both areas are innervated by the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), a region associated with emotions and memory but is also important for attentional control through unknown synaptic mechanisms. Here, we found that in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) most axon terminals labeled from tracers injected into ACC area 32 innervated spines of presumed excitatory neurons, but 20-30% formed mostly large synapses with dendritic shafts of presumed inhibitory neurons in the upper layers (I-IIIa) of dorsolateral areas 10, 46, and 9. Moreover, area 32 terminals targeted preferentially calbindin and, to a lesser extent, calretinin neurons, which are thought to be inhibitory neurons that modulate the gain of task-relevant activity during working memory tasks. Area 46 was distinguished as a recipient of more (by 40%) area 32 synapses on putative inhibitory neurons. Area 10 stood apart as recipient of significantly larger (by 40% in volume) area 32 terminals on spines of putative excitatory neurons. These synaptic specializations suggest that area 32 has complementary roles, potentially enhancing inhibition in area 46 and strengthening excitation in area 10, which may help direct attention to new tasks while temporarily holding in memory another task.

The management paradigm for multiple sclerosis (MS) is moving toward earlier diagnosis (on the basis of clinical, paraclinical, and laboratory findings), differentiation of patients with varying prognoses, and earlier implementation of treatment in selected individuals. On the basis of a survey conducted at the American Association of Neuroscience Nurses Annual Conference in 2009, several topics were identified for which nurses indicated a need for new and updated information, including current diagnostic methods for MS, optimal time to initiate treatment of MS, and emerging therapies for MS. This article was designed to address these issues.

Dopamine (DA) neurons derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are potentially valuable in drug screening and as a possible source of donor tissue for transplantation in Parkinson's disease. However, existing culture protocols that promote the differentiation of DA neurons from hESCs are complex, involving multiple steps and having unreliable results between cultures. Here we report a simple and highly reproducible culture protocol that induces expandable DA neuron progenitors from hESCs in attached cultures. We found that the hESC-derived neuronal progenitors retain their full capacity to generate DA neurons after repeated passaging in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and medium conditioned with PA6 stromal cells. Using immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR, we found that the differentiated DA neurons exhibit a midbrain phenotype and express, e.g., Aldh1a, Ptx3, Nurr1, and Lmx1a. Using HPLC, we monitored their production of DA. We then demonstrated that the expanded progenitors are possible to cryopreserve without loosing the dopaminergic phenotype. With our protocol, we obtained large and homogeneous populations of dopaminergic progenitors and neurons. We conclude that our protocol can be used to generate human DA neurons suitable for the study of disease mechanisms, toxicology, drug screening, and intracerebral transplantation.
Even though induction of seizures by electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS) is a treatment widely used for major depression in humans, the working mechanism of ECS remains uncertain. The antiepileptic effect of ECS has been suggested to be involved in mediating the therapeutic effect of ECS. The neuropeptide galanin exerts antiepileptic and antidepressant-like effects and has also been implicated in the pathophysiology of depression. To explore a potential role of galanin in working mechanisms of ECS, the present study examined effects of repeated ECS on the galanin system using QRT-PCR, in situ hybridization, and [(125) I]galanin receptor binding. ECS was administered to adult mice daily for 14 days, and this paradigm was confirmed to exert antidepressant-like effect in the tail suspension test. Prominent increases in galanin gene expression were found in several brain regions involved in regulation of epileptic activity and depression, including the piriform cortex, hippocampal dentate gyrus, and amygdala. Likewise, GalR2 gene expression was up-regulated in both the central and the medial amygdala, whereas GalR1 gene expression showed a modest down-regulation in the medial amygdala. [(125) I]galanin receptor binding in the piriform cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala was found to be significantly down-regulated. These data show that the galanin system is regulated by repeated ECS in a number of brain regions implicated in seizure regulation and depression. These changes may play a role in the therapeutic effect of ECS.
Scaffolding proteins play a critical role in the proper development and function of neural circuits. In contrast to the case for excitatory circuits, in which the role of several scaffolding proteins has been characterized, less is known about the scaffolding proteins that regulate inhibitory neurotransmission. The ankyrin repeat-rich membrane spanning (ARMS)/kinase D-interacting substrate of 220 kDa (Kidins220) scaffolding protein is expressed during the establishment of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmission and is highly regulated by activity. To evaluate whether ARMS/Kidins220 expression affects GABAergic neurotransmission, we modified the ARMS/Kidins220 levels during the period of its maximum expression in culture (DIV 1-10). Whereas a decrease in ARMS/Kidins220 levels suppressed GABAergic neurotransmission, overexpression of ARMS/Kidins220 produced an increase in GABAergic neurotransmission in hippocampal neurons. In addition, we found that ARMS/Kidins220 regulates GABAergic neurotransmission by a presynaptic mechanism. Our results suggest that the ARMS/Kidins220 scaffold protein plays a critical role in the regulation of inhibitory transmission in hippocampal neurons.
Atorvastatin (ATV), a 3-hydroxy 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, exerts beneficial effects on stroke through several pleiotropic mechanisms. However, its role following cerebral ischemia is not completely understood yet. We evaluated the effect of ATV treatment on the synaptic adhesion proteins after a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (t-MCAO) model in rats. Ischemic male Wistar rats were treated with 10 mg/kg ATV. The first dose was 6 hr after reperfusion, then every 24 hr for 3days. Our findings showed that ATV treatment produced an increase in pAkt ser473 and a decrease in pMAPK 44/42 protein levels 12 and 24 hr postischemia in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus. However, p120 catenin and N-catenin became drastically increased throughout the temporal course of postischemia treatment (12-72 hr), mainly in the hippocampus. Neurological recovery was observed at 48 and 72 hr, supported by a significant reduction of infarct volume, neuronal loss, and glial hyperreactivity after 72 hr of postischemia treatment with ATV. ATV treatment also up-regulated the association of p120(ctn) , N-catenin to PSD-95, accompanied by a reduction of RhoA activation and the recovery of MAP2 immunoreactivity, these being significantly affected by the focal cerebral ischemia. Our findings suggested that p120(ctn) and N-catenin synaptic adhesion proteins are crucial molecular targets in ATV-mediated neuroprotection and neuronal plasticity after focal cerebral ischemia.
The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of Caenorhabditis elegans has proved to be a very useful model synapse for investigating molecular mechanisms of synaptic transmission. Intriguingly, miniature postsynaptic currents (minis) at this synapse occur at an unusually high frequency (50-90 Hz in wild-type worms) and show large variation in quantal size (from &lt;10 pA to &gt;200 pA). It is important to understand the cellular and molecular bases for these properties of minis in order to interpret electrophysiological data from this synapse properly. Existing data suggest that several factors may contribute to the high frequency and quantal size variation, including 1) the establishment of multiple NMJs with each body-wall muscle cell, 2) diversity of postsynaptic receptors (two acetylcholine receptors and one GABA receptor), 3) association of one presynaptic site with several body-wall muscle cells, 4) effects of Ca(2+) at the presynaptic site, and 5) a possibly elevated (less negative) resting membrane potential in motoneurons. Neither the frequency nor the quantal size of minis is affected by electrical coupling of body-wall muscle cells. Furthermore, quantal size variation is not due to synchronized multivesicular release. Analyses of the C. elegans NMJ may lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms controlling the frequency and quantal size of minis of other synapses as well.


The authors present a unique case of a patient with communicating hydrocephalus and repeated ventriculoperitoneal shunt obstructions resulting from mucin-secreting enterogenous cell deposits at the cervicomedullary junction. Pathological examinations revealed that these cellular deposits lacked characteristic cystic architecture and the patient had no history of previous cyst with dissemination. Because of the repeated shunt obstructions and inability to surgically resect the lesion in its entirety, the authors elected radiation therapy to the cervicomedullary junction, encompassing the radiological abnormality. As of this writing, the patient has remained at neurological baseline and has not required further shunt revisions for obstruction.

Moyamoya disease is a rare cerebrovascular disease characterized by idiopathic bilateral stenosis or occlusion of bilateral internal carotid arteries and the development of characteristic leptomeningeal collateral vessels at the base of the brain. Typical presentations include transient ischemic attacks or stroke, and hemorrhage. Presentation with movement disorders is extremely rare, especially in the pediatric population. The authors describe the cases of 4 children with moyamoya disease who presented with movement disorders. Among 446 patients (118 pediatric) with moyamoya disease surgically treated by the senior author, 4 pediatric patients had presented with movement disorders. The clinical records, imaging studies, surgical details, and postoperative clinical and imaging data were retrospectively reviewed. The initial presenting symptom was movement disorder in all 4 patients: chorea in 2, hemiballismus in 1, and involuntary limb shaking in 1. All the patients had watershed infarcts involving the frontal subcortical region on MR imaging. Additionally, 1 patient had a ganglionic infarct. Single-photon emission computed tomography studies showed frontoparietal cortical and subcortical hypoperfusion in all patients. Three patients had bilateral disease, whereas 1 had unilateral disease. All the patients underwent superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass. Postoperatively, all 4 patients had complete improvement in their symptoms. The SPECT scans revealed normal perfusion in 3 patients and a small residual perfusion deficit in 1. Movement disorders are a rare presenting feature of moyamoya disease. Hypoperfusion of the frontal cortical and subcortical region was seen in all patients, and the symptomatology was attributed to ischemic dysfunction and imbalance in the cortical-subcortical-ganglionic-thalamic-cortical circuitry. Combined revascularization with superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass and encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis leads to excellent results.
The application of multivariate techniques to neuroimaging and electrophysiological data has greatly enhanced the ability to detect where, when, and how functional neural information is processed during a variety of behavioral tasks. With the extension to single-trial analysis, neuroscientists are able to relate brain states to perceptual, cognitive, and motor processes. Using pattern classification methods, the neuroscientist can extract neural performance measures in a manner analogous to human behavioral performance, allowing for a consistent information content metric across measurement modalities. However, as with behavioral psychophysical performance, pattern classifier performances are a product of both the task-relevant information inherent in the brain and in the task/stimuli. Here, we argue for the use of an ideal observer framework with which the researcher can effectively normalize the observed neural performance given the task's inherent objective difficulty. We use data from a face versus car discrimination task and compare classifier performance applied to electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data with corresponding human behavior through the absolute and relative efficiency metrics. We show that confounding variables that can lead to erroneous interpretations of information content can be accounted for through comparisons to an ideal observer, allowing for more confident interpretation of the neural mechanisms involved in the task of interest. Finally, we discuss limitations of interpretation due to the transduction of indirect measures of neural activity, underlying assumptions in the optimality of the pattern classifiers, and dependence of efficiency results on signal contrast.
The hereditary peripheral neuropathies are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of diseases of the peripheral nervous system. Foot deformities, including the common pes cavus, but also hammer toes and twisting of the ankle, are frequently present in patients with hereditary peripheral neuropathy, and often represent one of the first signs of the disease. Pes cavus in hereditary peripheral neuropathies is caused by imbalance between the intrinsic muscles of the foot and the muscles of the leg. Accurate clinical evaluation in patients with pes cavus is necessary to exclude or confirm the presence of peripheral neuropathy. Hereditary peripheral neuropathies should be suspected in those cases with bilateral foot deformities, in the presence of family history for pes cavus and/or gait impairment, and in the presence of neurological symptoms or signs, such as distal muscle hypotrophy of limbs. Herein, we review the hereditary peripheral neuropathies in which pes cavus plays a key role as a &quot;spy sign,&quot; discussing the clinical and molecular features of these disorders to highlight the importance of pes cavus as a helpful clinical sign in these rare diseases.


The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor family regulates various central nervous system functions, such as synaptic plasticity. However, hypo- or hyperactivation of NMDA receptors is critically involved in many neurological and psychiatric conditions, such as pain, stroke, epilepsy, neurodegeneration, schizophrenia, and depression. Consequently, subtype-selective positive and negative modulators of NMDA receptor function have many potential therapeutic applications not addressed by currently available compounds. We have identified allosteric modulators with several novel patterns of NMDA receptor subtype selectivity that have a novel mechanism of action. In a series of carboxylated naphthalene and phenanthrene derivatives, compounds were identified that selectively potentiate responses at GluN1/GluN2A [e.g., 9-iodophenanthrene-3-carboxylic acid (UBP512)]; GluN1/GluN2A and GluN1/GluN2B [9-cyclopropylphenanthrene-3-carboxylic acid (UBP710)]; GluN1/GluN2D [3,5-dihydroxynaphthalene-2-carboxylic acid (UBP551)]; or GluN1/GluN2C and GluN1/GluN2D receptors [6-, 7-, 8-, and 9-nitro isomers of naphth[1,2-c][1,2,5]oxadiazole-5-sulfonic acid (NSC339614)] and have no effect or inhibit responses at the other NMDA receptors. Selective inhibition was also observed; UBP512 inhibits only GluN1/GluN2C and GluN1/GluN2D receptors, whereas 6-bromo-2-oxo-2H-chromene-3-carboxylic acid (UBP608) inhibits GluN1/GluN2A receptors with a 23-fold selectivity compared with GluN1/GluN2D receptors. The actions of these compounds were not competitive with the agonists L-glutamate or glycine and were not voltage-dependent. Whereas the N-terminal regulatory domain was not necessary for activity of either potentiators or inhibitors, segment 2 of the agonist ligand-binding domain was important for potentiating activity, whereas subtype-specific inhibitory activity was dependent upon segment 1. In terms of chemical structure, activity profile, and mechanism of action, these modulators represent a new class of pharmacological agents for the study of NMDA receptor subtype function and provide novel lead compounds for a variety of neurological disorders.
Orthosteric group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists are regarded as novel, effective medications for all major symptom domains of schizophrenia, including cognitive disturbances. mGluR2s also can be affected in a more subtle way by positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) characterized by a unique degree of subtype selectivity and neuronal frequency-dependent activity. Because currently available treatments for schizophrenia do not improve cognitive dysfunction, the main aim of the present study was to examine the effects of a mGluR2 PAM, N-(4-(2-methoxyphenoxy)-phenyl-N-(2,2,2-trifluoroethylsulfonyl)-pyrid-3-ylmethylamine (LY487379), on rat cognitive flexibility and impulsive-like responding, assessed in an attentional set-shifting task (ASST) and a differential reinforcement of low-rate 72 s (DRL72) schedule of food reinforcement. In addition, in vivo microdialysis was used to assess the drug's impact on cortical levels of dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and glutamate. Rats treated with LY487379 (30 mg/kg) required significantly fewer trials to criteria during the extradimensional shift phase of the ASST. Under a DRL72 schedule, LY487379 (30 mg/kg) decreased the response rate and increased the number of reinforcers obtained. These effects were accompanied by the shift of the frequency distribution of responses toward longer inter-response time durations. LY487379 significantly enhanced extracellular norepinephrine and serotonin levels in the medial prefrontal cortex. In summary, the present study demonstrates that a mGluR2 PAM, LY487379, promotes cognitive flexibility and facilitates behavioral inhibition. These procognitive effects may contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of agents stimulating mGluR2 in schizophrenia.


The present study was designed to examine the reliability and validity of the Autism Psychodynamic Evaluation of Changes (APEC) scale, developed to assess the evolution in individuals with autism under treatment. The APEC scale focuses on the key role of impairment in body image construction, which requires cross-modal sensory integration through emotional communication with motor representations. Thus, the body image construction is associated simultaneously with spatial and temporal organization and allows the emergence of self- and others-representations. The use of the APEC scale, with its seven domains (expression of emotion in relationships, eye contact, body image, graphic productions, exploration of space and objects, time perception, and verbal language), underlines the importance in autistic disorder of anxieties related to body and spatial representations, and of impairment in the body ego construction which is closely linked to the emergence of individuation/separation processes. This study was conducted on 73 children and adolescents with autistic disorder. They were recruited in day care facilities where two caregivers independently gave their ratings based on their clinical observation on a daily basis during the same month. Analyses included assessing construct validity through correspondence analyses and inter-rater reliability using kappa coefficients. The APEC scale offers a reliable and validated psychodynamic assessment of interest for professionals (such as child psychiatrists, caregivers, therapists or teachers) and researchers working with children, adolescents and adults with autistic disorder, especially in the follow-up of their evolution. The APEC scale provides an approach at the interface of psychoanalysis and neuroscience, and is also of interest for clinical and developmental psychology. Using the APEC scale in a range of different practical and research settings will foster links between psychoanalytic perspectives and educational training for children with autistic disorder, and will contribute to the dialogue between psychoanalysis, neuroscience and psychology.
The aim of this article is to present and discuss the connections between psychoanalysis and neuroscience from a historical viewpoint. We start by examining how Sigmund Freud can be viewed as a pioneer in the interaction between these two fields. Freud was himself a neurologist and had maintained an interest in biology as he developed the key concepts of psychoanalysis. His ideas regarding psychosomatics are described. We will also explore how the concept of drive is essential to the connection between psychoanalysis and neuroscience. Then, we describe several key actors and historical events and characters at the interface of these two fields, namely Sndor Rad Lawrence S. Kubie and Mc Culloch, the debates that took place during the Macy conferences, as well as the positions of Jacques Lacan, George L. Engel, and Eric Kandel. Finally, we present a synthesis of the main fields in which the connections between psychoanalysis and neuroscience are already fruitful, and those where they should be developed: the classification of mental diseases, the link between the scientific and psychic dimensions, therapeutics, the organization of the body, intersubjectivity, the subjective division and ambivalence, as well as transferential effects like such as the placebo and nocebo effects. In the conclusion, we advocate several strategic alliances and underscore the complementarity between rigorous scientific experimentation and the individualized psychoanalytic approach.
In this paper, we look back at some of the earliest psychoanalytic approaches to trauma. The theoretical feasibility of reconciling psychoanalytic and neurobiological accounts of the effects of severe stress is examined. First, several epistemic considerations about the concepts of falsifiability and complexity in science are discussed with regard to neuroscience and psychoanalysis. We report the decisive discussions and descriptions of shell shock and hysteria that laid the foundation for the modern notions of dissociation and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We particularly underline the differences between &quot;traumatic memory&quot;, which merely and unconsciously repeats the past, and &quot;narrative memory&quot;, which narrates the past as past. Then, the construction of the modern concept of PTSD is described and the classification of conversion and dissociative disorders is questioned. In the next section, several recent neurobiological findings in patients with PTSD are reviewed. We place particular emphasis on cognitive impairment and cognitive bias relative to threatening stimuli, and on a general pattern of facilitated and heightened activation of the amygdala for threat-related stimuli, which are both recognized symptoms of PTSD. A possible meeting point between Cannon's and Freud's theoretical concepts is discussed in the frame of a deregulation of the stress system which helps not only to regulate homeostasis but also to adjust behaviour to external threats. We conclude that, although psychoanalysis and neuroscience may reciprocally complement and enlighten each other, their objects and methods, and thence their concepts, are fundamentally different.
Empathy processes can be explored within a three-level model distinguishing neuronal, cognitive and intra-psychic operating levels. Cognitive and intra-psychic processes need not to be collapsed. Neural systems involved in empathy are described through neuroimaging and event-related potential (ERP) studies. On the cognitive level, empathy is threefold: procedural, semantic and biographical. Automatically activated since birth, procedural empathy processes are deeply enrooted in visuo-motor response capacities and responsible for automatic mimicry. These processes might rely on a prior sensori-motor contagion system. Semantic empathy parallels language development and expresses connexion between words, meaning and emotion. Biographical emerges later in life and corresponds to the interweaving of personal experience with feelings and words, together with a capacity to bridge with the others' experiences. On the intra-psychic level, defence mechanisms as well as identification processes, depicted from a subjective and interpersonal standpoint, are corresponding, without being similar, to empathetic processes described in cognitive neuroscience studies. Studies on semantic empathy need to control for the participants biographical information and concomitant memory activation. The interface between cognitive and intra-psychic processes needs to be further investigated.
This paper aims to develop the rational to support why and how we should link neuroscience and psychoanalysis. Many of these points are derived from child development and child psychiatry. Neuroscience investigates developmental questions in a different way than psychoanalysis, while psychoanalysis itself has shifted towards new developmental paradigms. The rapprochement between neuroscience and psychoanalysis allows a new understanding of some concepts, including embodiment of mind, consciousness and attachment. The &quot;double reading&quot; paradigm allows a better understanding of symptomatic configurations. Linking neuroscience and psychoanalysis may improve treatments and result in new experimental neuroscientific paradigms involving changing the research object, changing the state of the research object, and investigating the structural changes in the brain following psychotherapy. The last aim is to create an epistemology of the articulation between the theoretical frameworks through phenomenology, &quot;complementarism&quot; and neuropsychoanalysis. We argue that it is necessary for clinicians to be aware of the advancements in each field. This is not only an epistemological question; we assume that new findings in neuroscience will change the way psychoanalysts think and approach treatment of their patients. We hope the present research will contribute to change the way that neuroscientists think and will provide new options to their set of experimental paradigms.
Diagnostic information on adolescents may be elicited from both youths and their parents, especially for depressive and suicidal symptomatology. The objective of this study was to examine the degree of agreement between parent and adolescent reports of major psychiatric disorders, at the diagnostic and at the symptom level, in a severely affected inpatient clinical population. 64 parent-adolescent pairs were interviewed separately with the semi-structured diagnostic interview Kiddie-SADS-PL. Symptomatology was also assessed with 11 self-report and parent-report scales, all translated, adapted and in most cases validated in Iceland. A total of 25 subscales were included to assess emotional dimensions such as depression or anxiety and cognitive dimensions such as attention deficit or self-concept. Good agreement was found for social phobia and fair agreement for generalized anxiety disorder. Although parent-youth agreement was poor in most cases at the symptoms level, significant correlations indicated consistency for most severity scores, except those related to depressive symptomatology, attention deficit, separation anxiety or conduct disorder. The low agreement between reports of suicidal ideation is in line with results from previous studies and suggests that parents might under- or over-estimate this symptomatology. The combination of data obtained with diagnostic interviews and rating-scales confirmed results from prior empirical work, giving greater weight to parents' reports of observable behavior and to adolescents' reports of subjective experiences, especially depressive symptomatology. Our findings suggest that both parent and child informants are necessary to obtain adequate assessments in adolescents. Further research should explore the correspondence between discrepant diagnoses and external criteria such as parental psychopathology or parent-child relationships and attachment. Psychoanalysis could benefit from cognitive neuroscience and use cognitive assessments as interesting tools. Thus, cognitive assessments can show discrepant results according to parents' or adolescents' reports and can therefore shed light on the parent-child interaction and relational dynamics. Inversely, cognitive neuroscience could benefit from psychoanalysis by taking into account, when interpretating the scores, the relational dynamics and the personal history of the rater.
Packing therapy is an adjunct symptomatic treatment used for autism and/or catatonia. Here, we report the case of a 15-year-old boy with pervasive developmental disorder who developed catatonia. At admission, catatonic symptoms were severe and the patient required a feeding tube. Lorazepam up to 15 mg/day moderately improved the catatonic symptoms. On day 36 we added fluoxetine and on day 62 we added packing therapy (twice per week, 10 sessions). After three packing sessions, the patient showed a significant clinical improvement (P&lt;0.001). At discharge (day 96), he was able to return to his special education program. Although we do not consider packing as a psychodynamic treatment, this case challenges the concept of embodied self that has opened new perspectives on a dialogue between psychoanalysis and neuroscience. Indeed, better body representation following packing sessions, as shown in patient's drawing, paralleled clinical improvement, and supports the concept of embodied self. This concept may serve as a link between psychoanalysis and attachment theory, developmental psychology with the early description of &quot;sense of self&quot;, and cognitive neurosciences that more and more support the concept of embodied cognition. Further clinical studies are necessary to clarify the efficacy and underlying mechanism of packing treatment and to understand how patient's experience may illustrate the concept of embodied self.
The organomercurial, thimerosal, is at the center of medical controversy as a suspected factor contributing to neurodevelopmental disorders in children. Many neurotoxic effects of thimerosal have been described, but its interaction with principal excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmiter systems is not known. We examined, using electrophysiological recordings, thimerosal effects on GABA and NMDA-evoked currents in cultured hippocampal neurons. After brief (3 to 10 min) exposure to thimerosal at concentrations up to 100 M, there was no significant effect on GABA or NMDA-evoked currents. However, following exposure for 60-90 min to 1 or 10 M thimerosal, there was a significant decrease in NMDA-induced currents (p&lt;0.05) and GABAergic currents (p&lt;0.05). Thimerosal was also neurotoxic, damaging a significant proportion of neurons after 60-90 min exposure; recordings were always conducted in the healthiest looking neurons. Mercuric chloride, at concentrations 1 M and above, was even more toxic, killing a large proportion of cells after just a few minutes of exposure. Recordings from a few sturdy cells revealed that micromolar mercuric chloride markedly potentiated the GABAergic currents (p&lt;0.05), but reduced NMDA-evoked currents (p&lt;0.05). The results reveal complex interactions of thimerosal and mercuric ions with the GABA(A) and NMDA receptors. Mercuric chloride act rapidly, decreasing electrophysiological responses to NMDA but enhancing responses to GABA, while thimerosal works slowly, reducing both NMDA and GABA responses. The neurotoxic effects of both mercurials are interwoven with their modulatory actions on GABA(A) and NMDA receptors, which most likely involve binding to these macromolecules.
Pediatric bipolar disorder is a severe and impairing illness. Characterizing the impact of pediatric bipolar disorder on cognitive function might aid in understanding the phenomenology of the disorder. While previous studies of pediatric bipolar disorder have reported deficits in cognitive control and reward behavior, little is understood about how affective processes influence behavioral control. Relative to prior studies using manual-response paradigms, eye movement tasks provide a more precise assessment of reward sensitivity and cognitive and motor control. The current study compares 20 youths with bipolar disorder (mean age = 13.9 years  2.22) and 23 healthy subjects (mean age = 13.8 years  2.49) on a mixed pro-antisaccade task with monetary incentives. On both types of saccades, participants were presented with three types of incentives: those where subjects can win money, lose money, or neither win nor lose money. Impaired reward processing was found in youths with bipolar disorder relative to controls, particularly on antisaccades. This difference was reflected in lower error rates during incentive trials in the control but not in the bipolar disorder group. By comparison, no group differences were found on prosaccade trials. The results provide further evidence for deficits in cognitive and reward processing in bipolar disorder.
Prompted by the suggested importance of respiration for the pathophysiology of panic disorder, we studied the influence of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) as well as other serotonin-modulating compounds on respiration in freely moving rats. The effect on respiration after acute administration of compounds enhancing synaptic levels of serotonin, that is, the serotonin reuptake inhibitors paroxetine and fluoxetine, the serotonin-releasing agents m-chlorophenylpiperazine and d-fenfluramine, and the selective 5-HT1A antagonist WAY-100635, were investigated. All serotonin-releasing substances decreased respiratory rate in unrestrained, awake animals, suggesting the influence of serotonin on respiratory rate under these conditions to be mainly inhibitory. In line with a previous study, rats administered fluoxetine for 23 days or more, on the other hand, displayed an enhanced respiratory rate. The results reinforce the assumption that the effect of subchronic administration of a serotonin reuptake inhibitor on certain serotonin-regulated parameters may be opposite to that obtained after acute administration. We suggest that our observations may be of relevance for the fact that acute administration of SRIs, d-fenfluramine, or m-chlorophenylpiperazine often is anxiogenic in panic disorder patients, and that weeks of administration of an SRI leads to a very effective prevention of panic.



Synapses that sustain neurotransmitter release at high rates often contain special presynaptic cytosolic projections (PCPs) that are believed to facilitate synaptic vesicle (SV) movements to the sites of fusion. The genetically modifiable Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ) serves as one of the model systems to investigate the functions of these structures. Using electron microscope tomography we determined the three-dimensional organization of the Drosophila PCP immobilized by high-pressure freezing, followed by cryo-substitution. We show that it is composed of three structural components: (1) the central core, (2) legs, organized in a regular grid at the bottom of the central core, and (3) cytoplasmic extensions. The extensions are comprised of thin filaments emerging from the central core. SVs connected to the extensions are either linked to the vesicles accumulated around the PCP or to the presynaptic membrane. This suggests that SVs associated with the PCP loose their connections with other vesicles in the cluster during translocation to the site of fusion.
Substance abuse is common among offenders. One method widely used for the detection of substance abuse is screening. This study explored the concurrent validity of the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) and the Drug Use Disorders Identification Test (DUDIT) screening tools in relation to (a) substance abuse and dependency diagnoses and (b) three problem severity domains of the sixth version of the Addiction Severity Index in a sample of 181 suspected offenders with signs of mental health problems. The screening tools showed moderate to high accuracy for identification of dependency diagnoses. The AUDIT was associated with alcohol problem severity, whereas the DUDIT was associated with drug and legal problem severity. Administering the screening tools in the current population yields valid results. However, the suggested cutoff scores should be applied with caution due to the discrepancy between present and previous findings.

Microinjections into the brain parenchyma are important procedures to deliver drugs, viral vectors or cell transplants. The brain lesion that an injecting needle produces during its trajectory is a major concern especially in the mouse brain for not only the brain is small but also sometimes multiple injections are needed. We show here a method to produce glass capillary needles with a 50-m lumen which significantly reduces the brain damage and allows a precise targeting into the rodent brain. This method allows a delivery of small volumes (from 20 to 100 nl), reduces bleeding risks, and minimizes passive diffusion of drugs into the brain parenchyma. By using different size of capillary glass tubes, or changing the needle lumen, several types of substances and cells can be injected. Microinjections with a glass capillary tube represent a significant improvement in injection techniques and deep brain targeting with minimal collateral damage in small rodents.
Cognitive impairment in patients with Parkinson's disease is gaining increased clinical significance owing to the relative success of therapeutic approaches to the motor symptoms of this disorder. Early investigations contributed to the concept of subcortical dementia associated with bradyphrenia and cognitive rigidity. For cognition in parkinsonian disorders, this notion developed into the concept of mild cognitive impairment and fronto-executive dysfunction in particular, driven mainly by dopaminergic dysmodulation and manifesting as deficits in flexibility, planning, working memory, and reinforcement learning. However, patients with Parkinson's disease could also develop a syndrome of dementia that might depend on non-dopaminergic, cholinergic cortical dysfunction. Recent findings, supplemented by advances in neuroimaging and genetic research, reveal substantial heterogeneity in the range of cognitive deficits in patients with Parkinson's disease. Remediation and management prospects for these cognitive deficits are based on neuropharmacological and cognitive rehabilitation approaches.
In this review article, I discuss initial and recent studies of the assessment of functional connectivity in the human brain using low-frequency BOLD fluctuations in the resting state. By putting the studies in their historical context, the goal is to give the reader an appreciation of the evolution of the field and the pivotal events and studies that have led to the widespread acceptance of the method as a neuroscience tool for investigating functional connectivity in the human brain.
The brain's activity can be measured in numerous complementary ways, including electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The simultaneous acquisition of EEG and fMRI was originally developed to make the localization of the generators of often subtle pathological activity commonly observed in EEG recordings of patients with epilepsy more sensitive and spatially accurate by mapping their hemodynamic correlates. Now, the value of the information provided by simultaneous EEG-fMRI is being evaluated in a clinical context, while in parallel, more sophisticated data analysis techniques, e.g. with electrical source imaging or dynamic causal modeling, have begun to be applied to increase the technique's sensitivity and allow the study of brain network structure. Beyond its clinically oriented application in epilepsy, simultaneous EEG-fMRI recording has now gained interest as a tool for basic and systems human neuroscience, e.g. the study of neuro-vascular coupling and cognitive studies. In this review, we give an overview over the current use of simultaneous EEG-fMRI, its applications to the study of epilepsy as well as human cognition and systems neuroscience and ongoing and anticipated methodological developments.
The current study aims to assess the applicability of direct or indirect normalization for the analysis of fractional anisotropy (FA) maps in the context of diffusion-weighted images (DWIs) contaminated by ghosting artifacts. We found that FA maps acquired by direct normalization showed generally higher anisotropy than indirect normalization, and the disparities were aggravated by the presence of ghosting artifacts in DWIs. The voxel-wise statistical comparisons demonstrated that indirect normalization reduced the influence of artifacts and enhanced the sensitivity of detecting anisotropy differences between groups. This suggested that images contaminated with ghosting artifacts can be sensibly analyzed using indirect normalization.

Resveratrol (RSV), a red wine component, and red wine itself exert cardio- and nephroprotective effects by modulating the Nitric Oxide system (NO). It has been shown that one of the main actions resulting from NO modulation is sirtuin regulation, especially SIRT-1 regulation. Elucidating both upstream and downstream molecular mechanisms of the SIRT-1 pathway is an open field of investigation that can explain its role not only in long-term processes, such as aging, but also in short-term processes, such as protection against ischemic damage. Our hypothesis suggests the importance of investigating compounds that are routine dietary components and do not necessarily contain RSV. Their nephroprotective activity could involve not only eNOS-dependent, but also NO-dependent but eNOS-independent mechanisms, or other molecular alternative signaling systems.
Evidence of immune stimulation has been noted in opiate dependent patients for many decades. Documented changes have included lymphadenopathy, round cell infiltration of the hepatic portal triads, diffuse peri-bronchitis, hyperglobulinaemia, lymphocytosis, monocytosis, systemic cytokine stimulation, and cytokine and chemokine activation within the neuraxis. A parallel literature describes an elevated list of chronic degenerative disease as common in such patients including neurodegenerative conditions, atherosclerosis, nephrosclerosis, hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis, chronic obstructive and fibrotic lung disease, osteoporosis, chronic periodontitis, various cancers, hair greying, and stem cell suppression. All of these disorders are now known to have an important immunological role in their pathogenic pathways. The multisystem nature of these myriad changes strongly suggest that the ageing process itself is stimulated in these patients. The link between the immunostimulation on the one hand and the elevated and temporally advanced nature of the chronic degenerative diseases on the other appears not to have been made in the literature. Moreover as immunostimulation is also believed to be an important, potent and principal contributor to the ageing process it appears that experimental and studies of this putative link are warranted. Verification of such an hypothesis would also carry management implications for dose and duration of chronic pain and addiction treatment, pharmacotherapeutic selection, and novel treatments such as long term naltrexone implant therapy and heroin trials.
Over a century after Freud's attempt to establish psychoanalysis as a natural science, there is renewed interest in the integration of psychoanalytic and neuroscientific findings within a single theoretical and experimental framework. However, it is important that any intellectual exchange is not motivated only by declining confidence in psychoanalytic theory and practice or awareness of the rising fortunes of the brain sciences. The present paper considers three possible ways in which psychoanalysis and neuroscience might be integrated. These include the investigation of the neurological organisation of psychoanalytically defined phenomena; the evaluation of psychoanalytic theories based on their neurobiological evidence; and the use of neuroimaging techniques to assess the progress and outcome of psychoanalytic treatment. The author argues that these exercises are unlikely to provide psychoanalysis with the &quot;unlimited opportunities for overcoming its uncertainties and doubts&quot; that some have anticipated. For instance, the argument that mapping psychoanalytically defined phenomena in the brain may provide biological validity to these phenomena should be considered an expression of logical confusion; the evaluation of psychoanalytic theories based on their biological evidence is critically dependent on speculative interpretation of what the theories predict at neuronal level; and the supposedly objective evaluation of the progress and outcome of psychoanalytic treatment on the basis of neurobiological data relies on the subjective reports of the patient and analyst. In light of this conclusion, there are a number of outstanding questions which remain to be addressed, including whether psychoanalysis should adhere to scientific canons and whether this would necessarily require an experimental methodology.
It is hypothesized that the special way information is exchanged between living networks, the Living Matter Way (LMW), is determined by the Principle of Complexity Matching, which asserts that the relative complexity of two complex networks determines the transfer of information between them. The LMW explains the neurophysiology of habituation and why classical music persists in your head long after the music stops.
Study of nervous systems via the connectome, the map of connectivities of all neurons in that system, is a challenging problem in neuroscience. Towards this goal, neurobiologists are acquiring large electron microscopy datasets. However, the shear volume of these datasets renders manual analysis infeasible. Hence, automated image analysis methods are required for reconstructing the connectome from these very large image collections. Segmentation of neurons in these images, an essential step of the reconstruction pipeline, is challenging because of noise, anisotropic shapes and brightness, and the presence of confounding structures. The method described in this paper uses a series of artificial neural networks (ANNs) in a framework combined with a feature vector that is composed of image intensities sampled over a stencil neighborhood. Several ANNs are applied in series allowing each ANN to use the classification context provided by the previous network to improve detection accuracy. We develop the method of serial ANNs and show that the learned context does improve detection over traditional ANNs. We also demonstrate advantages over previous membrane detection methods. The results are a significant step towards an automated system for the reconstruction of the connectome.
The analysis of the spatial patterning of mRNA expression is critically important for assigning functional and physiological significance to a given gene product. Given the tens of thousands of mRNAs in the mammalian genome, a full assessment of individual gene functions would ideally be overlaid upon knowledge of the specific cell types expressing each mRNA. In situ hybridization approaches represent a molecular biological/histological method that can reveal cellular patterns of mRNA expression. Here, we present detailed procedures for the detection of specific mRNAs using radioactive RNA probes in tissue sections followed by autoradiographic detection. These methods allow for the specific and sensitive detection of spatial patterns of mRNA expression, thereby linking mRNA expression with cell type and function. Radioactive detection methods also facilitate semi-quantitative analyses of changes in mRNA gene expression.
The use of radioactive in situ hybridization (ISH) to quantitatively determine low-to-moderate abundant mRNA expression in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded archival post-mortem human brain tissue is often limited by non-specific-deposits, visible as speckles. In the present study, optimal hybridization conditions were achieved for quantifying the mRNA expression of histidine decarboxylase (HDC) by a number of alterations in a routine protocol, which included (1) during purification of the oligo-probes, glycogen was omitted as a carrier for precipitation, (2) after precipitation, the labeled probe contained within the pellet was first dissolved in water instead of in hybridization buffer (HBF), (3) during hybridization, the dithiothreitol (DTT) concentration was increased from 200 to 800 mM in HBF, and (4) stringencies during hybridization and post-hybridization washes were increased by increasing the temperature. The effect of the adjustment was quantified on adjacent sections from 18 subjects (9 with Parkinson's disease and 9 controls), by comparing the data from the standard and new protocol. The results showed that the improved protocol brought about significantly clearer background with higher signal-to-noise ratios (p=0.001). We propose that this protocol is also applicable for detection of other lower-abundant genes in human brain tissue and probably in other tissues as well. In the present study, this is not only illustrated for HDC ISH, but also for corticotrophin-releasing hormone mRNA expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.
Correlative light and electron microscopy (CLEM) has facilitated study of intracellular trafficking. Routine application of CLEM would be advantageous for many laboratories but previously described techniques are particularly demanding, even for those with access to laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). We describe streamlined methods for TEM of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labeled organelles after imaging by LSCM using gridded glass bottom imaging dishes. GFP-MAP 1A/1B LC3 (GFP-LC3) transfected cells were treated with rapamycin, fixed and imaged by LSCM. Confocal image stacks were acquired enabling full visualization of each GFP-LC3 labeled organelle. After LSCM, cells were embedded for TEM using a simplified two step method that stabilizes the glass bottom such that the block can be separated from the glass by mild heating. All imaging and TEM processing are performed in the same dish. The LSCM imaged cells were relocated on the block and serial sectioned. Correlation of LSCM, DIC, and TEM images was facilitated by cellular landmarks. All GFP labeled structures were successfully reidentified and imaged by serial section TEM. This method could make CLEM more accessible to nonspecialized laboratories with basic electron microscopy expertise and could be used routinely to confirm organelle localization of fluorescent puncta.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) in children is frequent, sometimes lethal, and may have life-long consequences in survivors. Prevention at school and in sports, including both kids and families, is of paramount importance. Scarce data are available in terms of epidemiology, physiopathology, management and prognosis. This non-systematic review suggests that rational organization of rescue and transport to designated hospitals, linked with early diagnosis/removal of surgical masses and comprehensive monitoring and intensive care, offer the best chances for reducing mortality and morbidity in severe cases. After the acute phase rehabilitation and families play a fundamental role.
The composition and dynamics of the gastrointestinal bacterial communities in birds is determined by both host-specific and environmental exposure factors yet these are poorly understood. We selected the zebra finch, Taeniopygia guttata, as the host species to examine the diversity and temporal stability of the faecal microflora in a bird, owing to its importance as a model organism in avian ecology, neuroscience and evolution studies. The stability of the gut bacterial community of individual male and female zebra finches was assessed through repeat faecal sampling via culture and temperature gradient gel electrophoresis and partial sequencing of PCR-amplified eubacterial 16S rRNA gene products. Nineteen bacterial genera were detected across all samples (n = 99), with each bird carrying on average six operational taxonomic units. Using a novel statistical approach, we showed that bacterial assemblages and community richness varied between individual birds but remained stable over time within individuals. Neither the composition nor richness of bacterial communities differed significantly between the sexes. Our results show that zebra finches housed together under controlled conditions show consistent variation between individuals in their gut microflora that is not attributable to differences in host exposure to environmental microbial sources. Future studies could usefully explore the origin of this individual-specific variation and its consequences for host fitness and sexual selection.
Human ectopic pregnancy (EP) remains a common cause of pregnancy-related first trimester death. Nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized from L-arginine by three NO synthases (NOS) in different tissues, including the Fallopian tube. Studies of knockout mouse models have improved our understanding of the function of NOS isoforms in reproduction, but their roles and specific mechanisms in infection-induced tubal dysfunction have not been fully elucidated. Here, we provide an overview of the expression, regulation and possible function of NOS isoforms in the Fallopian tube, highlighting the effects of infection-induced changes in the tubal cellular microenvironment (imbalance of NO production) on tubal dysfunction and the potential involvement of NOS isoforms in tubal EP after Chlamydia trachomatis genital infection. The non-equivalent regulation of tubal NOS isoforms during the menstrual cycle suggests that endogenous ovarian steroid hormones regulate NOS in an isoform-specific manner. The current literature suggests that infection with C. trachomatis induces an inflammatory response that eventually leads to tubal epithelial destruction and functional impairment, caused by a high NO output mediated by inducible NOS (iNOS). Therefore, tissue-specific therapeutic approaches to suppress iNOS expression may help to prevent ectopic implantation in patients with prior C. trachomatis infection of the Fallopian tube.
L-type Ca(2+) channels (LTCCs, Ca(v)1) open readily during membrane depolarization and allow Ca(2+) to enter the cell. In this way, LTCCs regulate cell excitability and trigger a variety of Ca(2+)-dependent physiological processes such as: excitation-contraction coupling in muscle cells, gene expression, synaptic plasticity, neuronal differentiation, hormone secretion, and pacemaker activity in heart, neurons, and endocrine cells. Among the two major isoforms of LTCCs expressed in excitable tissues (Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3), Ca(v)1.3 appears suitable for supporting a pacemaker current in spontaneously firing cells. It has steep voltage dependence and low threshold of activation and inactivates slowly. Using Ca(v)1.3(-/-) KO mice and membrane current recording techniques such as the dynamic and the action potential clamp, it has been possible to resolve the time course of Ca(v)1.3 pacemaker currents that regulate the spontaneous firing of dopaminergic neurons and adrenal chromaffin cells. In several cell types, Ca(v)1.3 is selectively coupled to BK channels within membrane nanodomains and controls both the firing frequency and the action potential repolarization phase. Here we review the most critical aspects of Ca(v)1.3 channel gating and its coupling to large conductance BK channels recently discovered in spontaneously firing neurons and neuroendocrine cells with the aim of furnishing a converging view of the role that these two channel types play in the regulation of cell excitability.
Stimulating neuronal regeneration is a potential strategy to treat sight-threatening diseases of the retina. In some classes of vertebrates, retinal regeneration occurs spontaneously to effectively replace neurons lost to acute damage in order to restore visual function. There are different mechanisms and cellular sources of retinal regeneration in different species, include the retinal pigmented epithelium, progenitors seeded across the retina, and the Mller glia. This review briefly summarizes the different mechanisms of retinal regeneration in frogs, fish, chicks, and rodents. The bulk of this review summarizes and discusses recent findings regarding regeneration from Mller glia-derived progenitors, with emphasis on findings in the chick retina. The Mller glia are a promising source of regeneration-supporting cells that are intrinsic to the retina and significant evidence indicated these glias can be stimulated to produce neurons in different classes of vertebrates. The key to harnessing the neurogenic potential of Mller glia is to identify the secreted factors, signaling pathways, and transcription factors that enable de-differentiation, proliferation, and neurogenesis. We review findings regarding the roles of mitogen-activated protein kinase and notch signaling in the proliferation and generation of Mller glia-derived retinal progenitors.
Endocannabinoids are lipid molecules that serve as natural ligands for the cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2. They modulate a diverse set of physiological processes such as pain, cognition, appetite, and emotional states, and their levels and functions are tightly regulated by enzymatic biosynthesis and degradation. 2-Arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is the most abundant endocannabinoid in the brain and is believed to be hydrolyzed primarily by the serine hydrolase monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL). Although 2-AG binds and activates cannabinoid receptors in vitro, when administered in vivo, it induces only transient cannabimimetic effects as a result of its rapid catabolism. Here we show using a mouse model with a targeted disruption of the MAGL gene that MAGL is the major modulator of 2-AG hydrolysis in vivo. Mice lacking MAGL exhibit dramatically reduced 2-AG hydrolase activity and highly elevated 2-AG levels in the nervous system. A lack of MAGL activity and subsequent long-term elevation of 2-AG levels lead to desensitization of brain CB1 receptors with a significant reduction of cannabimimetic effects of CB1 agonists. Also consistent with CB1 desensitization, MAGL-deficient mice do not show alterations in neuropathic and inflammatory pain sensitivity. These findings provide the first genetic in vivo evidence that MAGL is the major regulator of 2-AG levels and signaling and reveal a pivotal role for 2-AG in modulating CB1 receptor sensitization and endocannabinoid tone.
The voltage-gated sodium channel Na(v)1.7 plays a crucial role in pain, and drugs that inhibit hNa(v)1.7 may have tremendous therapeutic potential. ProTx-II and huwentoxin-IV (HWTX-IV), cystine knot peptides from tarantula venoms, preferentially block hNa(v)1.7. Understanding the interactions of these toxins with sodium channels could aid the development of novel pain therapeutics. Whereas both ProTx-II and HWTX-IV have been proposed to preferentially block hNa(v)1.7 activation by trapping the domain II voltage-sensor in the resting configuration, we show that specific residues in the voltage-sensor paddle of domain II play substantially different roles in determining the affinities of these toxins to hNa(v)1.7. The mutation E818C increases ProTx-II's and HWTX-IV's IC(50) for block of hNa(v)1.7 currents by 4- and 400-fold, respectively. In contrast, the mutation F813G decreases ProTx-II affinity by 9-fold but has no effect on HWTX-IV affinity. It is noteworthy that we also show that ProTx-II, but not HWTX-IV, preferentially interacts with hNa(v)1.7 to impede fast inactivation by trapping the domain IV voltage-sensor in the resting configuration. Mutations E1589Q and T1590K in domain IV each decreased ProTx-II's IC(50) for impairment of fast inactivation by ~6-fold. In contrast mutations D1586A and F1592A in domain-IV increased ProTx-II's IC(50) for impairment of fast inactivation by ~4-fold. Our results show that whereas ProTx-II and HWTX-IV binding determinants on domain-II may overlap, domain II plays a much more crucial role for HWTX-IV, and contrary to what has been proposed to be a guiding principle of sodium channel pharmacology, molecules do not have to exclusively target the domain IV voltage-sensor to influence sodium channel inactivation.
Studies in vertebrate neuromuscular synapses have revealed previously that ATP, via P2Y receptors, plays a critical role in regulating postsynaptic gene expressions. An equivalent regulatory role of ATP and its P2Y receptors would not necessarily be expected for the very different situation of the brain synapses, but we provide evidence here for a brain version of that role. In cultured cortical neurons, the expression of P2Y(1) receptors increased sharply during neuronal differentiation. Those receptors were found mainly colocalized with the postsynaptic scaffold postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95). This arises through a direct interaction of a PDZ domain of PSD-95 with the C-terminal PDZ-binding motif, D-T-S-L of the P2Y(1) receptor, confirmed by the full suppression of the colocalization upon mutation of two amino acids therein. This interaction is effective in recruiting PSD-95 to the membrane. Specific activation of P2Y(1) (G-protein-coupled) receptors induced the elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) and activation of a mitogen-activated protein kinase/Raf-1 signaling cascade. This led to distinct up-regulation of the genes encoding acetylcholinesterase (AChE(T) variant), choline acetyltransferase, and the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit NR2A. This was confirmed, in the example of AChE, to arise from P2Y(1)-dependent stimulation of a human ACHE gene promoter. That involved activation of the transcription factor Elk-1; mutagenesis of the ACHE promoter revealed that Elk-1 binding at its specific responsive elements in that promoter was induced by P2Y(1) receptor activation. The combined findings reveal that ATP, via its P2Y(1) receptor, can act trophically in brain neurons to regulate the gene expression of direct effectors of synaptic transmission.
Improved spread of transduction in the central nervous system (CNS) was achieved from intravenous administration of adeno-associated virus serotype-9 (AAV9) to neonatal rats. Spinal lower motor neuron transduction efficiency was estimated to be 78% using the highest vector dose tested at a 12-week interval. The widespread expression could aid studying diseases that affect both the spinal cord and brain, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The protein most relevant to neuropathology in ALS is transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43). When expressed in rats, human wild-type TDP-43 rapidly produced symptoms germane to ALS including paralysis of the hindlimbs and muscle wasting, and mortality over 4 weeks that did not occur in controls. The hindlimb atrophy and weakness was evidenced by assessments of rotarod, rearing, overall locomotion, muscle mass, and histology. The muscle wasting suggested denervation, but there was only 14% loss of motor neurons in the TDP-43 rats. Tissues were negative for ubiquitinated, cytoplasmic TDP-43 pathology, suggesting that altering TDP-43's nuclear function was sufficient to cause the disease state. Other relevant pathology in the rats included microgliosis and degenerating neuronal perikarya positive for phospho-neurofilament. The expression pattern encompassed the distribution of neuropathology of ALS, and could provide a rapid, relevant screening assay for TDP-43 variants and other disease-related proteins.

Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) has been shown to generate contractions that include a central recruitment of motoneurons; however, the effect of pulse width on electromyographic (EMG) and torque responses during NMES are not well documented. Soleus EMG and isometric plantarflexion torque were recorded from 14 subjects with NMES delivered to the tibial nerve using 50, 200, 500, and 1000 s pulse widths. M-waves were significantly smaller during 20 Hz NMES compared with responses evoked by single pulses of 200, 500, and 1000 s, but not 50 s pulse widths. At all pulse widths, stimulation at 20 Hz depressed soleus H-reflexes compared with single pulses. Two seconds of 100 Hz NMES significantly increased H-reflexes and torque during the subsequent 20 Hz NMES with 200, 500, and 1000 s, but not 50 s, pulse widths. NMES delivered using wide pulses generated larger contractions with a relatively greater central contribution than narrow pulses. This may help reduce atrophy and produce fatigue-resistant contractions for rehabilitation.
We report that coupling between dopamine D1 and D2 receptors was markedly increased in postmortem brain of subjects suffering from major depression. Biochemical analyses revealed that D1 and D2 receptors form heterodimers via a direct protein-protein interaction. Administration of an interfering peptide that disrupts the D1-D2 receptor complex substantially reduced immobility in the forced swim test (FST) without affecting locomotor activity, and decreased escape failures in learned helplessness tests in rats.

There is a public perception that connectomics will translate directly into insights for disease. It is essential that scientists and funding institutions avoid misrepresentation and accurately communicate the scope of their work.
Synaptic vesicles release neurotransmitter both actively (on stimulation) and spontaneously (at rest). It has been assumed that identical vesicles use both modes of release; however, recent evidence has challenged this view. Using several assays (FM dye imaging, pHluorin imaging and antibody-labeling of synaptotagmin) in neuromuscular preparations from Drosophila, frog and mouse, as well as rat cultured neurons, we found that the same vesicles participate in active and spontaneous release.
Although axonal regeneration after CNS injury is limited, partial injury is frequently accompanied by extensive functional recovery. To investigate mechanisms underlying spontaneous recovery after incomplete spinal cord injury, we administered C7 spinal cord hemisections to adult rhesus monkeys and analyzed behavioral, electrophysiological and anatomical adaptations. We found marked spontaneous plasticity of corticospinal projections, with reconstitution of fully 60% of pre-lesion axon density arising from sprouting of spinal cord midline-crossing axons. This extensive anatomical recovery was associated with improvement in coordinated muscle recruitment, hand function and locomotion. These findings identify what may be the most extensive natural recovery of mammalian axonal projections after nervous system injury observed to date, highlighting an important role for primate models in translational disease research.
The transient receptor potential TRPV1 is a nonselective cation channel that mediates pain sensations and is commonly activated by a wide variety of exogenous and endogenous, physical and chemical stimuli. Although TRPV1 receptors are mainly found in nociceptive neurons of the peripheral nervous system, these receptors have also been found in the brain, where their role is far less understood. Activation of TRPV1 reportedly regulates neurotransmitter release at several central synapses. However, we found that TRPV1 suppressed excitatory transmission in rat and mouse dentate gyrus by regulating postsynaptic function in an input-specific manner. This suppression was a result of Ca(2+)-calcineurin and clathrin-dependent internalization of AMPA receptors. Moreover, synaptic activation of TRPV1 triggered a form of long-term depression (TRPV1-LTD) mediated by the endocannabinoid anandamide in a type 1 cannabinoid receptor-independent manner. Thus, our findings reveal a previously unknown form of endocannabinoid- and TRPV1-mediated regulation of synaptic strength at central synapses.
Fast axonal conduction depends on myelin, which is formed by Schwann cells in the PNS. We found that the transcription factor Yin Yang 1 (YY1) is crucial for peripheral myelination. Conditional ablation of Yy1 in the Schwann cell lineage resulted in severe hypomyelination, which occurred independently of altered Schwann cell proliferation or apoptosis. In Yy1 mutant mice, Schwann cells established a 1:1 relationship with axons but were unable to myelinate them. The Schwann cells expressed low levels of myelin proteins and of Egr2 (also called Krox20), which is an important regulator of peripheral myelination. In vitro, Schwann cells that lacked Yy1 did not upregulate Egr2 in response to neuregulin1 and did not express myelin protein zero. This phenotype was rescued by overexpression of Egr2. In addition, neuregulin-induced phosphorylation of YY1 was required for transcriptional activation of Egr2. Thus, YY1 emerges as an important activator of peripheral myelination that links neuregulin signaling with Egr2 expression.
Neural activity in the noradrenergic locus coeruleus correlates with periods of wakefulness and arousal. However, it is unclear whether tonic or phasic activity in these neurons is necessary or sufficient to induce transitions between behavioral states and to promote long-term arousal. Using optogenetic tools in mice, we found that there is a frequency-dependent, causal relationship among locus coeruleus firing, cortical activity, sleep-to-wake transitions and general locomotor arousal. We also found that sustained, high-frequency stimulation of the locus coeruleus at frequencies of 5 Hz and above caused reversible behavioral arrests. These results suggest that the locus coeruleus is finely tuned to regulate organismal arousal and that bursts of noradrenergic overexcitation cause behavioral attacks that resemble those seen in people with neuropsychiatric disorders.
Antiepileptic drugs (AeDs) are receiving increasing attention for a possible association with suicidal thoughts and behaviors. Several recent studies examining this association, however, have yielded inconsistent findings, particularly in terms of the risk of suicidal behavior conferred by specific AeDs. In patients with epilepsy, heightened suicide risk is also attributable to comorbid psychiatric conditions.
Thromboembolism resulting from complex atheromatous plaque formation at the origin of the internal carotid artery is a common cause of ischemic stroke. In appropriately selected patients, plaque removal by carotid endarterectomy is of substantial net benefit. Endovascular stenting appears less &quot;invasive&quot; than endarterectomy,but is the former as safe and effective as the latter?
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (CIPN) is a common, potentially severe and dose-limiting adverse effect of cancer treatment; however, the effects of CIPN on the daily life of individuals are not completely understood. CIPN can be induced by several types of drugs that are widely used in the treatment of solid and hematological malignancies. Our knowledge of the mechanisms underlying CIPN is incomplete, but structural properties of the various neurotoxic compounds might contribute to variations in the pathogenetic mechanisms of damage, in addition to the type of neurotoxicity, severity of the clinical condition, and incidence of CIPN. No drugs capable of preventing the occurrence of CIPN or ameliorating its long-term course are available, and chemotherapy schedule modification is often required to limit its severity, which could potentially prevent patients from receiving the most effective treatment for cancer. Moreover, symptomatic therapy is often largely ineffective in reducing CIPN symptoms. In this Review, the mechanistic and clinical aspects of this unpredictable condition are considered, along with the controversial aspects of CIPN, including the onset mechanisms associated with the different drug types, assessment of the patient's condition, and the current status of neuroprotection and treatment options.
Neurons in the spinal dorsal horn process sensory information, which is then transmitted to several brain regions, including those responsible for pain perception. The dorsal horn provides numerous potential targets for the development of novel analgesics and is thought to undergo changes that contribute to the exaggerated pain felt after nerve injury and inflammation. Despite its obvious importance, we still know little about the neuronal circuits that process sensory information, mainly because of the heterogeneity of the various neuronal components that make up these circuits. Recent studies have begun to shed light on the neuronal organization and circuitry of this complex region.
One standard interpretation of networks of cortical neurons is that they form dynamical attractors. Computations such as stimulus estimation are performed by mapping inputs to points on the networks' attractive manifolds. These points represent population codes for the stimulus values. However, this standard interpretation is hard to reconcile with the observation that the firing rates of such neurons constantly change following presentation of stimuli. We have recently suggested an alternative interpretation according to which computations are realized by systematic changes in the states of such networks over time. This way of performing computations is fast, accurate, readily learnable, and robust to various forms of noise. Here we analyze the computation of stimulus discrimination in this change-based setting, relating it directly to the computation of stimulus estimation in the conventional attractor-based view. We use a common linear approximation to compare the two methods and show that perfect performance at estimation implies chance performance at discrimination.
The conventional approach in computational neuroscience in favor of the efficient coding hypothesis goes from image statistics to perception. It has been argued that the behavior of the early stages of biological visual processing (e.g., spatial frequency analyzers and their nonlinearities) may be obtained from image samples and the efficient coding hypothesis using no psychophysical or physiological information. In this work we address the same issue in the opposite direction: from perception to image statistics. We show that psychophysically fitted image representation in V1 has appealing statistical properties, for example, approximate PDF factorization and substantial mutual information reduction, even though no statistical information is used to fit the V1 model. These results are complementary evidence in favor of the efficient coding hypothesis.
The temporal difference (TD) learning framework is a major paradigm for understanding value-based decision making and related neural activities (e.g., dopamine activity). The representation of time in neural processes modeled by a TD framework, however, is poorly understood. To address this issue, we propose a TD formulation that separates the time of the operator (neural valuation processes), which we refer to as internal time, from the time of the observer (experiment), which we refer to as conventional time. We provide the formulation and theoretical characteristics of this TD model based on internal time, called internal-time TD, and explore the possible consequences of the use of this model in neural value-based decision making. Due to the separation of the two times, internal-time TD computations, such as TD error, are expressed differently, depending on both the time frame and time unit. We examine this operator-observer problem in relation to the time representation used in previous TD models. An internal time TD value function exhibits the co-appearance of exponential and hyperbolic discounting at different delays in intertemporal choice tasks. We further examine the effects of internal time noise on TD error, the dynamic construction of internal time, and the modulation of internal time with the internal time hypothesis of serotonin function. We also relate the internal TD formulation to research on interval timing and subjective time.
Evaluating the contribution of neurobiological individual differences to cognitive function is critical in order to understand the normal process of learning and memory, to identify the effects of aging and disease states, and to develop targets for therapeutics. The aging model is commonly used for such research as the variability in the aging process provides a naturalistic setting in which to evaluate neurobiological differences in both cognitively impaired and cognitively intact aged individuals. In this commentary we explore Lazic's discussion (2010) about the significance of confounding variables to the interpretation of this research and the effect of common statistical main effects on correlational analyses.
The inverse association of the functional ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) S18Y variant with Parkinson's disease (PD) among Caucasian populations has been debated. We conducted a large-scale analysis to investigate the age-of-onset effect of the UCHL1 variant in PD among ethnic Chinese. Individual data sets from 5 centers comprising a total of 4088 study subjects were analyzed. In the univariate analysis, only data from 1 center showed a trend towards a protective effect among young subjects. However, in the combined analysis, no significant association between the UCHL1 variant and PD was detected (A allele frequency 0.531 vs. 0.528, p=0.87, OR 1.01, 95% CI 0.92-1.1). Among subjects less than 60 years old, the OR is 0.99 (95% CI 0.84-1.16, p=0.88). A multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that family history, UCHL1 variant and the interaction of UCHL1 variant and age at onset (p=0.816) were not significantly associated with PD.
Increases in blood glucose levels are an important component of the mechanisms by which epinephrine enhances memory formation. The present experiments addressed the hypothesis that a dysfunction in the blood glucose response to circulating epinephrine contributes to age-related memory impairments. Doses of epinephrine and glucagon that significantly increased blood glucose levels in young adult rats were far less effective at doing so in 2-year-old rats. In young rats, epinephrine and glucose were about equally effective in enhancing memory and in prolonging post-training release of acetylcholine in the hippocampus. However, glucose was more effective than epinephrine in enhancing both memory and acetylcholine release in aged rats. These results suggest that an uncoupling between circulating epinephrine and glucose levels in old rats may lead to an age-related reduction in the provision of glucose to the brain during training. This in turn may contribute to age-related changes in memory and neural plasticity.
Microtubule-associated protein tau gene transfer to the substantia nigra of rats using the adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector previously led to neuropathology and neurodegeneration in young rats. In this study, we compared equal tau gene transfer in either 3 or 20-month-old rats, in order to test the hypothesis that late middle-aged rats are more susceptible to neurodegeneration. Two intervals and two vector doses of the tau vector probed for age-related differences in the initial sensitivity to low-level tau expression. Gene transfer efficiency was similar for both ages, but the tau vector caused more dopaminergic cell loss and a greater behavioral deficit in aged rats at specific doses and time points. Tau gene transfer caused microgliosis relative to the control vector, and to a greater extent in aged rats. The maximal microglial response occurred at 2 weeks preceding the peak dopaminergic cell loss by 8 weeks. The cellular and behavioral outcomes were more severe in the aged rats, validating the model for studies of age-related diseases.
Classical pathological signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) include loss of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra (SN) and noradrenergic neurons in locus coeruleus (LC), and deposition of Lewy bodies rich in the presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein (ASYN). Mammalian genetic models based on ASYN overexpression, however, have generally not reproduced the profound dopaminergic deficit of PD and do not display classical PD phenotypes. In the current study we examined these catecholaminergic systems in transgenic (Tg) mice expressing the A53T mutant of human ASYN under the Prion promoter. Surprisingly we detected a substantial reduction in norepinephrine (NE), but not dopamine (DA), levels in spinal cord, olfactory bulb and striatum of aged (15-month-old), but not young (4-month-old) transgenic compared to control mice. In spinal cord and olfactory bulb of 15-month-old Tg mice there was an age-dependent decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein levels, which in spinal cord was accompanied by a decrease in TH-positive terminals detected by immunohistochemistry. There was no difference in the number of TH-positive neuron cell bodies in SN or LC between Tg and control mice. We conclude that aberrant ASYN, expressed in both SN and LC, induces preferential degeneration of noradrenergic terminals. These observations suggest that in mice the NE may be more vulnerable than the DA system to the toxic effects of aberrant alpha-synuclein, and are in line with the major damage to the NE system that occurs in patients with PD.
The GluA4-containing Ca(2+)-permeable -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid receptors (Ca-AMPARs) were previously shown to mediate excitotoxicity through mechanisms involving the activator protein-1 (AP-1), a c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) substrate. To further investigate JNK involvement in excitotoxic pathways coupled to Ca-AMPARs we used HEK293 cells expressing GluA4-containing Ca-AMPARs (HEK-GluA4). Cell death induced by overstimulation of Ca-AMPARs was mediated, at least in part, by JNK. Importantly, JNK activation downstream of these receptors was dependent on the extracellular Ca(2+) concentration. In our quest for a molecular link between Ca-AMPARs and the JNK pathway we found that the JNK interacting protein-1 (JIP-1) interacts with the GluA4 subunit of AMPARs through the N-terminal domain. In vivo, the excitotoxin kainate promoted the association between GluA4 and JIP-1 in the rat hippocampus. Taken together, our results show that the JNK pathway is activated by Ca-AMPARs upon excitotoxic stimulation and suggest that JIP-1 may contribute to the propagation of the excitotoxic signal.
Glutamatergic dysfunction is strongly implicated in schizophrenia and mood disorders. GluA1 knockout (KO) mice display schizophrenia- and depression-related abnormalities. Here, we asked whether GluA1 KO show mania-related abnormalities. KO were tested for behavior in approach/avoid conflict tests, responses to repeated forced swim exposure, and locomotor responses under stress and after psychostimulant treatment. The effects of rapid dopamine depletion and treatment with lithium or a GSK-3 inhibitor (SB216763) on KO locomotor hyperactivity were tested. Results showed that KO exhibited novelty- and stress-induced locomotor hyperactivity, reduced forced swim immobility and alterations in approach/avoid conflict tests. Psychostimulant treatment and dopamine depletion exacerbated KO locomotor hyperactivity. Lithium, but not SB216763, treatment normalized KO anxiety-related behavior and partially reversed hyperlocomotor behavior, and also reversed elevated prefrontal cortex levels of phospho-MARCKS and phospho-neuromodulin. Collectively, these findings demonstrate mania-related abnormalities in GluA1 KO and, combined with previous findings, suggest this mutant may provide a novel model of features of schizoaffective disorder.
E6 associated protein is an E3 ubiquitin ligase encoded by the gene Ube3a. Deletion or loss of function of the maternally inherited allele of Ube3a leads to Angelman syndrome. In the present study, we show that maternal loss of Ube3a (Ube3a(m-/p+)) in the mouse model leads to motor deficits that could be attributed to the dysfunction of the nigrostriatal pathway. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons in the substantia nigra was significantly reduced in Ube3a(m-/p+) mice as compared to the wild type counterparts. The Ube3a(m-/p+) mice performed poorly in behavioural paradigms sensitive to nigrostriatal dysfunction. Even though the tyrosine hydroxylase staining was apparently the same in the striatum of both genotypes, the presynaptic and postsynaptic proteins were significantly reduced in Ube3a(m-/p+) mice. These findings suggest that the abnormality in the nigrostriatal pathway along with the cerebellum produces the observed motor dysfunctions in Ube3a(m-/p+) mice.
Profound astrogliosis coincident with neuronal cell loss is universally described in human and animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). In the kainic acid-induced status epilepticus (SE) model of TLE, astrocytes in the hippocampus become reactive soon after SE and before the onset of spontaneous seizures. To determine if astrocytes in the hippocampus exhibit changes in function soon after SE, we recorded from SR101-labeled astrocytes using the whole-cell patch technique in hippocampal brain slices prepared from control and kainic-acid-treated rats. Glutamate transporter-dependent currents were found to have significantly faster decay time kinetics and in addition, dye coupling between astrocytes was substantially increased. Consistent with an increase in dye coupling in reactive astrocytes, immunoblot experiments demonstrated a significant increase in both glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and connexin 43, a major gap junction protein expressed by astrocytes. In contrast to what has been observed in resected tissue from patients with refractory epilepsy, changes in potassium currents were not observed shortly after KA-induced SE. While many changes in neuronal function have been identified during the initial period of low seizure probability in this model of TLE, the present study contributes to the growing body of literature suggesting a role for astrocytes in the process of epileptogenesis.
Mutations in the Leucine Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene, first described in 2004 have now emerged as the most important genetic finding in both autosomal dominant and sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). While a formidable research effort has ensued since the initial gene discovery, little is known of either the normal or the pathological role of LRRK2. We have created lines of mice that express human wild-type (hWT) or G2019S Lrrk2 via bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenesis. In vivo analysis of the dopaminergic system revealed abnormal dopamine neurotransmission in both hWT and G2019S transgenic mice evidenced by a decrease in extra-cellular dopamine levels, which was detected without pharmacological manipulation. Immunopathological analysis revealed changes in localization and increased phosphorylation of microtubule binding protein tau in G2019S mice. Quantitative biochemical analysis confirmed the presence of differential phospho-tau species in G2019S mice but surprisingly, upon dephosphorylation the tau isoform banding pattern in G2019S mice remained altered. This suggests that other post-translational modifications of tau occur in G2019S mice. We hypothesize that Lrrk2 may impact on tau processing which subsequently leads to increased phosphorylation. Our models will be useful for further understanding of the mechanistic actions of LRRK2 and future therapeutic screening.
Structural and content-related deficits occur in connected discourse of patients with semantic dementia (SD). We used principal components analysis (PCA) to characterise the sources of variation in word usage during picture description by controls and SD patients. This data-driven approach allowed: comparison of the distance between individuals in the two-dimensional space; correlational analyses between principal component (PC) values and performance on other tests; identification of words whose variance contributed most to the definition of the PCs.Transcripts of Cookie Theft picture descriptions from 21 patients with SD and 21 controls were used to generate frequencies of all word types (n = 557) across participants. Frequency values of words with 10 occurrences (n= 81) were entered into a PCA. Values of emergent dimensions were correlated with performance on tests of single word meaning. The first PC accounted for 59% of the variance, the second for a further 10%. Patients and controls showed good separation within the resulting space. Factor loading scores indicated that control performance was characterised by function (factor 1) and content (factor 2) word usage, while patients showed a greater tendency to use pronouns, deictic and generic words. Knowledge of single word meaning correlated with factor 1 but not with factor 2. Differences in word usage can differentiate connected speech of SD patients from controls using a rapid, automated, data-driven algorithm. The distinction between groups, loadings on the two components, and their differential correlations with semantic tasks raise the possibility of independent differences in syntax and lexical content.
Anti-inflammatory therapy approaches have been in the focus of attention in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we examined the role of new 1,2,4-triazine derivatives against cytotoxicity exerted by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in differentiated rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cell line. Our results indicated that LPS-induced cell death can be inhibited in the presence of some of these compounds, as measured by MTT test, acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining and caspase-3 expression assay. We further showed that these compounds exert their protective effects through the inhibition of LPS-induced generation of nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species. Triazine derivatives inhibited LPS-induced nuclear translocation of nuclear factor- B, a known regulator of a host of genes involved in specific stress and inflammatory responses. Pretreatment of PC12 cells with triazine derivatives also suppressed LPS-induced cyclooxygenase-2 expression while up-regulated heat shock protein-70 (Hsp-70). Moreover, the treatment of brain diseases is limited by the insufficiency in delivering therapeutic drugs into brain relating to highly limited transport of compounds through blood-brain barrier (BBB). Using a reliable model based on the artificial neural network, we indicated that these compounds are capable of penetrating BBB and may be useful agents for preventing neuroinflammatory diseases like AD.
Progranulin (PGRN) is a widely expressed multifunctional protein, involved in regulation of cell growth and cell cycle progression with a possible involvement in neurodegeneration. We looked for PGRN regulation in three different human neuroblastoma cell lines, following exposure to two different stimuli commonly associated to neurodegeneration: hypoxia and oxidative stress. For gene and protein expression analysis we carried out a quantitative RT-PCR and western blotting analysis. We show that PGRN is strongly up-regulated by hypoxia, through the mitogen-actived protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) signaling cascade. PGRN is not up-regulated by H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress. These results suggest that PGRN in the brain could exert a protective role against hypoxic stress, one of principal risk factors involved in frontotemporal dementia pathogenesis.
Mutations in the CuZn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) and TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) genes are linked to familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS1 and ALS10, respectively. In addition, TDP-43 is a major component protein of the ubiquitinated aggregates observed in sporadic ALS (SALS) patients. However, it remains unclear whether these ALS groups partly have a shared pathogenesis. In the present study, we demonstrate that mutant SOD1, but not wild-type SOD1, interacts with TDP-43 by co-immunoprecipitation assays using cultured cells and G93A mutant SOD1 transgenic mice. The region responsible for this interaction within SOD1 is the dimer interface, namely, the N- and C-terminal regions. Deletion mutants of TDP-43 with or without nuclear localization sequence interacted with mutant SOD1. Cell fractionation assays using cultured cells showed that mutant SOD1 was localized in the cytosolic fraction but not in the nuclear fraction. TDP-43 was detected both in the nuclear and cytosolic fractions, suggesting that mutant SOD1 interacts with TDP-43 in the cytoplasm. Mutant SOD1 overexpression led to an increased amount of mutant SOD1 and, to some extent, its interacting proteins including TDP-43 in the detergent-insoluble fraction. These results indicate that mutant SOD1 could affect the solubility/insolubility of its interacting proteins including TDP-43 through physical interactions. Our findings may contribute to the understanding of links among SALS, ALS1 and ALS10.
Recently, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). Although up-regulation of caspase-12 has been reported in G93A SOD1 transgenic mice, it is controversial whether similar mechanisms operate in human FALS. We found that ER stress in cells stably expressing L84V SOD1 induces neuronal cell death and accelerates cleavage of caspase-4. We also detected oligomer formation of L84V SOD1 in L84V SOD1-expressing human neuroblastoma cells. These findings show that ER stress in L84V SOD1-expressing human cells causes the aggregation and inclusion bodies of L84V SOD1 to induce neuronal death through the accelerated cleavage of caspase-4.
Neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), a docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)-derived lipid mediator, promotes survival in cells exposed to oxidative stress by inducing the activity of anti-inflammatory mediators and suppressing the expression of pro-inflammatory genes. Though retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells naturally produce NPD1 from DHA, investigating the mechanisms through which exogenous NPD1 induces cell survival is essential to assess mechanisms of actions and the potential of this lipid mediator for treatment of retinal degenerative diseases. The PI3K/Akt and mTOR/p70S6K pathways are responsible for supporting cell survival upon exposure to oxidative stress. In human ARPE-19 cells pretreated with NPD1 then exposed to varying concentrations of oxidative stress or repeated exposures to oxidative stress, Akt, mTOR, and p70S6K were phosphorylated to a greater extent and for a greater duration than cells not pretreated with NPD1. In addition to increased phosphorylation, a subsequent decreased rate of apoptosis was observed upon NPD1 treatment. Thus NPD1 bioactivity in RPE cells enhances activation of these pathways and promotes cell integrity and survival.
Injection of rats with kainic acid (KA), a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptor agonist, induces recurrent (delayed) convulsive seizures and subsequently hippocampal neurodegeneration, which is reminiscent of human epilepsy. The protective effect of anti-epileptic drugs on seizure-induced neuronal injury is well known; however, molecular basis of this protective effect has not yet been elucidated. In this study, we investigated the effect and signaling mediators of voltage-gated Na(+) channel blockers (Lamotrigine, Rufinamide, Oxcarbazepine, Valproic Acid, and Zonisamide) on KA-induced apoptosis in rat primary hippocampal neurons. Exposure of hippocampal neurons to 10 M KA for 24 h caused significant increases in morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis, as determined by Wright staining and ApopTag assay, respectively. Analyses showed increases in expression and activity of cysteine proteases, production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), intracellular free [Ca(2+)], and Bax:Bcl-2 ratio during apoptosis. Cells exposed to KA for 15 min were then treated with Lamotrigine, Rufinamide, Oxcarbazepine, Valproic Acid, or Zonisamide. Post-treatment with one of these anti-epileptic drugs (500 nM) attenuated production of ROS and prevented apoptosis in hippocampal neurons. Lamotrigine, Rufinamide, and Oxcarbazepine appeared to be less protective when compared with Valproic Acid or Zonisamide. This difference may be due to blockade of T-type Ca(2+) channels also by Valproic Acid and Zonisamide. Our findings thus suggest that the anti-epileptic drugs that block both Na(+) channels and Ca(2+) channels are significantly more effective than agents that block only Na(+) channels for attenuating seizure-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration.
Although vascular dementia (VaD) represents the second most common cause of dementia after Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the elderly, and is referred as the &quot;silent epidemic of the twenty-first century&quot;, there is still a controversy on terminology, classification and diagnostic criteria of VaD. The diagnosis of VaD resides in clinical criteria determining a cognitive impairment, the presence of cerebrovascular disease and, only in the case of post-stroke dementia or multi-infarct dementia, a temporal relationship between these. The search for a reliable biochemical tests helping in the diagnosis of VaD is so far not available. Several vascular risk factors have a role in the development of VaD and their identification and treatment are among the major aspects of management of VaD. A new line of research in this field is the study of genetic factors underlying vascular cognitive impairment which are: (1) genes predisposing to cerebrovascular disease, and (2) genes that influence brain tissue responses to cerebrovascular lesions. Evidence in favour of a coexistence of vascular and degenerative components in the pathogenesis of dementia in an elderly population comes from neuropathological and epidemiological studies. There is now a great debate whether VaD and AD are more than common coexisting unrelated pathologies and, instead, represent different results of synergistic pathological mechanisms. Preventive approaches aiming at reducing incident VaD by targeting patients at risk of cerebrovascular disease (primary prevention), or acting on patients after a stroke (secondary prevention) to prevent stroke recurrence and the progression of brain changes associated with cognitive impairment are mandatory therapeutic strategies.
The expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) in astrocytes is controversial. The receptor is commonly considered neuron-specific. We showed that astrocytes in primary cultures differentially expressed mRNA of NMDA-R subunits, NR1, NR2A and NR2B, in development, ischemia and post-ischemia. One-week-old cultures expressed detectable NR1 mRNA, which fell significantly at 2 weeks and became barely detectable at 4 weeks. NR2A and NR2B mRNA were both significantly up-regulated from 1 to 2 weeks. In 4 weeks, 2 h of ischemia caused a significant up-regulation of NR1 and NR2B mRNA; while 6 h caused down-regulation of NR2A mRNA. Under 3 h of post-ischemia, only NR1 mRNA was increased. Ischemia induced the expression of major NMDA-R effecter, nitric oxide synthase 1, which was unaffected by AMPA-R antagonist CNQX, but dose-dependently inhibited by NMDA-R specific antagonist MK-801. These findings reflected that astrocyte could express inducible functional NMDA receptors without the presence of neurons.
Overactivation of glutamate receptors results in neurodegeneration in a variety of brain pathologies, including ischemia, epilepsy, traumatic brain injury and slow-progressing neurodegenerative disorders. In all these pathologies, it is well accepted that the calcium-dependent cysteine proteases calpains are key players in the mechanisms of neuronal cell death. Many research groups have been actively pursuing to establish a link between the deregulation of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis associated with excitotoxicity and calpain activity. It is well established that these two events are connected and interact synergistically to promote neurodegeneration, but whether calpain activity depends on or contributes to Ca(2+) deregulation is still under debate.
Among the many glycoconjugates contributing to the sugar code, gangliosides have drawn special attention owing to their predominance as the major sialoglycoconjugate category within the nervous system. However, their occurrence, albeit at lower levels, appears ubiquitous in vertebrate cells and even some invertebrate tissues. Now that over 100 gangliosides have been structurally characterized, their diverse physiological functions constitute a remaining enigma. This has been especially true of GM1, for which a surprising array of functions has already been revealed. Our current research has focused on two areas of GM1 function: (a) signaling induced in neural and immune cells by cross-linking of GM1 in the plasma membrane that leads to activation of TRPC5 (transient receptor potiential, canonical form 5) channels, a process important in neuritogenesis and autoimmune suppression; (b) activation by GM1 of a sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX) in the inner membrane of the nuclear envelope (NE) with resulting modulation of nuclear and cellular calcium. The latter has a role in maintaining neuronal viability, loss of which renders neurons vulnerable to Ca(2+) overload. Pathological manifestations in mutant mice and their cultured neurons lacking GM1 have shown dramatic rescue with a membrane permeable derivative of GM1 that enters the nucleus and restores NCX activity. Nuclear function of GM1 is related to the presence of neuraminidase in the NE, an enzyme that generates GM1 through hydrolysis of GD1a. A different isoform of this enzyme was found in each of the two membranes of the NE.
Pyruvate carboxylation is of great importance in the brain since it is responsible for adding net carbons to the tricarboxylic acid cycle following removal of carbon backbone for synthesis of the two most abundant neurotransmitters, glutamate and GABA. Despite having such a pivotal role, there is still much uncertainty in the exact metabolic details about where and how this carbon is returned. Pyruvate carboxylation has been studied in various model systems of the brain and (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy is an excellent tool for doing this. This review will focus on results dealing with the extent and cellular location of pyruvate carboxylation and its role in pathophysiology and concludes that pyruvate carboxylation is an extraordinarily important predominantly astrocytic pathway which plays a pivotal part in a number of diseases.



Recent studies have shown that functional connectivity in the human brain may be detected by analyzing the likelihood with which different brain regions are simultaneously activated, or &quot;co-activated&quot;, across multiple neuroimaging experiments. We applied this technique to investigate whether distinct subregions within rostral prefrontal cortex (RoPFC) tend to co-activate with distinct sets of brain regions outside RoPFC, in a meta-analysis of 200 activation peaks within RoPFC (approximating Brodmann Area 10) and 1712 co-activations outside this region, drawn from 162 studies. There was little evidence for distinct connectivity between hemispheres or along rostral/caudal or superior/inferior axes. However, there was a clear difference between lateral and medial RoPFC: activation in lateral RoPFC was particularly associated with co-activation in dorsal anterior cingulate, dorsolateral PFC, anterior insula and lateral parietal cortex; medial RoPFC activation was particularly associated with co-activation in posterior cingulate, posterior superior temporal sulcus and temporal pole. These findings are consistent with anatomical studies of connectivity in non-human primates, despite strong cross-species differences in RoPFC. Furthermore, associations between brain regions inside and outside RoPFC were in some cases strongly influenced by the type of task being performed. For example, dorsolateral PFC, anterior cingulate and lateral parietal cortex tended to co-activate with lateral RoPFC in most tasks but with medial RoPFC in tasks involving mentalizing. These results suggest the importance of changes in effective connectivity in the performance of cognitive tasks.
Neuroimaging advances have given rise to major progress in neurosciences and neurology, as ever more subtle and specific imaging methods reveal new aspects of the brain. One major limitation of current methods is the spatial scale of the information available. We present an approach to gain spatial resolution using post-processing methods based on diffusion MRI fiber-tracking, to reveal structures beyond the resolution of the acquired imaging voxel; we term such a method as super-resolution track-density imaging (TDI). A major unmet challenge in imaging is the identification of abnormalities in white matter as a cause of illness; super-resolution TDI is shown to produce high-quality white matter images, with high spatial resolution and outstanding anatomical contrast. A unique property of these maps is demonstrated: their spatial resolution and signal-to-noise ratio can be tailored depending on the chosen image resolution and total number of fiber-tracks generated. Super-resolution TDI should greatly enhance the study of white matter in disorders of the brain and mind.
Neurodegeneration precedes the onset of dementias such as Alzheimer's by several years. Recent advances in volumetric imaging allow quantification of subtle neuroanatomical change over time periods as short as six months. This study investigates whether neuroanatomical change in medial temporal lobe subregions is associated with later memory decline in elderly controls. Using high-resolution, T1-weighted magnetic resonance images acquired at baseline and six-month follow-up, change in cortical thickness and subcortical volumes was measured in 142 healthy elderly subjects (aged 59-90 years) from the ADNI cohort. Regression analysis was used to identify whether change in fourteen subregions, selected a priori, was associated with declining performance on memory tests from baseline to two-year follow-up. Percent thickness change in the right fusiform and inferior temporal cortices and expansion of the right inferior lateral ventricle were found to be significant predictors of subsequent decline on memory-specific neuropsychological measures. These results demonstrate that six-month regional neurodegeneration can be quantified in the healthy elderly and might help identify those at risk for subsequent cognitive decline.
Systematic reviews and meta-analyses constitute one of the central pillars of evidence-based medicine. However, clinical trials are poorly reported which delays meta-analyses and consequently the translation of clinical research findings to clinical practice. We propose a Center of Excellence in Research Reporting in Neurosurgery (CERR-N) and the creation of a clinically significant computational ontology to encode Randomized Controlled Trials (RCT) studies in neurosurgery. A 128 element strong computational ontology was derived from the Trial Bank ontology by omitting classes which were not required to perform meta-analysis. Three researchers from our team tagged five randomly selected RCT's each, published in the last 5 years (2004-2008), in the Journal of Neurosurgery (JoN), Neurosurgery Journal (NJ) and Journal of Neurotrauma (JoNT). We evaluated inter and intra observer reliability for the ontology using percent agreement and kappa coefficient. The inter-observer agreement was 76.4%, 75.97% and 74.9% and intra-observer agreement was 89.8%, 80.8% and 86.56% for JoN, NJ and JoNT respectively. The inter-observer kappa coefficient was 0.60, 0.54 and 0.53 and the intra-observer kappa coefficient was 0.79, 0.82 and 0.79 for JoN, NJ and JoNT journals respectively. The high degree of inter and intra-observer agreement confirms tagging consistency in sections of a given scientific manuscript. Standardizing reporting for neurosurgery articles can be reliably achieved through the integration of a computational ontology within the context of a CERR-N. This approach holds potential for the overall improvement in the quality of reporting of RCTs in neurosurgery, ultimately streamlining the translation of clinical research findings to improvement in patient care.

We present DFBIdb: a suite of tools for efficient management of neuroimaging project data. Specifically, DFBIdb was designed to allow users to quickly perform routine management tasks of sorting, archiving, exploring, exporting and organising raw data. DFBIdb was implemented as a collection of Python scripts that maintain a project-based, centralised database that is based on the XCEDE 2 data model. Project data is imported from a filesystem hierarchy of raw files, which is an often-used convention of imaging devices, using a single script that catalogues meta-data into a modified XCEDE 2 data model. During the import process data are reversibly anonymised, archived and compressed. The import script was designed to support multiple file formats and features an extensible framework that can be adapted to novel file formats. An ACL-based security model, with accompanying graphical management tools, was implemented to provide a straightforward method to restrict access to raw and meta-data. Graphical user interfaces are provided for data exploration. DFBIdb includes facilities to export, convert and organise customisable subsets of project data according to user-specified criteria. The command-line interface was implemented to allow users to incorporate database commands into more complex scripts that may be utilised to automate data management tasks. By using DFBIdb, neuroimaging laboratories will be able to perform routine data management tasks in an efficient manner.
Increased activity of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is critical in mediating motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. To determine if altered STN activity also occurs in levodopa (L-Dopa)-unresponsive parkinsonism due to a combined nigral and striatal degeneration, metabolic activity of the STN was assessed using cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry in monkeys with nigral, striatal, or nigral+striatal degeneration induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and/or 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP). MPTP- and MPTP+3NP-treated monkeys had a similar parkinsonian score and were clinically indistinguishable. However, CO activity in the STN was significantly increased in MPTP-induced parkinsonism but not in MPTP+3NP-induced striatonigral degeneration. These results indicate that metabolic activity of the STN is normal following a combined nigral+striatal degeneration and may help to understand the lack of effect of STN stimulation in L-Dopa-unresponsive parkinsonism.
Paradoxical kinesia (PK) is the sudden resolution of a previously stabilized akinesia in an advanced idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patient facing an immediate threat. We are reporting the effect of PK, as a consequence of a life threatening event (earthquake), in a group of 14 patients with parkinsonism and dementia in Hoehn/Yahr (H/Y) stage 3-5. All the patients presented an extraordinary motor response during the earthquake that has recently stricken the Italian city of L'Aquila. All of them were able to safely escape unaided and, in some cases, to assist their families, despite they suffered before from severe night time akinesia and gait difficulties with postural instability requiring assistance. In five patients, the improvement of motor disabilities, particularly of freezing, lasted for 2-5months.
Serotonergic transmission impairment and abnormal phosphorylation of tau protein have been implicated in the physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal lobar dementia (FTLD). Associations between a functional polymorphism (5-HTTLPR), in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene, and susceptibility to sporadic AD and FTLD have been reported. A polymorphism (Q7R) in saitohin gene inside the microtubule-associated protein tau gene has also been related to dementia. To determine the possible role of the two polymorphisms in susceptibility to AD and FTLD, we performed a case-control study collecting 218 Italian sporadic dementia patients and 54 controls. We found a significant excess of 5-HTTLPR short alleles and an interaction between 5-HTTLPR and Q7R polymorphisms in demented subjects. Our study confirms the role of 5-HTTLPR as a potential susceptibility factor for sporadic dementia in the Italian population, and suggests a possible interaction between 5-HTTLPR and Q7R polymorphisms in neurodegenerative diseases.
The aim was to study brain involvement in myotonic dystrophy type 1 by single photon emission tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET). 58 DM1 patients were subjected to SPECT; 17 to both SPECT and PET. SPECT patients were grouped as 'normally perfused' and 'abnormally perfused'; PET patients as 'normal performers' and 'abnormal performers'. To quantify hypoperfusion and/or hypometabolism, we used a semi-quantitative scale. To localize focal hypoperfusion/hypometabolism, nine cerebral areas of involvement were identified. The Chi-square, Wilcoxon, McNemar tests were used for statistics. SPECT showed abnormalities in 52/58 patients. PET showed an abnormal glucidic uptake in 15/17. Hypoperfusion was mild/moderate in 50/58 patients, mostly involving the left supratentorial areas. Abnormal glucidic uptake was mainly observed in the left frontal lobe. Abnormalities in blood perfusion and/or glucose metabolism are frequent in DM1. These abnormalities involve the left more often than the right hemisphere, the frontal lobe more than other lobes. Such abnormalities are more often cortical than subcortical.
Wound botulism is a rare infectious disease that is becoming a frequent complication of parental drug use. Diagnosis is often difficult and based on clinical suspicion. We report the first Italian case of wound botulism due to intramuscular heroin injection in a 48-year-old man with an acute onset of slurred speech and dysphagia. The most considerable finding of electrophysiological study was the reduction in amplitude of compound muscle action potential which should be considered a useful initial electrodiagnostic sign in the clinical context of botulism. Alerting clinicians to botulism is crucial for a rapid diagnosis and appropriate treatment and thus decreasing mortality and complications.
Psychopathological diagnosis has become increasingly important in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), since the recent emphasis on the comprehensive management and end-of-life decisions. Rorschach test is the third most commonly used psychological instrument worldwide and can offer a different approach from self-reporting questionnaires, mainly providing information on issues of which individuals may be unaware or unwilling to admit to. Forty-two ALS patients underwent a psychopathological assessment with the Rorschach test. Psychopathological data were also correlated with skeletal muscle strength as measured by MRC scale and functional evaluation as ALSFRSr and FVC values. Psychopathological features, including suicidial ideation, were more frequent in the recently diagnosed ALS patients. These features were observed to be different according to the kind of functional impairment. Rorschach test may be an useful tool to assess psychopathological features in ALS. Results of our study highlight the need of an early psychopathological diagnosis and specific psychotherapeutic treatment in patients with ALS.

We have investigated a 34-year-old female who had mild clinical and electrophysiological features of demyelinating peripheral neuropathy. She presented a novel frameshift mutation (V160fsX3) in the exon 4 of the Myelin Protein Zero (MPZ) gene. Clinical and genetic studies performed on her family revealed the same mutation in her oligosymptomatic mother and sister. Our report expands the number of MPZ mutations and indicates that mutations in exon 4 may cause a mild Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1B phenotype.
Progesterone (P) is an endogenous anticonvulsant hormone. P is being evaluated as a treatment for epilepsy, traumatic brain injury, and other complex neurological conditions. Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that P appears to interrupt epileptogenic events. However, the potential disease-modifying effect of P in epileptogenic models is not widely investigated. In this study, we examined the effects of P on the development of hippocampus kindling in female mice. In addition, we determined the role of progesterone receptors (PR) in the P's effect on the kindling epileptogenesis utilizing PR knockout (PRKO) mice. P, at 25mg/kg, did not affect seizures and did not exert sedative/motor effects in fully-kindled mice. P treatment (25mg/kg, twice daily for 2 weeks) significantly suppressed the rate of development of behavioral kindled seizure activity evoked by daily hippocampus stimulation in wild-type (WT) mice, indicating a disease-modifying effect of P on limbic epileptogenesis. There was a significant increase in the rate of 'rebound or withdrawal' kindling during drug-free stimulation sessions following abrupt discontinuation of P treatment. A washout period after termination of P treatment prevented such acceleration in kindling. PRKO mice were kindled significantly slower than WT mice, indicating a modulatory role of PRs in seizure susceptibility. P's effects on early kindling progression was partially decreased in PRKO mice, but the overall (2-fold) delay in the rate of kindling for the induction of stage 5 seizures was unchanged in PRKO mice. Moreover, the acute anticonvulsant effect of P was undiminished in fully-kindled PRKO mice. These studies suggest that P exerts disease-modifying effects in the hippocampus kindling model at doses that do not significantly affect seizure expression and motor performance, and the kindling-retarding effects of P may occur partly through a complex PR-dependent and PR-independent mechanism.
Over the past several decades, significant advances have been made in our understanding of the basic stages and mechanisms of mammalian brain development. Studies elucidating the neurobiology of brain development span the levels of neural organization from the macroanatomic, to the cellular, to the molecular. Together this large body of work provides a picture of brain development as the product of a complex series of dynamic and adaptive processes operating within a highly constrained, genetically organized but constantly changing context. The view of brain development that has emerged from the developmental neurobiology literature presents both challenges and opportunities to psychologists seeking to understand the fundamental processes that underlie social and cognitive development, and the neural systems that mediate them. This chapter is intended to provide an overview of some very basic principles of brain development, drawn from contemporary developmental neurobiology, that may be of use to investigators from a wide range of disciplines.
Children raised in the profound deprivation associated with institutionalization are at elevated risk for negative outcomes across a host of social and cognitive domains. This risk appears to be mitigated by early foster care or adoption into a family setting. Although pervasive developmental problems have been noted in a substantial proportion of previously institutionalized children, marked variation exists in the nature and severity of these deficits. Increasing evidence suggests that institutional deprivation impacts the developing brain, potentially underlying the wide range of outcomes with which it is associated. In the current review we examine the neural consequences of institutionalization and genetic factors associated with differences in outcome in an effort to characterize the consequences of early deprivation at a neurobiological level. Although the effects of institutional deprivation have been studied for more than 50years much remains unanswered regarding the pathways through which institutionalization impacts child development. Through a more complete and nuanced assessment of the neural correlates of exposure and recovery as well as a better understanding of the individual factors involved we will be better able to delineate the impact of early adversity in the setting of severe social deprivation.
Motor control strongly relies on neural processes that predict the sensory consequences of self-generated actions. Previous research has demonstrated deficits in such sensory-predictive processes in schizophrenic patients and these low-level deficits are thought to contribute to the emergence of delusions of control. Here, we examined the extent to which individual differences in sensory prediction are associated with a tendency towards delusional ideation in healthy participants. We used a force-matching task to quantify sensory-predictive processes, and administered questionnaires to assess schizotypy and delusion-like thinking. Individuals with higher levels of delusional ideation showed more accurate force matching suggesting that such thinking is associated with a reduced tendency to predict and attenuate the sensory consequences of self-generated actions. These results suggest that deficits in sensory prediction in schizophrenia are not simply consequences of the deluded state and are not related to neuroleptic medication. Rather they appear to be stable, trait-like characteristics of an individual, a finding that has important implications for our understanding of the neurocognitive basis of delusions.
Whereas patients with schizophrenia exhibit early visual processing impairments, their capacity at integrating visual information at various spatial scales, from low to high spatial frequencies, remains untested. This question is particularly acute given that, in ecological conditions of viewing, spatial frequency bands are naturally integrated to form a coherent percept. Here, 19 patients with schizophrenia and 16 healthy controls performed a rapid emotion recognition task with hybrid faces. Because these stimuli displayed in a single image two different facial expressions, in low (LSF) and high (HSF) spatial frequencies, the selected emotion probes which spatial scale is preferentially perceived. In a control experiment participants performed the same task with either low or high spatial frequency filtered faces. Results show that patients have a strong bias towards LSF with hybrid faces compared to healthy controls. However, both patients and healthy controls performed better with HSF filtered faces than with LSF filtered faces in the control experiment, demonstrating that the bias found with hybrid stimuli in patients was not due to an inability to process HSF. Whereas previous works found a LSF contrast deficit in schizophrenia, our results suggest a deficit in the normal time course of concurrently perceiving LSF and HSF. This early visual processing impairment is likely to contribute to the difficulties of patients with schizophrenia with facial processing and therefore social interaction.
Smoking affects a widespread network of neuronal functions by altering the properties of acetylcholinergic transmission. Recent studies show that nicotine consumption affects ascending auditory pathways and alters auditory attention, particularly in men. Here we show that smoking affects language lateralization in a sex-specific way. We assessed brain asymmetries of 90 healthy, right-handed participants using a classic consonant-vowel syllable dichotic listening paradigm in a 23 experimental design with sex (male, female) and smoking status (non-smoker, light smoker, heavy smoker) as between-subject factors. Our results revealed that male smokers had a significantly less lateralized response pattern compared to the other groups due to a decreased response rate of their right ear. This finding suggests a group-specific impairment of the speech dominant left hemisphere. In addition, decreased overall response accuracy was observed in male smokers compared to the other experimental groups. Similar adverse effects of smoking were not detected in women. Further, a significant negative correlation was detected between the severity of nicotine dependency and response accuracy in male but not in female smokers. Taken together, these results show that smoking modulates functional brain lateralization significantly and in a sexually dimorphic manner. Given that some psychiatric disorders have been associated with altered brain asymmetries and increased smoking prevalence, nicotinergic effects need to be specifically investigated in this context in future studies.
We used magnetoencephalography to investigate the effect of directed attention on sensorimotor mu (8-12 Hz) response (mu reactivity) to non-painful electrical stimulation of the median nerve in healthy adults. Mu desynchronization in the 10-12 Hz bandwidth is typically observed during higher-order cognitive functions including selective attentional processing of sensorimotor information (Pfurtscheller, Neuper, &amp; Krauz, 2000). We found attention-related sex differences in mu reactivity, with females showing (i) prolonged mu desynchrony when attending to somatosensory stimuli, (ii) attentional modulation of the mu response based on whether attention was directed towards or away from somatosensory stimuli, which was absent in males, and (iii) a trend for greater neuronal excitability of the primary somatosensory region suggesting greater physiological responsiveness to sensory stimulation overall. Our findings suggest sex differences in attentional control strategies when processing somatosensory stimuli, whose salience may be greater for females. These sex differences in attention to somatosensory stimuli may help elucidate the well-documented sex biases in pain processing wherein females typically report greater sensitivity to experimental and clinical pain.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with episodic memory deficits, but their exact nature is unclear. Some dual-process studies have suggested that recollection is impaired and familiarity is spared in PD, yet others have found the opposite. Our goal was to investigate these memory processes in PD and determine whether the inconsistency among existing findings is related to differences in encoding conditions. We used a process-dissociation procedure with word pairs to estimate familiarity and recollection. In Experiment 1, we used a directed, deep, relational encoding condition (i.e., sentence generation), and in Experiment 2, we contrasted this encoding condition with a shallower, non-directed encoding condition (i.e., read condition). We found a double dissociation as a function of the encoding task: In the sentence generation encoding condition, recollection was impaired in the PD patients, but familiarity was spared. In contrast, in the read encoding condition, there was no group difference in recollection, but familiarity was impaired in the PD group. Within-subject comparisons revealed that both control and PD participants benefitted from the provision of a directed, deep relational encoding strategy. However, this benefit was manifested as an increase in recollection in the controls, but an increase in familiarity in the PD patients. These findings help to reconcile the extant literature and suggest that episodic memory deficits in PD are two-fold, involving: (1) difficulties instantiating encoding strategies independently, leading to deficits in familiarity, and (2) impaired recollection when encoding strategies are equated across groups. Our results highlight the importance of controlling encoding conditions between groups and of taking account of other variables that may influence the participants' performance, such as deficits associated with normal aging, which may mask deficits in neurodegenerative diseases in particular situations. More generally, our study raises the possibility that deficits in recollection or familiarity in patient populations are not immutably linked to the structure that is affected, as is typically assumed, but that such deficits may interact with type of encoding, and possibly with the nature of the retrieval process.


The influence of organic brain changes on the development of depression in the elderly is uncertain. Cross-sectional studies, most often from clinical samples, report associations with brain atrophy and cerebrovascular disease, while longitudinal population studies have given mixed results. Our aim was to investigate whether cortical atrophy and white matter lesions (WMLs) on computed tomography (CT) predict occurrence of depression in the elderly. This is a prospective population-based study with 5-year follow-up. The baseline sample included 525 elderly subjects, aged 70-86 years, without dementia or major depression, with a score on the Mini-Mental State Examination above 25, and without dementia at follow-up. Cortical atrophy and WMLs were evaluated at baseline using CT. The main outcome measure was development of major or minor depression at follow-up according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition, as evaluated using neuropsychiatric examinations and hospital discharge registers. Logistic regression was used to estimate risk. Over the period of 5 years, 20 individuals developed major and 63 minor depression. Presence of temporal lobe atrophy (odds ratio (OR)=2.81, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.04-7.62) and moderate-to-severe WMLs (OR=3.21, 95% CI 1.00-10.26) independently predicted major, but not minor, depression after controlling for various confounders. Other brain changes did not predict occurrence of depression. Our findings suggest that temporal lobe atrophy and WMLs represent relatively independent and complementary pathways to major depression in the elderly. This may have implications for prevention, as both neurodegeneration and cerebrovascular disease have been related to preventable factors.
The aim of this study was to determine whether oral sustained release d-amphetamine (SR-AMP) reduces cocaine and opioid/cocaine combination ('speedball'-like) seeking in volunteers with current opioid dependence and cocaine dependence. Following outpatient buprenorphine (BUP) 8mg/day stabilization without SR-AMP, eight participants completed a 3-week in-patient study with continued BUP 8mg/day maintenance and double-blind ascending SR-AMP weekly doses of 0, 30, and 60mg/day, respectively. After 3 days (Saturday-Monday) stabilization at each SR-AMP weekly dose (0, 15, or 30mg administered at 0700 and 1225 each day), on Tuesday-Friday mornings (0900-1200 hours), participants sampled four drug combinations in randomized, counterbalanced order under double-blind, double-dummy (intranasal cocaine and intramuscular hydromorphone) conditions: cocaine (COC 100mg+saline); hydromorphone (COC 4mg+HYD 24mg); 'speedball' (COC 100mg+HYD 24mg); and placebo (COC 4mg+saline). Subjective and physiological effects of these drug combinations were measured. From 1230 to 1530 hours, participants could respond on a choice, 12-trial progressive ratio schedule to earn drug units (1/12th of total morning dose) or money units (US$2). SR-AMP significantly reduced COC, but not HYD or speedball, choices and breakpoints. SR-AMP also significantly reduced COC subjective (eg, abuse-related) effects and did not potentiate COC-induced cardiovascular responses. This study shows the ability of SR-AMP to attenuate COC self-administration, as well as its selectivity, in cocaine/heroin polydrug abusers. Further research is warranted to ascertain whether SR-AMP combined with BUP could be a useful dual-agonist pharmacotherapy.
Increased production of peripheral cytokines and other pro-inflammatory markers has been linked to psychiatric disorders such as major depressive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder. Recent research has pointed to early-life stress, particularly childhood maltreatment, as an independent and preventable risk factor for systemic inflammation in adulthood. Some data suggest that adults with a history of childhood maltreatment exhibit a heightened inflammatory response to acute stress challenge. To further elucidate the relationship between childhood maltreatment and pro-inflammatory cytokine production, we examined plasma IL-6 response to the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) in 69 healthy adult subjects without depression or post-traumatic stress disorder. Serial plasma IL-6 concentrations were measured during a standardized psychosocial stressor in n=19 subjects with moderate-severe childhood maltreatment (MAL), and n=50 controls without maltreatment (CTL), as indicated by self-ratings on the childhood trauma questionnaire (CTQ). CTQ total scores were positively correlated with overall change in IL-6 response, as well as the maximum IL-6 concentration during the TSST. Greater acute IL-6 release and higher IL-6 concentrations over time were observed for the MAL group relative to the CTL group. Inflammation may be an important developmental mediator linking adverse experiences in early life to poor adult physical and mental health. The results of this preliminary study warrant further investigation in a larger sample.
Oxytocin reportedly decreases anxious feelings in humans and may therefore have therapeutic value for anxiety disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). As PTSD patients have exaggerated startle responses, a fear-potentiated startle paradigm in rats may have face validity as an animal model to examine the efficacy of oxytocin in treating these symptoms. Oxytocin (0, 0.01, 0.1, or 1.0 g, subcutaneously) was given either 30 min before fear conditioning, immediately after fear conditioning, or 30 min before fear-potentiated startle testing to assess its effects on acquisition, consolidation, and expression of conditioned fear, respectively. Startle both in the presence and absence of the fear-conditioned light was significantly diminished by oxytocin when administered at acquisition, consolidation, or expression. There was no specific effect of oxytocin on light fear-potentiated startle. In an additional experiment, oxytocin had no effects on acoustic startle without previous fear conditioning. Further, in a context-conditioned test, previous light-shock fear conditioning did not increase acoustic startle during testing when the fear-conditioned light was not presented. The data suggest that oxytocin did not diminish cue-specific conditioned nor contextually conditioned fear, but reduced background anxiety. This suggests that oxytocin has unique effects of decreasing background anxiety without affecting learning and memory of a specific traumatic event. Oxytocin may have antianxiety properties that are particularly germane to the hyper-vigilance and exaggerated startle typically seen in PTSD patients.
Social and financial considerations are often integrated when real life decisions are made, and recent studies have provided evidence that similar brain networks are engaged when either social or financial information is integrated. Other studies, however, have suggested that the neuropeptide oxytocin can specifically affect social behaviors, which would suggest separable mechanisms at the pharmacological level. Thus, we examined the hypothesis that oxytocin would specifically affect social and not financial information in a decision making task, in which participants learned which of the two faces, one smiling and the other angry or sad, was most often being rewarded. We found that oxytocin specifically decreased aversion to angry faces, without affecting integration of positive or negative financial feedback or choices related to happy vs sad faces.
The relative intermittency or continuity of drug delivery is a major determinant of addictive liability, and also influences the impact of drug exposure on brain function and behavior. Events that occur during the offset of drug action (ie, acute withdrawal) may have an important role in the consequences of intermittent drug exposure. We assessed whether recurrent episodes of acute withdrawal contribute to the development of psychomotor sensitization in rodents during daily morphine exposure. The acoustic startle reflex--a measure of anxiety induced by opiate withdrawal-was used to resolve and quantify discrete withdrawal episodes, and pharmacological interventions were used to manipulate withdrawal severity. Startle potentiation was observed during spontaneous withdrawal from a single morphine exposure, and individual differences in initial withdrawal severity positively predicted the subsequent development of sensitization. Manipulations that reduce or exacerbate withdrawal severity also produced parallel changes in the degree of sensitization. These results demonstrate that the episodic experience of withdrawal during daily drug exposure has a novel role in promoting the development of psychomotor sensitization--a prominent model of drug-induced neurobehavioral plasticity. Episodic withdrawal may have a pervasive role in many effects of intermittent drug exposure and contribute to the development of addiction.
Voluntary visual spatial attention can be allocated in a goal-oriented manner to locations containing behaviorally relevant information. In contrast, involuntary attention is automatically captured by salient events. Allocation of attention is known to be modulated by release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) in cerebral cortex. We used an anti-predictive spatial cueing task to assess the effects of pharmacological enhancement of cholinergic transmission on behavioral measures of voluntary and involuntary attention in healthy human participants. Each trial began with the presentation of a cue in a peripheral location. In 80% of the trials, a target then appeared in a location opposite the cue. In the remaining 20% of trials, the target appeared in the cue location. For trials with short stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) between cue and target, involuntary capture of attention resulted in shorter reaction times (RTs) to targets presented at the cue location. For long SOA trials, allocation of voluntary attention resulted in the opposite pattern: RTs were shorter when the target appeared in the expected (opposite) location. Each subject participated in two sessions: one in which the cholinesterase inhibitor donepezil was administered to increase synaptic ACh levels and one in which placebo was administered. Donepezil selectively improved performance (reduced RT) for long SOA trials in which targets appeared in the expected location. Thus, cholinergic enhancement augments the benefits of voluntary attention but does not affect involuntary attention, suggesting that they rely on different neurochemical mechanisms.
At the 2008 annual meeting of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology (ACNP), a symposium was devoted to the following question: 'what have we learned about the design of pragmatic clinical trials (PCTs) from the recent costly long-term, large-scale trials of psychiatric treatments?' in order to inform the design of future trials. In all, 10 recommendations were generated placing emphasis on (1) appropriate conduct of pragmatic trials; (2) clinical, rather than, merely statistical significance; (3) sampling from the population clinicians are called upon to treat; (4) clinical outcomes of patients, rather than, on outcome measures; (5) use of stratification, controlling, or adjusting when necessary and not otherwise; (6) appropriate consideration of site differences in multisite studies; (7) encouragement of 'post hoc' exploration to generate (not test) hypotheses; (8) precise articulation of the treatment strategy to be tested and use of the corresponding appropriate design; (9) expanded opportunity for training of researchers and reviewers in RCT principles; and (10) greater emphasis on data sharing.
This study correlated anatomical findings and clinical evidence in Duane's Retraction Syndrome using brain MRI. The study included 11 patients with different types of Duane's Retraction Syndrome (DRS). Each patient underwent brain MRI. The VI(th) nerve was absent in all patients with DRS-I, present in all patients with DRS-II, while findings varied in patients with DRS-III. Our study confirms the literature on the usefulness of brain MRI in diagnosis of Duane's Retraction Syndrome in children.

The hippocampus plays a central role in memory formation in the mammalian brain. The subiculum is the principal target of CA1 pyramidal cells and thus serves as the major relay station for the outgoing hippocampal information. Pyramidal cells in the subiculum have been classified as burst-spiking (BS) and regular-spiking (RS) cells. In this study we demonstrate that application of the -adrenergic agonist isoproterenol (2 M) induces a chemical form of long-term potentiation (LTP) of responses to alvear stimulation in (BS) but not in (RS) cells. This effect is prevented by the -adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol (2 M). The isoproterenol-induced LTP in (BS) cells does not depend on postsynaptic Ca(2+)-signaling, as 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) does not prevent its induction. Furthermore, paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) and coefficient of variation (CV) analysis indicate the site of the LTP expression to be presynaptic. Our findings show that activation of -adrenergic receptors (-ARs) at CA1-subiculum synapses induces a cell-type-specific form of chemical LTP in subicular (BS) cells that may allow a target-specific trafficking of hippocampal output.
Drugs that selectively inhibit the serotonin transporter (SERT) are widely prescribed for treatment of depression and a range of anxiety disorders. We studied the time course of changes in tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) in four raphe nuclei after initiation of two different SERT inhibitors, citalopram and fluoxetine. In the first experiment, groups of Sprague-Dawley rats received daily meals of rice pudding either alone (n=9) or mixed with citalopram 5 mg/kg/day (n=27). Rats were sacrificed after 24 h, 7 days or 28 days of treatment. Sections of dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), median raphe nucleus (MRN), raphe magnus nucleus (RMN) and caudal linear nucleus (CLN) were processed for TPH immunohistochemistry. Citalopram induced a significant reduction in DRN TPH-positive cell counts at 24 h (41%), 7 days (38%) and 28 days (52%). Similar reductions in TPH-positive cell counts were also observed at each timepoint in the MRN and in the RMN. In the MRN, citalopram resulted in significant reductions at 24 h (26%), 7 days (16%) and 28 days (23%). In the RMN, citalopram induced significant reductions of TPH-positive cell counts at 24 h (45%), 7 days (34%) and 28 days (43%). By contrast, no significant differences between control and treatment groups were observed in the CLN at any of the time points that we studied. To investigate whether these changes would occur with other SERT inhibitors, we conducted a second experiment, this time with a 28-day course of fluoxetine. As was observed with citalopram, fluoxetine induced significant reductions of TPH cell counts in the DRN (39%), MRN (38%) and RMN (41%), with no significant differences in the CLN. These results indicate that SERT inhibition can alter the regulation of TPH, the rate limiting enzyme for serotonin biosynthesis. This persistent and regionally specific downregulation of serotonin biosynthesis may account for some of the clinical withdrawal symptoms associated with drugs that inhibit SERT.
A large part of the literature of functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) deals with overt verbal fluency. It has been claimed that fNIRS has a low susceptibility to movement related artefacts as, for example, associated with overt speech. However, so far, no study has investigated this assumption in an experimental design. Therefore, we examined a group of 16 healthy subjects during performance of two verbal fluency tasks (experiment 1: phonological fluency; experiment 2: semantical fluency, paced answers, pronouncing vs. writing). We measured changes of oxygenated (O(2)Hb) and deoxygenated haemoglobin (HHb) over fronto-temporal (brain) areas via fNIRS, while temporalis muscle activity was simultaneously assessed by means of electromyography (EMG). Statistical analyses indicated comparable word production, higher increases of O(2)Hb and higher decreases of HHb over fronto-temporal areas during word fluency in contrast to the control task weekday reciting. This fNIRS pattern indicates fluency related activation and was found for pronouncing and for writing in both experiments. Regarding the EMG data, fluency related activity was only found for pronouncing, not for writing. Thus, muscle activity cannot account for fluency related fNIRS activity during writing. Additionally, correlation analyses showed no systematic associations of fNIRS and EMG signals. In conclusion, we found arguments that fNIRS actually allows for the measurement of brain activity over fronto-temporal areas during verbal fluency. Nonetheless, further studies should evaluate more direct associations between fNIRS and EMG signals by specific experimental manipulations and data analysing approaches that allow dealing fNIRS and EMG raw data simultaneously.
Caloric restriction (CR) is a reduction of total caloric intake without a decrease in micronutrients or a disproportionate reduction of any one dietary component. While CR attenuates age-related cognitive deficits in tasks of hippocampal-dependent memory, the cellular mechanisms by which CR improves this cognitive decline are poorly understood. Previously, we have reported age-related decreases in key synaptic proteins in the CA3 region of the hippocampus that are stabilized by lifelong CR. In the present study, we examined possible age-related changes in the functional microcircuitry of the synapses in the stratum lacunosum-molecular (SL-M) of the CA3 region of the hippocampus, and whether lifelong CR might prevent these age-related alterations. We used serial electron microscopy to reconstruct and classify SL-M synapses and their postsynaptic spines. We analyzed synapse number and size as well as spine surface area and volume in young (10 months) and old (29 months) ad libitum fed rats and in old rats that were calorically restricted from 4 months of age. We limited our analysis to SL-M because previous work demonstrated age-related decreases in synaptophysin confined to this specific layer and region of the hippocampus. The results revealed an age-related decrease in macular axo-spinous synapses that was not reversed by CR that occurred in the absence of changes in the size of synapses or spines. Thus, the benefits of CR for CA3 function and synaptic plasticity may involve other biological effects including the stabilization of synaptic proteins levels in the face of age-related synapse loss.
For many patients, pain is the first sign of cancer and, while pain can be present at any time, the frequency and intensity of pain tend to increase with advancing stages of the disease. Thus, between 75 and 90% of patients with metastatic or advanced-stage cancer will experience significant cancer-induced pain. One major unanswered question is why cancer pain increases and frequently becomes more difficult to fully control with disease progression. To gain insight into this question we used a mouse model of bone cancer pain to demonstrate that as tumor growth progresses within bone, tropomyosin receptor kinase A (TrkA)-expressing sensory and sympathetic nerve fibers undergo profuse sprouting and form neuroma-like structures. To address what is driving the pathological nerve reorganization we administered an antibody to nerve growth factor (anti-NGF). Early sustained administration of anti-NGF, whose cognate receptor is TrkA, blocks the pathological sprouting of sensory and sympathetic nerve fibers, the formation of neuroma-like structures, and inhibits the development of cancer pain. These results suggest that cancer cells and their associated stromal cells release nerve growth factor (NGF), which induces a pathological remodeling of sensory and sympathetic nerve fibers. This pathological remodeling of the peripheral nervous system then participates in driving cancer pain. Similar to therapies that target the cancer itself, the data presented here suggest that, the earlier therapies blocking this pathological nerve remodeling are initiated, the more effective the control of cancer pain.
It has been suggested that the enzymatic pathway of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) influences brain functioning and pathobiology. The mRNAs for both the enzyme 5-LOX and its activating protein FLAP have been found in the cerebellum. In this work, we investigated the cellular expression of 5-LOX in the adult mouse cerebellar cortex. We used the in situ mRNA hybridization assay, immunocytochemistry, laser capture microdissection, and our previously developed method for assaying the DNA methylation status of a putative mouse 5-LOX promoter. Since both 5-LOX mRNA in situ hybridization signal and FLAP immunoreactivity co-localize with calbindin 28 kD immunoreactivity (a Purkinje cell marker) but not with S-100 immunoreactivity (a Bergmann glia marker), the suggestion is that the 5-LOX pathway is expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. We found that methylation in the sites targeted by methylation-sensitive restriction endonucleases AciI and HinP1I but not BstUI and HpaII was greater in DNA samples obtained from a high-5-LOX-expressing cerebellar region (Purkinje cells) versus a low-5-LOX-expressing region (the molecular cell layer), suggesting a possible epigenetic contribution to the cell-specific 5-LOX expression in the cerebellum. We propose that Purkinje cell-localized 5-LOX and FLAP expression may be involved in the cerebellar synthesis of leukotrienes and/or could influence the Dicer-mediated microRNA formation and processes of neuroplasticity.
Research on the neural basis of working memory (WM) has generally focused on cortical regions, specifically frontal and parietal areas. Comparatively, evidence of a possible involvement of deep gray matter structures, that are parts of cortico-cortical circuits linking anterior and posterior cortical areas, is far less clear. The goal of the present study is to test the hypothesis that individual structural variations within deep gray matter structures may affect the cortical networks involved in WM. To this aim, a large sample (n=181) of healthy subjects underwent a high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and a diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) scan protocol. Data of micro- (mean diffusivity, MD) and macro- (volume) structural variations of six bilateral deep gray matter structures (thalamus, caudate nucleus, putamen, hippocampus, amygdala and pallidum) and lateral ventriculi volume were analyzed in association with score in a WM (the so-called n-back task) and other neuropsychological tasks. Results showed that increased MD of bilateral thalami was the only structural parameter that significantly correlated with reduced WM performance. In particular, a voxel-by-voxel analysis revealed that the greater percentage of voxels showing significant anticorrelation between WM score and MD values were localized in those thalamic nuclei projecting to prefrontal and posterior parietal cortices. Results highlight the specific involvement of thalamus microstructure, not volume, in modulating WM performance, possibly by regulating the connections among cortical areas that are recruited during WM tasks.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is a neurodegenerative disease affecting motor and sensory systems. This study aimed to investigate the presence and perceptual consequences of auditory neuropathy (AN) in affected individuals and examine the use of personal-FM systems to ameliorate the resulting communication difficulties. Ten individuals with FRDA underwent a battery of auditory function tests and their results were compared with a cohort of matched controls. Friedreich ataxia subjects were then fit with personal FM-listening devices and evaluated over a 6 week period. Basic auditory processing was affected with each FRDA individual showing poorer temporal processing and figure/ground discrimination than their matched control. Speech perception in the presence of background noise was also impaired, with FRDA listeners typically able to access only around 50% of the information available to their normal peers. The use of personal FM-listening devices did however, dramatically improve their ability to hear and communicate in everyday listening situations.
Melatonin is an important endocrine signal for darkness in mammals. Transcriptional activation of the arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase gene encoding for the penultimate enzyme in melatonin synthesis drives the daily rhythm of the hormone in the pineal gland of rodents. Rhythmic arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase expression is controlled by the cAMP-signal transduction pathway and involves the activation of -adrenergic receptors and the inducible cAMP early repressor. In addition, the rat arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase promoter contains an E-box element which can interact with clock proteins. Moreover, the pineal gland of mice shows a circadian rhythm in clock proteins such as the transcriptional repressor Period1, which has been shown to control rhythmic gene expression in a variety of tissues. However, the role of Period1 in the regulation of pineal melatonin synthesis is still unknown. Therefore, circadian rhythms in arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase, -adrenergic receptor, and inducible cAMP early repressor mRNA levels (real time PCR), arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase enzyme activity (radiometric assay) and melatonin concentration radio immuno assay (RIA) were analyzed in the pineal gland of mice with a targeted deletion of the Period1 gene (Per1-/-) and the corresponding wildtype. In Per1-/- the amplitude in arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase expression was significantly elevated as compared to wildtype. In contrast, -adrenergic receptor and inducible cAMP early repressor mRNA levels were not affected by the Period1-deficiency. This indicates that the molecular clockwork alters the amplitude of arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase expression. In vitro, pineal glands of Per1-/- mice showed a day night difference in arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase expression with high levels at night. This suggests that a deficient in Period1 elicits similar effects as the activation of the cAMP-signal transduction pathway in wildtype mice.
The brain's response to ethanol intake has been extensively investigated using electrophysiological recordings, brain lesion techniques, and c-Fos immunoreactivity. However, few studies have investigated this phenomenon using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In the present study, we used fMRI to investigate the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal response to an intragastric (IG) load of ethanol in conscious, ethanol-naive rats. An intragastrically infused 10% ethanol solution induced a significant decrease in the intensity of the BOLD signal in several regions of the brain, including the bilateral amygdala (AMG), nucleus accumbens (NAc), hippocampus, ventral pallidum, insular cortex, and cingulate cortex, and an increase in the BOLD signal in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and hypothalamic regions. Treatment with bicuculline, which is an antagonist of the gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) receptor, increased the BOLD signal intensity in the regions that had shown decreases in the BOLD signal after the IG infusion of 10% ethanol solution, but it did not affect the BOLD signal increase in the hypothalamus. Treatment with SCH39166, which is an antagonist of D1-like receptors, eliminated the increase in the BOLD signal intensity in the hypothalamic areas but did not affect the BOLD signal decrease following the 10% ethanol infusion. These results indicate that an IG load of ethanol caused both a GABA(A) receptor-mediated BOLD decrease in the limbic system and the cortex and a D1-like receptor-mediated BOLD increase in the hypothalamic regions in ethanol-naive rats.
Clioquinol (CQ) was associated with cases of transient global amnesia and with the neurodegenerative syndrome subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy (SMON) in humans. However, CQ forms lipophilic chelates with cations and has the potential as a scientific and clinical tool used for selective modulation of histochemically reactive zinc pools. The relationship among transient lack of synaptic zinc release, hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) induction and cognitive memory is poorly understood. To evaluate the role of synaptic zinc release, in the present study, hippocampal LTP induction and cognitive behavior were examined in young rats after i.p. injection of CQ (30 mg/kg). Intracellular zinc detected by Timm's stain and extracellular (synaptic cleft) zinc detected by ZnAF-2 were significantly decreased in the hippocampus 6 h after CQ injection. The molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, in which perforant path-granule cell synapses exist, was most responsive to CQ injection. Dentate gyrus LTP was induced similarly to the control 2 h after CQ injection, while significantly attenuated 6-24 h after CQ injection. In the training trial of the object recognition memory 2 h after CQ injection, there was no significant difference in learning behavior between the control and CQ-treated rats. In the test trial, CQ-treated rats showed normal recognition memory 1 h after the training, whereas recognition memory deficit 24 h after the training unlike the control rats. These results indicate that acute exposure to CQ impairs long-term (24 h) memory in the hippocampus of young rats. The CQ-mediated attenuation of dentate gyrus LTP, which may be associated with the transient lack of zinc release from zincergic neurons, seems to be involved in the impairment of the long-term memory.
Impairments in executive function and cognitive control are a common feature of neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. A promising behavioral paradigm for elucidating the neural mechanisms of executive function is extradimensional/intradimensional (ED/ID) shifting, which places demands on executive function by requiring the adjustment of behavioral responses based on affective or attentional information. To augment the understanding of the brain systems required for these aspects of executive function, we examined the induction of Fos protein in rats tested in the ED/ID paradigm. We found increased Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) in several cortical areas, including medial and orbital frontal cortex (OFC), in rats performing affective or attentional shifts relative to rats performing control discriminations. However, increased Fos-LI was also present in rats that performed a yoked number of additional control discrimination trials, without affective or attentional shifting. These observations suggest that cortical networks required for affective and attentional shifting are also activated during comparable discrimination tasks that do not require shifting, consistent with a role for these networks in monitoring ongoing behavior even in situations in which adaptation to changing behavioral demands is not required.
Alterations in curvature of the post synaptic density (PSD) and apposition zone (AZ), are believed to play an important role in determining synaptic efficacy. In the present study we have examined curvature of PSDs and AZs 24 h following homosynaptic long-term potentiation (LTP), and heterosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) in vivo, in awake adult rats. High frequency stimulation (HFS) applied to the medial perforant path to the dentate gyrus induced LTP while HFS stimulation of the lateral perforant path induced LTD in the middle molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (DG). Curvature changes were analysed in this area using three dimensional (3-D) reconstructions of electron microscope images of ultrathin serial sections. Very large and significant changes in 3-D measurements of AZ and PSD curvature occurred 24 h following both LTP and LTD, with a flattening of the normal concavity of mushroom spine heads and a change to convexity for thin spines. An N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist CPP (3-[(R)-2-Carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid) blocked the changes in curvature of mushroom and thin spine PSDs and apposition zones, actually increasing the concavity of mushroom spines as the spine engulfed the presynaptic bouton. In order to establish whether these changes resulted from the effect of the NMDA antagonist or from its coincidence with synaptic activation during testing we examined the effects of CPP alone on PSD and apposition zone curvature. It was found that CPP alone also caused a small decrease in curvature of both PSD and apposition zone of mushroom and thin spines.
Intersegmental interneurons with relatively short axons perform an important role in the coordination of limb movement but surprisingly little is known about their organization and how they contribute to neuronal networks in the adult rat. We undertook a series of anatomical tract-tracing studies to label cell bodies and axons of intersegmental neurons in the lumbar cord and characterized their neurochemical properties by using immunocytochemistry. The b-subunit of cholera toxin was injected into L1 or L3 segments of seven rats in the vicinity of lateral or medial motor nuclei. In L5 lumbar segments, cells were found to be concentrated in contralateral lamina VIII, and in ipsilateral lamina VII and laminae V-VI following injections into the lateral and medial motor nuclei respectively. About 25% of labelled cells contained calbindin or calretinin or a combination of both. Calbindin positive cells were mainly distributed within the ipsilateral side of the L5 segment, especially within the ipsilateral dorsal horn whereas there was a concentration of calretinin cells in contralateral lamina VIII. A small population of cells around the central canal were cholinergic. We also examined axon terminals that projected from L1/3 to the L5 contralateral lateral motor nucleus. The majority of these axons were excitatory (75%) and made direct contacts with motoneurons. However, most inhibitory axons in L5 contained a mixture of GABA and glycine (20%) and about 22% of the total population of axons contained calbindin. In contrast, 19% of all intra-segmental axons in the L3 contralateral lateral motor nucleus were found to be purely glycinergic and 17% contained a mixture of GABA and glycine. This study shows that short range interneurons form extensive ipsi- and contralateral projections within the lumbar enlargement and that many of them contain calcium binding proteins. Those projecting contralaterally to motor nuclei are predominantly excitatory.
Changes in the electrophysiological and morphological characteristics of motoneurons (Mns) of the oculomotor nucleus during postnatal development have been reported, however synaptic modifications that take place concurrently with postnatal development in these Mns are yet to be elucidated. We investigated whether cholinergic inputs exert different effects on the recruitment threshold and firing rate of Mns during postnatal development. Rat oculomotor nucleus Mns were intracellularly recorded in brain slice preparations and separated in neonatal (4-7 postnatal days) and adult (20-30 postnatal days) age groups. Stimulation of the medial longitudinal fasciculus evoked a monosynaptic excitatory potential in Mns that was attenuated with atropine (1.5 M, a muscarinic antagonist). Mns were silent at their resting membrane potential, and bath application of carbachol (10 M, a cholinergic agonist) induced depolarization of the membrane potential and a sustained firing rate that were more pronounced in adult Mns. Pharmacological and immunohistochemical assays showed that these responses were attributable to muscarinic receptors located in the membrane of Mns. In addition, compared to control Mns, carbachol-exposed Mns exhibited a higher firing rate in response to the injection of the same amount of current, and a decrease in the current threshold required to achieve sustained firing. These latter effects were more pronounced in adult than in neonatal Mns. In conclusion, our findings suggest that cholinergic synaptic inputs are already present in neonatal Mns, and that the electrophysiological effects of such inputs on recruitment threshold and firing rate are enhanced with the postnatal development in oculomotor nucleus Mns. We propose that cholinergic input maturation could provide a greater dynamic range in adult Mns to encode the output necessary for graded muscle contraction.
Teleost fish exhibit an excellent potential for structural and functional recovery after CNS lesions. The function of apoptosis in the process of regeneration remains controversial. While some studies have identified this type of cell death as essential for successful regeneration, other investigations have suggested some degree of functional improvement after inhibition of apoptosis. In the present study, we examined whether inhibition of apoptosis immediately after injury can improve spinal cord regeneration. As a model system, we used Apteronotus leptorhynchus, a regeneration-competent weakly electric fish. To inhibit apoptosis, we employed 2,2'-methylenebis (1,3-cyclohexanedione) (M50054), a compound that prevents caspase-3 activation. Administration of this apoptosis inhibitor led to a significant reduction in the numbers of apoptotic cells at 24 h, 5 days, and 30 days after the lesion. Using triple immunolabeling, we identified a significant reduction in the level of apoptosis at 5 and 30 days after the lesion among the following cellular categories: cells generated shortly after the lesion, existing neurons, and newly differentiated neurons. This reduced rate of apoptosis led to an increase in the relative number of differentiating and surviving neurons at both 5 and 30 days post-injury, compared to the control groups. Functional regeneration, as indicated by the recovery rate of the amplitude of the electric organ discharge (EOD), was significantly improved within the first 20 days after the lesion in the fish treated with M50054. Our data provide the first evidence that modulation of caspase-3 activation can significantly improve neuroregeneration and functional recovery in a regeneration-competent organism.
Brief, non-harmful seizures can activate endogenous protective programmes which render the brain resistant to damage caused by prolonged seizure episodes. Whether protection in epileptic tolerance is long-lasting or influences the subsequent development of epilepsy is uncertain. Presently, we investigated the relationship between hippocampal pathology, neuropeptide Y rearrangement and spontaneous seizures in sham- and seizure-preconditioned mice after status epilepticus induced by intra-amygdala kainate. Seizure-induced neuronal death at 24 h was significantly reduced in the ipsilateral hippocampal CA3 and hilus of tolerance mice compared to sham-preconditioned animals subject to status epilepticus. Damage to the CA3-hilus remained reduced in tolerance mice 21 days post-status. In sham-preconditioned mice subject to status epilepticus correlative statistics showed there was a strong inverse relationship between CA3, but not hilar, neuron counts and the number of spontaneous seizures. A strong positive association was also found between neuropeptide Y score and spontaneous seizure count in these mice. In contrast, there was no significant association between spontaneous seizure count and CA3 neuron loss or neuropeptide Y rearrangement in the tolerance mice. These data show that tolerance-conferred neuroprotection is long-lasting and that tolerance disrupts the normal association between CA3 damage, synaptic rearrangement and occurrence of spontaneous seizures in this model.
Adolescence represents a time of significant cortical restructuring. Current theories posit that during this period connections between frequently utilized neural networks are strengthened while underutilized synaptic connections are discarded. The aim of the present study was to examine the developmental evolution of connectivity between brain regions using the sleep EEG. All-night sleep EEG recordings in two longitudinal cohorts (children and teens) followed at 1.5-3 year intervals and one cross-sectional cohort (adults) were analyzed. The children and teen cohorts were 9/10 and 15/16 years at the initial assessment; ages of the adults were 20 to 23 years. Intrahemispheric, interhemispheric, and diagonal coherence was measured between all six possible pairings of two central (C3/A2 and C4/A1) and two occipital (O2/A1 and O1/A2) derivations during slow wave, stage 2, and, REM sleep. Within-subjects analyses were performed for the children and teen cohorts, and a linear regression analysis was performed across every assessment of all cohorts. Within-subject analyses revealed a maturational increase in coherence for both age cohorts, though the frequencies, sleep states, and regions differed between cohorts. Regression analysis across all age cohorts showed an overall linear increase in left and right intrahemispheric coherence for all sleep states across frequencies. Furthermore, coherence between diagonal electrode pairs also increased in a linear manner for stage 2 and REM sleep. No age-related trend was found in interhemispheric coherence. Our results indicate that sleep EEG coherence increases with age and that these increases are confined to specific brain regions. This analysis highlights the utility of the sleep EEG to measure developmental changes in brain maturation.
CF-1 male mice were trained in an inhibitory avoidance (IA) task using either a mild or a high footshock (0.8 or 1.2 mA, 50 Hz, 1 s). A retention test was given 48 h later. Immediately after the retention test, mice were given intra-dorsal hippocampus infusions of either choline (Ch, an 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7nAChR) agonist, 0.08-1.30 g/hippocampus), or methyllycaconitine (MLA, an 7nAChR antagonist, 1.0-30.0 g/hippocampus). Memory retention was tested again 24 h later. Methyllycaconitine impaired retention performance regardless of footshock intensity and its effects were long lasting. Ch impaired retention performance only in those mice trained with a high footshock. On the contrary, Ch enhanced retention performance when mice were trained with a mild footshock. These effects were long lasting and dose- and time-dependent. Retention performance was not affected in drug-treated mice that were not subjected to memory reactivation, suggesting that the performance effects could not be attributable to non-specific effects of the drugs. Methyllycaconitine effects were dose-dependently reversed by choline, suggesting that MLA and Ch interact at the 7nAChR. Altogether, results suggest that hippocampal 7nAChRs play a critical role in reconsolidation of an IA response in mice, and may also have important implications for dynamic memory processes. This is the first presentation, to our knowledge, indicating that a specific receptor (7nAChR) is able to modulate consolidated memories after retrieval.
Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), important reactive oxygen species produced endogenously, may have different physiological actions. The superoxide anion (O(2)(-)) is suggested to be part of the signaling mechanisms activated by angiotensin II (ANG II) and central virus-mediated overexpression of the enzyme superoxide dismutase (that dismutates O(2)(-) to H(2)O(2)) reduces pressor and dipsogenic responses to central ANG II. Whether this result might reflect elevation of H(2)O(2) rather than depletion of O(2)(-) has not been addressed. Here we investigated the effects of H(2)O(2) injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) or ATZ (3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, a catalase inhibitor) injected intravenously (i.v.) or i.c.v. on the pressor responses induced by i.c.v. injections of ANG II. Normotensive male Holtzman rats (280-320 g, n=5-13/group) with stainless steel cannulas implanted in the lateral ventricle were used. Prior injection of H(2)O(2) (5 mol/1 l) or ATZ (5 nmol/1 l) i.c.v. almost abolished the pressor responses induced by ANG II (50 ng/1 l) also injected i.c.v. (7  3 and 5  3 mm Hg, respectively, vs. control: 19  4 mm Hg). Injection of ATZ (3.6 mmol/kg b.wt.) i.v. also reduced central ANG II-induced pressor responses. Injections of H(2)O(2) i.c.v. and ATZ i.c.v. or i.v. alone produced no effect on baseline arterial pressure. Central ANG II, H(2)O(2) or ATZ did not affect heart rate. The results show that central injections of H(2)O(2) and central or peripheral injections of ATZ reduced the pressor responses induced by i.c.v. ANG II, suggesting that exogenous or endogenous H(2)O(2) may inhibit central pressor mechanisms activated by ANG II.
Pre-eclampsia is an important hypertensive pregnancy disorder and a main cause of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. Children born from mothers with pre-eclampsia may present cognitive deficits. The mechanisms leading to this cognitive impairment remain unclear and no treatments to improve it have been tested. Pre-eclampsia is associated with impaired regulation of the nitric oxide-3'-5'guanosine monophosphate cyclic (cGMP) pathway, which modulates some cognitive functions. We hypothesized that alterations in the NO-cGMP pathway would be involved in the mechanisms leading to cognitive impairment in rats born to pre-eclamptic mothers and that treatment with sildenafil, an inhibitor of the phosphodiesterase that degrades cGMP, could restore their cognitive function. To test these hypotheses, we used an animal model of pre-eclampsia in rats: pregnant rats treated with l-nitro-arginine methyl ester, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. Using this model, we assessed: (1) whether rats born to pre-eclamptic mothers show reduced learning ability and/or altered motor activity or coordination when they are 2 months-old; (2) whether cognitive impairment is associated with reduced function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in brain in vivo; and (3) whether treatment of the mothers with sildenafil prevents this cognitive and motor alterations. The results reported show that the ability to learn a conditional discrimination task in a Y maze is reduced in rats born to pre-eclamptic mothers. This impairment was associated with reduced function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in brain in vivo, as assessed by microdialysis in freely moving rats. Treatment with sildenafil restores the function of this pathway and learning ability.
Cerebral ischemia causes blood flow derangements characterized by hyperemia (increased cerebral blood flow, CBF) and subsequent hypoperfusion (decreased CBF). We previously demonstrated that protein kinase C delta (PKC) plays an important role in hippocampal neuronal death after ischemia. However, whether part of this protection is due to the role of PKC on CBF following cerebral ischemia remains poorly understood. We hypothesized that PKC exacerbates hyperemia and subsequent hypoperfusion resulting in CBF derangements following ischemia. Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats pretreated with a PKC specific inhibitor (V1-1, 0.5 mg/kg) exhibited attenuation of hyperemia and latent hypoperfusion characterized by vasoconstriction followed by vasodilation of microvessels after 2-vessel occlusion plus hypotension measured by 2-photon microscopy. In an asphyxial cardiac arrest model (ACA), SD rats treated with V1-1 (pre- and post-ischemia) exhibited improved perfusion after 24 h and less hippocampal CA1 neuronal death 7 days after ACA. These results suggest possible therapeutic potential of PKC in modulating CBF and neuronal damage after cerebral ischemia.
The central sulcus (CS) divides primary motor and sensory cortex in many mammalian brains. Recent studies have shown that experiential factors can influence the volume and lateralization of the CS in both human and nonhuman primates. In this study, we sought to define specific landmarks and the depth of the CS region corresponding to the motor-hand area of chimpanzees for comparison with humans using a novel, observer independent method applied to sample of 32 magnetic resonance images (MRI) scans. Our results showed that the dorsal-ventral location of the motor-hand region is comparable between humans and chimpanzees, though the depth of the CS was significantly greater in humans compared to chimpanzees. We further found that CS area corresponding to the motor-hand area was significantly larger in the hemisphere contralateral to the chimpanzees preferred hand. The methods employed here offer some potential advantages over traditional region-of-interest in the comparative study of cortical organization and gyrification in primates and are discussed.
Circadian rhythms in behavior and physiology change as female mammals transition from one reproductive state to another. The mechanisms responsible for this plasticity are poorly understood. The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus contains the primary circadian pacemaker in mammals, and a large portion of its efferent projections terminate in the ventral subparaventricular zone (vSPZ), which also plays important roles in rhythm regulation. To determine whether these regions might mediate changes in overt rhythms during early pregnancy, we first compared rhythms in Fos and Per2 protein expression in the SCN and vSPZ of diestrous and early pregnant rats maintained in a 12:12-h light/dark (LD) cycle. No differences in the Fos rhythm were seen in the SCN core, but in the SCN shell, elevated Fos expression was maintained throughout the light phase in pregnant, but not diestrous, rats. In the vSPZ, the Fos rhythm was bimodal in diestrous rats, but this rhythm was lost in pregnant rats. Peak Per2 expression was phase-advanced by 4 h in the SCN of pregnant rats, and some differences in Per2 expression were found in the vSPZ as well. To determine whether differences in Fos expression were due to altered responsivity to light, we next characterized light-induced Fos expression in the SCN and vSPZ of pregnant and diestrous rats in the mid-subjective day and night. We found that the SCN core of the two groups responded in the same way at each time of day, whereas the rhythm of Fos responsivity in the SCN shell and vSPZ differed between diestrous and pregnant rats. These results indicate that the SCN and vSPZ are functionally re-organized during early pregnancy, particularly in how they respond to the photic environment. These changes may contribute to changes in overt behavioral and physiological rhythms that occur at this time.
Proline-rich synapse-associated protein-1 and 2 (ProSAP1/Shank2 and ProSAP2/Shank3) were originally found as synapse-associated protein 90/postsynaptic density protein-95-associated protein (SAPAP)/guanylate-kinase-associated protein (GKAP) interaction partners and also isolated from synaptic junctional protein preparations of rat brain. They are essential components of the postsynaptic density (PSD) and are specifically targeted to excitatory asymmetric type 1 synapses. Functionally, the members of the ProSAP/Shank family are one of the postsynaptic key elements since they link and attach the postsynaptic signaling apparatus, for example N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA)-receptors via direct and indirect protein interactions to the actin-based cytoskeleton. The functional significance of ProSAP1/2 for synaptic transmission and the paucity of data with respect to the molecular composition of PSDs of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) stimulated us to investigate neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), synapses of the superior cervical ganglion (SCG), and synapses in myenteric ganglia as representative synaptic junctions of the PNS. Confocal imaging revealed ProSAP1/2-immunoreactivity (-iry) in NMJs of rat and mouse sternomastoid and tibialis anterior muscles. In contrast, ProSAP1/2-iry was only negligibly found in motor endplates of striated esophageal muscle probably caused by antigen masking or a different postsynaptic molecular anatomy at these synapses. ProSAP1/2-iry was furthermore detected in cell bodies and dendrites of superior cervical ganglion neurons and myenteric neurons in esophagus and stomach. Ultrastructural analysis of ProSAP1/2 expression in myenteric ganglia demonstrated that ProSAP1 and ProSAP2 antibodies specifically labelled PSDs of myenteric neurons. Thus, scaffolding proteins ProSAP1/2 were found within the postsynaptic specializations of synapses within the PNS, indicating a similar molecular assembly of central and peripheral postsynapses.
Spinal nerves and their associated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells can be subject to mechanical deformation and hypoxia associated with pathology such as disc herniation, spinal stenosis and spine trauma. There is very limited information on the response of adult DRG neurons to such stressors. In this study we used an in vitro approach to examine the response of adult DRG cells to (a) mechanical, hypoxic, and combined injuries; and (b) to compare the effects on injury on nociceptive and non-nociceptive neurons, as well as on non-neuronal cells. Mechanical injury (20% tensile strain) led to significant neuronal cell death (assessed by ethidium homodimer-1 labelling), which was proportional to strain duration (5 min, 1 h, 6 h or 18 h). Hypoxia (2% O(2) for 24 h) also promoted death of DRG neurons, and was further enhanced when mechanical strain and hypoxia were combined. Both mechanical strain and hypoxia significantly decreased the maximum neurite length. Conversely, death of non-neuronal cells was only increased by hypoxia and not by mechanical strain. Total cell death in response to mechanical injury or hypoxia was similar in both non-nociceptive (neurofilament, NF-200 immunoreactive) and nociceptive (calcitonin gene-related peptide, CGRP immunoreactive) neurons, but apoptosis (assessed by activated caspase-3 immunostaining) was significantly higher in CGRP than NF-200 neurons. Surprisingly, cell death of non-peptidergic nociceptors (identified by Griffonia simplicifolia IB4 lectin binding) was already high in control cultures, and was not increased further by either mechanical stretch or hypoxia. These results provide detailed information on the response of adult DRG subpopulations to hypoxia and mechanical strain, and describe in vitro models that could be useful for screening potential neuroprotective agents.
Dendritic spines are small actin-rich protrusions that form the postsynaptic part of most excitatory synapses. They play critical roles in synaptic function and exhibit a striking degree of structural plasticity, which is closely linked to changes in strength of synaptic connections. Here the authors summarize recent work that has revealed an important relationship between the microtubule and actin cytoskeleton in controlling spine morphology and plasticity. Dynamic microtubules and the proteins that specifically associate with the growing microtubule plus-ends recently emerged as temporal and spatial regulators of actin organization, which controls dynamic changes in structure and function of dendritic spines.
The presence and function of immune molecules in the central nervous system (CNS) have been under debate for a long time. There is mounting evidence that molecules fundamental for immune function are indeed expressed by both neurons and glia and that such molecules may have important nonimmunological function for the organization and stability of synaptic connections. Here, we present data showing that the classic form of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules is expressed in spinal motoneurons, in particular in their axons and presynaptically at their synapses with skeletal muscles, the neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). The expression is strongly increased after axon lesion in the peripheral nerve. In the absence of classic MHC I, the organization of NMJs is disturbed with NMJs in higher numbers than normal, thereby equipping single muscle fibers with multiple NMJs. It is suggested that these effects are mediated by the classic MHC class I in the motor axons, possibly through effects mediated by the peripherally myelinating Schwann cells, which express receptors for classic MHC class I. The presence of immune molecules normally used by other cells for antigen presentation in peripheral motor axons may have implications for the onset of specific motoneuron disease.
For more than 20 years, the amyloid hypothesis has provided an important framework for Alzheimer's disease (AD) research, yet after 50,000 papers, the nonpathological function of beta-amyloid (A) remains enigmatic. This mystery is compounded by an absence of gross abnormalities in amyloid precursor protein (APP)-deficient mice and zebrafish even though APP has been highly conserved throughout vertebrate evolution. Here, the author hypothesizes that vertebrate cells express APP and release A as part of a mechanism to optimize blood vessel density with the metabolite removal needs of local tissue neighborhoods. High-gain feedback of A production at the rate-limiting -secretase step reduces A production and Notch activation. Notch inhibition causes endothelial cells to adopt a tip cell morphology that induces more highly branched blood vessels. In vivo, -secretase inhibitors block Notch signaling and induce dense capillary networks that are similar to those in the brains of AD patients and mice. Notch inhibition could also contribute to synapse loss by reducing EphB2 receptor expression. EphB receptors are critical for the maintenance of dendritic spine morphology, and deficiencies result in immature spines that lack synaptic activity. This revised amyloid-Notch hypothesis may also explain the disappointing results of recent clinical trials with -secretase inhibitors.
The practice of induced skull deformity has long existed in numerous disparate cultures, but for the first time in history it can be applied to adults. While extremely limited in application, some ideas have persisted in the far fringes of modern Western culture with remarkable tenacity. Practitioners of extreme body modification undergo procedures, outside the sphere of traditional medical practice, to make striking, permanent, nontraditional esthetic tissue distortions with the goal of transgressing societal norms. The International Trepanation Advocacy Group represents another example of a fringe cultural movement, whose goal, rather than being purely aesthetic in nature, is to promote elective trepanation as a method for achieving a heightened level of consciousness. Both movements have relatively short and well-defined histories. Despite their tiny numbers of adherents, neurosurgeons may be called on to address relevant patient concerns preprocedurally, or complications postprocedurally, and would benefit from awareness of these peculiar subcultures.


In animals, repeated administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) reduces markers of serotonergic activity and studies show similar serotonergic deficits in human MDMA users. Using proton-magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) at 11.7Tesla, we measured the metabolic neurochemical profile in intact, discrete tissue punches taken from prefrontal cortex, anterior striatum, and hippocampus of rats administered MDMA (5mg/kg IP, 4 q 2h) or saline and euthanized 7 days after the last injection. Monoamine content was measured with HPLC in contralateral punches from striatum and hippocampus to compare the MDMA-induced loss of 5HT innervation with constituents in the (1)H-MRS profile. When assessed 7 days after the last MDMA injection, levels of hippocampal and striatal serotonin (5HT) were significantly reduced, consistent with published animal studies. N-Acetylaspartate (NAA) levels were significantly increased in prefrontal cortex and not affected in anterior striatum or hippocampus; myo-inositol (INS) levels were increased in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus but not anterior striatum. Glutamate levels were increased in prefrontal cortex and decreased in hippocampus, while GABA levels were decreased only in hippocampus. The data suggest that NAA may not reliably reflect MDMA-induced 5HT neurotoxicity. However, the collective pattern of changes in 5HT, INS, glutamate and GABA is consistent with persistent hippocampal neuroadaptations caused by MDMA.
Lead (Pb) exposure is a risk factor for neurological dysfunction. How Pb produces these behavioral deficits is unknown, but Pb exposure during development is associated with auditory temporal processing deficits in both humans and animals. Pb disrupts cellular energy metabolism and efficient energy production is crucial for auditory neurons to maintain high rates of synaptic activity. The voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) is involved in the regulation of mitochondrial physiology and is a critical component in controlling mitochondrial energy production. We have previously demonstrated that VDAC is an in vitro target for Pb, therefore, VDAC may represent a potential target for Pb in the auditory system. In order to determine whether Pb alters VDAC expression in central auditory neurons, CBA/CaJ mice (n=3-5/group) were exposed to 0.01mM, or 0.1mM Pb acetate during development via drinking water. At P21, immunohistochemistry reveals a significant decrease for VDAC in neurons of the Medial Nucleus of the Trapezoid Body. Western blot analysis confirms that Pb results in a significant decrease for VDAC. Decreases in VDAC expression could lead to an upregulation of other cellular energy producing systems as a compensatory mechanism, and a Pb-induced increase in brain type creatine kinase is observed in auditory regions of the brainstem. In addition, comparative proteomic analysis shows that several proteins of the glycolytic pathway, the phosphocreatine circuit, and oxidative phosphorylation are also upregulated in response to developmental Pb exposure. Thus, Pb-induced decreases in VDAC could have a significant effect on the function of auditory neurons.



We evaluate the influence of different malnutrition paradigms (intra-uterine  extra-uterine) in body and brain weight, in seizure threshold and in hippocampus morphometry, in developing rats. Intra-uterine malnutrition model consisted in reduction by half of the ration offered to pregnant female; extra-uterine malnutrition consisted of progressive limitation of lactation, from P2 to P15. Seizure induction was accomplished by exposure to flurothyl, at P15. At the same day animals were sacrificed. Morphometric analysis was based on hippocampal pyramidal and granular cells estimate number, through volume calculation and cellular density. Extra-uterine malnutrition significantly reduced pups body and brain weight, seizure threshold and neuronal number in CA4 region only. Intra-uterine malnutrition reduced neuronal number in CA2, CA4 and DG regions regarding well-nourished and extra-uterine malnourished animals. In CA3, CA4 and dentate gyrus, a significant cell increase was observed in groups exposed to seizures, regarding similar control groups.
Any discussion of the impact of nutrition and environment on the brain is based on the premise that the brain is malleable, but just how malleable is this most complex of all organs? And to what extent does the term &quot;malleability&quot; extend beyond subtle functional changes into the realms of morphology and connectivity? Recent methodological advances have provided new insight into these issues and have revealed synapse populations that turn over at high rates and synaptic receptors that are continuously on the move. The unveiling of this unsuspected structural plasticity has prompted new research on a class of enzymes (matrix metalloproteinases) that regulate the physical constraints imposed by extracellular matrix molecules. The realization that the brain is more &quot;softwired&quot; than previously anticipated emphasizes the relevance of current endeavors to explore the impact of nutrition and exercise on brain function and structure.
Enhancement of peripheral opioid analgesia following tissue injury or inflammation in animal models is well-documented, but clinical results of peripheral opioid therapy remain inconsistent. Previous studies in the central nervous system have shown that co-administration of - and -opioid receptor agonists can enhance analgesic outcomes; however, less is known about the functional consequences of opioid receptor interactions in the periphery. The present study examines the effects of intraplantar injection of the - and -opioid receptor agonists, morphine and deltorphin, alone and in combination on behavioral tests of nociception in nave rats and on potassium-evoked release of CGRP from sciatic nerves of nave rats. Neither drug alone affected nociceptive behaviors or CGRP release. Two separate measures of mechanical nociceptive sensitivity remained unchanged after co-administration of the two drugs. In contrast, when deltorphin was co-injected with morphine, dose-dependent and peripherally restricted increases in paw withdrawal latencies to radiant heat were observed. Similarly, concentration-dependent inhibition of CGRP release was observed when deltorphin and morphine were administered in sequence prior to potassium stimulation. However, no inhibition was observed when morphine was administered prior to deltorphin. All combined opioid effects were blocked by co-application of antagonists. Deltorphin exposure also enhanced the in vivo and in vitro effects of another -opioid receptor agonist, DAMGO. Together, these results suggest that under normal conditions, -opioid receptor agonists enhance the effect of -opioid receptor agonists in the periphery, and local co-administration of - and -opioid receptor agonists may improve results of peripheral opioid therapy for the treatment of pain.
Pain management in elderly people with cognitive impairment poses special challenges, due to difficulties in pain assessment and specific neurodegenerative changes along pain pathways. Most studies have concentrated on Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, in whom some contrasting findings have been found. For example, while psychophysical data suggest a selective blunting of the affective dimension of pain, pain-related fMRI signal increases have also been described. Few data have been reported in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). By electrical stimulation, we have measured pain threshold and pain tolerance in clinically diagnosed FTD patients with SPECT cerebral hypoperfusion. We performed our analysis on two separate and overlapping subgroups selected on the basis of (1) neuropsychological scores below cut-off values (2) a strictly localized frontal and/or temporal hypoperfusion. We observed increased pain threshold in the first group and increased pain threshold and pain tolerance in the second group. Our results suggest differences in pain processing changes in distinct types of dementia, while at the same time caution that pain perception assessment may depend on the criteria adopted for diagnosis.
The change with age in pain perception in humans and the nociceptive behaviors in animals elicited by noxious stimuli to the skin are not well understood, and little is known about the peripheral neural mechanisms of cutaneous nociception in the aged. We systematically examined cutaneous nociceptor responses and nociceptive behaviors in young (9-14 w) and in aged (127-138 w) Sprague-Dawley rats. C-fiber nociceptors in the skin were identified by mechanical and electrical stimulation, and extracellularly recorded from hind paw skin-saphenous nerve preparations in vitro. In the aged rats, the proportions of mechano-responsive and/or heat-responsive C-nociceptors were significantly lower. The proportion of mechano- and thermo-insensitive units, on the other hand, was significantly increased. In addition, the response threshold to mechanical stimulus tended to be higher and the magnitude of the response tended to be smaller. There were no differences between the two age groups in the response magnitudes of mechano-responsive C-nociceptors to bradykinin, cold or heat. Repetitive electrical stimulation of afferent fibers revealed exaggerated slowing of conduction velocity in mechano-responsive C-fibers in the aged. This showed for the first time that not only receptive properties of afferent terminals but also membrane properties of conducting axons are changed in aged rats. Nociceptive behaviors in response to noxious levels of cold (cold plate test) and heat (Hargreaves' radiant heat test) were facilitated in aged animals, while mechanical sensitivity measured by von Frey hairs remained unchanged. These discrepancies between the changes in peripheral afferents and the behavioral outcomes might be explained by facilitatory changes in the central nervous system.
We recently reported that women report greater pain adaptation and habituation to moderately painful heat stimuli than men (Hashmi and Davis [16]); but slightly lower temperatures were needed to evoke moderate pain in the women. Hardy et al (1962) and LaMotte (1979) suggested that pain adaptation is most prominent at modest noxious heat temperatures and may occur at temperatures close to pain thresholds. Thus, as a follow-up to our previous study, we examined the role of absolute temperature in pain adaptation and habituation in men and women and assessed whether pain threshold impacts these findings. We hypothesised that pain adaptation and habituation would be more prominent at low and moderate temperatures, and that higher temperatures would induce pain adaptation and habituation in women but not in men. We further hypothesized that pain adaptation would not be correlated with pain thresholds. To test this, we obtained continuous ratings of pain evoked by 44.5-47.5C stimuli applied to the dorsal foot of men and women. Each run consisted of three 30s stimuli at the same temperature with a 60s inter-stimulus interval. Women showed within-stimulus adaptation of total pain at all temperatures, but men showed significant adaptation to temperatures less than 47C. There were no sex differences in inter-stimulus habituation and both men and women reported habituation to temperatures less than 46C. Pain thresholds did not correlate with pain adaptation. These data highlight the temperature-sensitivity and sex differences of pain adaptation and habituation.
This investigation determined whether the activation of the kappa opioid receptor (KOR) in the spinal cord produces estrogen-dependent, sex-specific modulation of acute and inflammation-induced persistent nociception. We demonstrate for the first time that KOR antinociception and gene expression are enhanced by exogenous or endogenous estrogen in the female. The lack of KOR antinociception and KOR gene expression are not altered by the hormonal status (testosterone or estrogen) in males. Cannulae were implanted intrathecally in male, gonadectomized male (GDX), intact and ovariectomized female (OVX) Sprague-Dawley rats. Estradiol was injected subcutaneously, 48h before testing (GDX+E and OVX+E). Intrathecal injection of U50,488H, a selective KOR agonist, dose dependently increased heat-evoked tail flick latencies (TFLs) in proestrous and OVX+E groups, but not in male, GDX, GDX+E, OVX, and diestrous groups. Further, estrogen dose-dependently enhanced the effect of U50,488H in OVX rats. KOR selective antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (Nor-BNI), blocked the antinociceptive effect of U50,488H. U50,488H reversed the carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia in OVX+E rats, but not in male or OVX rats. However, U50,488H treatment did not alter mechanical thresholds in any group, with or without inflammation. KOR gene expression was enhanced in proestrous and OVX+E groups as compared to any other group. We conclude that selective activation of KOR in the spinal cord produces sex-specific, stimulus- and estrogen-dependent attenuation of acute and inflammatory pain in the rat via estrogen-induced upregulation of the KOR gene expression in the spinal cord. These findings may further implicate estrogen dependence of KOR effects in learning, epilepsy, stress response, addiction etc.
Endometriosis is a disease common in women that is defined by abnormal extrauteral growths of uterine endometrial tissue and associated with severe pain. Partly because how the abnormal growths become associated with pain is poorly understood, the pain is difficult to alleviate without resorting to hormones or surgery, which often produce intolerable side effects or fail to help. Recent studies in a rat model and women showed that sensory and sympathetic nerve fibers sprout branches to innervate the abnormal growths. This situation, together with knowledge that the endocannabinoid system is involved in uterine function and dysfunction and that exogenous cannabinoids were once used to alleviate endometriosis-associated pain, suggests that the endocannabinoid system is involved in both endometriosis and its associated pain. Herein, using a rat model, we found that CB1 cannabinoid receptors are expressed on both the somata and fibers of both the sensory and sympathetic neurons that innervate endometriosis's abnormal growths. We further found that CB1 receptor agonists decrease, whereas CB1 receptor antagonists increase, endometriosis-associated hyperalgesia. Together these findings suggest that the endocannabinoid system contributes to mechanisms underlying both the peripheral innervation of the abnormal growths and the pain associated with endometriosis, thereby providing a novel approach for the development of badly-needed new treatments.
Little is known about patients prescribed high doses of opioids to treat chronic non-cancer pain, though these patients may be at higher risk for medication-related complications. We describe the prevalence of high-dose opioid use and associated demographic and clinical characteristics among veterans treated in a VA regional healthcare network. Veterans with chronic non-cancer pain prescribed high doses of opioids ( 180 mg/day morphine equivalent; n=478) for 90+ consecutive days were compared to two groups with chronic pain: Traditional-dose (5-179 mg/day; n=500) or no opioid (n=500). High-dose opioid use occurred in 2.4% of all chronic pain patients and in 8.2% of all chronic pain patients prescribed opioids long-term. The average dose in the high-dose group was 324.9 (SD=285.1)mg/day. The only significant demographic difference among groups was race (p=0.03) with black veterans less likely to receive high doses. High-dose patients were more likely to have four or more pain diagnoses and the highest rates of medical, psychiatric, and substance use disorders. After controlling for demographic factors and VA facility, neuropathy, low back pain, and nicotine dependence diagnoses were associated with increased likelihood of high-dose prescriptions. High-dose patients frequently did not receive care consistent with treatment guidelines: there was frequent use of short-acting opioids, urine drug screens were administered to only 25.7% of patients in the prior year, and 32.0% received concurrent benzodiazepine prescriptions, which may increase risk for overdose and death. Further study is needed to identify better predictors of high-dose usage, as well as the efficacy and safety of such dosing.
Following upper limb peripheral nerve transection and surgical repair (PNIr) patients frequently exhibit sensory and motor deficits, but only some develop chronic neuropathic pain. Thus, the sensorimotor outcome of PNIr may be impacted by individual factors. Therefore, our aims were to determine if patients with chronic neuropathic pain (PNI-P) following PNIr (1) are distinguished from patients without pain (PNI-NP) and healthy controls (HCs) by the psychological factors of pain catastrophizing, neuroticism or extraversion, and (2) exhibit more severe sensorimotor deficits than patients who did not develop chronic pain (PNI-NP). Thirty-one patients with complete median and/or ulnar nerve transection (21 PNI-NP, 10 PNI-P) and 21 HCs completed questionnaires to assess pain characteristics, pain catastrophizing, neuroticism and extraversion and underwent sensorimotor evaluation. Nerve conduction studies revealed incomplete sensorimotor peripheral recovery based on abnormal sensory and motor latency and amplitude measures in transected nerves. The patients also had significant deficits of sensory function (two-point discrimination and vibration, touch, and warmth detection), sensorimotor integration, and fine motor dexterity. Compared to PNI-NP patients, PNI-P patients had higher vibration detection thresholds, performed worse on sensory-motor integration tasks, had greater motor impairment, and showed more impaired nerve conduction. Furthermore, PNI-P patients had reduced cold pain tolerance, elevated pain intensity and unpleasantness during the cold pressor test, and they scored higher on neuroticism and pain-catastrophizing scales. These data demonstrate that chronic neuropathic pain following PNIr is associated with impaired nerve regeneration, profound sensorimotor deficits and a different psychological profile that may be predictive of poor recovery after injury.
NADH dehydrogenase ubiquinone flavoprotein 2 (NDUFV2), encoding a subunit of mitochondrial complex I, is a candidate gene for several neuronal diseases; schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and Parkinson disease (PD). We screened the entire coding region of NDUFV2 in 33 familial PD patients of North African Arab-Berber ethnicity in which all known genetic forms of PD had been excluded. We detected one novel substitution p.K209R (c.626A&gt;G) in one PD proband. Segregation analysis within the family is inconclusive due to small sample size, but consistent with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. Subsequent screening of this mutation in ethnically matched sporadic PD patients (n = 238) and controls (n = 371) identified p.K209R in one additional patient. The clinical features of the mutation carriers revealed a mild form of parkinsonism with a prognosis similar to idiopathic PD. Our findings suggest further studies addressing the role of NDUFV2 variation in PD may be warranted.
A series of 106 patients with isolated or familial Parkinsonism underwent clinical evaluation and genetic testing for the LRRK2 G2019S mutation which was identified in 34/106 patients (32%). Seventy one of them accepted to be evaluated for neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric studies with the aim to compare mutation carriers with non-carriers. For neuropsychological testing, comparisons between LRRK2 G2019S carriers and non-carriers were made after stratification according to the level of education: median and high school versus low level. Memory was investigated with the five words test, 2 novel tests with verbalized visual material dedicated to illiterate patients, the TNI-93 (nine pictures test), The TMA-93 (associative memory test), and digit spans (forward/backward). Cognitive analyse did not show major differences between the two groups of patients. Nevertheless, behavioral abnormalities, mostly depression and hallucinations, were more frequent in the LRRK2 G2019S carriers, suggesting the presence of a greater involvement of the limbic system in these patients. Sleep disorders which were also more common amongst mutation carriers than non-carriers might be related to depression.
