The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) are important molecular regulators of an individual's ability to respond to stressful stimuli in an adaptive manner. Impaired signaling of both GR and CRH often leads to dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, which underlies the etiology of many affective disorders such as anxiety and depression. Studies focusing on how GR and CRH influence the stress response are limited as they generalize to broad brain regions, thus hindering identification of how specific CNS nuclei contribute to maladaptive stress responses. Our objective is to distinguish the site-specific involvement of GR and CRH in limbic regions involved in the stress response. With that intent, we use lentiviral (LV) vectors in combination with transgenic mouse lines, enabling us to modify expression of GR or CRH in a very localized manner. This paper describes the generation of several distinct LV vectors and transgenic mice models that will help further elucidate the site-specific actions of GR and CRH.
The circadian rhythm of corticosterone (CORT) secretion from the adrenal cortex is regulated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which is entrained to the light-dark cycle. Since the circadian CORT rhythm is associated with circadian expression of the steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) protein, we investigated the 24h pattern of hormonal secretion (ACTH and CORT), steroidogenic gene expression (StAR, SF-1, DAX1 and Nurr77) and the expression of genes involved in ACTH signalling (MC2R and MRAP) in rats entrained to a normal light-dark cycle. We found that circadian changes in ACTH and CORT were associated with the circadian expression of all gene targets; with SF-1, Nurr77 and MRAP peaking in the evening, and DAX1 and MC2R peaking in the morning. Since disruption of normal SCN activity by exposure to constant light abolishes the circadian rhythm of CORT in the rat, we also investigated whether the AM-PM variation of our target genes was also disrupted in rats exposed to constant light conditions for 5weeks. We found that the disruption of the AM-PM variation of ACTH and CORT secretion in rats exposed to constant light was accompanied by a loss of AM-PM variation in StAR, SF-1 and DAX1, and a reversed AM-PM variation in Nurr77, MC2R and MRAP. Our data suggest that circadian expression of StAR is regulated by the circadian expression of nuclear receptors and proteins involved in both ACTH signalling and StAR transcription. We propose that ACTH regulates the secretion of CORT via the circadian control of steroidogenic gene pathways that become dysregulated under the influence of constant light.
Attention improves perception by affecting different aspects of the neuronal code. It enhances firing rates, it reduces firing rate variability and noise correlations of neurons, and it alters the strength of oscillatory activity. Attention-induced rate enhancement in striate cortex requires cholinergic mechanisms. The neuropharmacological mechanisms responsible for attention-induced variance and noise correlation reduction or those supporting changes in oscillatory activity are unknown. We show that ionotropic glutamatergic receptor activation is required for attention-induced rate variance, noise correlation, and LFP gamma power reduction in macaque V1, but not for attention-induced rate modulations. NMDA receptors mediate attention-induced variance reduction and attention-induced noise correlation reduction. Our results demonstrate that attention improves sensory processing by a variety of mechanisms that are dissociable at the receptor level.
Glutamate is the most abundant excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain, and distinct classes of glutamate receptors coordinate synaptic transmission and spike generation upon various levels of neuronal activity. However, the mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we found that loss of synaptic AMPA receptors increased kainate receptor activity in cerebellar granule cells without changing NMDA receptors. The augmentation of kainate receptor-mediated currents in the absence of AMPA receptor activity is required for spike generation and is mediated by the increased expression of the GluK5 high-affinity kainate receptor subunit. Increase in GluK5 expression is sufficient to enhance kainate receptor activity by modulating receptor channel properties, but not localization. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the combined loss of the AMPA receptor auxiliary TARP-2 subunit and the GluK5 subunit leads to early mouse lethality. Our findings reveal mechanisms mediated by distinct classes of postsynaptic glutamate receptors for the homeostatic maintenance of the neuronal activity.
Cocaine's behavioral-stimulant effects derive from potentiation of synaptic signaling by dopamine and serotonin leading to transcriptional alterations in postsynaptic cells. We report that a signaling cascade involving nitric oxide (NO) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) mediates cocaine's transcriptional and behavioral actions. Lower, behavioral-stimulant doses enhance the cAMP response element-binding (CREB) signaling system, while higher, neurotoxic doses stimulate the p53 cytotoxic system. The drug CGP3466B, which potently and selectively blocks GAPDH nitrosylation and GAPDH-Siah binding, prevents these actions as well as behavioral effects of cocaine providing a strategy for anticocaine therapy.
S-Nitrosylation is a redox-mediated posttranslational modification that regulates protein function via covalent reaction of nitric oxide (NO)-related species with a cysteine thiol group on the target protein. Under physiological conditions, S-nitrosylation can be an important modulator of signal transduction pathways, akin to phosphorylation. However, with aging or environmental toxins that generate excessive NO, aberrant S-nitrosylation reactions can occur and affect protein misfolding, mitochondrial fragmentation, synaptic function, apoptosis or autophagy. Here, we discuss how aberrantly S-nitrosylated proteins (SNO-proteins) play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Insight into the pathophysiological role of aberrant S-nitrosylation pathways will enhance our understanding of molecular mechanisms leading to neurodegenerative diseases and point to potential therapeutic interventions.
One central goal of systems neuroscience is to understand how neural circuits implement the computations that link sensory inputs to behavior. Work combining electrophysiological and imaging-based approaches to measure neural activity with pharmacological and electrophysiological manipulations has provided fundamental insights. More recently, genetic approaches have been used to monitor and manipulate neural activity, opening up new experimental opportunities and challenges. Here, we discuss issues associated with applying genetic approaches to circuit dissection in sensorimotor transformations, outlining important considerations for experimental design and considering how modeling can complement experimental approaches.
Adult neurogenesis represents a unique form of plasticity in the dentate gyrus requiring the presence oflong-lived neural stem cells (LL-NSCs). However, the embryonic origin of these LL-NSCs remains unclear. The prevailing model assumes that the dentate neuroepithelium throughout the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus generates both the LL-NSCs and embryonically produced granule neurons. Here we show that the NSCs initially originate from the ventral hippocampus during late gestation and then relocate into the dorsal hippocampus. The descendants of these cells are the source for the LL-NSCs in the subgranular zone (SGZ). Furthermore, we show that the origin of these cells and their maintenance in the dentate are controlled by distinct sources of Sonic Hedgehog (Shh). The revelation of the complexity of both the embryonic origin of hippocampal LL-NSCs and the sources of Shh has important implications for the functions of LL-NSCs in the adult hippocampus.
The cerebellum fine-tunes motor activity via its Purkinje cell output. Purkinje cells produce two different types of spikes, complex spikes and simple spikes, which often show reciprocal activity:a periodical increase in complex spikes is associated with a decrease in simple spikes, and vice versa. This reciprocal firing is thought to be essential for coordinated motor behavior, yet how it is accomplished is debated. Here, we show in Ptf1a::cre;Robo3(lox/lox) mice that selectively rerouting the climbing fibers from a contralateral to an ipsilateral projection reversed the complex-spike modulation during sensory stimulation. Strikingly, modulation of simple spikes, which is supposed to be controlled by mossy fibers, reversed as well. Climbing fibers enforce this reciprocity in part by influencing activity of inhibitory interneurons, because the phase of their activity was also converted. Ptf1a::cre;Robo3(lox/lox) mice showed severe ataxia highlighting that climbing fiber input and its impact on reciprocity of Purkinje cell firing play an important role in motor coordination.

Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) containing the 9 subunit are expressed in a wide variety of non-neuronal tissues ranging from immune cells to breast carcinomas. The 9 subunit is able to assemble into a functional homomeric nAChR and also co-assemble with the 10 subunit into functional heteromeric nAChRs. Despite the increasing awareness of the important roles of this subunit in vertebrates, the study of human 9-containing nAChRs has been severely limited by difficulties in its expression in heterologous systems. In Xenopus laevis oocytes, functional expression of human 910 nAChRs is very low compared to that of rat 910 nAChRs. When oocytes were co-injected with cRNA of 9 and 10 subunits of human versus those of rat, oocytes with the rat 9 human 10 combination had an -fold higher level of acetylcholine-gated currents (I(ACh)) than those with the human 9 rat 10 combination, suggesting difficulties with human 9 expression. When the ratio of injected human 9 cRNA to human 10 cRNA was increased from 11 to 51, I(ACh) increased 36-fold (from 14223 nA to 5171748 nA). Functional expression of human 9-containing receptors in oocytes was markedly improved by appending the 5'-untranslated region of alfalfa mosaic virus RNA4 to the 5'-leader sequence of the 9 subunit cRNA. This increased the functional expression of homomeric human 9 receptors by 70-fold (from 71 nA to 475158 nA) and of human 910 heteromeric receptors by 80-fold (from 11362 nA to 91921137 nA). These findings indicate the importance of the composition of the 5' untranslated leader sequence for expression of 9-containing nAChRs.
Mindfulness, a psychological process reflecting attention and awareness to what is happening in the present moment, has been associated with increased well-being and decreased depression and anxiety in both healthy and patient populations. However, little research has explored underlying neural pathways. Recent work suggests that mindfulness (and mindfulness training interventions) may foster neuroplastic changes in cortico-limbic circuits responsible for stress and emotion regulation. Building on this work, we hypothesized that higher levels of dispositional mindfulness would be associated with decreased grey matter volume in the amgydala. In the present study, a self-report measure of dispositional mindfulness and structural MRI images were obtained from 155 healthy community adults. Volumetric analyses showed that higher dispositional mindfulness is associated with decreased grey matter volume in the right amygdala, and exploratory analyses revealed that higher dispositional mindfulness is also associated with decreased grey matter volume in the left caudate. Moreover, secondary analyses indicate that these amygdala and caudate volume associations persist after controlling for relevant demographic and individual difference factors (i.e., age, total grey matter volume, neuroticism, depression). Such volumetric differences may help explain why mindful individuals have reduced stress reactivity, and suggest new candidate structural neurobiological pathways linking mindfulness with mental and physical health outcomes.
Brightness induction is the modulation of the perceived intensity of an area by the luminance of surrounding areas. Recent neurophysiological evidence suggests that brightness information might be explicitly represented in V1, in contrast to the more common assumption that the striate cortex is an area mostly responsive to sensory information. Here we investigate possible neural mechanisms that offer a plausible explanation for such phenomenon. To this end, a neurodynamical model which is based on neurophysiological evidence and focuses on the part of V1 responsible for contextual influences is presented. The proposed computational model successfully accounts for well known psychophysical effects for static contexts and also for brightness induction in dynamic contexts defined by modulating the luminance of surrounding areas. This work suggests that intra-cortical interactions in V1 could, at least partially, explain brightness induction effects and reveals how a common general architecture may account for several different fundamental processes, such as visual saliency and brightness induction, which emerge early in the visual processing pathway.
Depression is the most common psychiatric disorder observed in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, however the neural contribution to the high rate of depression in the PD group is still unclear. In this study, we used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the underlying neural mechanisms of depression in PD patients. Twenty-one healthy individuals and thirty-three patients with idiopathic PD, seventeen of whom were diagnosed with major depressive disorder, were recruited. An analysis of amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) was performed on the whole brain of all subjects. Our results showed that depressed PD patients had significantly decreased ALFF in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vMPFC) and the rostral anterior cingulated cortex (rACC) compared with non-depressed PD patients. A significant positive correlation was found between Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) and ALFF in the DLPFC. The findings of changed ALFF in these brain regions implied depression in PD patients may be associated with abnormal activities of prefrontal-limbic network.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) is a valuable tool in Alzheimer's disease research, investigating the functional integrity of the brain. The present longitudinal study set out to characterize the neurochemical profile of the hippocampus, measured by single voxel (1)H MRS at 7 Tesla, in the brains of APPSswe-PS1dE9 and wild-type mice at 8 and 12 months of age. Furthermore, we wanted to determine whether alterations in hippocampal metabolite levels coincided with behavioral changes, cognitive decline and neuropathological features, to gain a better understanding of the underlying neurodegenerative processes. Moreover, correlation analyses were performed in the 12-month-old APP-PS1 animals with the hippocampal amyloid- deposition, TBS-T soluble A levels and high-molecular weight A aggregate levels to gain a better understanding of the possible involvement of A in neurochemical and behavioral changes, cognitive decline and neuropathological features in APP-PS1 transgenic mice. Our results show that at 8 months of age APPswe-PS1dE9 mice display behavioral and cognitive changes compared to age-matched wild-type mice, as determined in the open field and the (reverse) Morris water maze. However, there were no variations in hippocampal metabolite levels at this age. APP-PS1 mice at 12 months of age display more severe behavioral and cognitive impairment, which coincided with alterations in hippocampal metabolite levels that suggest reduced neuronal integrity. Furthermore, correlation analyses suggest a possible role of A in inflammatory processes, synaptic dysfunction and impaired neurogenesis.

One way to study the neural correlates of visual consciousness is to localize the cortical areas whose stimulation generates subjective visual sensations, called phosphenes. While there is support for the view that the stimulation of several different visual areas in the occipital lobe may produce phosphenes, it is not clear what the contribution of each area is. Here, we studied the roles of the primary visual cortex (V1) and the adjacent area V2 in eliciting phosphenes by using functional magnetic resonance imaging-guided transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) combined with spherical modeling of the TMS-induced electric field. Reports of the subjective visual features of phosphenes were systematically collected and analyzed. We found that selective stimulation of V1 and V2 are equally capable of generating phosphenes, as demonstrated by comparable phosphene thresholds and similar characteristics of phosphene shape, color, and texture. However, the phosphenes induced by V1 stimulation were systematically perceived as brighter than the phosphenes induced by the stimulation of V2. Thus, these results suggest that V1 and V2 have a similar capability to produce conscious percepts. Nevertheless, V1 and V2 contribute differently to brightness: neural activation originating in V1 generates a more intense sensation of brightness than similar activation originating in V2.

The effectiveness of anticancer therapies relies on the ability of these substances to eliminate selectively the malignant cells with little or no toxicity to normal cells. The isolation in most human tumors of a rare subpopulation of cancer stem cells (CSCs) associated with chemo resistance lead to the &quot;stem cell theory&quot; (SCT). The SCT proposed that eliminating this fraction will eventually cure cancer, but experimental data supporting this classical view are controversial and are now being gradually replaced by other models. These novel models of cancer biology predict that to cure cancer only drugs or combination of drugs that eliminate all (CSCs and non-CSCs) cancer cells at once (&quot;pankiller drugs&quot;) will be effective. The search for pankillers drugs will require tests to assess (i) the elimination of all cancer cells in in vitro systems and (ii) the ability to eradicate the tumors and prevent tumor relapse in in vivo systems. However, at present, most drugs are being tested in assays that can only provide a picture of the short-term activity of anticancer compounds. This in part explains why only a small fraction of the drugs that enter clinical trials are actually approved for clinical use. This article will provide a concise review of the systems, assays, and endpoint parameters routinely used to screen for potential anticancer drugs, and proposes, based in the current knowledge of cancer biology, a more rationale anticancer drug-screening program.
The structure of a complex containing a toxin bound to a potassium ion channel has been solved for the first time, revealing how scorpions have designed toxins that can recognize and target the filter that controls the movement of potassium ions through these channels.


Mutations in the coding sequence of the X-linked gene MeCP2 (Methyl CpG-binding protein) are present in around 80% of patients with Rett Syndrome, a common cause of intellectual disability in female and to date without any effective pharmacological treatment. A relevant, and so far unexplored feature of RTT patients, is a marked reduction in peripheral circulation. To investigate the relationship between loss of MeCP2 and this clinical aspect, we used the MeCP2 null mouse model B6.129SF1-MeCP2tm1Jae for functional and pharmacological studies. Functional experiments were performed on isolated resistance mesenteric vessels, mounted on a pressurized myograph. Vessels from female MeCP2(+/-) mice show a reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation, due to a reduced Nitric Oxide (NO) availability secondary to an increased Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) generation. Such functional aspects are associated with an intravascular increase in superoxide anion production, and a decreased vascular eNOS expression. These alterations are reversed by curcumin administration (5% (w/w) dietary curcumin for 21 days), which restores endothelial NO availability, decreases intravascular ROS production and normalizes vascular eNOS gene expression. In conclusion our findings highlight alterations in the vascular/endothelial system in the absence of a correct function of MeCP2, and uncover related cellular/molecular mechanisms that are rescued by an anti-oxidant treatment.
The endocannabinoid system has been implicated in the modulation of adult neurogenesis. Here, we describe the effect of type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) activation on self-renewal, proliferation and neuronal differentiation in mouse neonatal subventricular zone (SVZ) stem/progenitor cell cultures. Expression of CB1R was detected in SVZ-derived immature cells (Nestin-positive), neurons and astrocytes. Stimulation of the CB1R by (R)-(+)-Methanandamide (R-m-AEA) increased self-renewal of SVZ cells, as assessed by counting the number of secondary neurospheres and the number of Sox2+/+ cell pairs, an effect blocked by Notch pathway inhibition. Moreover, R-m-AEA treatment for 48 h, increased proliferation as assessed by BrdU incorporation assay, an effect mediated by activation of MAPK-ERK and AKT pathways. Surprisingly, stimulation of CB1R by R-m-AEA also promoted neuronal differentiation (without affecting glial differentiation), at 7 days, as shown by counting the number of NeuN-positive neurons in the cultures. Moreover, by monitoring intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca(2+)]i) in single cells following KCl and histamine stimuli, a method that allows the functional evaluation of neuronal differentiation, we observed an increase in neuronal-like cells. This proneurogenic effect was blocked when SVZ cells were co-incubated with R-m-AEA and the CB1R antagonist AM 251, for 7 days, thus indicating that this effect involves CB1R activation. In accordance with an effect on neuronal differentiation and maturation, R-m-AEA also increased neurite growth, as evaluated by quantifying and measuring the number of MAP2-positive processes. Taken together, these results demonstrate that CB1R activation induces proliferation, self-renewal and neuronal differentiation from mouse neonatal SVZ cell cultures.
The evolution of handedness in human populations has intrigued scientists for decades. However, whether handedness really affects Darwinian fitness is unclear and not yet studied in a non-industrial society where selection pressures on health and handedness are likely to be similar to the situation in which handedness has evolved. We measured both hand preference and asymmetry of hand skill (speed of fine motor control, measured by a pegboard task, and accuracy of throwing), as they measure different aspects of handedness. We investigated the associations between both the direction (left versus right) and strength (the degree to which a certain preference or asymmetry in skill is manifested, independent of the direction) of handedness. We analyzed to what extent these measures predict the number of offspring and self-reported illness in a non-industrial society in Papua, Indonesia. As it is known that body height and fitness are correlated, data on body height was also collected. Due to low numbers of left-handers we could not investigate the associations between direction of hand preference and measures of Darwinian fitness. We found a positive association between strength of asymmetry of hand skill (pegboard) and the number of children men sired. We also found a positive association for men between strength of hand preference and number of children who died within the first three years of life. For women we found no such effects. Our results may indicate that strength of handedness, independent of direction, has fitness implications and that the persistence of the polymorphism in handedness may be ascribed to either balancing selection on strength of asymmetry of hand skill versus strength of hand preference, or sexual antagonistic selection. No relationships between health and handedness were found, perhaps due to disease related selective disappearance of subjects with a specific handedness.
The motor output for walking is produced by a network of neurons termed the spinal central pattern generator (CPG) for locomotion. The basic building block of this CPG is a half-center oscillator composed of two mutually inhibitory sets of interneurons, each controlling one of the two dominant phases of locomotion: flexion and extension. To investigate symmetry between the two components of this oscillator, we analyzed the statistics of natural variation in timing during fictive locomotion induced by stimulation of the midbrain locomotor region in the cat. As a complement to previously published analysis of these data focused on burst and cycle durations, we present a new analysis examining the strength of phase locking at the transitions between flexion and extension. Across our sample of nerve pairs, phase locking at the transition from extension to flexion (E to F) is stronger than at the transition from flexion to extension (F to E). This pattern did not reverse when considering bouts of fictive locomotion that were flexor vs. extensor dominated, demonstrating that asymmetric locking at the transitions between phases is dissociable from which phase dominates cycle duration. We also find that the strength of phase locking is correlated with the mean latency between burst offset and burst onset. These results are interpreted in the context of a hypothesis where network inhibition and intrinsic oscillatory mechanisms make distinct contributions to flexor-extensor alternation in half-center networks.
Reelin is a large secreted extracellular matrix glycoprotein playing an important role in early neurodevelopment. Several genetic studies found an association between RELN gene and increased risk of autism suggesting that reelin deficiency may be a vulnerability factor in its etiology. Moreover, a reduced reelin expression has been observed in several brain regions of subjects with Autism Spectrum Disorders. Since a number of reports have documented presence of vocal and neuromotor abnormalities in patients with autism and suggested that these dysfunctions predate the onset of the syndrome, we performed a fine-grain characterization of the neonatal vocal and motor repertoire in reelin mutant mice to explore the developmental precursors of the disorder. Our findings evidence a general delay in motor and vocal development in heterozygous (50% reduced reelin) and reeler (lacking reelin gene) mutant mice. As a whole, an increased number of calls characterized heterozygous pup's emission. Furthermore, the typical ontogenetic peak in the number of calls characterizing wild-type pups on postnatal day 4 appeared slightly delayed in heterozygous pups (to day 6) and was quite absent in reeler littermates, which exhibited a flat profile during development. We also detected a preferential use of a specific call category (two-components) by heterozygous and reeler mice at postnatal days 6 and 8 as compared to their wild-type littermates. With regard to the analysis of spontaneous movements, a differential profile emerged early in development among the three genotypes. While only slight coordination difficulties are exhibited by heterozygous pups, all indices of motor development appear delayed in reeler mice. Overall, our results evidence a genotype-dependent deviation in ultrasonic vocal repertoire and a general delay in motor development in reelin mutant pups.
Sensory experience powerfully shapes cortical sensory representations during an early developmental &quot;critical period&quot; of plasticity. In the rat primary auditory cortex (A1), the experience-dependent plasticity is exemplified by significant, long-lasting distortions in frequency representation after mere exposure to repetitive frequencies during the second week of life. In the visual system, the normal unfolding of critical period plasticity is strongly dependent on the elaboration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which promotes the establishment of inhibition. Here, we tested the hypothesis that BDNF signaling plays a role in the experience-dependent plasticity induced by pure tone exposure during the critical period in the primary auditory cortex. Elvax resin implants filled with either a blocking antibody against BDNF or the BDNF protein were placed on the A1 of rat pups throughout the critical period window. These pups were then exposed to 7 kHz pure tone for 7 consecutive days and their frequency representations were mapped. BDNF blockade completely prevented the shaping of cortical tuning by experience and resulted in poor overall frequency tuning in A1. By contrast, BDNF infusion on the developing A1 amplified the effect of 7 kHz tone exposure compared to control. These results indicate that BDNF signaling participates in the experience-dependent plasticity induced by pure tone exposure during the critical period in A1.
Voltage-gated KCNQ1 (Kv7.1) potassium channels are expressed abundantly in heart but they are also found in multiple other tissues. Differential coassembly with single transmembrane KCNE beta subunits in different cell types gives rise to a variety of biophysical properties, hence endowing distinct physiological roles for KCNQ1-KCNEx complexes. Mutations in either KCNQ1 or KCNE1 genes result in diseases in brain, heart, and the respiratory system. In addition to complexities arising from existence of five KCNE subunits, KCNE1 to KCNE5, recent studies in heterologous systems suggest unorthodox stoichiometric dynamics in subunit assembly is dependent on KCNE expression levels. The resultant KCNQ1-KCNE channel complexes may have a range of zero to two or even up to four KCNE subunits coassembling per KCNQ1 tetramer. These findings underscore the need to assess the selectivity of small-molecule KCNQ1 modulators on these different assemblies. Here we report a unique small-molecule gating modulator, ML277, that potentiates both homomultimeric KCNQ1 channels and unsaturated heteromultimeric (KCNQ1)4(KCNE1)n (n &lt; 4) channels. Progressive increase of KCNE1 or KCNE3 expression reduces efficacy of ML277 and eventually abolishes ML277-mediated augmentation. In cardiomyocytes, the slowly activating delayed rectifier potassium current, or IKs, is believed to be a heteromultimeric combination of KCNQ1 and KCNE1, but it is not entirely clear whether IKs is mediated by KCNE-saturated KCNQ1 channels or by channels with intermediate stoichiometries. We found ML277 effectively augments IKs current of cultured human cardiomyocytes and shortens action potential duration. These data indicate that unsaturated heteromultimeric (KCNQ1)4(KCNE1)n channels are present as components of IKs and are pharmacologically distinct from KCNE-saturated KCNQ1-KCNE1 channels.
White matter neurons in multiple sclerosis brains are destroyed during demyelination and then replaced in some chronic multiple sclerosis lesions that exhibit a morphologically distinct population of activated microglia [Chang A, et al. (2008) Brain 131(Pt 9):2366-2375]. Here we investigated whether activated microglia secrete factors that promote the generation of neurons from white matter cells. Adult rat brain microglia (resting or activated with lipopolysaccharide) were isolated by flow cytometry and cocultured with neonatal rat optic nerve cells in separate but media-connected chambers. Optic nerve cells cocultured with activated microglia showed a significant increase in the number of cells of neuronal phenotype, identified by neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin (TUJ-1) labeling, compared with cultures with resting microglia. To investigate the possible source of the TUJ-1-positive cells, A2B5-positive oligodendrocyte progenitor cells and A2B5-negative cells were isolated and cocultured with resting and activated microglia. Significantly more TUJ-1-positive cells were generated from A2B5-negative cells (70%) than from A2B5-positive cells (~30%). Mass spectrometry analysis of microglia culture media identified protease serine 2 (PRSS2) as a factor secreted by activated, but not resting, microglia. When added to optic nerve cultures, PRSS2 significantly increased neurogenesis, whereas the serine protease inhibitor, secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor, decreased activated microglia-induced neurogenesis. Collectively our data provide evidence that activated microglia increase neurogenesis through secretion of PRSS2.
Nogo-A is an important axonal growth inhibitor in the adult and developing CNS. In vitro, Nogo-A has been shown to inhibit migration and cell spreading of neuronal and nonneuronal cell types. Here, we studied in vivo and in vitro effects of Nogo-A on vascular endothelial cells during angiogenesis of the early postnatal brain and retina in which Nogo-A is expressed by many types of neurons. Genetic ablation or virus-mediated knock down of Nogo-A or neutralization of Nogo-A with an antibody caused a marked increase in the blood vessel density in vivo. In culture, Nogo-A inhibited spreading, migration, and sprouting of primary brain microvascular endothelial cells (MVECs) in a dose-dependent manner and induced the retraction of MVEC lamellipodia and filopodia. Mechanistically, we show that only the Nogo-A-specific Delta 20 domain exerts inhibitory effects on MVECs, but the Nogo-66 fragment, an inhibitory domain common to Nogo-A, -B, and -C, does not. Furthermore, the action of Nogo-A Delta 20 on MVECs required the intracellular activation of the Ras homolog gene family, member A (Rho-A)-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase (ROCK)-Myosin II pathway. The inhibitory effects of early postnatal brain membranes or cultured neurons on MVECs were relieved significantly by anti-Nogo-A antibodies. These findings identify Nogo-A as an important negative regulator of developmental angiogenesis in the CNS. They may have important implications in CNS pathologies involving angiogenesis such as stroke, brain tumors, and retinopathies.
Telomere shortening is a hallmark of aging and has been associated with oxidative stress, inflammation and chronic somatic, as well as psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia and depression. Additionally, antidepressants have been found to protect against telomere shortening. However, pharmacological telomere studies are lacking in bipolar disorder (BD). Therefore, the objective of this study was to explore telomere length (TL) in patients with BD in the context of lithium treatment. We determined TL by quantitative real-time PCR using peripheral blood leukocytes. Participants were outpatients diagnosed with BD type 1 or 2 (n=256) and healthy controls (n=139). Retrospective case-control and case-case study designs were applied. Lithium response (LiR) was scored using the Alda-Scale. Lithium-treated BD patients overall, as well as those on lithium monotherapy, had 35% longer telomeres compared with controls (P&lt;0.0005, partial (2)=0.13). TL correlated positively with lithium treatment duration of &gt;30 months (P=0.031, R(2)=0.13) and was negatively associated with increasing number of depressive episodes (P&lt;0.007). BD patients responding well to lithium treatment had longer telomeres than those not responding well. This is the first study to report a positive effect of long-term lithium treatment on TL. Importantly, longer TL was also associated with a better LiR in BD patients. These data suggest that lithium exerts a protective effect against telomere shortening especially when therapeutically efficacious. We hypothesize that induction of telomerase activity may be involved in LiR in BD.
Brain pericytes play a critical role in blood vessel stability and blood-brain barrier maturation. Despite this, how brain pericytes function in these different capacities is only beginning to be understood. Here we show that the forkhead transcription factor Foxc1 is expressed by brain pericytes during development and is critical for pericyte regulation of vascular development in the fetal brain. Conditional deletion of Foxc1 from pericytes and vascular smooth muscle cells leads to late-gestation cerebral micro-hemorrhages as well as pericyte and endothelial cell hyperplasia due to increased proliferation of both cell types. Conditional Foxc1 mutants do not have widespread defects in BBB maturation, though focal breakdown of BBB integrity is observed in large, dysplastic vessels. qPCR profiling of brain microvessels isolated from conditional mutants showed alterations in pericyte-expressed proteoglycans while other genes previously implicated in pericyte-endothelial cell interactions were unchanged. Collectively these data point towards an important role for Foxc1 in certain brain pericyte functions (e.g. vessel morphogenesis) but not others (e.g. barriergenesis).
Optogenetics with microbial opsin genes, and pharmacogenetics with designer receptors, represent potent and versatile experimental modalities that can be integrated with each other as well as with a rich diversity of synergistic methods to provide fundamental opportunities in neuroscience research. The 7th Annual Brain Research Meeting in New Orleans in October 2012, Optogenetics and Pharmacogenetics in Neuronal Function and Dysfunction, brought together leading researchers that have developed and used these tools to explore a wide range of questions in nervous system function and dysfunction. This special issue of Brain Research includes articles by speakers in this meeting and others, which together synthesize and summarize the state of the art for optogenetics and designer receptors. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Optogenetics (7th BRES).
Optogenetics and novel designer receptors have revolutionized the way neuroscientists can interrogate neural circuits. These new tools are being rapidly applied to many facets of neuroscience including the study of Parkinson's disease circuitry and therapies. This review highlights how optogenetics and designer receptors can be applied in the study of Parkinsonian dysfunction to understand the mechanisms behind motor and non-motor symptoms. We discuss how these tools have recently advanced our understanding of basal ganglia function and outline how they can be applied in future to refine existing treatments and generate novel therapeutic strategies for Parkinson's disease. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Optogenetics (7th BRES).
It is now well documented that optogenetics brings to neuroscience a long sought-after foothold to study the causal role of millisecond-scale activity of genetically or anatomically defined populations of neurons. Progress is rapid, and, as evidenced by the work collected in this Special Issue, the possibilities of what can now be done are almost dizzying. Even for those concerned with complex phenomena, such as behavioral habits and flexibility, signs are that we could be on the threshold of a leap in scientific understanding. Here. we note this special time in neuroscience by the example of our use of optogenetics to study habitual behavior. We present a basic sketch of the neural circuitry of habitual behavior built mainly on findings from experiments in which lesion and drug microinjection techniques were employed in combination with sophisticated behavioral analysis. We then outline the types of questions that now can be approached through the use of optogenetic approaches, and, as an example, we summarize the results of a recent study of ours in which we took this approach to probe the neural basis of habit formation. With optogenetic methods, we were able to demonstrate that a small site in the medial prefrontal cortex can control habits on-line during their execution, and we were able to control new habits when they competed with prior ones. The nearly immediate effect of disabling this site optogenetically suggests the existence of a mechanism for moment-to-moment monitoring of behaviors that long have been thought to be almost automatic and reflexive. This example highlights the kind of new knowledge that can be gained by the carefully timed use of optogenetic tools. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Optogenetics (7th BRES).
Optogenetics has revolutionized neuroscience over the past several years by allowing researchers to modulate the activity of specific cell types, both in vitro and in vivo. One promising application of optogenetics is to use channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) mediated spiking to identify distinct cell types in electrophysiological recordings from awake behaving animals. In this paper, we apply this approach to in vivo recordings of the two major projection cell types in the striatum: the direct- and indirect-pathway medium spiny neurons. We expressed ChR2 in the neurons of the direct or indirect pathways using a cre-dependent viral strategy and performed electrical recordings together with optical stimulation using an implanted microwire array that included an integrated optical fiber. Despite the apparent simplicity of identifying ChR2-expressing neurons as those that respond to light, we encountered multiple potential confounds when applying this approach. Here, we describe and address these confounds and provide a Matlab tool so that others can implement our analysis methods. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Optogenetics (7th BRES).

In C. elegans, pharyngeal pumping is regulated by the presence of bacteria. In response to food deprivation, the pumping rate rapidly declines by about 50-60%, but then recovers gradually to baseline levels on food after 24 hr. We used this system to study the role of insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) in the recovery of pharyngeal pumping during starvation. Mutant strains with reduced function in the insulin/IGF-1 receptor, DAF-2, various insulins (INS-1 and INS-18), and molecules that regulate insulin release (UNC-64 and NCA-1; NCA-2) failed to recover normal pumping rates after food deprivation. Similarly, reduction or loss of function in downstream signaling molecules (e.g., ARR-1, AKT-1, and SGK-1) and effectors (e.g., CCA-1 and UNC-68) impaired pumping recovery. Pharmacological studies with kinase and metabolic inhibitors implicated class II/III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) and glucose metabolism in the recovery response. Interestingly, both over- and under-activity in IIS was associated with poorer recovery kinetics. Taken together, the data suggest that optimum levels of IIS are required to maintain high levels of pharyngeal pumping during starvation. This work may ultimately provide insights into the connections between IIS, nutritional status and sarcopenia, a hallmark feature of aging in muscle.

Neural responses to sensory stimuli are not independent. Pairwise correlation can reduce coding efficiency, occur independent of stimulus representation, or serve as an additional channel of information, depending on the timescale of correlation and the method of decoding. Any role for correlation depends on its magnitude and structure. In sensory areas with maps, like the orientation map in primary visual cortex (V1), correlation is strongly related to the underlying functional architecture, but it is unclear whether this correlation structure is an essential feature of the system or arises from the arrangement of cells in the map. We assessed the relationship between functional architecture and pairwise correlation by measuring both synchrony and correlated spike count variability in mouse V1, which lacks an orientation map. We observed significant pairwise synchrony, which was organized by distance and relative orientation preference between cells. We also observed nonzero correlated variability in both the anesthetized (0.16) and awake states (0.18). Our results indicate that the structure of pairwise correlation is maintained in the absence of an underlying anatomical organization and may be an organizing principle of the mammalian visual system preserved by nonrandom connectivity within local networks.
The mammalian ear has an extraordinary capacity to detect very low-level acoustic signals from the environment. Sound pressures as low as a few  Pa (-10dB SPL) can activate cochlear hair cells. To achieve this sensitivity, biological noise has to be minimized including that generated by cardiovascular pulsation. Generally, cardiac pressure changes are transmitted to most peripheral capillary beds; however, such signals within the stria vascularis of the cochlea would be highly disruptive. Not least, it would result in a constant auditory sensation of heartbeat. We investigate special adaptations in cochlear vasculature that serve to attenuate cardiac pulse signals. We describe the structure of tortuous arterioles that feed stria vascularis as seen in corrosion casts of the cochlea. We provide a mathematical model to explain the role of this unique vascular anatomy in dampening pulsatile blood flow to the stria vascularis.

Ubiquitylation of Nrf2 by the Keap1-Cullin3/RING box1 (Cul3-Rbx1) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex targets Nrf2 for proteasomal degradation in the cytoplasm and is an extensively studied mechanism for regulating the cellular level of Nrf2. Although mechanistic details are lacking, reports abound that Nrf2 can also be degraded in the nucleus. Here, we demonstrate that Nrf2 is a target for sumoylation by both SUMO-1 and SUMO-2. HepG2 cells treated with As2O3, which enhances attachment of SUMO-2/3 to target proteins, increased SUMO-2/3-modification (polysumoylation) of Nrf2. We show that Nrf2 traffics, in part, to promyelocytic leukemia-nuclear bodies (PML-NBs). Cell fractions harboring key components of PML-NBs did not contain biologically active Keap1 but contained modified Nrf2 as well as RING finger protein 4 (RNF4), a poly-SUMO-specific E3 ubiquitin ligase. Overexpression of wild-type RNF4, but not the catalytically inactive mutant, decreased the steady-state levels of Nrf2, measured in the PML-NB-enriched cell fraction. The proteasome inhibitor MG-132 interfered with this decrease, resulting in elevated levels of polysumoylated Nrf2 that was also ubiquitylated. Wild-type RNF4 accelerated the half-life (t&amp;frac12;) of Nrf2, measured in PML-NB-enriched cell fractions. These results suggest that RNF4 mediates polyubiquitylation of polysumoylated Nrf2, leading to its subsequent degradation in PML-NBs. Overall, this work identifies Nrf2 as a target for sumoylation and provides a novel mechanism for its degradation in the nucleus, independent of Keap1.
The extent of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) inactivation in the brain after ischemia correlates with the extent of damage. We have previously shown that a loss of CaMKII activity in neurons is detrimental to neuronal viability by inducing excitotoxic glutamate release. In the current study we extend these findings to show that the ability of astrocytes to buffer extracellular glutamate is reduced when CaMKII is inhibited. Furthermore, CaMKII inhibition in astrocytes is associated with the rapid onset of intracellular calcium oscillations. Surprisingly, this rapid calcium influx is blocked by the N-type calcium channel antagonist, -conotoxin. Although the function of N-type calcium channels within astrocytes is controversial, these voltage-gated calcium channels have been linked to calcium-dependent vesicular gliotransmitter release. When extracellular glutamate and ATP levels are measured after CaMKII inhibition within our enriched astrocyte cultures, no alterations in glutamate levels are observed, whereas ATP levels in the extracellular environment significantly increase. Extracellular ATP accumulation associated with CaMKII inhibition contributes both to calcium oscillations within astrocytes and ultimately cortical neuron toxicity. Thus, a loss of CaMKII signaling within astrocytes dysregulates glutamate uptake and supports ATP release, two processes that would compromise neuronal survival after ischemic/excitotoxic insults.
We have earlier reported the critical nature of calpain-CDK5-MEF2 signaling in governing dopaminergic neuronal loss in vivo. CDK5 mediates phosphorylation of the neuronal survival factor myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) leading to its inactivation and loss. However, the downstream factors that mediate MEF2-regulated survival are unknown. Presently, we define Nur77 as one such critical downstream survival effector. Following 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treatment in vivo, Nur77 expression in the nigrostriatal region is dramatically reduced. This loss is attenuated by expression of MEF2. Importantly, MEF2 constitutively binds to the Nur77 promoter in neurons under basal conditions. This binding is lost following 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium treatment. Nur77 deficiency results in significant sensitization to dopaminergic loss following 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium/MPTP treatment, in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, Nur77-deficient MPTP-treated mice displayed significantly reduced levels of dopamine and 3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the striatum as well as elevated post synaptic FosB activity, indicative of increased nigrostriatal damage when compared with WT MPTP-treated controls. Importantly, this sensitization in Nur77-deficient mice was rescued with ectopic Nur77 expression in the nigrostriatal system. These results indicate that the inactivation of Nur77, induced by loss of MEF2 activity, plays a critical role in nigrostriatal degeneration in vivo.
Different neuropeptide hormones, which are either too small to adopt a stable conformation or are predicted to be intrinsically disordered, are synthesized as larger precursors containing a prodomain in addition to an N-terminal signal peptide. We analyzed the biogenesis of three unstructured neuropeptide hormones and observed that translocation of these precursors into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is critically dependent on the presence of the prodomain. The hormone domains could be deleted from the precursors without interfering with ER import and secretion, whereas constructs lacking the prodomain remained in the cytosol. Domain-swapping experiments revealed that the activity of the prodomains to promote productive ER import resides in their ability to adopt an -helical structure. Removal of the prodomain from the precursor did not interfere with co-translational targeting of the nascent chain to the Sec61 translocon but with its subsequent productive translocation into the ER lumen. Our study reveals a novel function of prodomains to enable import of small or intrinsically disordered secretory proteins into the ER based on their ability to adopt an -helical conformation.
Amylopathy is a term that describes abnormal synthesis and accumulation of amyloid beta (A) in tissues with time. A is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is found in Lewy body dementia, inclusion body myositis and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (1-4). Amylopathies progressively develop with time. For this reason simple organisms with short lifespans may help to elucidate molecular aspects of these conditions. Here, we describe experimental protocols to study A-mediated neurodegeneration using the worm Caenorhabditis elegans. Thus, we construct transgenic worms by injecting DNA encoding human A42 into the syncytial gonads of adult hermaphrodites. Transformant lines are stabilized by a mutagenesis-induced integration. Nematodes are age synchronized by collecting and seeding their eggs. The function of neurons expressing A42 is tested in opportune behavioral assays (chemotaxis assays). Primary neuronal cultures obtained from embryos are used to complement behavioral data and to test the neuroprotective effects of anti-apoptotic compounds.
Previous work has shown that damage to the dorsal hippocampus (DH) occurring at recent, but not remote, timepoints following acquisition produces a deficit in trace conditioned fear memory expression. The opposite pattern has been observed with lesions to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The present studies address: (1) whether these lesion effects are observable within 30 d of training; (2) whether lesions of the ventral hippocampus (VH) produce temporally graded retrograde amnesia similar to DH lesions; and (3) whether the lesion-to-test interval critically contributes to these lesion deficits. In Experiment 1, excitotoxic lesions of the DH, VH, or mPFC were made at 1 or 30 d following trace fear conditioning. DH and VH lesioned animals showed a deficit in freezing to the tone at the recent, but not remote, timepoint. Medial PFC lesioned animals showed the opposite pattern. In Experiment 2, lesions to DH, VH, or mPFC were made 1 d following training, while testing occurred 30 d later. There were no deficits in freezing to the tone in any lesion condition compared to controls. These results suggest that systems consolidation of trace fear memory occurs within 30 d of acquisition, but does not depend on hippocampus-mPFC interactions during this period.

The present study described a new type of multi-person neurofeedback with the neural synchronization between two participants as the direct regulating target, termed as &quot;cross-brain neurofeedback.&quot; As a first step to implement this concept, an experimental platform was built on the basis of functional near-infrared spectroscopy, and was validated with a two-person neurofeedback experiment. This novel concept as well as the experimental platform established a framework for investigation of the relationship between multiple participants' cross-brain neural synchronization and their social behaviors, which could provide new insight into the neural substrate of human social interactions.
In humans, there is unequivocal evidence of an association between anxiety states and altered respiratory function. Despite this, the link between anxiety and respiration has been poorly evaluated in experimental animals. The primary objective of the present study was to investigate the hypothesis that genetic lines of rats that differ largely in their anxiety level would display matching alterations in respiration. To reach this goal, respiration was recorded in high-anxiety behavior (HAB, n = 10) and low-anxiety behavior (LAB, n = 10) male rats using whole-body plethysmography. In resting state, respiratory rate was higher in HABs (85  2 cycles per minute, cpm) than LABs (67  2 cpm, p&lt;0.05). During initial testing into the plethysmograph and during a restraint test, HAB rats spent less time at high-frequency sniffing compared to LAB rats. In addition, HAB rats did not habituate in terms of respiratory response to repetitive acoustic stressful stimuli. Finally, HAB rats exhibited a larger incidence of sighs during free exploration of the plethysmograph and under stress conditions. We conclude that: i) HAB rats showed respiratory changes (elevated resting respiratory rate, reduced sniffing in novel environment, increased incidence of sighs, and no habituation of the respiratory response to repetitive stimuli) that resemble those observed in anxious and panic patients, and ii) respiratory patterns may represent a promising way for assessing anxiety states in preclinical studies.
The cerebellum has a conserved foliation pattern and a well-organized layered structure. The process of foliation and lamination begins around birth. -catenin is a downstream molecule of Wnt signaling pathway, which plays a critical role in tissue organization. Lack of -catenin at early embryonic stages leads to either prenatal or neonatal death, therefore it has been difficult to resolve its role in cerebellar foliation and lamination. Here we used GFAP-Cre to ablate -catenin in neuronal cells of the cerebellum after embryonic day 12.5, and found an unexpected role of -catenin in determination of the foliation pattern. In the mutant mice, the positions of fissure formation were changed, and the meninges were improperly incorporated into fissures. At later stages, some lobules were formed by Purkinje cells remaining in deep regions of the cerebellum and the laminar structure was dramatically altered. Our results suggest that -catenin is critical for cerebellar foliation and lamination. We also found a non cell-autonomous role of -catenin in some developmental properties of major cerebellar cell types during specific stages.
Low-dimensional attractive manifolds with flows prescribing the evolution of state variables are commonly used to capture the lawful behavior of behavioral and cognitive variables. Neural network dynamics underlie many of the mechanistic explanations of function and demonstrate the existence of such low-dimensional attractive manifolds. In this study, we focus on exploring the network mechanisms due to asymmetric couplings giving rise to the emergence of arbitrary flows in low dimensional spaces. Here we use a spiking neural network model, specifically the theta neuron model and simple synaptic dynamics, to show how a qualitatively identical set of basic behaviors arises from different combinations of couplings with broken symmetry, in fluctuations of both firing rate and spike timing. We further demonstrate how such network dynamics can be combined to create more complex processes. These results suggest that 1) asymmetric coupling is not always a variance to be averaged over, 2) different networks may produce the same dynamics by different dynamical routes and 3) complex dynamics may be formed by simpler dynamics through a combination of couplings.
Brodmann's 100-year-old summary map has been widely used for cortical localization in neuroscience. There is a pressing need to update this map using non-invasive, high-resolution and reproducible data, in a way that captures individual variability. We demonstrate here that standard HARDI data has sufficiently diverse directional variation among grey matter regions to inform parcellation into distinct functional regions, and that this variation is reproducible across scans. This characterization of the signal variation as non-random and reproducible is the critical condition for successful cortical parcellation using HARDI data. This paper is a first step towards an individual cortex-wide map of grey matter microstructure, The gray/white matter and pial boundaries were identified on the high-resolution structural MRI images. Two HARDI data sets were collected from each individual and aligned with the corresponding structural image. At each vertex point on the surface tessellation, the diffusion-weighted signal was extracted from each image in the HARDI data set at a point, half way between gray/white matter and pial boundaries. We then derived several features of the HARDI profile with respect to the local cortical normal direction, as well as several fully orientationally invariant features. These features were taken as a fingerprint of the underlying grey matter tissue, and used to distinguish separate cortical areas. A support-vector machine classifier, trained on three distinct areas in repeat 1 achieved 80-82% correct classification of the same three areas in the unseen data from repeat 2 in three volunteers. Though gray matter anisotropy has been mostly overlooked hitherto, this approach may eventually form the foundation of a new cortical parcellation method in living humans. Our approach allows for further studies on the consistency of HARDI based parcellation across subjects and comparison with independent microstructural measures such as ex-vivo histology.


It has been claimed that glutamate excitotoxicity might have a role in the pathogenesis of several retinal degenerative diseases, including glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has neuroprotective properties against excitotoxicity in the hippocampus, through the activation of Y1, Y2 and/or Y5 receptors. The principal objective of this study is to investigate the potential protective role of NPY against glutamate-induced toxicity in rat retinal cells (in vitro and in an animal model), unraveling the NPY receptors and intracellular mechanisms involved. Rat retinal neural cell cultures were prepared from newborn Wistar rats (P3-P5) and exposed to glutamate (500 M) for 24 h. Necrotic cell death was evaluated by propidium iodide (PI) assay and apoptotic cell death using TUNEL and caspase-3 assays. The cell types present in culture were identified by immunocytochemistry. The involvement of NPY receptors was assessed using selective agonists and antagonists. Pre-treatment of cells with NPY (100 nM) inhibited both necrotic cell death (PI-positive cells) and apoptotic cell death (TUNEL-positive cells and caspase 3-positive cells) triggered by glutamate, with the neurons being the cells most strongly affected. The activation of NPY Y2, Y4 and Y5 receptors inhibited necrotic cell death, while apoptotic cell death was only prevented by the activation of NPY Y5 receptor. Moreover, NPY neuroprotective effect was mediated by the activation of PKA and p38K. In the animal model, NPY (2.35 nmol) was intravitreally injected 2 h before glutamate (500 nmol) injection into the vitreous. The protective role of NPY was assessed 24 h after glutamate (or saline) injection by TUNEL assay and Brn3a (marker of ganglion cells) immunohistochemistry. NPY inhibited the increase in the number of TUNEL-positive cells and the decrease in the number of Brn3a-positive cells induced by glutamate. In conclusion, NPY and NPY receptors can be considered potential targets to treat retinal degenerative diseases, such as glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy.
Visual discomfort has been reported for certain visual stimuli and under particular viewing conditions, such as stereoscopic viewing. In stereoscopic viewing, visual discomfort can be caused by a conflict between accommodation and convergence cues that may specify different distances in depth. Earlier research has shown that depth-of-field, which is the distance range in depth in the scene that is perceived to be sharp, influences both the perception of egocentric distance to the focal plane, and the distance range in depth between objects in the scene. Because depth-of-field may also be in conflict with convergence and the accommodative state of the eyes, we raised the question of whether depth-of-field affects discomfort when viewing stereoscopic photographs. The first experiment assessed whether discomfort increases when depth-of-field is in conflict with coherent accommodation-convergence cues to distance in depth. The second experiment assessed whether depth-of-field influences discomfort from a pre-existing accommodation-convergence conflict. Results showed no effect of depth-of-field on visual discomfort. These results suggest therefore that depth-of-field can be used as a cue to depth without inducing discomfort in the viewer, even when cue conflicts are large.
Feeding in Aplysia provides an amenable model system for analyzing the neuronal substrates of motivated behavior and its adaptability by associative reward learning and neuromodulation. Among such learning processes, appetitive operant conditioning that leads to a compulsive-like expression of feeding actions is known to be associated with changes in the membrane properties and electrical coupling of essential action-initiating B63 neurons in the buccal central pattern generator (CPG). Moreover, the food-reward signal for this learning is conveyed in the esophageal nerve (En), an input nerve rich in dopamine-containing fibers. Here, to investigate whether dopamine (DA) is involved in this learning-induced plasticity, we used an in vitro analog of operant conditioning in which electrical stimulation of En substituted the contingent reinforcement of biting movements in vivo. Our data indicate that contingent En stimulation does, indeed, replicate the operant learning-induced changes in CPG output and the underlying membrane and synaptic properties of B63. Significantly, moreover, this network and cellular plasticity was blocked when the input nerve was stimulated in the presence of the DA receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol. These results therefore suggest that En-derived dopaminergic modulation of CPG circuitry contributes to the operant reward-dependent emergence of a compulsive-like expression of Aplysia's feeding behavior.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder due to mutations in either TSC1 or TSC2 that affects many organs with hamartomas and tumors. TSC-associated brain lesions include subependymal nodules, subependymal giant cell astrocytomas and tubers. Neurologic manifestations in TSC comprise a high frequency of mental retardation and developmental disorders including autism, as well as epilepsy. Here, we describe a new mouse model of TSC brain lesions in which complete loss of Tsc1 is achieved in multiple brain cell types in a stochastic pattern. Injection of an adeno-associated virus vector encoding Cre recombinase into the cerebral ventricles of mice homozygous for a Tsc1 conditional allele on the day of birth led to reduced survival, and pathologic findings of enlarged neurons, cortical heterotopias, subependymal nodules, and hydrocephalus. The severity of clinical and pathologic findings as well as survival was shown to be dependent upon the dose and serotype of Cre virus injected. Although several other models of TSC brain disease exist, this model is unique in that the pathology reflects a variety of TSC-associated lesions involving different numbers and types of cells. This model provides a valuable and unique addition for therapeutic assessment.
Though difficult, the study of gene-environment interactions in multifactorial diseases is crucial for interpreting the relevance of non-heritable factors and prevents from overlooking genetic associations with small but measurable effects. We propose a &quot;candidate interactome&quot; (i.e. a group of genes whose products are known to physically interact with environmental factors that may be relevant for disease pathogenesis) analysis of genome-wide association data in multiple sclerosis. We looked for statistical enrichment of associations among interactomes that, at the current state of knowledge, may be representative of gene-environment interactions of potential, uncertain or unlikely relevance for multiple sclerosis pathogenesis: Epstein-Barr virus, human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, cytomegalovirus, HHV8-Kaposi sarcoma, H1N1-influenza, JC virus, human innate immunity interactome for type I interferon, autoimmune regulator, vitamin D receptor, aryl hydrocarbon receptor and a panel of proteins targeted by 70 innate immune-modulating viral open reading frames from 30 viral species. Interactomes were either obtained from the literature or were manually curated. The P values of all single nucleotide polymorphism mapping to a given interactome were obtained from the last genome-wide association study of the International Multiple Sclerosis Genetics Consortium &amp; the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium, 2. The interaction between genotype and Epstein Barr virus emerges as relevant for multiple sclerosis etiology. However, in line with recent data on the coexistence of common and unique strategies used by viruses to perturb the human molecular system, also other viruses have a similar potential, though probably less relevant in epidemiological terms.
Using intracerebral EEG recordings in a large cohort of human subjects, we investigate the time course of neural cross-talk during a simple cognitive task. Our results show that human brain dynamics undergo a characteristic sequence of synchronization patterns across different frequency bands following a visual oddball stimulus. In particular, an initial global reorganization in the delta and theta bands (2-8 Hz) is followed by gamma (20-95 Hz) and then beta band (12-20 Hz) synchrony.
Although mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mTLE) is characterized by the pathological changes in mesial temporal lobe, function alteration was also found in extratemporal regions. Our aim is to investigate the information flow between the epileptogenic zone (EZ) and other brain regions. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) data were recorded from 23 patients with left mTLE and matched controls. We first identified the potential EZ using the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) of RS-fMRI signal, then performed voxel-wise Granger causality analysis between EZ and the whole brain. Relative to controls, patients demonstrated decreased driving effect from EZ to thalamus and basal ganglia, and increased feedback. Additionally, we found an altered causal relation between EZ and cortical networks (default mode network, limbic system, visual network and executive control network). The influence from EZ to right precuneus and brainstem negatively correlated with disease duration, whereas that from the right hippocampus, fusiform cortex, and lentiform nucleus to EZ showed positive correlation. These findings demonstrate widespread brain regions showing abnormal functional interaction with EZ. In addition, increased ALFF in EZ was positively correlated with the increased driving effect on EZ in patients, but not in controls. This finding suggests that the initiation of epileptic activity depends not only on EZ itself, but also on the activity emerging in large-scale macroscopic brain networks. Overall, this study suggests that the causal topological organization is disrupted in mTLE, providing valuable information to understand the pathophysiology of this disorder.
Online microdialysis is a sampling and detection method that enables continuous interrogation of extracellular molecules in freely moving subjects under behaviorally relevant conditions. A majority of recent publications using brain microdialysis in rodents report sample collection times of 20-30 min. These long sampling times are due, in part, to limitations in the detection sensitivity of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). By optimizing separation and detection conditions, we decreased the retention time of serotonin to 2.5 min and the detection threshold to 0.8 fmol. Sampling times were consequently reduced from 20 to 3 min per sample for online detection of serotonin (and dopamine) in brain dialysates using a commercial HPLC system. We developed a strategy to collect and to analyze dialysate samples continuously from two animals in tandem using the same instrument. Improvements in temporal resolution enabled elucidation of rapid changes in extracellular serotonin levels associated with mild stress and circadian rhythms. These dynamics would be difficult or impossible to differentiate using conventional microdialysis sampling rates.
D-serine, a co-agonist of N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, has been implicated in neurological and psychiatric disorders such as cerebral ischemia, lateral amyotrophic sclerosis, or schizophrenia. D-serine signaling represents an important pharmacological target for treating these diseases; however, the biochemical mechanisms controlling extracellular D-serine levels in vivo are still unclear. D-serine heteroexchange through small neutral amino acid transporters has been shown in cell cultures and brain slices and could provide a biochemical mechanism for the control of D-serine extracellular concentration in vivo. Alternatively, exocytotic D-serine release has also been proposed. In this study, the dynamics of D-serine release and clearance were explored in vivo on a second-by-second time scale using microelectrode biosensors. The rate of D-serine clearance in the rat frontal cortex after a microionophoretic injection revealed a transporter-mediated uptake mechanism. D-serine uptake was blocked by small neutral l-amino acids, implicating alanine-serine-cysteine (ASC) transporters, in particular high affinity Asc-1 and low affinity ASCT2 transporters. Interestingly, changes in alanine, serine, or threonine levels resulted in D-serine release through ASC transporters. Asc-1, but not ASCT2, appeared to release D-serine in response to changes in amino acid concentrations. Finally, neuronal silencing by tetrodotoxin increased D-serine extracellular concentration by an ASC-transporter-dependent mechanism. Together, these results indicate that D-serine heteroexchange through ASC transporters is present in vivo and may constitute a key component in the regulation of D-serine extracellular concentration.
Imaging mass spectrometry is an emerging technique of great potential for investigating the chemical architecture in biological matrices. Although the potential for studying neurobiological systems is evident, the relevance of the technique for application in neuroscience is still in its infancy. In the present Review, a principal overview of the different approaches, including matrix assisted laser desorption ionization and secondary ion mass spectrometry, is provided with particular focus on their strengths and limitations for studying different neurochemical species in situ and in vitro. The potential of the various approaches is discussed based on both fundamental and biomedical neuroscience research. This Review aims to serve as a general guide to familiarize the neuroscience community and other biomedical researchers with the technique, highlighting its great potential and suitability for comprehensive and specific chemical imaging.
Accumulating evidence supports the value of 5-HT1A receptor (5-HT1AR) agonists for dyskinesias that arise with long-term L-DOPA therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD). Yet, how 5-HT1AR stimulation directly influences the dyskinetogenic D1 receptor (D1R)-expressing striatonigral pathway remains largely unknown. To directly examine this, one cohort of hemiparkinsonian rats received systemic injections of Vehicle + Vehicle, Vehicle + the D1R agonist SKF81297 (0.8 mg/kg), or the 5-HT1AR agonist 8-OH-DPAT (1.0 mg/kg) + SKF81297. Rats were examined for changes in abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), rotations, striatal preprodynorphin (PPD), and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD; 65 and 67) mRNA via RT-PCR. In the second experiment, hemiparkinsonian rats received intrastriatal pretreatments of Vehicle (aCSF), 8-OH-DPAT (7.5 mM), or 8-OH-DPAT + the 5-HT1AR antagonist WAY100635 (4.6 mM), followed by systemic Vehicle or SKF81297 after which AIMs, rotations, and extracellular striatal glutamate and nigral GABA efflux were measured by in vivo microdialysis. Results revealed D1R agonist-induced AIMs were reduced by systemic and intrastriatal 5-HT1AR stimulation while rotations were enhanced. Although 8-OH-DPAT did not modify D1R agonist-induced increases in striatal PPD mRNA, the D1R/5-HT1AR agonist combination enhanced GAD65 and GAD67 mRNA. When applied locally, 8-OH-DPAT alone diminished striatal glutamate levels while the agonist combination increased nigral GABA efflux. Thus, presynaptic 5-HT1AR stimulation may attenuate striatal glutamate levels, resulting in diminished D1R-mediated dyskinetic behaviors, but maintain or enhance striatal postsynaptic factors ultimately increasing nigral GABA levels and rotational activity. The current findings offer a novel mechanistic explanation for previous results concerning 5-HT1AR agonists for the treatment of dyskinesia.
The rate of any chemical reaction or process occurring in the brain depends on temperature. While it is commonly believed that brain temperature is a stable, tightly regulated homeostatic parameter, it fluctuates within 1-4 C following exposure to salient arousing stimuli and neuroactive drugs, and during different behaviors. These temperature fluctuations should affect neural activity and neural functions, but the extent of this influence on neurochemical measurements in brain tissue of freely moving animals remains unclear. In this Review, we present the results of amperometric evaluations of extracellular glutamate and glucose in awake, behaving rats and discuss how naturally occurring fluctuations in brain temperature affect these measurements. While this temperature contribution appears to be insignificant for glucose because its extracellular concentrations are large, it is a serious factor for electrochemical evaluations of glutamate, which is present in brain tissue at much lower levels, showing smaller phasic fluctuations. We further discuss experimental strategies for controlling the nonspecific chemical and physical contributions to electrochemical currents detected by enzyme-based biosensors to provide greater selectivity and reliability of neurochemical measurements in behaving animals.
Functional MRI was used to identify regions in the human brain stem activated during thermal and psychogenic sweating. Two groups of healthy participants aged 34.4  10.2 and 35.3  11.8 years (both groups comprising 1 woman and 10 men) were either heated by a water-perfused tube suit or subjected to a Stroop test, while they lay supine with their head in a 3-T MRI scanner. Sweating events were recorded as electrodermal responses (increases in AC conductance) from the palmar surfaces of fingers. Each experimental session consisted of two 7.9-min runs, during which a mean of 7.3  2.1 and 10.2  2.5 irregular sweating events occurred during psychogenic (Stroop test) and thermal sweating, respectively. The electrodermal waveform was used as the regressor in each subject and run to identify brain stem clusters with significantly correlated blood oxygen level-dependent signals in the group mean data. Clusters of significant activation were found with both psychogenic and thermal sweating, but a voxelwise comparison revealed no brain stem cluster whose signal differed significantly between the two conditions. Bilaterally symmetric regions that were activated by both psychogenic and thermal sweating were identified in the rostral lateral midbrain and in the rostral lateral medulla. The latter site, between the facial nuclei and pyramidal tracts, corresponds to a neuron group found to drive sweating in animals. These studies have identified the brain stem regions that are activated with sweating in humans and indicate that common descending pathways may mediate both thermal and psychogenic sweating.
There is increasing evidence that exposure to infection can sensitize the fetus to subsequent hypoxic injury. However, it is unclear whether this involves compromise of the fetal cardiovascular adaptation to acute asphyxia. Chronically instrumented 103-day-old (0.7 gestational age, term is 147 days) fetal sheep in utero were randomized to receive either gram-negative lipopolysaccharide (LPS) as a continuous low-dose infusion for 120 h plus boluses of 1 g LPS at 48, 72, and 96 h with asphyxia at 102 h (i.e., 6 h after the final LPS bolus) induced by umbilical cord occlusion for 15 min (LPS treated, n = 8), or the same volume of saline plus occlusion (saline treated, n = 7). Fetuses were killed 5 days after occlusion. LPS was associated with a more rapid fall in fetal heart rate at the onset of occlusion (P &lt; 0.05) and with minimally lower values during occlusion (P &lt; 0.05). The LPS-treated fetuses had lower fetal mean arterial blood pressure (BP) and greater carotid artery blood flow (CaBF) before occlusion (P &lt; 0.05) but showed an increase in BP and fall in CaBF to similar values as saline controls during occlusion. There were no differences between the groups in femoral blood flow before or during occlusion. Contrary to our initial hypothesis, acute on chronic exposure to LPS was associated with more rapid cardiovascular adaptation to umbilical cord occlusion.
The brain stem premotor pathways controlling most noncardiovascular sympathetic outflows are unknown. Here, we mapped the brain stem neurons that drive sweating, by microinjecting excitant amino acid (L-glutamate or D,L-homocysteate: 0.4-3 nmol) into 420 sites over the pons and medulla of eight chloralose-anesthetized cats (70 mg/kg iv). Sweating was recorded by the electrodermal potential at the ipsilateral forepaw pad. Responses were classified as immediate (&lt;5 s latency) or delayed (&gt;10 s latency). Immediate responses were obtained from 16 sites (1-3 per animal) and were accompanied by no change in blood pressure. Those sites were clustered between the facial nucleus and the pyramidal tract in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVMM). Microinjections into 33 surrounding sites caused delayed electrodermal responses of lesser amplitude, while the remaining 371 sites evoked none. To retrogradely label bulbospinal neurons that may mediate electrodermal responses, fluorescent latex microspheres were injected into the region of the intermediolateral cell column in the fourth thoracic segment in an earlier preparatory procedure on six of the animals. A cluster of retrogradely labeled neurons was identified between the facial nucleus and the pyramidal tract. Neurons in this discrete region of the RVMM, thus, drive sweating in the cat's paw and may do so via direct spinal projections.
In rats, ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) are often used as a measure of affect, with 22 kHz USVs reflecting negative affect and 50 kHz USVs reflecting positive affect. This study used a modified reward approach task to assess behavioral approach and concomitant USV production toward either a food or social stimulus following varied amounts of pre-test social deprivation in both adolescent and adult rats. Adolescents spent significantly more time investigating the social stimulus than adults, although in the presence of the social stimulus isolate housed adults emitted more 50 kHz USVs than isolate housed adolescents. Isolate housed adults emitted more USVs to a social stimulus than adults that received less pre-test social isolation, a social deprivation effect not evident in the social approach data or any measure when animals were tested with a food stimulus. When tested with a food stimulus, adults emitted more 50 kHz USVs than adolescents, although they spent the same (or even less) time investigating that stimulus than did adolescents. Together, these data demonstrate that 50 kHz USV production and time spent investigating a rewarding stimulus are clearly dissociable and hence seemingly measure different states.
Damage to the hippocampus, as first demonstrated with patient HM, results in a profound anterograde and temporally-graded retrograde amnesia. The observation that older memories could still be consciously recollected led to the proposal that, over time, information initially processed in the hippocampus is stored in a distributed cortical network. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) has recently been implicated in this process. Studies in rodents have demonstrated that the ACC is necessary for recalling behaviors learned a month or more in the past, but not for the same behaviors learned the previous day. Precisely how the ACC contributes to the recall of remote memories is unknown. Is this role distinct from myriad others proposed for the ACC, or has the approach taken in these studies of assessing function at different points after learning provided a new window through which to view established processes? The present review seeks to address this question. First, the data will be presented implicating the ACC in recall of remote memory. This will be followed by a discussion of studies describing two other primary roles of the ACC, mediating attention and premotor planning, with an emphasis on data collected in rodents, as these will be most directly comparable to the memory studies presented. The available evidence supports a connection among these roles, and suggests a possible synthesis for otherwise seemingly disparate functions reported for the ACC.
Exercise and environmental enrichment are behavioural interventions that have been shown to improve learning and increase neurogenesis in rodents, possibly via neurotrophin-mediated mechanisms. However, many enrichment protocols incorporate exercise, which can itself be viewed as a source of cognitive stimulation in animals housed in standard laboratory conditions. In this experiment we investigate the effect of each intervention separately and in combination on object recognition memory, and analyse associated changes in the dentate gyrus: specifically, in BDNF expression and cell division. We show that both exercise and enrichment improve object recognition memory, but that BDNF mRNA expression and cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus increase only in exercised rats. These results are in general agreement with recent studies suggesting that the exercise component is the major neurogenic and neurotrophic stimulus in environmental enrichment protocols. We add to the expanding literature several novel aspects including the finding that enrichment in the absence of exercise can improve object recognition memory, probably via mechanisms that are independent of BDNF upregulation and neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus.
Activation of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (NOP) receptors seems to attenuate ethanol-induced reinforcement in adult rodents. Since early ethanol exposure results in later increased responsiveness to ethanol, it is important to analyze NOP receptor modulation of ethanol-related behaviors during early ontogeny. By measuring NOP involvement in ethanol intake and ethanol-induced locomotor activation, we analyzed the specific participation of NOP receptors on these ethanol-related behaviors in two-week-old rats. In each experiment animals were pre-treated with the endogenous ligand for this receptor (nociceptin/orphanin FQ at 0.0, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 g) or a selective NOP antagonist (J-113397 at 0.0, 0.5, 2.0 or 5.0 mg/kg). Results indicated that activation of the nociceptin receptor system had no effect on ethanol or water intake, while blockade of the NOP receptor has an unspecific effect on consummatory behavior: J-113397 increased ethanol (at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg) and water intake (at 0.5 and 5.0 mg/kg). Ethanol-mediated locomotor stimulation was attenuated by activation of the NOP system (nociceptin at 1.0 and 2.0 g). Nociceptin had no effect on basal locomotor activity. Blockade of NOP receptors did not modify ethanol-induced locomotor activation. Contrary to what has been reported for adult rodents, nociceptin failed to suppress intake of ethanol in infants. Attenuation of ethanol-induced stimulation by activation of NOP receptor system suggests an early role of this receptor in this ethanol-related behavior.
Variants in genes regulating dopamine transmission affect performance on tasks including working memory and executive function as well as temporal processing and sequence learning. In the current study, we determined whether a dopamine D2 receptor DNA sequence polymorphism interacts with L-DOPA during motor tasks in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Forty-five PD patients were genotyped for the DRD2 polymorphism (rs 1076560, G&gt;T). Patients performed an explicit motor sequence learning task and the grooved pegboard test in both ON and OFF L-DOPA states. For motor sequence learning, DRD2 genotype mediated L-DOPA effects such that L-DOPA associated improvements were only observed in the minor T allele carriers (associated with lower D2 receptor availability, t10=-2.71, p=0.022), whereas G homozygotes showed no performance change with L-DOPA. For the grooved pegboard test, performance improved with L-DOPA independent of patients' DRD2 genotype. Collectively these results demonstrate that common DRD2 allelic differences found in the human population may explain how dopamine differentially contributes to performance across tasks and individuals.
In order to better understand animal models of Alzheimer's disease, novel phenotyping strategies have been established for transgenic mouse models. In line with this, the current study characterised male APPxPS1 transgenic mice on mixed C57BL/6JxC3H/HeJ background for the first time for social recognition memory, sensorimotor gating, and spatial memory using the cheeseboard test as an alternative to the Morris water maze. Furthermore, locomotion, anxiety, and fear conditioning were evaluated in transgenic and wild type-like animals. APPxPS1 males displayed task-dependent hyperlocomotion and anxiety behaviours and exhibited social recognition memory impairments compared to wild type-like littermates. Spatial learning and memory, fear conditioning, and sensorimotor gating were unaffected in APPxPS1 transgenic mice. In conclusion, this study describes for the first time social recognition memory deficits in male APPxPS1 mice and suggests that spatial learning and memory deficits reported in earlier studies are dependent on the sex and genetic background of the APPxPS1 mouse line used. Furthermore, particular test conditions of anxiety and spatial memory paradigms appear to impact on the behavioural response of this transgenic mouse model for Alzheimer's disease.
There is a long-standing debate as to whether the memory process of consolidation is neurochemically similar to or the same as the set of processes involved in retrieval and reconsolidation of that memory. In addition, although we have previously shown that initial memory processing in the hippocampus causes a drainage of hippocampal glucose because of increased local metabolic demand, it is unknown what metabolic changes occur elsewhere in the brain or during subsequent processing of a previously consolidated memory. Male Sprague Dawley rats (3 months old) were implanted with unilateral microdialysis cannulae and in vivo microdialysis of amygdala extracellular fluid (ECF) was performed during both (i) initial learning and (ii) retrieval 24 h later of an aversively motivated avoidance memory task. ECF samples were analyzed for glucose, lactate, pyruvate and glutamate. Results showed close similarity between increases in local glycolysis seen during both consolidation and retrieval, but also suggested that there may perhaps be a difference in amygdalar oxidative phosphorylation stimulated by the two processes. Hence, our data suggest that memory formation places similar metabolic demands across neural systems, and that consolidation may be metabolically different from retrieval.
Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) is a successful novel treatment for treatment-resistant obsessive-compulsive disorder and is currently under investigation for addiction and eating disorders. Clinical and preclinical studies have shown functional changes in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) following DBS in the ventral capsule/ventral striatum. These findings suggest that DBS can affect neural activity in distant regions that are connected to the site of electrode implantation. However, the behavioral consequences of direct OFC stimulation are not known. Here, we studied the effects of direct stimulation in the lateral OFC on spatial discrimination and reversal learning in rats. Rats were implanted with stimulating electrodes and were trained on a spatial discrimination and reversal learning task. DBS in the OFC did not affect acquisition of a spatial discrimination. Stimulated animals made more incorrect responses during the first reversal. Acquisition of the second reversal was not affected. These results suggest that DBS may inhibit activity in the OFC, or may disrupt output of the OFC to other cortical or subcortical areas, resulting in perseverative behavior or an inability to adapt behavior to altered response-reward contingencies.
It has been reported that pyrvinium pamoate (PyrPam), an FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration)-approved anthelminthic drug, is a potent inhibitor of Wnt signalling by a mechanism which implies the direct activation of protein kinase CK1. In the present paper, we provide data ruling out any direct stimulatory effect of PyrPam on CK1, by showing that the catalytic activity of CK1 and those of its isoforms  and 1 are not significantly affected by PyrPam when tested with the aid of specific peptide and protein substrates. Accordingly, cell treatment with PyrPam has no significant effect on the phosphorylation of -catenin Ser(45). By contrast, the phosphorylation of -catenin Thr(41) is increased upon cell treatment with PyrPam, through a mechanism that implies the upstream dephosphorylation of Akt/PKB (protein kinase B) and of GSK3 (glycogen synthase kinase 3). It can be concluded from the present study that PyrPam is not a bona fide activator of CK1, its perturbation of cell signalling pathways being mediated by a complex mechanism initiated by a fall in Akt phosphorylation whose down-regulation promotes reduced phosphorylation and activation of GSK3. Consistent with this, lysates of cells treated with PyrPam display enhanced protein phosphorylation which is unaffected by CK1 inhibition, while disappearing upon inhibition of GSK3. Our data are consistent with the observation that PyrPam ultimately inhibits Wnt signalling despite its lack of efficacy on CK1.

This Letter describes the further chemical optimization of the M5 PAM MLPCN probes ML129 and ML172. A multi-dimensional iterative parallel synthesis effort quickly explored isatin replacements and a number of southern heterobiaryl variations with no improvement over ML129 and ML172. An HTS campaign identified several weak M5 PAMs (M5 EC50 &gt;10M) with a structurally related isatin core that possessed a southern phenethyl ether linkage. While SAR within the HTS series was very shallow and unable to be optimized, grafting the phenethyl ether linkage onto the ML129/ML172 cores led to the first sub-micromolar M5 PAM, ML326 (VU0467903), (human and rat M5 EC50s of 409nM and 500nM, respectively) with excellent mAChR selectivity (M1-M4 EC50s &gt;30M) and a robust 20-fold leftward shift of the ACh CRC.
Depression is the most common psychiatric disorder worldwide. The burden of disease for depression goes beyond functioning and quality of life and extends to somatic health. Depression has been shown to subsequently increase the risk of, for example, cardiovascular, stroke, diabetes and obesity morbidity. These somatic consequences could partly be due to metabolic, immuno-inflammatory, autonomic and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis dysregulations which have been suggested to be more often present among depressed patients. Evidence linking depression to metabolic syndrome abnormalities indicates that depression is especially associated with its obesity-related components (for example, abdominal obesity and dyslipidemia). In addition, systemic inflammation and hyperactivity of the HPA-axis have been consistently observed among depressed patients. Slightly less consistent observations are for autonomic dysregulation among depressed patients. The heterogeneity of the depression concept seems to play a differentiating role: metabolic syndrome and inflammation up-regulations appear more specific to the atypical depression subtype, whereas hypercortisolemia appears more specific for melancholic depression. This review finishes with potential treatment implications for the downward spiral in which different depressive symptom profiles and biological dysregulations may impact on each other and interact with somatic health decline.
Upon peripheral nerve injury (caused by trauma or disease process) axons of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) somatosensory neurons have the ability to sprout and regrow/remyelinate to reinnervate distant target tissue or form a tangled scar mass called a neuroma. This regenerative response can become maladaptive leading to a persistent and debilitating pain state referred to as chronic pain corresponding to the clinical description of neuropathic/chronic inflammatory pain. There is little agreement to what causes peripheral chronic pain other than hyperactivity of the nociceptive DRG neurons which ultimately depends on the function of voltage-gated ion channels. This review focuses on the pharmacological modulators of voltage-gated ion channels known to be present on axonal membrane which represents by far the largest surface of DRG neurons. Blockers of voltage-gated Na(+) channels, openers of voltage-gated K(+) channels and blockers of hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channels that were found to reduce neuronal activity were also found to be effective in neuropathic and inflammatory pain states. The isoforms of these channels present on nociceptive axons have limited specificity. The rationale for considering axonal voltage-gated ion channels as targets for pain treatment comes from the accumulating evidence that chronic pain states are associated with a dysregulation of these channels that could alter their specificity and make them more susceptible to pharmacological modulation. This drives the need for further development of subtype-specific voltage-gated ion channels modulators, as well as clinically available neurophysiological techniques for monitoring axonal ion channel function in peripheral nerves.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by the loss-of-function of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). The loss of FMRP function in neurons abolishes its suppression on mGluR1/5-dependent dendritic protein translation, enhancing mGluR1/5-dependent synaptic plasticity and other disease phenotypes in FXS. In this study, we describe a new activation function of FMRP in regulating protein expression in astroglial cells. We found that astroglial glutamate transporter subtype glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1) and glutamate uptake is significantly reduced in the cortex of fmr1(-/-) mice. Correspondingly, neuronal excitability is also enhanced in acute fmr1(-/-) (but not in fmr1(+/+) control) cortical slices treated with low doses (10 m) of the GLT1-specific inhibitor dihydrokainate (DHK). Using mismatched astrocyte and neuron co-cultures, we demonstrate that the loss of astroglial (but not neuronal) FMRP particularly reduces neuron-dependent GLT1 expression and glutamate uptake in co-cultures. Interestingly, protein (but not mRNA) expression and the (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine-dependent Ca(2+) responses of astroglial mGluR5 receptor are also selectively reduced in fmr1(-/-) astrocytes and brain slices, attenuating neuron-dependent GLT1 expression. Subsequent FMRP immunoprecipitation and QRT-PCR analysis showed that astroglial mGluR5 (but not GLT1) mRNA is associated with FMRP. In summary, our results provide evidence that FMRP positively regulates translational expression of mGluR5 in astroglial cells, and FMRP-dependent down-regulation of mGluR5 underlies GLT1 dysregulation in fmr1(-/-) astrocytes. The dysregulation of GLT1 and reduced glutamate uptake may potentially contribute to enhanced neuronal excitability observed in the mouse model of FXS.
The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) nomenclature for the co-occurrence of manic and depressive symptoms (mixed states) has been revised in the new DSM-5 version to accommodate a mixed categorical-dimensional concept. The new classification will capture subthreshold non-overlapping symptoms of the opposite pole using a &quot;with mixed features&quot; specifier to be applied to manic episodes in bipolar disorder I (BD I), hypomanic, and major depressive episodes experienced in BD I, BD II, bipolar disorder not otherwise specified, and major depressive disorder. The revision will have a substantial impact in several fields: epidemiology, diagnosis, treatment, research, education, and regulations. The new concept is data-driven and overcomes the problems derived from the extremely narrow definition in the DSM-IV-TR. However, it is unclear how clinicians will deal with the possibility of diagnosing major depression with mixed features and how this may impact the bipolar-unipolar dichotomy and diagnostic reliability. Clinical trials may also need to address treatment effects according to the presence or absence of mixed features. The medications that are effective in treating mixed episodes per the DSM-IV-TR definition may also be effective in treating mixed features per the DSM-5, but new studies are needed to demonstrate it.



The development and use of UHPLC-based methods for the identification, validation and analysis of biomarkers for diseases is reviewed. The currents trends in types of stationary phases and modes of detection are discussed. Afterwards, examples are provided on the use of UHPLC-MS for finding novel biomarkers in samples from in vitro or in vivo animal models of human diseases, as well as in biofluid samples (mainly urine and plasma) obtained from patients. Molecular profiling and targeted analysis are considered, providing an overview of recent experimental or clinical works carried out using UHPLC analysis of compounds from various chemical classes, such as low molecular weight metabolites, hormones, lipids, peptides and proteins.
We studied the effects of the molting hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) on leg sensory-motor networks of the red swamp crayfish, Procambarus clarkii. The hormone was injected in isolated crayfish and network activity was analyzed 3 days after injection using electrophysiology on an in vitro preparation of the leg locomotor network. This 20E treatment deeply reduced motor activity, by affecting both intrinsic motoneuron (MN) properties and sensory-motor integration. Indeed, we noticed a general decrease in motor nerve tonic activities, principally in depressor and promotor nerves. Moreover, intracellular recordings of depressor MNs confirmed a decrease of MN excitability due to a drop in input resistance. In parallel, sensory inputs originating from a proprioceptor, which codes joint movements controlled by these MNs, were also reduced. The shape of excitatory post-synaptic potentials (PSPs) triggered in MNs by sensory activity of this proprioceptor showed a reduction of polysynaptic components, whereas inhibitory PSPs were suppressed, demonstrating that 20E acted also on interneurons relaying sensory to motor inputs. Consequently, 20E injection modified the whole sensory-motor loop, as demonstrated by the alteration of the resistance reflex amplitude. These locomotor network changes induced by 20E were consistent with the decrease of locomotion observed in a behavioral test. In summary, 20E controls locomotion during crayfish premolt by acting on both MN excitability and sensory-motor integration. Among these cooperative effects, the drop of input resistance of MNs seems to be mostly responsible for the reduction of motor activity.
Pesticides are important agricultural tools often used in combination to avoid resistance in target pest species, but there is growing concern that their widespread use contributes to the decline of pollinator populations. Pollinators perform sophisticated behaviours while foraging that require them to learn and remember floral traits associated with food, but we know relatively little about the way that combined exposure to multiple pesticides affects neural function and behaviour. The experiments reported here show that prolonged exposure to field-realistic concentrations of the neonicotinoid imidacloprid and the organophosphate acetylcholinesterase inhibitor coumaphos and their combination impairs olfactory learning and memory formation in the honeybee. Using a method for classical conditioning of proboscis extension, honeybees were trained in either a massed or spaced conditioning protocol to examine how these pesticides affected performance during learning and short- and long-term memory tasks. We found that bees exposed to imidacloprid, coumaphos, or a combination of these compounds, were less likely to express conditioned proboscis extension towards an odor associated with reward. Bees exposed to imidacloprid were less likely to form a long-term memory, whereas bees exposed to coumaphos were only less likely to respond during the short-term memory test after massed conditioning. Imidacloprid, coumaphos and a combination of the two compounds impaired the bees' ability to differentiate the conditioned odour from a novel odour during the memory test. Our results demonstrate that exposure to sublethal doses of combined cholinergic pesticides significantly impairs important behaviours involved in foraging, implying that pollinator population decline could be the result of a failure of neural function of bees exposed to pesticides in agricultural landscapes.
Extrathymically derived regulatory T cells (iTregs) protect against autoimmunity to tissue-specific Ags. However, whether Ag-specific iTreg generation and function is limited to secondary lymphoid tissue or whether it can occur within the tissue-specific local environment of the cognate Ag remains unresolved. Mice expressing -galactosidase (gal) on a retina-specific promoter (gal mice) in conjunction with mice expressing GFP and diphtheria toxin (DTx) receptor (DTR) under control of the Foxp3 promoter, and gal-specific TCR transgenic (BG2) mice were used to examine this question. Local depletion (ocular DTx), but not systemic depletion (i.p. DTx), of gal-specific iTregs enhanced experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis induced by activated gal-specific effector T cells. Injections of small amounts of gal into the anterior chamber of the eye produced similar numbers of gal-specific iTregs in the retina whether the mouse was depleted of pre-existing, circulating Tregs. Taken together, these results suggest that protection from tissue-specific autoimmunity depends on the function of local Ag-specific iTregs and that the retina is capable of local, &quot;on-demand&quot; iTreg generation that is independent of circulating Tregs.
In the present study, circulating proportions of CD8(+) T (Tc) cell subsets, including IL-17 (Tc17) and IL-10 (Tc10) producing cells, were assessed in relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients and a possible effect of beta interferon (IFN-), glatiramer acetate (GA), and vitamin D (VitD) on these cell subsets was investigated. We show that both Tc17 and Tc10 cell fractions are elevated in the circulation of RRMS patients in remission compared to healthy subjects and that these Tc subsets remain unaffected by current immune modulating regimens.
Fingolimod is the first oral disease-modifying therapy approved for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). Following phosphorylation in vivo, the active agent, fingolimod phosphate (fingolimod-P), acts as a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator, binding with high affinity to four of the five known S1P receptors (S1P1, S1P3, S1P4 and S1P5). The mechanism of action of fingolimod in MS has primarily been considered as immunomodulatory, whereby fingolimod-P modulates S1P1 on lymphocytes, selectively retaining autoreactive lymphocytes in lymph nodes to reduce damaging infiltration into the central nervous system (CNS). However, emerging evidence indicates that fingolimod has direct effects in the CNS in MS. For example, in the MS animal model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), fingolimod is highly efficacious in both a prophylactic and therapeutic setting, yet becomes ineffective in animals selectively deficient for S1P1 on astrocytes, despite maintained normal immunologic receptor expression and functions, and S1P-mediated immune activities. Here we review S1P signaling effects relevant to MS in neural cell types expressing S1P receptors, including astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, neurons, microglia and dendritic cells. The direct effects of fingolimod on these CNS cells observed in preclinical studies are discussed in view of the functional consequences of reducing neurodegenerative processes and promoting myelin preservation and repair. The therapeutic implications of S1P modulation in the CNS are considered in terms of the clinical outcomes of MS, such as reducing MS-related brain atrophy, and other CNS disorders. Additionally, we briefly outline other existing and investigational MS therapies that may also have effects in the CNS.
The extent of spinal interneuron (IN) contribution to dexterous hand movements is unclear. Here, we studied the response patterns and force relationships of spinal premotor INs (PreM-INs) in three awake, behaving monkeys performing a precision grip task. We recorded activity from the cervical spinal cord (C5-T1) simultaneously with electromyographic (EMG) activity from hand and arm muscles during the task. Spike-triggered averaging of EMGs showed that 25 PreM-INs had postspike effects on EMG activity. Most PreM-INs (23/25) displayed movement-related firing rate modulations: 11 had phasic followed by tonic facilitation (p+t+); 4 were pure phasic; 4 were pure tonic; and 4 were deactivated, while their target muscles consistently had p+t+ activity (65/66 muscles). PreM-IN phasic activity started earlier than target muscle activity (49  81.4 ms, mean  SD), and the peak amplitude was correlated with the peak amplitude of the rate of change of grip force (4/17, p &lt; 0.05), suggesting that they contributed to force initiation. In contrast, PreM-IN tonic activity started at almost the same time as the target muscle activity and the mean firing rate was correlated with the mean grip force during the hold period (4/15, p &lt; 0.05), suggesting that they contributed to force maintenance. These results indicated that the neural pathway mediated by the spinal PreM-INs makes a significant contribution to the control of precision grip in primates.
While functional imaging and deep brain stimulation studies point to a pivotal role of the hypothalamus in the pathophysiology of migraine and trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias, the circuitry and the mechanisms underlying the modulation of medullary trigeminovascular (Sp5C) neurons have not been fully identified. We investigated the existence of a direct anatomo-functional relationship between hypothalamic excitability disturbances and modifications of the activities of Sp5C neurons in the rat. Anterograde and retrograde neuronal anatomical tracing, intrahypothalamic microinjections, extracellular single-unit recordings of Sp5C neurons, and behavioral trials were used in this study. We found that neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) send descending projections to the superior salivatory nucleus, a region that gives rise to parasympathetic outflow to cephalic and ocular/nasal structures. PVN cells project also to laminae I and outer II of the Sp5C. Microinjections of the GABAA agonist muscimol into PVN inhibit both basal and meningeal-evoked activities of Sp5C neurons. Such inhibitions were reduced in acutely restrained stressed rats. GABAA antagonist gabazine infusions into the PVN facilitate meningeal-evoked responses of Sp5C neurons. PVN injections of the neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP38) enhance Sp5C basal activities, whereas the antagonist PACAP6-38 depresses all types of Sp5C activities. 5-HT1B/D receptor agonist naratriptan infusion confined to the PVN depresses both basal and meningeal-evoked Sp5C activities. Our findings suggest that paraventricular hypothalamic neurons directly control both spontaneous and evoked activities of Sp5C neurons and could act either as modulators or triggers of migraine and/or trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias by integrating nociceptive, autonomic, and stress processing mechanisms.
The striatopallidal (STP) and striatonigral (STN) neurons constitute the main neuronal populations of the striatum. Despite the increasing knowledge concerning their involvement in multiple tasks associated with the striatum, it is still challenging to understand the precise differential functions of these two neuronal populations and to identify and study new genes involved in these functions. Here, we describe a reliable approach, applied on adult mouse brain, to generate specific STP and STN neuron gene profiles. STP and STN neurons were identified in the same animal using the transgenic Adora2A-Cre  Z/EG mouse model combined with retrograde labeling, respectively. Gene profiling was generated from FACS-purified neurons leading to the identification of new STP and STN neuron-specific genes. Knock-down models based on Cre-dependent lentiviral vector were developed to investigate their function either in striatal or in STP neurons. Thereby, we demonstrate that ecto-5'-nucleotidase (NT5e) is specifically expressed in STP neurons and is at the origin of most of the extracellular adenosine produced in the striatum. Behavioral analysis of striatal and STP neuron knock-down mouse models as well as NT5e knock-out mice demonstrates the implication of this STP neuron enzyme in motor learning.
Electrophysiological and neuroanatomical evidence for reciprocal connections with the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the hippocampus make the reuniens and rhomboid (ReRh) thalamic nuclei a putatively major functional link for regulations of cortico-hippocampal interactions. In a first experiment using a new water escape device for rodents, the double-H maze, we demonstrated in rats that a bilateral muscimol (MSCI) inactivation (0.70 vs 0.26 and 0 nmol) of the mPFC or dorsal hippocampus (dHip) induces major deficits in a strategy shifting/spatial memory retrieval task. By way of comparison, only dHip inactivation impaired recall in a classical spatial memory task in the Morris water maze. In the second experiment, we showed that ReRh inactivation using 0.70 nmol of MSCI, which reduced performance without obliterating memory retrieval in the water maze, produces an as large strategy shifting/memory retrieval deficit as mPFC or dHip inactivation in the double-H maze. Thus, behavioral adaptations to task contingency modifications requiring a shift toward the use of a memory for place might operate in a distributed circuit encompassing the mPFC (as the potential set-shifting structure), the hippocampus (as the spatial memory substrate), and the ventral midline thalamus, and therein the ReRh (as the coordinator of this processing). The results of the current experiments provide a significant extension of our understanding of the involvement of ventral midline thalamic nuclei in cognitive processes: they point to a role of the ReRh in strategy shifting in a memory task requiring cortical and hippocampal functions and further elucidate the functional system underlying behavioral flexibility.
We previously reported involvement of right prefrontal cholinergic activity in veridical signal detection. Here, we first recorded real-time acetylcholine release in prefrontal cortex (PFC) during specific trial sequences in rats performing a task requiring signal detection as well as rejection of nonsignal events. Cholinergic release events recorded with subsecond resolution (&quot;transients&quot;) were observed only during signal-hit trials, not during signal-miss trials or nonsignal events. Moreover, cholinergic transients were not observed for consecutive hits; instead they were limited to signal-hit trials that were preceded by factual or perceived nonsignal events (&quot;incongruent hits&quot;). This finding suggests that these transients mediate shifts from a state of perceptual attention, or monitoring for cues, to cue-evoked activation of response rules and the generation of a cue-directed response. Next, to determine the translational significance of the cognitive operations supporting incongruent hits we used a version of the task previously validated for use in research in humans and blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD)-functional magnetic resonance imaging. Incongruent hits activated a region in the right rostral PFC (Brodmann area 10). Furthermore, greater prefrontal activation was correlated with faster response times for incongruent hits. Finally, we measured tissue oxygen in rats, as a proxy for BOLD, and found prefrontal increases in oxygen levels solely during incongruent hits. These cross-species studies link a cholinergic response to a prefrontal BOLD activation and indicate that these interrelated mechanisms mediate the integration of external cues with internal representations to initiate and guide behavior.
Although long considered a natively endowed and fixed trait, working memory (WM) ability has recently been shown to improve with intensive training. What remains controversial and poorly understood, however, are the neural bases of these training effects and the extent to which WM training gains transfer to other cognitive tasks. Here we present evidence from human electrophysiology (EEG) and simultaneous transcranial magnetic stimulation and EEG that the transfer of WM training to other cognitive tasks is supported by changes in task-related effective connectivity in frontoparietal and parieto-occipital networks that are engaged by both the trained and transfer tasks. One consequence of this effect is greater efficiency of stimulus processing, as evidenced by changes in EEG indices of individual differences in short-term memory capacity and in visual search performance. Transfer to search-related activity provides evidence that something more fundamental than task-specific strategy or stimulus-specific representations has been learned. Furthermore, these patterns of training and transfer highlight the role of common neural systems in determining individual differences in aspects of visuospatial cognition.
What causes new information to be mistakenly attributed to an old experience? Some theories predict that reinstating the context of a prior experience allows new information to be bound to that context, leading to source memory confusion. To examine this prediction, we had human participants study two lists of items (visual objects) on separate days while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging. List 1 items were accompanied by a stream of scene images during the intertrial interval, but list 2 items were not. As in prior work by Hupbach et al. (2009), we observed an asymmetric pattern of misattributions on a subsequent source memory test: participants showed a strong tendency to misattribute list 2 items to list 1 but not vice versa. We hypothesized that these memory errors were due to participants reinstating the list 1 context during list 2. To test this hypothesis, we used a pattern classifier to measure scene-related neural activity during list 2 study. Because scenes were visually present during list 1 but not list 2, scene-related activity during list 2 study can be used as a time-varying neural indicator of how much participants were reinstating the list 1 context during list 2 study. In keeping with our hypothesis, we found that prestimulus scene activation during the study of list 2 items was significantly higher for items subsequently misattributed to list 1 than for items subsequently correctly attributed to list 2. We conclude by discussing how these findings relate to theories of memory reconsolidation.


Extensive in vitro data and modeling studies suggest that intrinsic properties of medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) neurons contribute to the spiking behaviour of functional cell types of MEC neurons, such as grid cells, recorded in behaving animals. It remains unclear, however, how intrinsic properties of MEC neurons influence cellular dynamics in intact networks in vivo. In order to begin to bridge the gap between electrophysiological data sets from brain slices and behaving animals, in the present study we performed intracellular recordings using sharp electrodes in urethane-anaesthetized rats to elucidate the cellular dynamics of MEC neurons in vivo. We focused on the h-current-dependent sag potential during hyperpolarizing current steps, subthreshold resonance in response to oscillatory frequency sweeps (chirp stimuli), persistent spiking in response to brief depolarizing inputs and the relationship between firing frequency and input (f-I curve), each of which is sensitive to cholinergic modulation in vitro. Consistent with data from in vitro studies, cholinergic activation by systemic application of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine, resulted in decreased sag amplitude, increased sag time constant and a decrease of the peak resonance frequency. The f-I curve was also modulated by physostigmine in many neurons, but persistent spiking was not observed in any of our recordings, even when picrotoxin, a GABAA blocker, was included in the internal solution of the recording pipette to reduce possible effects of network inhibition. These results suggest that intrinsic oscillatory and rate-coding mechanisms, but not intrinsic bistability, are significantly modulated by acetylcholine in the intact entorhinal network.
Oscillatory common inputs of cortical or peripheral origin can be identified from the motor neuron output with coherence analysis. Linear transmission is possible despite the motor neuron non-linearity because the same input is sent commonly to several neurons. Because of the linear transmission, common input components to motor neurons can be investigated from the surface EMG, for example by EEG-EMG or EMG-EMG coherence. In these studies, there is an open debate on the utility and appropriateness of EMG rectification. The present study addresses this issue using an analytical, simulation and experimental approach. The main novel theoretical contribution that we report is that the spectra of both the rectified and the raw EMG contain input spectral components to motor neurons. However, they differ by the contribution of amplitude cancellation which influences the rectified EMG spectrum when extracting common oscillatory inputs. Therefore, the degree of amplitude cancellation has an impact on the effectiveness of EMG rectification in extracting input spectral peaks. The theoretical predictions were exactly confirmed by realistic simulations of a pool of motor neurons innervating a muscle in a cylindrical volume conductor of EMG generation and by experiments conducted on the first dorsal interosseous and the abductor pollicis brevis muscles of seven healthy subjects during pinching. It was concluded that when the contraction level is relatively low, EMG rectification may be preferable for identifying common inputs to motor neurons, especially when the energy of the action potentials in the low frequency range is low. Nonetheless, different levels of cancellation across conditions influence the relative estimates of the degree of linear transmission of oscillatory inputs to motor neurons when using the rectified EMG.
In the anaesthetized cat, the acute section of the saphenous (Saph) and/or the superficial peroneal (SP) nerves was found to produce a long-lasting increase of the field potentials generated in the dorsal horn by stimulation of the medial branch of the sural (mSU) nerve. This facilitation was associated with changes in the level of the tonic primary afferent depolarization (PAD) of the mSU intraspinal terminals. The mSU afferent fibres projecting into Rexed's laminae III-IV were subjected to a tonic PAD that was reduced by the acute section of the SP and/or the Saph nerves. The mSU afferents projecting deeper into the dorsal horn (Rexed's laminae V-VI) were instead subjected to a tonic PAD that was increased after Saph and SP acute nerve section. A differential control of the synaptic effectiveness of the low-threshold cutaneous afferents according to their sites of termination within the dorsal horn is envisaged as a mechanism that allows selective processing of sensory information in response to tactile and nociceptive stimulation or during the execution of different motor tasks.
K+ channels containing Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 pore-forming subunits mediate most of the subthreshold-operating somatodendritic A-type K+ current in CNS neurons. These channels are believed to be important in regulating the frequency of repetitive firing, the backpropagation of action potential into dendrites, and dendritic integration and plasticity. Moreover, they have been implicated in several diseases from pain to epilepsy and autism spectrum disorders. The lack of toxins that specifically and efficiently block these channels has hampered studies aimed at confirming their functional role and their involvement in disease. AmmTX3 and other related members of the -KTX15 family of scorpion toxins have been shown to block the A-type K+ current in cultured neurons, but their specificity has been questioned because the toxins do not efficiently block the currents mediated by Kv4.2 or Kv4.3 subunits expressed in heterologous cells. Here we show that the high-affinity blockade of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 channels by AmmTX3 depends on the presence of the auxiliary subunits DPP6 and DPP10. These proteins are thought to be components of the Kv4 channel complex in neurons and to be important for channel expression in dendrites. These studies validate the use of AmmTX3 as a blocker of the Kv4-mediated A-type K+ current in neurons.
NMDA receptor-dependent, intrinsic membrane potential oscillations are an important element in the operation of the lamprey locomotor network. They involve a cyclic influx of calcium, leading to an activation of calcium-activated potassium (KCa) channels that in turn contributes to the termination of the depolarized plateau and membrane repolarization. In this study, we have investigated the calcium dynamics in different regions of lamprey spinal neurons during membrane potential oscillations, using confocal calcium imaging in combination with intracellular recordings. Calcium fluctuations were observed in both soma and dendrites, timed to the oscillations. The calcium level increased sharply at the onset of membrane depolarization, to reach its maximum by the end of the plateau. The calcium peak in distal dendrites typically occurred earlier than in the soma during the oscillatory cycle. The L-type calcium channel blocker nimodipine increased the duration of the depolarized plateau phase in most cells tested, whereas the agonist Bay K 8644 decreased plateau duration. Bay K 8644 increased the amplitude of calcium fluctuations, particularly in distal dendrites, whereas nimodipine caused a decrease, suggesting that L-type low-voltage-activated calcium channels are mainly localized in these regions. Our results thus indicate that dendritic CaV1.3-like calcium channels are activated during NMDA-mediated membrane potential oscillations. This calcium influx activates KCa channels involved in plateau termination.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that targets some somatic motoneuron populations, while others, e.g. those of the oculomotor system, are spared. The pathophysiological basis of this pattern of differential vulnerability, which is preserved in a transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SOD1(G93A)), and the mechanism of neurodegeneration in general are unknown. Hyperexcitability and calcium dysregulation have been proposed by others on the basis of data from juvenile mice that are, however, asymptomatic. No studies have been done with symptomatic mice following disease progression to the disease endstage. Here, we developed a new brainstem slice preparation for whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and single cell fura-2 calcium imaging to study motoneurons in adult wild-type and SOD1(G93A) mice up to disease endstage. We analysed disease-stage-dependent electrophysiological properties and intracellular Ca(2+) handling of vulnerable hypoglossal motoneurons in comparison to resistant oculomotor neurons. Thereby, we identified a transient hyperexcitability in presymptomatic but not in endstage vulnerable motoneurons. Additionally, we revealed a remodelling of intracellular Ca(2+) clearance within vulnerable but not resistant motoneurons at disease endstage characterised by a reduction of uniporter-dependent mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake and enhanced Ca(2+) extrusion across the plasma membrane. Our study challenged the notion that hyperexcitability is a direct cause of neurodegeneration in SOD1(G93A) mice, but molecularly identified a Ca(2+) clearance deficit in motoneurons and an adaptive Ca(2+) handling strategy that might be targeted by future therapeutic strategies.
Tonic -aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor-mediated signalling controls neuronal network excitability in the hippocampus. Although the extracellular concentration of GABA (e[GABA]) is critical in determining tonic conductances, knowledge on how e[GABA] is regulated by different GABA transporters (GATs) in vivo is limited. Therefore, we studied the role of GATs in the regulation of hippocampal e[GABA] using in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats. Here we show that GAT-1, which is predominantly presynaptically located, is the major GABA transporter under baseline, quiescent conditions. Furthermore, a significant contribution of GAT-3 in regulating e[GABA] was revealed by administration of the GAT-3 inhibitor SNAP-5114 during simultaneous blockade of GAT-1 by NNC-711. Thus, the GABA transporting activity of GAT-3 (the expression of which is confined to astrocytes) is apparent under conditions in which GAT-1 is blocked. However, sustained neuronal activation by K(+)-induced depolarization caused a profound spillover of GABA into the extrasynaptic space and this increase in e[GABA] was significantly potentiated by sole blockade of GAT-3 (i.e. even when uptake of GAT-1 is intact). Furthermore, experiments using tetrodotoxin to block action potentials revealed that GAT-3 regulates extrasynaptic GABA levels from action potential-independent sources when GAT-1 is blocked. Importantly, changes in e[GABA] resulting from both GAT-1 and GAT-3 inhibition directly precipitate changes in tonic conductances in dentate granule cells as measured by whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Thus, astrocytic GAT-3 contributes to the regulation of e[GABA] in the hippocampus in vivo and may play an important role in controlling the excitability of hippocampal cells when network activity is increased.
We are fortunate to have invited commentaries from the laboratories of Dr Cathy Lord and Dr Fred Volkmar offering their perspectives on the new Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)-5 criteria for the autism spectrum. Both commentaries note how DSM-5 collapses the earlier diagnostic categories of the pervasive developmental disorders into a single category of autism spectrum disorder. In addition, DSM-5 collapses social and communication domains into a single combined domain. The commentaries go on to discuss the positive aspects of these changes and raise some areas of potential concern. We support the evidence-based changes to autism diagnosis found in DSM-5, and look forward to further studies on the autism phenotype as this has implications for diagnosis and treatment. As our mechanistic understanding of autism improves, diagnoses based on behavioral parameters will continue to provide opportunities for interventions targeting the behaviors, while etiological diagnoses will provide opportunities for interventions tailored to etiology.
Changes in cerebral perfusion and CO2 cerebrovascular reactivity during and immediately after a sojourn at high altitude remain unclear but may be critical for acclimatization. The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of 6days at 4350m on cerebral perfusion and cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) to CO2 by arterial spin labeling (ASL) magnetic resonance imaging at sea level and to compare it with transcranial Doppler (TCD) results at altitude. Eleven healthy male subjects, non-acclimatized to altitude, stayed for 6days at 4350m (Observatoire Vallot, massif du Mont-Blanc). Prior to the stay and within 6h after returning to sea level, subjects were investigated using pseudo-continuous ASL at 3T during a block-design inhalation paradigm to measure basal cerebral blood flow (CBF) and CO2 CVR. End-tidal CO2 (PetCO2), respiratory rate, heart rate and oxygen saturation were recorded during the exam. Subjects were also examined using TCD prior to and on day 5 of the stay at altitude to measure blood velocity in the middle cerebral artery (MCAv) and CO2 CVR. CO2 CVR was expressed as percent change in ASL CBF or TCD MCAv per mmHg change in PetCO2. PetCO2 was significantly decreased during and after altitude. Significant increases in TCD MCAv compared to before altitude measurements were observed on day 5 at altitude (+20.515.5%). Interestingly, ASL CBF remained increased in the MCA and anterior vascular territories (+22.024.1% and 20.520.3%, respectively) after altitude under normoxic conditions. TCD CVR tended to decrease on day 5 at 4350m (-12.354.5% in the MCA) while the ASL CVR was significantly decreased after altitude (-29.519.8% in the MCA). No correlation was observed between cerebral hemodynamic changes and symptoms of acute mountain sickness at high altitude. In conclusion, prolonged exposure to high altitude significantly increases blood flow during the altitude stay and within 6h after returning to sea level. Decreased CO2 CVR after prolonged altitude exposure was also observed using ASL. Changes in cerebral hemodynamics with altitude exposure probably involve other mechanisms than the vasodilatory effect of hypoxia only, since it persists under normoxia several hours following the descent.
Diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) data have been mostly acquired with single-shot echo-planar imaging (EPI) to minimize motion induced artifacts. The spatial resolution, however, is inherently limited in single-shot EPI, even when the parallel imaging (usually at an acceleration factor of 2) is incorporated. Multi-shot acquisition strategies could potentially achieve higher spatial resolution and fidelity, but they are generally susceptible to motion-induced phase errors among excitations that are exacerbated by diffusion sensitizing gradients, rendering the reconstructed images unusable. It has been shown that shot-to-shot phase variations may be corrected using navigator echoes, but at the cost of imaging throughput. To address these challenges, a novel and robust multi-shot DWI technique, termed multiplexed sensitivity-encoding (MUSE), is developed here to reliably and inherently correct nonlinear shot-to-shot phase variations without the use of navigator echoes. The performance of the MUSE technique is confirmed experimentally in healthy adult volunteers on 3Tesla MRI systems. This newly developed technique should prove highly valuable for mapping brain structures and connectivities at high spatial resolution for neuroscience studies.
A crucial question for the analysis of multi-subject and/or multi-session electroencephalographic (EEG) data is how to combine information across multiple recordings from different subjects and/or sessions, each associated with its own set of source processes and scalp projections. Here we introduce a novel statistical method for characterizing the spatial consistency of EEG dynamics across a set of data records. Measure Projection Analysis (MPA) first finds voxels in a common template brain space at which a given dynamic measure is consistent across nearby source locations, then computes local-mean EEG measure values for this voxel subspace using a statistical model of source localization error and between-subject anatomical variation. Finally, clustering the mean measure voxel values in this locally consistent brain subspace finds brain spatial domains exhibiting distinguishable measure features and provides 3-D maps plus statistical significance estimates for each EEG measure of interest. Applied to sufficient high-quality data, the scalp projections of many maximally independent component (IC) processes contributing to recorded high-density EEG data closely match the projection of a single equivalent dipole located in or near brain cortex. We demonstrate the application of MPA to a multi-subject EEG study decomposed using independent component analysis (ICA), compare the results to k-means IC clustering in EEGLAB (sccn.ucsd.edu/eeglab), and use surrogate data to test MPA robustness. A Measure Projection Toolbox (MPT) plug-in for EEGLAB is available for download (sccn.ucsd.edu/wiki/MPT). Together, MPA and ICA allow use of EEG as a 3-D cortical imaging modality with near-cm scale spatial resolution.
Individual political preferences as expressed, for instance, in votes or donations are fundamental to democratic societies. However, the relevance of deliberative processing for political preferences has been highly debated, putting automatic processes in the focus of attention. Based on this notion, the present study tested whether brain responses reflect participants' preferences for politicians and their associated political parties in the absence of explicit deliberation and attention. Participants were instructed to perform a demanding visual fixation task while their brain responses were measured using fMRI. Occasionally, task-irrelevant images of German politicians from two major competing parties were presented in the background while the distraction task was continued. Subsequent to scanning, participants' political preferences for these politicians and their affiliated parties were obtained. Brain responses in distinct brain areas predicted automatic political preferences at the different levels of abstraction: activation in the ventral striatum was positively correlated with preference ranks for unattended politicians, whereas participants' preferences for the affiliated political parties were reflected in activity in the insula and the cingulate cortex. Using an additional donation task, we showed that the automatic preference-related processing in the brain extended to real-world behavior that involved actual financial loss to participants. Together, these findings indicate that brain responses triggered by unattended and task-irrelevant political images reflect individual political preferences at different levels of abstraction.
The estrogen induction of progesterone receptors (PRs) in the ventrolateral division of the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus (VMNvl) is critical for the regulation of female sexual behavior. VMNvl neurons express PRs and both types of estrogen receptors (ER and ER), and their sequential activation initiates the molecular mechanisms underlying sexual behavior. To assess the relative importance of each ER subtype in the induction of PRs, we have estimated the total number of PR-immunoreactive neurons and quantified the total amount of PR protein in the VMNvl of adult ovariectomized rats that were injected with either estradiol benzoate (EB) or the specific agonists of the ER, propyl-pyrazole triol (PPT), and of the ER, diaryl-propionitrile (DPN), in different doses and schedules. The administration of EB and of PPT alone, but not of DPN alone, increased the total number of PR-immunoreactive neurons and PR protein levels. When the specific agonists were administered sequentially, the total number of PR-immunoreactive neurons also increased, particularly when PPT was administered before DPN. Conversely, the concomitant administration of PPT and DPN did not increase the number of PR-immunoreactive neurons. The observation that PPT increases the number of PR-immunoreactive neurons and the levels of PR protein far less than EB shows that the estradiol induction of PRs in the VMNvl does not involve solely the activation of the ER and suggests that it might also implicate the activation of membrane receptors. The present results also show that ER activation averts the action of ER in the induction of PRs.
The present study examined the roles of ventrolateral orbital cortex (VLO) 5-HT1, 5-HT2, 5-HT3, 5-HT4, 5-HT5, 5-HT6 and 5-HT7 receptor subtypes in mediating 5-HT-induced antiallodynic actions in the rat spared nerve injury (SNI) pain model. Changes in paw withdrawal threshold (PWT) were measured using von-Frey filaments. Microinjection of 5-HT (2, 5 and 10g, in 0.5l) into the VLO depressed allodynia induced by SNI, and the PWT increased in a dose-dependent manner. Microinjection of selective 5-HT1A, 5-HT2, 5-HT3, 5-HT4, 5-HT5A, 5-HT6 and 5-HT7 receptor antagonists, 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl] piperazine hydrobromide (NAN-190) (10g), cyproheptadine (50ng), granisetron hydrochloride (granisetron) (10g), 1-[2-[(methylsulfonyl)-amino]ethyl]-4-piperidinyl]methyl1-methyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylate (GR113808) (5g), SB699551 dihydrochloride (SB699551) (10g), SB258585 dihydrochloride (SB258585) (2g) or SB269970 hydrochloride (SB269970) (10g) into the VLO 5-min prior to 5-HT (10g) injection, all antagonized the 5-HT-induced inhibition of allodynia. In addition, these antagonists applied alone to VLO did not influence allodynia. These results suggest that although 5-HT1-7 receptor subtypes in the VLO do not have a tonic modulatory action on the allodynia induced by SNI, they are involved in mediating the depression of the SNI allodynia produced by injection of 5HT into VLO.
MicroRNA (miRNA) is a class of small non-coding RNA which regulates post-transcriptional gene expression by repressing and thereby fine-tuning protein production, mainly via sequence-specific binding within the 3'untranslated region of mRNA transcripts. Although in humans there are only 1600 miRNAs, bioinformatics, systems studies and advanced quantitative proteomics reveal miRNA regulation of over half of all protein-coding genes and that each miRNA can regulate multiple proteins. Epilepsy is a common, serious neurologic disorder characterized by recurring unprovoked seizures that result from abnormal firing of populations of neurons in the brain. The brain expresses several unique miRNAs which control dendritic morphology as well as ion channel levels, neuronal migration and glial function. There is an emerging view that the patho-mechanisms underlying the process of epileptogenesis, as well as maintenance and progression of the epileptic state, involve miRNAs that control multiple genes and proteins on a systems level. Expression profiling studies reveal select changes to brain miRNA levels following prolonged seizures (status epilepticus) in animal models. Inflammation, stress signaling and neuronal excitation are among the pathways most impacted. Analysis of miRNA expression in human epilepsy has also been performed, where again neuroinflammatory processes were prominent. These studies suggest that miRNAs may regulate certain key processes but are not necessarily broadly altering all patho-mechanisms in epilepsy. Functional studies employing antagomirs have identified contributions from miR-34a and miR-132 to seizure-induced neuronal death whereas silencing miR-134 potently reduced status epilepticus, seizure-damage and the later occurrence of spontaneous seizures. Efforts to identify the in vivo target(s) of epilepsy-regulated miRNAs, is now a priority. Last, miRNAs are stable, information-carrying (paracrine) signals. Profiling miRNA in biofluids may represent a novel source of disease biomarkers in epilepsy. In summary, miRNA is emerging as a critical new layer of gene expression control with implications for the cause and treatment of epilepsy.
The guanidine-like compound creatine exerts bioenergetic, antiexcitotoxic, antioxidant and neuroprotective properties; however, the intracellular mechanisms responsible for these effects are still not well established. The purpose of this study was to investigate the protective effect of creatine against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced cell death in neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and the possible intracellular signaling pathways involved in such effect. Exposure of SH-SY5Y cells to 100-300M of 6-OHDA for 24h caused a significant concentration-dependent cell death measured as a diminution of 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction and as an increase in the extracellular release of lactate dehydrogenase. SH-SY5Y cells incubated for 24 or 48h with creatine (10-5000M) was not cytotoxic. However, pre and co-treatment with creatine (0.3-1000M) for 24h reduced 6-OHDA-induced toxicity. The protective effect afforded by creatine against 6-OHDA-induced toxicity was reversed by inhibitors of different protein kinases, i.e. phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) (LY294002), Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) (KN-93), protein kinase A (H-89), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) (PD98059) and protein kinase C (PKC) (chelerythrine). Furthermore, creatine prevented the 6-OHDA-induced dephosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) at the serine 9 residue. In conclusion, the results of this study show that creatine can protect against 6-OHDA-induced toxicity and its protective mechanism is related to a signaling pathway that involves PI3K, PKC, PKA, CaMKII, MEK1/2 and GSK-3.
Although mitochondrial dysfunction is intimately related to axonal degeneration following nerve injury, the molecular mechanisms of mitochondrial swelling and its mechanistic relation to axonal degeneration are largely unknown. Previous studies have demonstrated that axonal degeneration in the injured peripheral nerves shows two morphologically distinct phases: (1) A latency period (24h), in which the morphology of axonal cytoskeletons seems unchanged, followed by (2) an execution period (36-48h), which shows a catastrophic granular degeneration of most axonal structures in rodent axons. In the present study, we found that, in the sciatic nerve axotomy model, energy failure and microtubule depolymerization occurred during the latency period whereas mitochondrial swelling and neurofilament degradation started in the execution period. The energy repletion with NAD or an NAD/pyruvate mixture inhibited microtubule depolymerization, mitochondrial swelling and axonal degeneration in transected sciatic nerve axons. In addition, microtubule perturbing agents enhanced axonal degeneration and mitochondrial swelling. Extracellular calcium chelation did not affect energy failure, microtubule depolymerization or mitochondrial swelling, but it did prevent neurofilament degradation. These findings suggest that an early disturbance in energy dynamics regardless of mitochondrial swelling might be a key trigger for the initiation of axonal degeneration and that extracellular calcium influx is a late effector for neurofilament degradation.
Adult neurogenesis in mammals is typically observed in the subgranular zone of the hippocampal dentate gyrus and the subventricular zone. We investigated adult neurogenesis in the brain of a giant otter shrew (Potamogale velox), a semi-aquatic, central African rainforest mammal of the family Tenrecidae that belongs to the superorder Afrotheria. We examined neurogenesis immunohistochemically, using the endogenous marker doublecortin (DCX), which stains neuronal precursor cells and immature neurons. Our results revealed densely packed DCX-positive cells in the entire extent of the subventricular zone from where cells migrated along the rostral migratory stream to the olfactory bulb. In the olfactory bulb, DCX-expressing cells were primarily present in the granular cell layer with radially orientated dendrites and in the glomerular layer representing periglomerular cells. In the hippocampus, DCX-positive cells were identified in the subgranular and granular layers of the dentate gyrus and strongly labelled DCX-positive processes, presumably dendrites and axons of the newly generated granular cells, were observed in the CA3 regions. In addition, DCX immunoreactive cells were present in the olfactory tubercle, the piriform cortex and the endopiriform nucleus. While DCX-positive fibres have been previously observed in the anterior commissure of the hedgehog and mole, we were able to demonstrate the presence of DCX-positive cells presumably migrating across the anterior commissure. Taken together, the giant otter shrew reveals patterns of neurogenesis similar to that seen in other mammals; however, the appearance of possible neuronal precursor cells in the anterior commissure is a novel observation.
The transforming growth factor beta-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), a member of the Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase family, is characterized as a key regulator in inflammatory and apoptosis signaling pathways. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of the TAK1 pathway in experimental traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to TBI using a modified Feeney's weight-drop model. The time course showed that a significant increase of TAK1 and p-TAK1 expression in the cortex after TBI. Moreover, TBI induced TAK1 redistribution both in neurons and astrocytes of the lesion boundary zone. The effects of specific inhibition of the TAK1 pathway by 5Z-7-oxozeaenol (OZ, intracerebroventricular injection at 10min post-trauma) on histopathological and behavioral outcomes in rats were assessed at 24h post injury. The number of TUNEL-positive stained cells was diminished and neuronal survival and neurological function were improved with OZ treatment. Biochemically, the high dose of OZ significantly reduced the levels of TAK1 and p-TAK1, further decreased nuclear factor-B and activator protein 1 activities and the release of inflammatory cytokines. In addition, we found that both 10min and 3h post-trauma OZ therapies could markedly improve neurological function and neuronal survival after long-term survival. These results revealed that the TAK1 pathway is activated after experimental TBI and the inhibitor OZ affords significant neuro- protection and amelioration of neurobehavioral deficits after experimental TBI, suggesting a potential rationale for manipulating this pathway in clinical practice.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8), a neuropeptide, plays an important role in morphine dependence and several addictive behaviors. We have previously reported that CCK-8 attenuates the acquisition of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), but the possible functions of CCK-8 on drug relapse remain unclear. Here we evaluated the effects of CCK-8 on the reinstatement of extinguished morphine-induced CPP and behavioral sensitization. A single injection of 0.1 and 1g CCK-8 (i.c.v.) significantly attenuated both drug- (morphine) and stress- (foot shock) primed reinstatement of CPP and reduced the escalated locomotor activity in reinstatement tests. Additionally, CCK-8 blocked the expression of morphine-induced behavioral sensitization. However, administration of CCK-8 (0.01, 0.1 and 1g) alone to morphine-pretreated rats could not trigger reinstatement of CPP and had no significant effect on threshold sensitivity to foot shock. In conclusion, our study identifies a distinct inhibitory effect of CCK-8 on the reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior and provides a potential application to the medication of drug relapse.
Alterations in axon-dendrite polarity impair functional recovery in the developing CNS after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) injury. PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10) signaling pathway mediates the formation of neuronal polarity. However, its role in cerebral HI injury is not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the role of PTEN pathway in regulation of axon-dendrite polarity using an oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) model with rat cortical neurons. We found that the activity of PTEN and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) was increased after OGD, along with the decrease of the activity in protein kinase B (Akt) and collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2). Pretreatment with bpv, a potent inhibitor of PTEN, caused a decrease of the activity in PTEN and GSK-3, and a significant increase of the activity in Akt and CRMP-2. Simultaneously, the morphological polarity of neurons was maintained and neuronal apoptosis was reduced. Moreover, inhibition of PTEN rescued vesicle recycling in axons. These findings suggested that the PTEN/Akt/GSK-3/CRMP-2 pathway is involved in the regulation of axon-dendrite polarity, providing a novel route for protecting neurons following neonatal HI.
It has been demonstrated that rat litter size affects the immune cell response, but it is not known whether the long-term effects aggravate age-related memory impairments or microglial-associated changes. To that end, we raised sedentary Wistar rats that were first suckled in small or large litters (6 or 12pups/dam, respectively), then separated into groups of 2-3 rats from the 21st post-natal day to study end. At 4months (young adult) or 23months (aged), all individual rats were submitted to spatial memory and object identity recognition tests, and then sacrificed. Brain sections were immunolabeled with anti-IBA-1 antibodies to selectively identify microglia/macrophages. Microglial morphological changes in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus were estimated based on three-dimensional reconstructions. The cell number and laminar distribution in the dentate gyrus was estimated with the stereological optical fractionator method. We found that, compared to young rat groups, aged rats from large litters showed significant increases in the number of microglia in all layers of the dentate gyrus. Compared to the microglia in all other groups, microglia in aged individuals from large litters showed a significantly higher degree of tree volume expansion, branch base diameter thickening, and cell soma enlargement. These morphological changes were correlated with an increase in the number of microglia in the molecular layer. Young adult individuals from small litters exhibited preserved intact object identity recognition memory and all other groups showed reduced performance in both spatial and object identity recognition tasks. We found that, in large litters, brain development was, on average, associated with permanent changes in the innate immune system in the brain, with a significant impact on the microglial homeostasis of aged rats.
We previously demonstrated that the peptidergic neurotransmitter pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) affects the autonomic system and contributes to the control of metabolic and cardiovascular functions. Previous studies have demonstrated the importance of centrally-mediated sympathetic effects of leptin for obesity-related hypertension. Here we tested whether PACAP signaling in the brain is implicated in leptin-induced sympathetic excitation and appetite suppression. In anesthetized mice, intracerebroventricular (ICV) pre-treatment with PACAP6-38, an antagonist of the PACAP receptors (PAC1-R and VPAC2), inhibited the increase in white adipose tissue sympathetic nerve activity (WAT-SNA) produced by ICV leptin (2g). In contrast, leptin-induced stimulation of renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) was not affected by ICV pre-treatment with PACAP6-38. Moreover, in PACAP-deficient (Adcyap1-/-) mice, ICV leptin-induced WAT-SNA increase was impaired, whereas RSNA response was preserved. The reductions in food intake and body weight evoked by ICV leptin were attenuated in Adcyap1-/- mice. Our data suggest that hypothalamic PACAP signaling plays a key role in the control by leptin of feeding behavior and lipocatabolic sympathetic outflow, but spares the renal sympathetic traffic.
Activation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) is a potential therapeutic strategy of neurological disorders. In this study, NSPCs of subventricular zone were isolated and cultured from platelet-derived growth factor--receptor-knockout (PDGFR-(-/-)) mice of postnatal day 1 (P1) and P28, and the roles of PDGFR- were examined in these cells. In PDGFR--preserving control NSPCs, stem cell activities, such as numbers and diameters of secondary neurospheres, cell proliferation and survival rates, were significantly higher in P1 NSPCs than those in P28 NSPCs. In PDGFR-(-/-) NSPCs, most of these parameters were decreased as compared with age-matched controls. Among them, the decrease of secondary neurosphere formation was most striking in P1 and P28 PDGFR-(-/-) NSPCs and in P28 control NSPCs as compared with P1 control NSPCs. PCR-array and following quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analyses demonstrated that expressions of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) and exons IV-IX of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were decreased, and noggin was increased in P1 PDGFR-(-/-) as compared with P1 controls. Addition of BDNF rescued the number and diameter of secondary neurospheres in P1 PDGFR-(-/-) NSPCs to similar levels as controls. The expressions of PDGFs and PDGFRs in control NSPCs were increased along with the differentiation-induction, where phosphorylated PDGFR- was co-localized with neuronal and astrocyte differentiation markers. In controls, the neuronal differentiation was decreased, and the glial differentiation was increased from P1 to P28 NSPCs. Compared with P1 controls, neuronal differentiation was reduced in P1 PDGFR-(-/-) NSPCs, whereas glial differentiation was comparable between the two genotypes. These results suggest that PDGFR- signaling is important for the self-renewal and multipotency of NSPCs, particularly in neonatal NSPCs. BDNF, FGF2, and noggin may be involved in the effects of PDGFR- signaling in these cells. Accordingly, the activation of PDGFR- in NSPCs may be a novel therapeutic strategy of neurological diseases.
Human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have multi-lineage differentiation potential and can become cells of mesodermal and neural lineages. These stem cells thus hold considerable clinical promise for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. For successful regeneration of damaged neural tissues, directed differentiation of neural or neuronal precursor cells from MSCs and integration of transplanted cells are pivotal factors. We induced MSCs into neurogenesis using a modified protocol. The therapeutic potency of the resulting neural progenitor cells in a rat model of ischemic stroke was analyzed. Using a highly hydrophobic diphenylamino-s-triazine-bridged p-phenylene (DTOPV)-coated surface and adopting a procedure for propagation of neural stem cells, we efficiently converted MSCs into neurosphere-like cellular aggregates (NS-MSCs). The spherical cells were subsequently induced to differentiate into neural cells expressing neuroectodermal markers. To determine whether these cells had neuronal fates and induced neuro-protective effects in vivo, NS-MSCs were intra-cerebrally administered to rats 48h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAo). The results showed a remarkable attenuation of ischemic damage with significant functional recovery, although the cells were not fully incorporated into the damaged tissues on post-operative day 26. Improvement in the NS-MSC-transplanted rats was faster than in the MSC group and suppression of inflammation was likely the key factor. Thus, our culture system using the hydrophobic surface of a biocompatible DTOPV coating efficiently supported neural cell differentiation from MSCs. Neural-primed MSCs exhibited stronger therapeutic effects than MSCs in rat brains with pMCAo.
Although significant progress has been made over the last decades, the chemical senses remain less well explored than vision or audition. One method to assess participants' ability to identify or localize odors consists in the application of dichotomous stimuli (e.g., left- and right-sided stimulation). In this study we aimed to explore localization and identification mechanisms by investigating whether response times and response accuracy were correlated, with the aim of establishing the pertinence of response times as an additional measure for assessment of the olfactory function (1). We further examined an advantage of the right nostril which has been reported in several publications (2). We delivered two mixed olfactory/trigeminal odors (benzaldehyde and eucalyptol) to one nostril at a time in a pseudorandomized order to 23 normosmic participants; the other nostril received an odor-free air puff. In half of the trials we asked the participants to detect the stimulated nostril; in the other half, they indicated which odor they had received. We recorded response accuracy and response times. Participants reached higher accuracy in odor identification than in localization, driven by benzaldehyde. For the stimulus eucalyptol exclusively, we observed that participants were faster to respond after stimulation of the right nostril than to the left nostril, in the localization task. Finally, response times were correlated with response accuracy in the identification task, but not in localization. Our findings suggest that odor identification is easier than odor localization. In addition, we find further support for an advantage of the right nostril over the left nostril. Moreover, the measurement of reaction times may supplement other techniques of the assessment of odor identification.
The stability and efficacy of neuronal circuits are achieved through a detailed balance between pyramidal cell and interneuron activities. Interestingly, the neocortical excitatory-inhibitory (E-I) balance is actively maintained at the soma of Layer 5 pyramidal neurons which receive 20% of excitation and 80% of inhibition after dendritic integration, and this is not affected by changes in synaptic strength. To infer the role of serotonergic neuromodulation on the activity-dependent maintenance of the E-I balance, we performed continuous voltage clamp measurements of stimulation-locked conductance dynamics in Layer 5 pyramidal neurons before and after long-term potentiation (LTP) induction, together with chronic or acute manipulation of serotonin function. When a theta-burst stimulation was applied in Layer 2/3 of 5-HT depleted cortical slices (after in vivo treatment with the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA)), or after in vitro perfusion of the potent 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100,635, we observed a persistent shift of the ratio between excitation and inhibition toward more inhibition. This was due to a strong LTP of inhibition co-aligned with a weak LTP of excitation, whereas the same protocol caused a similar potentiation of excitatory and inhibitory inputs when applied in control slices. In contrast, neither excitatory nor inhibitory postsynaptic currents were potentiated when LTP protocols were delivered in the presence of either the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram or the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT. This is the first demonstration that serotonergic neuromodulation is crucial for the maintenance of the neocortical E-I balance during high-frequency regimes.
Neuronal network remodeling during critical periods of sensory development might be accompanied by alterations in hypothalamic cell populations. MicroRNAs play a central role in regulating neuronal function, including neural stem cell proliferation, and neuronal migration, maturation and integration into viable circuits by modulating different mRNA targets. Here we investigated the role of miR-138 in cell proliferation and migration in a neuron-enriched hypothalamic cell culture prepared from chicks on embryonic day 16. Ectopic expression of miR-138 enhanced hypothalamic cell migration, but did not affect cell proliferation. As a potential mechanism for miR-138's effect on cell migration, we investigated reelin (Reln) as a direct target of miR-138. Luciferase reporter assay and Ago2-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed direct binding of miR-138 to the Reln 3'-untranslated region. Ectopic miR-138 abolished Reln levels in hypothalamic cells and enhanced their migration, similar to Reln-antisense DNA. Furthermore, inhibition of Reln expression by miR-138 led to decreased phosphorylation level of the key component of Reln-regulated signaling cascades, Disabled 1. These findings describe miR-138 as a novel regulator of hypothalamic cell migration, acting at least in part via inhibition of Reln expression and leading to the inactivation of Reln signals.
Our work suggests that heteromer formation, mainly involves linear motifs (LMs) found in disordered regions of proteins. Local disorder imparts plasticity to LMs. Most molecular recognition of proteins occurs between short linear segments, known as LMs. Interaction of short continuous epitopes is not constrained by sequence and has the advantage of resulting in interactions with micromolar affinities which suit transient, reversible complexes such as receptor heteromers. Electrostatic interactions between epitopes of the G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) involved, are the key step in driving heteromer formation forward. The first step in heteromerization, involves phosphorylating Ser/Thr in an epitope containing a casein kinase 1/2-consensus site. Our data suggest that dopaminergic neurotransmission, through cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) slows down heteromerization. The negative charge, acquired by the phosphorylation of a Ser/Thr in a PKA consensus site in the Arg-rich epitope, affects the activity of the receptors involved in heteromerization by causing allosteric conformational changes, due to the repulsive effect generated by the negatively charged phosphate. In addition to modulating heteromerization, it affects the stability of the heteromers' interactions and their binding affinity. So here we have an instance where phosphorylation is not just an on/off switch, instead by weakening the noncovalent bond, heteromerization acts like a rheostat that controls the stability of the heteromer through activation or inhibition of adenylate cyclase by the neurotransmitter Dopamine depending on which Dopamine receptor it docks at.
Motivation has been demonstrated to affect individuals' response strategies in economic decision-making, however, little is known about how motivation influences perceptual decision-making behavior or its related neural activity. Given the important role motivation plays in shaping our behavior, a better understanding of this relationship is needed. A block-design, continuous performance, perceptual decision-making task where participants were asked to detect a picture of an animal among distractors was used during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The effect of positive and negative motivation on sustained activity within regions of the brain thought to underlie decision-making was examined by altering the monetary contingency associated with the task. In addition, signal detection theory was used to investigate the effect of motivation on detection sensitivity, response bias and response time. While both positive and negative motivation resulted in increased sustained activation in the ventral striatum, fusiform gyrus, left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and ventromedial prefrontal cortex, only negative motivation resulted in the adoption of a more liberal, closer to optimal response bias. This shift toward a liberal response bias correlated with increased activation in the left DLPFC, but did not result in improved task performance. The present findings suggest that motivation alters aspects of the way perceptual decisions are made. Further, this altered response behavior is reflected in a change in left DLPFC activation, a region involved in the computation of perceptual decisions.
Extracellular matrix (ECM) forms an active interface around neurons of the central nervous system (CNS). Whilst the components, chemical heterogeneity and cellular recruitment of this intercellular assembly in various parts of the brain have been discussed in detail, the spinal cord received limited attention in this context. This is in sharp contrast to its clinical relevance since the overall role of ECM especially that of its chondroitin sulphate-based proteoglycan components (CSPGs) was repeatedly addressed in neuropathology, regeneration, CNS repair and therapy models. Based on two post-mortem human specimen, this study gives the first and detailed description of major ECM components of the human spinal cord. Immunohistochemical investigations were restricted to the systematic mapping of aggrecan, brevican, proteoglycan link-protein as well as tenascin-R and hyaluronan containing matrices in the whole cranio-caudal dimension of the human spinal cord. Other proteoglycans like versican, neurocan and NG2 were exemplarily investigated in restricted areas. We show the overall presence of tenascin-R and hyaluronan in both white and grey matters whereas aggrecan, proteoglycan link-protein and brevican were restricted to the grey matter. In the grey matter, the ECM formed aggrecan-based perineuronal nets in the ventral and lateral horns but established single perisynaptic assemblies, axonal coats (ACs), containing link-protein and brevican in all regions except of the Lissauer's zone. Intersegmental differences were reflected in the appearance of segment-specific nuclei but not in overall matrix distribution pattern or chemical heterogeneity. Perineuronal nets were typically associated with long-range projection neurons including cholinergic ventral horn motorneurons or dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons of the Clarke-Stilling nuclei. Multiple immunolabelling revealed that nociceptive afferents were devoid of individual matrix assemblies unlike glycinergic or GABAergic synapses. The detailed description of ECM distribution in the human spinal cord shall support clinical approaches in injury and regenerative therapy.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was investigated in the present study to examine whether it could affect the activation status of microglia under microenvironment of spinal cord injury and provide a potential therapeutic treatment for spinal cord injury. We established mouse spinal cord hemisection model and injected recombinant human G-CSF (rhG-CSF) subcutaneously. The results demonstrated that G-CSF could recruit microglia to the injury site in the first 72h after spinal cord injury. Moreover, G-CSF inhibits the expression of pro-inflammatory factors and promotes the expression of neurotrophic factors. Additionally, G-CSF also increases the expression of markers of M2 macrophage and inhibits the expression of markers of M1 macrophage in BV2 microglia in vitro model, favoring the M2 polarization of microglia under the microenvironment of spinal cord hemisection. NFB signal pathway was involved in G-CSF-induced polarization of BV2 microglia. As a conclusion, we suggested that administration of G-CSF within the first 72h after spinal cord injury might reduce early inflammation-induced detrimental effect and promote an anti-inflammatory response that favors repair via improving alternative activation of microglia. Administration of G-CSF in the acute phase of spinal cord injury may be a promising strategy in restorative therapy after spinal cord injury.
Phytoestrogens have received considerable attention because they provide an array of beneficial effects, such as neuroprotection. To better understand the molecular and functional link between phytoestrogens and classical as well as membrane estrogen receptors (ERs), we investigated the effect of daidzein on the glutamate-mediated apoptotic pathway. Our study demonstrated that daidzein (0.1-10M) inhibited the pro-apoptotic and neurotoxic effects caused by glutamate treatment. Hippocampal, neocortical and cerebellar tissues responded to the inhibitory action of daidzein on glutamate-activated caspase-3 and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in a similar manner. Biochemical data were supported at the cellular level by Hoechst 33342 and calcein AM staining. The sensitivity of neuronal cells to daidzein-mediated protection was most prominent in hippocampal cultures at an early stage of development 7th day in vitro. A selective estrogen receptor  (ER) antagonist, 4-[2-phenyl-5,7-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyrazolo[1,5,-a]pyrimidin-3-yl]phenol (PHTPP), and a selective G-protein-coupled receptor 30 (GPR30) antagonist, 3aS(),4R(),9bR())-4-(6-Bromo-1,3-benzodioxol-5-yl)-3a,4,5,9b-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline (G15), reversed the daidzein-mediated inhibition of glutamate-induced loss of membrane mitochondrial potential, caspase-3 activity, and LDH release. A selective ER antagonist, methyl-piperidino-pyrazole (MPP), did not influence any anti-apoptotic effect of daidzein. However, a high-affinity estrogen receptor antagonist, 7,17-[9-[(4,4,5,5,5-pentafluoropentyl)sulfinyl]nonyl]estra-1,3,5(10)-triene-3,17-diol (ICI) 182,780, and a selective GPR30 agonist, ()-1-[(3aR(),4S(),9bS())-4-(6-bromo-1,3-benzodioxol-5-yl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinolin-8-yl]-ethanone (G1), intensified the protective action of daidzein against glutamate-induced loss of membrane mitochondrial potential and LDH release. In siRNA ER- and siRNA GPR30-transfected cells, daidzein did not inhibit the glutamate-induced effects. Twenty-four hour exposure to glutamate did not affect the cellular distribution of ER and GPR30, but caused greater than 100% increase in the levels of the receptors. Co-treatment with daidzein decreased the level of ER without significant changing of the GPR30 protein level. Here, we elucidated neuroprotective effects of daidzein at low micromolar concentrations and demonstrated that the phytoestrogens may exert their effects through novel extranuclear GPR30 and the classical transcriptionally acting ER. These studies uncover key roles of the ER and GPR30 intracellular signaling pathways in mediating the anti-apoptotic action of daidzein and may provide insight into new strategies to treat or prevent neural degeneration.
While intense or highly arousing stressors have long been known to suppress pain, relatively mild or chronic stress can enhance pain. The mechanisms underlying stress-induced hyperalgesia (SIH) are only now being defined. The physiological and neuroendocrine effects of mild stress are mediated by the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), which has documented connections with the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a brainstem region capable of facilitating nociception. We hypothesized that stress engages both the DMH and the RVM to produce hyperalgesia. Direct pharmacological activation of the DMH increased sensitivity to mechanical stimulation in awake animals, confirming that the DMH can mediate behavioral hyperalgesia. A behavioral model of mild stress also produced mechanical hyperalgesia, which was blocked by inactivation of either the DMH or the RVM. The neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) acts in the RVM to enhance nociception and is abundant in the DMH. Using a retrograde tracer and immunohistochemical labeling, we determined that CCK-expressing neurons in the DMH are the only significant supraspinal source of CCK in the RVM. However, not all neurons projecting from the DMH to the RVM contained CCK, and microinjection of the CCK2 receptor antagonist YM022 in the RVM did not interfere with SIH, suggesting that transmitters in addition to CCK play a significant role in this connection during acute stress. While the RVM has a well-established role in facilitation of nociception, the DMH, with its well-documented role in stress, may also be engaged in a number of chronic or abnormal pain states. Taken as a whole, these findings establish an anatomical and functional connection between the DMH and RVM by which stress can facilitate pain.
Recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO) has been successfully tested as neuroprotectant in brain injury models. The first large clinical trial with stroke patients, however, revealed negative results. Reasons are manifold and may include side-effects such as thrombotic complications or interactions with other medication, EPO concentration, penetration of the blood-brain-barrier and/or route of application. The latter is restricted to systemic application. Here we hypothesize that EPO is neuroprotective in a rat model of acute subdural hemorrhage (ASDH) and that direct cortical application is a feasible route of application in this injury type. The subdural hematoma was surgically evacuated and EPO was applied directly onto the surface of the brain. We injected NaCl, 200, 2000 or 20,000IU EPO per rat i.v. at 15min post-ASDH (400l autologous venous blood) or NaCl, 0.02, 0.2 or 2IU per rat onto the cortical surface after removal of the subdurally infused blood t at 70min post-ASDH. Arterial blood pressure (MAP), blood chemistry, intracranial pressure (ICP), cerebral blood flow (CBF) and brain tissue oxygen (ptiO2) were assessed during the first hour and lesion volume at 2days after ASDH. EPO 20,000IU/rat (i.v.) elevated ICP significantly. EPO at 200 and 2000IU reduced lesion volume from 38.20.6mm(3) (NaCl-treated group) to 28.50.9 and 22.21.3mm(3) (all p&lt;0.05 vs. NaCl). Cortical application of 0.02IU EPO after ASDH evacuation reduced injury from 36.05.2 to 11.22.1mm(3) (p=0.007), whereas 0.2IU had no effect (38.09.0mm(3)). The highest dose of both application routes (i.v. 20,000IU; cortical 2IU) enlarged the ASDH-induced damage significantly to 46.51.7 and 67.910.4mm(3) (all p&lt;0.05 vs. NaCl). In order to test whether Tween-20, a solvent of EPO formulation 'NeoRecomon' was responsible for adverse effects two groups were treated with NaCl or Tween-20 after the evacuation of ASDH, but no difference in lesion volume was detected. In conclusion, EPO is neuroprotective in a model of ASDH in rats and was most efficacious at a very low dose in combination with subdural blood removal. High systemic and topically applied concentrations caused adverse effects on lesion size which were partially due to increased ICP. Thus, patients with traumatic ASDH could be treated with cortically applied EPO but with caution concerning concentration.
Okadaic acid (OKA) is a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1/2A (PP2A). Inhibition of PP2A leads to hyperphosphorylation of Tau protein. Hyperphosphorylated Tau protein is present in intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles a characteristic feature of neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of OKA causes neurotoxicity, which is associated with increased intracellular Ca(2+) level, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction in the brain areas. The present study explored Tau phosphorylation in OKA-treated rats in relation to memory function, PP2A activity, intracellular Ca(2+), glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor after 13days of OKA (200ng, ICV) administration in rats, memory was found impaired in the water maze test. OKA-induced memory-impaired rats showed increased mRNA and protein expression of Tau, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), Calpain and GSK3 in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. On the other hand, mRNA expression and activity of PP2A was reduced in these brain areas. OKA treatment also, resulted in decrease in mRNA expression of C and N terminals of Tau. Treatment with NMDA antagonist, MK801 (0.05mg/kg, i.p.) for 13days significantly prevented OKA-induced changes in the expression of PP2A, Tau, GSK3, CaMKII and Calpain. Further, daily administration of anticholinergic drug, donepezil (5mg/kg, p.o.), and the NMDA receptor antagonist, memantine (10mg/kg, p.o.) initiated after OKA administration for 13days significantly attenuated OKA-induced variation in Tau, Tau-C terminal, Tau-N terminal CaMKII, Calpain, PP2A and GSK3. These results infer that NMDA antagonist MK801 and memantine are effective against OKA-induced neurotoxicity. Therefore, the present study clearly indicates the involvement of NMDA receptor in OKA (ICV)-induced Tau hyperphosphorylation.
Prion protein (PrP) is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchored cell surface protein expressed by many cells, including those of the mammalian nervous system. At present the physiologic functions of PrP remain unclear. Deletion of Prnp, the gene encoding PrP in mice, has been shown to alter normal synaptic and electrophysiologic activities, indicating a potential role in seizure susceptibility. However, published efforts to link PrP with seizures, using both in vivo and in vitro models, are conflicting and difficult to interpret due to use of various mouse backgrounds and seizure induction techniques. Here we investigated the role of PrP in kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure sensitivity, using three types of mice. In contrast to previous published results, Prnp-/- mice on the C57BL/10SnJ background had a significant decrease in KA-induced seizure susceptibility. In genetic complementation experiments using a PrP-expressing transgene, genes derived from strain 129/Ola, which flanked the Prnp-/- locus in C57BL/10SnJ mice, rather than Prnp itself, appeared to account for this effect. Furthermore, using coisogenic 129/Ola mice differing only at Prnp, this difference was not reproduced when comparing PrP-negative and PrP-positive mice. In contrast, substrains of PrP-expressing C57BL mice, showed large variations in KA-induced seizure sensitivity. The magnitude of these differences in susceptibility was larger than that associated with the presence of the Prnp gene, suggesting extensive influence of genes other than Prnp on seizure sensitivity in this system.
Galanin released into the hypophysial portal circulation in the hypothalamus may function as a hypophysiotropic factor regulating the anterior pituitary function or it may function as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator acting at synaptic sites regulating neuronal activity of many neurons in the brain. Catecholamines (adrenaline, noradrenaline, and dopamine) primarily regulate anterior pituitary functions indirectly via innervating hypophysiotropic neurons. The aim of the present studies was to explore with double-label immunocytochemistry if, as in rodents, catecholamines interact with galanin in the human diencephalon. Due to the long post-mortem period and subsequent lack of optimal preservation of the cell membranes in the brain, electron microscopy could not be employed to show the presence of catecholaminergic-immunoreactive synapses on galanin-immunoreactive neurons. Therefore, we used light microscopic immunocytochemistry and high-magnification microscopy with oil immersion to identify putative juxtapositions between catecholamines and galanin-utilizing antisera against key enzymes of catecholamine synthesis (tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), representing all three catecholamines; dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), representing noradrenaline; and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT), representing adrenaline) and galanin. Our studies show that among the three catecholamines, dopamine is the most abundant and the vast majority of catecholaminergic contacts on galanin-immunoreactive neurons is dopaminergic. The number of DBH-immunoreactive contacts is less and the number of PNMT-immunopositive contacts is negligible. Among the hypothalamic regions, the periventricular region above the infundibulum (infundibular or arcuate nucleus) contained the largest number of contacts. These en passant-type intimate associations between catecholamine- and galanin-immunoreactive neuronal elements may be functional synapses and may provide the morphological basis for the catecholamine-mediated galanin release.
When the prime word is masked and flashed very quickly, its presence cannot be perceived by the subjects, but it can still accelerate the processing of the subsequent relevant target stimulus. This is known as the masked priming effect. Adopting a similar experimental paradigm, in this study we take the gray scale pictures describing ordinary objects as prime stimuli and the environmental sounds as target stimuli. The subjects are then asked to classify the target sounds to investigate whether incongruent target sounds elicit the N400 semantic priming effect. At the same time, the prime-mask withdraw value is made at these time intervals: 16ms, 33ms, 50ms, 66ms and 83ms, so as to reveal whether there exists a correlation between the prime duration and the priming effect. The result shows that, at each time interval, the processing of sounds that are congruent with prime pictures is sped up and sounds that are incongruent with prime pictures trigger the N400 effect. The amplitude of the N400 effect is enlarged proportionally with the time interval and gradually approaches the point of saturation. Given this, it is believed that the N400 effect reflects automatic semantic processing, that consciousness is not a prerequisite of semantic priming, and that early visual information has an accumulative priming effect on target sounds.
Voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) play a major role during the development of the central nervous system (CNS). Ca(2+) influx via VGCCs regulates axonal growth and neuronal migration as well as synaptic plasticity. Specifically, L-type VGCCs have been well characterized to be involved in the formation and refinement of the connections within the CA3 region of the hippocampus. The majority of the growth, formation, and refinement in the CNS occurs during the third trimester of human pregnancy. An equivalent developmental time period in rodents occurs during the first 2weeks of post-natal life, and the expression pattern of L-type VGCCs during this time period has not been well characterized. In this study, we show that Cav1.2 channels are more highly expressed during this developmental period compared to adolescence (post-natal day 30) and that L-type VGCCs significantly contribute to the overall Ca(2+) currents. These findings suggest that L-type VGCCs are functionally expressed during the crucial developmental period.
In the current study the link among the -hydroxybutyrate (GHB)/pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced absence-like seizures and concomitant decreases in the core temperature, as well as electroencephalographic (EEG) activity during rewarming from deep hypothermia produced by a drug-free protocol were investigated. During the rewarming period after deep cooling, most Wistar rats suffered from bilaterally synchronous spike and waves with no or mild behavioral correlates. Spike and wave seizures were temperature-dependent and were initially registered when body temperature (Tb) reached 25-27C, but mostly during the mild hypothermia of 0.3-1.3C (Tb of 36.3-37.3C). In chemical absence models, spike and wave discharges were also closely accompanied by mild systemic hypothermia, as both PTZ- and GHB-induced temperature decreases ranged from about 1-1.4C respectively, together with EEG markers of absence activity. Thus, throughout the different experimental designs, the occurrence of spike and wave discharges was always related to a mild (0.3-1.4C) decrease of Tb. Benzodiazepine diazepam as the GABAA-positive allosteric modulator and CGP 62349 as the selective antagonist of GABAB receptors were used to determine if their well-known anticonvulsant properties also affect hypothermia elicited by these drugs. Finally, during the course of spontaneous rewarming from deep hypothermia, another selective GABAB-blocking agent, CGP 35348, was used to elucidate if GABAB inhibitory system could be critically implicated in the generation of hypothermia-dependent spike and waves. Diazepam prevented both the PTZ-induced hypothermia and electrographic absence seizures, but these two beneficial effects did not occur in the GHB model. Even though diazepam delayed GHB-induced maximal temperature decrease, the GHB effects remained highly significant. The GABAB antagonist CGP 62349 completely prevented hypothermia as well as absence seizures in both chemical models. Likewise, spike and wave discharges, registered during the spontaneous rewarming from deep hypothermia, were completely prevented by CGP 35348. These findings show that systemic hypothermia should definitely be regarded as a marker of GABAB receptor activation. Moreover, the results of this study clearly show that initial mild temperature decrease should be considered as strong absence-provoking factor. Hypothermia-induced nonconvulsive seizures also highlight the importance of continuous EEG monitoring in children undergoing therapeutic hypothermia after cardiac arrest. Since every change in peripheral or systemic temperature ultimately must be perceived by preoptic region of the anterior hypothalamus as the primary thermoregulatory and sleep-inducing center, the preoptic thermosensitive neurons in general and warm-sensitive neurons in particular, simply have to be regarded as the most probable candidate for connected thermoregulatory and absence generating mechanisms. Therefore, additional studies are needed to confirm their potential role in the generation and propagation of absence seizures.
The predominant motor symptom in Huntington's disease (HD) is chorea. The patho-anatomical basis for the chorea is not well known, but a link with the dopaminergic system has been suggested by post-mortem and clinical studies. Our previous work revealed an increased number of dopamine-containing cells in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area in a transgenic rat model of HD (tgHD). Since there were no changes in the total number of cells in those regions, we hypothesized that changes in cell phenotype were taking place. Here, we tested this hypothesis by studying the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), which houses dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic (mainly serotonergic) neurons in tgHD rat tissue and postmortem HD human tissue. We found an increased number of dopamine and reduced number of serotonin-containing cells in the DRN of tgHD rats. Similar findings in postmortem HD brain tissue indicate that these changes also occur in patients. Further investigations in the tgHD animal tissue revealed the presence of dopaminergic cell bodies in the B6 raphe region, while in control animals exclusively serotonin-containing cells were found. These data suggest the existence of phenotype changes in monoaminergic neurons in the DRN in HD and shed new light on the neurobiology of clinical neurological symptoms such as chorea and mood changes.
Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) is involved in innate immunity in the brain and in the cascade of events after ischemic stroke. The aim of this study was to get an insight into the expression of genes related to TLR2 signaling pathway and associated with inflammation and apoptosis in the later stages of brain response after ischemic injury. Middle cerebral artery occlusion was performed on both wild-type and TLR2(-/-) mice followed by real-time PCR to measure the relative expression of selected genes. In TLR2(-/-) mice expression of genes involved in proinflammatory response was decreased after cerebral ischemia. Tnf was the most prominent cytokine active in the late phase of recovery. Contrary to proinflammatory genes, the expression of Casp8, as a hallmark of apoptosis, was increased in TLR2(-/-) mice, in particular in the late phase of recovery.
Corticokinematic coherence (CKC) refers to coupling between magnetoencephalographic (MEG) brain activity and hand kinematics. For voluntary hand movements, CKC originates mainly from the primary sensorimotor (SM1) cortex. To learn about the relative motor and sensory contributions to CKC, we recorded CKC from 15 healthy subjects during active and passive right index-finger movements. The fingertip was either touching or not touching table, resulting in active-touch, active-no-touch, passive-touch, and passive-no-touch conditions. The kinematics of the index-finger was measured with a 3-axis accelerometer. Beamformer analysis was used to locate brain activations for the movements; somatosensory-evoked fields (SEFs) elicited by pneumatic tactile stimulation of the index finger served as a functional landmark for cutaneous input. All active and passive movements resulted in statistically significant CKC at the movement frequency (F0) and its first harmonic (F1). The main CKC sources at F0 and F1 were in the contralateral SM1 cortex with no spatial differences between conditions, and distinct from the SEF sources. At F1, the coherence was by two thirds stronger for passive than active movements, with no difference between touch vs. no-touch conditions. Our results suggest that the CKC occurring during repetitive finger movements is mainly driven by somatosensory, primarily proprioceptive, afferent input to the SM1 cortex, with negligible effect of cutaneous input.
Levels of kynurenic acid (KYNA), an endogenous 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7nAChR) antagonist, are elevated in the brain of patients with schizophrenia (SZ) and might contribute to the pathophysiology and cognitive deficits seen in the disorder. As developmental vulnerabilities contribute to the etiology of SZ, we determined, in rats, the effects of perinatal increases in KYNA on brain chemistry and cognitive flexibility. KYNA's bioprecursor l-kynurenine (100mg/day) was fed to dams from gestational day 15 to postnatal day 21 (PD21). Offspring were then given regular chow until adulthood. Control rats received unadulterated mash. Brain tissue levels of KYNA were measured at PD2 and PD21, and extracellular levels of KYNA and glutamate were determined by microdialysis in the prefrontal cortex in adulthood (PD56-80). In other adult rats, the effects of perinatal l-kynurenine administration on cognitive flexibility were assessed using an attentional set-shifting task. l-Kynurenine treatment raised forebrain KYNA levels 3-fold at PD2 and 2.5-fold at PD21. At PD56-80, extracellular prefrontal KYNA levels were moderately but significantly elevated (+12%), whereas extracellular glutamate levels were not different from controls. Set-shifting was selectively impaired by perinatal exposure to l-kynurenine, as treated rats acquired the discrimination and intra-dimensional shift at the same rate as controls, yet exhibited marked deficits in the initial reversal and extra-dimensional shift. Acute administration of the 7nAChR-positive modulator galantamine (3.0mg/kg, i.p.) restored performance to control levels. These results validate early developmental exposure to l-kynurenine as a novel, naturalistic animal model for studying cognitive deficits in SZ.
Insulin plays diverse roles, including learning and memory, in the central nervous system. SIRT1 has been reported to be involved in the processes of normal learning, memory, and synaptic plasticity. However, whether insulin is directly involved in regulating SIRT1 expression in neurons or whether it affects synapses remains largely unknown. Here, we show that insulin promotes neurite outgrowth and increases SIRT1 expression in SH-SY5Y cells. LY294002, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor, inhibited the expression of insulin-induced increases in SIRT1. Conversely, the downregulation of SIRT1 using a SIRT1 inhibitor and SIRT1-siRNA resulted in a significant reduction in the length of neurite outgrowth. Taken together, these results suggest that the regulation of SIRT1 by insulin is important for the neurite outgrowth of neuroblastoma cells.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by the aggregation of two proteins, amyloid- and hyperphosphorylated tau, and by neuronal and synaptic loss. Although some drugs have been shown to slow the progression of the disease, at present no treatment has been developed that can stop or reverse the progression of the pathology. Recently, new therapeutic strategies have been proposed for the treatment of the disease. Among these, the development of stem cells and gene-modified cells is an especially promising therapeutic approach for AD. In this review we highlight the experimental and preclinical studies that have been focused on stem cell-based and gene-modified cell-based uses as potential therapies for AD. The potential clinical applications are also discussed.
We tested whether dopaminergic drugs can improve the protocol for in vitro differentiation of H9 human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into dopaminergic neurons. The expression of 5 dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes (mRNA and protein) was analyzed at each protocol stage (1, undifferentiated hESCs; 2, embryoid bodies [EBs]; 3, neuroepithelial rosettes; 4, expanding neuroepithelium; and 5, differentiating neurons) and compared to human fetal brain (gestational week 17-19). D2-like DA receptors (D2, D3, and D4) predominate over the D1-like receptors (D1 and D5) during derivation of neurons from hESCs. D1 was the receptor subtype with the lowest representation in each protocol stage (Stages 1-5). D1/D5-agonist SKF38393 and D2/D3/D4-agonist quinpirole (either alone or combined) evoked Ca(2+) responses, indicating functional receptors in hESCs. To identify when receptor activation causes a striking effect on hESC neurodifferentiation, and what ligands and endpoints are most interesting, we varied the timing, duration, and drug in the culture media. Dopaminergic agonists or antagonists were administered either early (Stages 1-3) or late (Stages 4-5). Early DA exposure resulted in more neuroepithelial colonies, more neuronal clusters, and more TH(+) clusters. The D1/D5 antagonist SKF83566 had a strong effect on EB morphology and the expression of midbrain markers. Late exposure to DA resulted in a modest increase in TH(+) neuron clusters (75%). The increase caused by DA did not occur in the presence of dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP), suggesting that DA acts through the cAMP pathway. However, a D2-antagonist (L741) decreased TH(+) cluster counts. Electrophysiological parameters of the postmitotic neurons were not significantly affected by late DA treatment (Stages 4-5). The mRNA of mature neurons (VGLUT1 and GAD1) and the midbrain markers (GIRK2, LMX1A, and MSX1) were lower in hESCs treated by DA or a D2-antagonist. When hESCs were neurodifferentiated on PA6 stromal cells, DA also increased expression of tyrosine hydroxylase. Although these results are consistent with DA's role in potentiating DA neurodifferentiation, dopaminergic treatments are generally less efficient than dbcAMP alone.
Perfluorinated compounds are ubiquitous chemicals of major concern for their potential adverse effects on the human population. We have used primary rat embryonic neural stem cells (NSCs) to study the effects of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) on the process of NSC spontaneous differentiation. Upon removal of basic fibroblast growth factor, NSCs were exposed to nanomolar concentrations of PFOS for 48 h, and then allowed to differentiate for additional 5 days. Exposure to 25 or 50 nM concentration resulted in a lower number of proliferating cells and a higher number of neurite-bearing TuJ1-positive cells, indicating an increase in neuronal differentiation. Exposure to 50 nM also significantly increased the number of CNPase-positive cells, pointing to facilitation of oligodendrocytic differentiation. PPAR genes have been shown to be involved in PFOS toxicity. By q-PCR we detected an upregulation of PPAR with no changes in PPAR or PPAR genes. One of the downstream targets of PPARs, the mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) was also upregulated. The number of TuJ1- and CNPase-positive cells increased after exposure to PPAR agonist rosiglitazone (RGZ, 3 M) and decreased after pre-incubation with the PPAR antagonist GW9662 (5 M). RGZ also upregulated the expression of PPAR and UCP2 genes. Meanwhile GW9662 abolished the UCP2 upregulation and decreased Ca activity induced by PFOS. Interestingly, a significantly higher expression of PPAR and UCP3 genes was also detected in mouse neonatal brain after prenatal exposure to PFOS. These data suggest that PPAR plays a role in the alteration of spontaneous differentiation of NSCs induced by nanomolar concentrations of PFOS.



Positive social interactions during the juvenile and adolescent phases of life are essential for proper social and cognitive development in mammals, including humans. During this developmental period, there is a marked increase in peer-peer interactions, signified by the abundance of social play behaviour. Despite its importance for behavioural development, our knowledge of the neural underpinnings of social play behaviour is limited. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to map the neural circuits involved in social play behaviour in rats. This was achieved by examining cellular activity after social play using the immediate early gene c-Fos as a marker. After a session of social play behaviour, pronounced increases in c-Fos expression were observed in the medial prefrontal cortex, medial and ventral orbitofrontal cortex, dorsal striatum, nucleus accumbens core and shell, lateral amygdala, several thalamic nuclei, dorsal raphe and the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Importantly, the cellular activity patterns after social play were topographically organized in this network, as indicated by play-specific correlations in c-Fos activity between regions with known direct connections. These correlations suggest involvement in social play behaviour of the projections from the medial prefrontal cortex to the striatum, and of amygdala and monoaminergic inputs to frontal cortex and striatum. The analyses presented here outline a topographically organized neural network implicated in processes such as reward, motivation and cognitive control over behaviour, which mediates social play behaviour in rats.
In the past, the cortex has for the most part been considered to be the site of seizure origin in the different forms of epilepsy. Findings from histopathologic, electrophysiologic, and brain imaging studies now provide ample evidence demonstrating that like normal cerebral function, epileptic seizures involve widespread network interactions between cortical and subcortical structures. These studies show that different forms of generalized and focal epileptiform discharges and seizures engage various subcortical structures in varying ways. This interaction has been the subject of many reviews and is not the focus of the current work. The aim of this review is to examine the evidence suggesting the possibility for some of the subcortical structures to initiate seizures independently and the clinical implications of this.






The Psychology Experimental Building Language http://pebl.sourceforge.net/ Berg Card Sorting Test is an open-source neurobehavioral test. Participants (N=207, ages 6 to 74) completed the Berg Card Sorting Test. Performance on the first 64 trials were isolated and compared to that on the full-length (128 trials) test. Strong correlations between the short and long forms (total errors: r=.87, perseverative response: r=.83, perseverative errors r=.77, categories completed r=.86) support the Berg Card Sorting Test-64 as an abbreviated alternative for the full-length executive function test.
Systemic injection of a thymidine analogue such as bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) in vertebrates is commonly used to detect and study cell production during development, adulthood, and pathology, particularly in studies of adult neurogenesis. Although researchers are applying this technique to multiple species in various physiological conditions, the rate of BrdU clearance from the serum remains unknown in most cases. Changes in this clearance rate as a function of the species, sex or endocrine condition could however profoundly affect the interpretation of the results. We describe a rapid, sensitive, but simple bioassay for post-injection detection and quantification of BrdU in serum. This procedure was shown to be suitable for determining the length of time a thymidine analogue remains in the bloodstream of one avian species and seems applicable to any vertebrate provided sufficiently large blood samples can be collected. This technique was used to demonstrate that, in canaries, BrdU injected at a dose of 100 mg/kg is no longer available for incorporation into DNA between 30 and 60 min post-injection, a delay shorter than anticipated based on the available literature. Preliminary data suggest a similar fast clearance in Japanese quail and mice.

Here, we have developed a highly sensitive immunoassay for Dcx to characterize expression in brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of rodents. We demonstrate that Dcx is widely expressed during development in various brain regions and as well can be detected in cerebrospinal fluid of rats (up to 30 days postnatal). While Dcx protein level decline in adulthood and were detectable in neurogenic regions of the adult rodent brain, similar levels were also detectable in brain regions expected to bear no neurogenesis including the cerebral cortex and CA1/CA3 enriched hippocampus. We monitored DCX protein levels after paradigms to increase or severely decrease adult hippocampal neurogenesis, namely physical activity and cranial radiation, respectively. In both paradigms, Dcx protein- and mRNA-levels clearly reflected changes in neurogenesis in the hippocampus. However, basal Dcx-levels are unaffected in non-neurogenic regions (e.g. CA1/CA3 enriched hippocampus, cortex). These data suggest that there is a substantial &quot;non-neurogenic&quot; pool of Dcx- protein, whose regulation can be uncoupled from adult neurogenesis suggesting caution for the interpretation of such studies.
Laboratory studies of decision making often take the form of two-alternative, forced-choice paradigms. In natural settings, however, many decision problems arise as stay/go choices. We designed a foraging task to test intertemporal decision making in rats via stay/go decisions. Subjects did not follow the rate-maximizing strategy of choosing only food items associated with short delays. Instead, rats were often willing to wait for surprisingly long periods, and consequently earned a lower rate of food intake than they might have by ignoring long-delay options. We tested whether foraging theory or delay discounting models predicted the behavior we observed but found that these models could not account for the strategies subjects selected. Subjects' behavior was well accounted for by a model that incorporated a cost for rejecting potential food items. Interestingly, subjects' cost sensitivity was proportional to environmental richness. These findings are at odds with traditional normative accounts of decision making but are consistent with retrospective considerations having a deleterious influence on decisions (as in the &quot;sunk-cost&quot; effect). More broadly, these findings highlight the utility of complementing existing assays of decision making with tasks that mimic more natural decision topologies.
Now, more than ever, the ability to acquire mathematical skills efficiently is critical for academic and professional success, yet little is known about the behavioral and neural mechanisms that drive some children to acquire these skills faster than others. Here we investigate the behavioral and neural predictors of individual differences in arithmetic skill acquisition in response to 8-wk of one-to-one math tutoring. Twenty-four children in grade 3 (ages 8-9 y), a critical period for acquisition of basic mathematical skills, underwent structural and resting-state functional MRI scans pretutoring. A significant shift in arithmetic problem-solving strategies from counting to fact retrieval was observed with tutoring. Notably, the speed and accuracy of arithmetic problem solving increased with tutoring, with some children improving significantly more than others. Next, we examined whether pretutoring behavioral and brain measures could predict individual differences in arithmetic performance improvements with tutoring. No behavioral measures, including intelligence quotient, working memory, or mathematical abilities, predicted performance improvements. In contrast, pretutoring hippocampal volume predicted performance improvements. Furthermore, pretutoring intrinsic functional connectivity of the hippocampus with dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices and the basal ganglia also predicted performance improvements. Our findings provide evidence that individual differences in morphometry and connectivity of brain regions associated with learning and memory, and not regions typically involved in arithmetic processing, are strong predictors of responsiveness to math tutoring in children. More generally, our study suggests that quantitative measures of brain structure and intrinsic brain organization can provide a more sensitive marker of skill acquisition than behavioral measures.
Synaptopodin (SP) is a marker and essential component of the spine apparatus (SA), an enigmatic cellular organelle composed of stacked smooth endoplasmic reticulum that has been linked to synaptic plasticity. However, SP/SA-mediated synaptic plasticity remains incompletely understood. To study the role of SP/SA in homeostatic synaptic plasticity we here used denervation-induced synaptic scaling of mouse dentate granule cells as a model system. This form of plasticity is of considerable interest in the context of neurological diseases that are associated with the loss of neurons and subsequent denervation of connected brain regions. In entorhino-hippocampal slice cultures prepared from SP-deficient mice, which lack the SA, a compensatory increase in excitatory synaptic strength was not observed following partial deafferentation. In line with this finding, prolonged blockade of sodium channels with tetrodotoxin induced homeostatic synaptic scaling in wild-type, but not SP-deficient, slice cultures. By crossing SP-deficient mice with a newly generated transgenic mouse strain that expresses GFP-tagged SP under the control of the Thy1.2 promoter, the ability of dentate granule cells to form the SA and to homeostatically strengthen excitatory synapses was rescued. Interestingly, homeostatic synaptic strengthening was accompanied by a compensatory increase in SP cluster size/stability and SA stack number, suggesting that activity-dependent SP/SA remodeling could be part of a negative feedback mechanism that aims at adjusting the strength of excitatory synapses to persisting changes in network activity. Thus, our results disclose an important role for SP/SA in homeostatic synaptic plasticity.
Cognitive and neural abnormalities are known to accompany chronic drug abuse, with impairments in cognition and changes in cortical structure seen in stimulant-dependent individuals. However, premorbid differences have also been observed in the brains and behavior of individuals at risk for substance abuse, before they develop dependence. Endophenotype research has emerged as a useful method for assessing preclinical traits that may be risk factors for pathology by studying patient populations and their undiagnosed first-degree relatives. This study used the color-word Stroop task to assess executive functioning in stimulant-dependent individuals, their unaffected biological siblings and unrelated healthy control volunteers using a functional magnetic resonance imaging paradigm. Both the stimulant-dependent and sibling participants demonstrated impairments in cognitive control and processing speed on the task, registering significantly longer response latencies. However, the two groups generated very different neural responses, with the sibling participants exhibiting a significant decrease in activation in the inferior frontal gyrus compared with both stimulant-dependent individuals and control participants. Both target groups also demonstrated a decrease in hemispheric laterality throughout the task, exhibiting a disproportionate increase in right hemispheric activation, which was associated with their behavioral inefficiencies. These findings not only suggest a possible risk factor for stimulant abuse of poor inhibitory control and cortical inefficiency but they also demonstrate possible adaptations in the brains of stimulant users.

Rats were trained in a two lever food reinforced operant procedure to discriminate a 8000 Hz pure tone stimulus from its absence. Responding on one lever was reinforced in the presence of the tone and responding on the other lever was reinforced when the tone was absent. Frequency generalization testing yielded an inverted U-shaped function, whereas sound pressure level generalization testing yielded a continuous decrease in responding on the tone associated lever with decreasing sound pressure levels. The administration of sodium salicylic acid (150-450 mg/kg) generated responding on the tone associated lever suggesting that salicylic acid induced an experience that had commonalities with the percept of the training tone stimulus. After exposure to intense sound, responding consistent with the presence of tinnitus was achieved and Lidocaine failed to reduce tinnitus behavior. The use of a two choice design helped avoid confounding factors induced by drug induced side effects. Further, since no auditory cues were employed in the test situation the model achieves resistance to potential bias due to hearing impairment and hyperacusis. We propose that this model may be useful in detecting tinnitus.
Morphogenic gradients originating from signaling centers along the CNS developmental axes contribute to CNS patterning. Reporting in this issue of Developmental Cell, Lanctot et al. (2013) show that the Nde1-Lis1 complex interacts with Brap, a mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway negative regulator, to facilitate position-dependent modulation of neural progenitor fate and CNS patterning.

Autophagy allows cells to encapsulate parts of their cytosol into unique double-membrane structures. These autophagosomes mature to fuse with lysosomes and deliver the enclosed contents for degradation. Three recent papers, including one by Takts et al. (2013. J. Cell Biol. http://dx.doi.org/10.1083/jcb.201211160), have taken different routes to discover a role for Syntaxin 17 in the maturation of autophagosomes.


A statistical view of allostery leads to a more nuanced and physically realistic picture of protein cooperativity. If the conformational state of one protein molecule in a multiprotein complex influences the probability of a particular conformation in a neighbouring protein, then changes can propagate. Given suitable parameters, linear or two-dimensional arrays of allosteric subunits will then behave similar to an Ising model, exhibiting hypersharp responses to external conditions. Predictions based on this concept find good quantitative agreement in a number of experimental systems including switching of the bacterial flagellar motor, amplification of ligand signals in the Escherichia coli chemotaxis receptors, and termination of calcium sparks in cardiac muscle. A similar mechanism could potentially provide a universal mechanism of integration within living cells.


We investigated the efficacy of S-Adenosyl-L-Methionine (SAMe) augmentation in patients with treatment-resistant depressive disorder (TRD). Thirty-three outpatients with major depressive episode who failed to respond to at least 8 weeks of treatment with two adequate and stable doses of antidepressants were treated openly with fixed dose of SAMe (800mg) for 8 weeks, added to existing medication. The primary outcome measure was the change from baseline in total score on Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). The Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I) was rated at the endpoint. Patients with a reduction of 50% or more on HAM-D total score and a CGI-I score of 1 or 2 at endpoint were considered responders; remission was defined as a HAM-D score 7. Secondary outcome measures included the Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale (SHAPS) and the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS). At 8 weeks, a significant decrease in HAM-D score was observed with response achieved by 60% of the patients and remission by 36%. Also a statistically significant reduction in SHAPS and SDS was observed. Our findings indicate that SAMe augmentation may be effective and well tolerated in stage II TRD. However, limitations of the present study must be considered and further placebo-controlled trials are needed.
Studies of families and twins show the importance of genetic factors affecting susceptibility to bipolar disorder and suggest substantial genetic and phenotypic complexity. Robust and replicable genome-wide significant associations have recently been reported in genome-wide association studies at several common polymorphisms, including variants within the genes CACNA1C, ODZ4, and NCAN. Strong evidence exists for a polygenic contribution to risk (ie, many risk alleles of small effect). A notable finding is the overlap of susceptibility between bipolar disorder and schizophrenia for several individual risk alleles and for the polygenic risk. By contrast, genomic structural variation seems to play a smaller part in bipolar disorder than it does in schizophrenia. Together, these genetic findings suggest directions for future studies to delineate the aetiology and pathogenesis of bipolar disorder, indicate the need to re-evaluate our diagnostic classifications, and might eventually pave the way for major improvements in clinical management.
Retrotransposons (RTs) account for ~45% of the mammalian genome. They are capable of inserting into new genomic locations, which can result in deleterious outcomes. We examined the response of nine RTs to global cerebral ischemia (GCI) and explored the DNA methylation status of the two significantly altered RTs. Seven of the nine RTs were significantly increased at 24h post-insult in ischemic hippocampus. GCI also led to a significant decrease in the DNA methylation status of intracisternal A-particle (IAP) RT, but had no marked effect upon DNA methylation of long interspersed nucleotide element 1 (L1) RT. In summary, GCI produced marked increases in RT RNA expression and had a differential effect on the DNA methylation status of two RTs in vulnerable hippocampal neurons destined to die. These data suggest that RTs may play an active role in ischemic brain pathology and that these endogenous mutagens and their regulatory elements could be targeted as potential therapeutic targets in this devastating condition.
Central regulation of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis stress responses is mediated by a relatively circumscribed group of projections to the paraventricular hypothalamus (PVN). The dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), medial preoptic area (mPOA), and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) provide direct, predominantly inhibitory, innervation of the PVN. These PVN-projecting neurons are controlled by descending information from limbic forebrain structures, including the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus, and septum. The neurochemical phenotype of limbic circuits targeting PVN relays has not been systematically analyzed. The current study combined retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry/in situ hybridization to identify the specific sites of glutamatergic and GABAergic inputs to the DMH, mPOA, and BST. Following Fluoro-gold (FG) injections in the DMH, retrogradely labeled cells co-localized with vesicular glutamate transporter mRNA in the prefrontal cortex, ventral hippocampus, and paraventricular thalamus. Co-localization of FG and glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA was present throughout the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei and septal area. In addition, the mPOA received predominantly GABAergic input from the septum, amygdala, and BST. The BST received glutamatergic projections from the hippocampus and basomedial amygdala, whereas, GABAergic inputs arose from central and medial amygdaloid nuclei. Thus, discrete sets of neurons in the hypothalamus and BST are positioned to summate limbic inputs into PVN regulation and may play a role in HPA dysfunction and stress-related illness.
Developmental dyslexia (DD) is a learning disability affecting 5-17% of children. Although researchers agree that DD is characterized by deficient phonological processing (PP), its cause is debated. It has been suggested that altered rapid auditory processing (RAP) may lead to deficient PP in DD and studies have shown deficient RAP in individuals with DD. Functional neuroimaging (fMRI) studies have implicated hypoactivations in left prefrontal brain regions during RAP in individuals with DD. When and how these neuronal alterations evolve remains unknown. In this article, we investigate functional networks during RAP in 28 children with (n = 14) and without (n = 14) a familial risk for DD before reading onset (mean: 5.6 years). Results reveal functional alterations in left-hemispheric prefrontal regions during RAP in prereading children at risk for DD, similar to findings in individuals with DD. Furthermore, activation during RAP in left prefrontal regions positively correlates with prereading measures of PP and with neuronal activation during PP in posterior dorsal and ventral brain areas. Our results suggest that neuronal differences during RAP predate reading instruction and thus are not due to experience-dependent brain changes resulting from DD itself and that there is a functional relationship between neuronal networks for RAP and PP within the prereading brain.



A substantive literature has drawn a compelling case for the functional involvement of mesolimbic/prefrontal cortical neural reward systems in normative control of eating and in the etiology and persistence of severe eating disorders that affect diverse human populations. Presently, we provide a short review that develops an equally compelling case for the importance of dysregulated frontal cortical cognitive neural networks acting in concert with regional reward systems in the regulation of complex eating behaviors and in the presentation of complex pathophysiological symptoms associated with major eating disorders. Our goal is to highlight working models of major eating disorders that incorporate complementary approaches to elucidate functionally interactive neural circuits defined by their regulatory neurochemical phenotypes. Importantly, we also review evidence-based linkages between widely studied psychiatric and neurodegenerative syndromes (e.g., autism spectrum disorders and Parkinson's disease) and co-morbid eating disorders to elucidate basic mechanisms involving dopaminergic transmission and its regulation by endogenously expressed morphine in these same cortical regions.
Melatonin is the principle hormonal product of the pineal gland. It is secreted with a robust daily rhythm, peaking near the middle of the night. During the daytime, concentrations remain very low, as exposure to light robustly suppresses its secretion. The regulation of melatonin by light is well-characterized, but an interesting feature of the daily melatonin rhythm is that its peak occurs near the middle of the night and then levels begin to drop hours before morning light exposure. The mechanism underlying the light-independent drop in melatonin during late night remains unspecified. Feedback control is one mechanism of hormone regulation, but no studies thus far have explored the possibility of such regulation in the pineal of white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus). The pineal gland and SCN express melatonin receptors, and melatonin regulates its own receptor density in the brain. We investigated the possibility of feedback control of melatonin by administering melatonin receptor antagonists to female white-footed mice and then measuring plasma melatonin concentrations. In the first experiment, we observed that luzindole, a dual MT1/MT2 receptor antagonist administered 1h after lights off, caused an increase in plasma melatonin both 1 and 2h later. In a second experiment, we did not observe a change in melatonin concentrations following injection of an antagonist specific for the MT2 subtype. These results suggest the possibility of feedback control of melatonin release, occurring preferentially through the MT1 receptor subtype.
The possibility that market interaction may erode moral values is a long-standing, but controversial, hypothesis in the social sciences, ethics, and philosophy. To date, empirical evidence on decay of moral values through market interaction has been scarce. We present controlled experimental evidence on how market interaction changes how human subjects value harm and damage done to third parties. In the experiment, subjects decide between either saving the life of a mouse or receiving money. We compare individual decisions to those made in a bilateral and a multilateral market. In both markets, the willingness to kill the mouse is substantially higher than in individual decisions. Furthermore, in the multilateral market, prices for life deteriorate tremendously. In contrast, for morally neutral consumption choices, differences between institutions are small.


In an effort toward the visualization of -amyloid plaques by in vivo imaging techniques, we have conjugated an optimized derivative of the Pittsburgh compound B (PiB), a well-established marker of A plaques, to DO3A-monoamide that is capable of forming stable, noncharged complexes with different trivalent metal ions including Gd(3+) for MRI and (111)In(3+) for SPECT applications. Proton relaxivity measurements evidenced binding of Gd(DO3A-PiB) to the amyloid peptide A1-40 and to human serum albumin, resulting in a two- and four-fold relaxivity increase, respectively. Ex vivo immunohistochemical studies showed that the DO3A-PiB complexes selectively target A plaques on Alzheimer's disease human brain tissue. Ex vivo biodistribution data obtained for the (111)In-analogue pointed to a moderate blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration in adult male Swiss mice (without amyloid deposits) with 0.36% ID/g in the cortex at 2 min postinjection.




Among primates, the common marmoset is suitable for primate embryology research. Its small body size, however, has delayed the technical development of efficient embryo transfer. Furthermore, three factors have been determined to adversely affect the performance of marmoset embryo transfer: nonsurgical approaches, the use of cryopreserved embryos, and the use of late-stage embryos. Here we performed embryo transfer under conditions that included the above three factors and using either a small (1 l or less) or a large volume (2-3 l) of medium. The pregnancy and birth rates were 50% (5/10) and 27% (3/11), respectively, when using the large volume, and 80% (8/10) and 75% (9/12), respectively, when using the small volume. The latter scores exceed those of previous reports using comparable conditions. Thus, it appears that these three previously considered factors could be overcome, and we propose that reducing the transfer volume to 1 l or less is essential for successful marmoset embryo transfer.
Sexual dimorphisms in the brain underlie behavioral sex differences, but the function of individual sexually dimorphic neuronal populations is poorly understood. Neuronal sexual dimorphisms typically represent quantitative differences in cell number, gene expression, or other features, and it is unknown whether these dimorphisms control sex-typical behavior exclusively in one sex or in both sexes. The progesterone receptor (PR) controls female sexual behavior, and we find many sex differences in number, distribution, or projections of PR-expressing neurons in the adult mouse brain. Using a genetic strategy we developed, we have ablated one such dimorphic PR-expressing neuronal population located in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). Ablation of these neurons in females greatly diminishes sexual receptivity. Strikingly, the corresponding ablation in males reduces mating and aggression. Our findings reveal the functions of a molecularly defined, sexually dimorphic neuronal population in the brain. Moreover, we show that sexually dimorphic neurons can control distinct sex-typical behaviors in both sexes.
Cardiac progenitor cells are multipotent stem cells isolated from both embryonic and adult hearts in several species and are able to differentiate at least into smooth muscle cells, endothelial cells and cardiomyocytes. The embryonic origin of these cells has not yet been demonstrated, but it has been suggested that these cells may derive from the first and secondary heart fields and from the neural crest. In the last decade, two diffe-rent populations of cardiac progenitor or stem cells have been identified and isolated, i.e., the Islet1 positive (Isl1+) and c-Kit positive (c-Kit+)/Stem Cell Antigen-1 positive (Sca-1+) cells. Until 2012, these two populations have been considered two separate entities with different roles and a different origin, but new evidence now suggests a con-nection between the two populations and that the two populations may represent two subpopulations of a unique pool of cardiac stem cells, derived from a common immature primitive cell. To find a common consensus on this concept is very important in furthe-ring the application of stem cells to cardiac tissue engineering.

Use of genetically modified mice enhances our understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying several neurological disorders such as a spinal cord injury (SCI). Freehand manual control used to produce a laceration model of SCI creates inconsistent injuries often associated with a crush or contusion component and, therefore, a novel technique was developed. Our model of cervical laceration SCI has resolved inherent difficulties with the freehand method by incorporating 1) cervical vertebral stabilization by vertebral facet fixation, 2) enhanced spinal cord exposure, and 3) creation of a reproducible laceration of the spinal cord using an oscillating blade with an accuracy of  0.01 mm in depth without associated contusion. Compared to the standard methods of creating a SCI laceration such as freehand use of a scalpel or scissors, our method has produced a consistent lesion. This method is useful for studies on axonal regeneration of corticospinal, rubrospinal, and dorsal ascending tracts.
In this issue of Molecular Cell,Long and Crighton (2013) report a cell death priming mechanism activated by p53 that senses extracellular adenosine accumulated following chemotherapy or hypoxia, providing a novel connection between adenosine signaling and apoptosis.
To compare the cortical dynamics of different oculomotor tasks, EEG and eye movements were recorded in 21 volunteers. Using a comprehensive approach, subjects were asked to perform saccadic tasks, which included a saccadic eye movement to a peripheral target (prosaccadic), a movement to the opposite side (antisaccadic), or maintain the gaze fixed (no-go). In mixed trials, prosaccadic, antisaccadic and no-go tasks were indicated by a color square (S1) present for 1900-2500 ms (instructive period). S1 disappeared for 370 ms (gap) and a black dot at 8 deg at right or left indicated the beginning of the task. Reaction times, amplitude of eye movements and number of errors were greatest in antisaccadic tasks, suggesting a greater difficulty. The EEG showed a contingent negativity variation (CNV) that increased progressively along the instructive period and suddenly during the gap: higher in antisaccadic, followed by prosaccadic and no-go tasks. Principal component analysis (PCA) disentangled fronto-central and occipital CNV-related and fronto-central gap-related components. The instructive period was characterized by fronto-central and occipital beta desynchronization (ERD) higher in antisaccadic than in no-go and parieto-occipital alpha synchronization higher in no-go than in antisaccadic tasks. During the gap, parieto-occipital beta and alpha ERD were higher in antisaccadic compared to no-go. The gap was further characterized by a fronto-central increase of inter-trial coherence in theta: highest during antisaccadic, followed by prosaccadic and no-go tasks. This phase locking in theta was also accompanied by theta ERS, which was significantly higher in antisaccadic than in the other two tasks. In PCA of spectral power two main components had dynamics similar to those extracted from voltage data, suggesting cross-frequency coupling. These results suggest that the more difficult saccadic tasks are associated with top-down control mediated by frontal cortex, while simpler tasks rely more on bottom-up control mediated by posterior cortices.
GABAA receptor-associated protein (GABARAP) was initially identified as a protein that interacts with GABAA receptor. Although LC3 (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3), a GABARAP homolog, has been localized in the dendrites and cell bodies of neurons under normal conditions, the subcellular distribution of GABARAP in neurons remains unclear. Subcellular fractionation indicated that endogenous GABARAP was localized to the microsome-enriched and synaptic vesicle-enriched fractions of mouse brain as GABARAP-I, an unlipidated form. To investigate the distribution of GABARAP in neurons, we generated GFP-GABARAP transgenic mice. Immunohistochemistry in these transgenic mice showed that positive signals for GFP-GABARAP were widely distributed in neurons in various brain regions, including the hippocampus and cerebellum. Interestingly, intense diffuse and/or fibrillary expression of GFP-GABARAP was detected along the axonal initial segments (AIS) of hippocampal pyramidal neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells, in addition to the cell bodies and dendrites of these neurons. In contrast, only slight amounts of LC3 were detected along the AIS of these neurons, while diffuse and/or fibrillary staining for LC3 was mainly detected in their cell bodies and dendrites. These results indicated that, compared with LC3, GABARAP is enriched in the AIS, in addition to the cell bodies and dendrites, of these hippocampal pyramidal neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells.
In experimental and theoretical neuroscience, synaptic plasticity has dominated the area of neural plasticity for a very long time. Recently, neuronal intrinsic plasticity (IP) has become a hot topic in this area. IP is sometimes thought to be an information-maximization mechanism. However, it is still unclear how IP affects the performance of artificial neural networks in supervised learning applications. From an information-theoretical perspective, the error-entropy minimization (MEE) algorithm has newly been proposed as an efficient training method. In this study, we propose a synergistic learning algorithm combining the MEE algorithm as the synaptic plasticity rule and an information-maximization algorithm as the intrinsic plasticity rule. We consider both feedforward and recurrent neural networks and study the interactions between intrinsic and synaptic plasticity. Simulations indicate that the intrinsic plasticity rule can improve the performance of artificial neural networks trained by the MEE algorithm.
Many neurodegenerative disorders share a common susceptibility to oxidative stress, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson Disease, Huntington Disease and Friedreich's ataxia. In a previous work, we proved that stem cell-conditioned medium increased the survival of cells isolated from Friedreich's ataxia patients, when submitted to oxidative stress. The aim of the present work is to confirm this same effect in dorsal root ganglia cells isolated from YG8 mice, a mouse model of Friedreich's ataxia. In this disorder, the neurons of the dorsal root ganglia are the first to degenerate. Also, in this work we cultured mesenchymal stem cells isolated from YG8 mice, in order to compare them with their wildtype counterpart. To this end, dorsal root ganglia primary cultures isolated from YG8 mice were exposed to oxidative stress and cultured with conditioned medium from either wildtype or YG8 stem cells. As a result, the conditioned medium increased the survival of the dorsal root ganglia cells. This coincided with an increase in oxidative stress-related markers and frataxin expression levels. BDNF, NT3 and NT4 trophic factors were detected in the conditioned medium of both wild-type and YG8 stem cells, all which bind to the various neuronal cell types present in the dorsal root ganglia. No differences were observed in the stem cells isolated from wildtype and YG8 mice. The results presented confirm the possibility that autologous stem cell transplantation may be a viable therapeutic approach in protecting dorsal root ganglia neurons of Friedreich's ataxia patients.




Sleep is an important physiological state, but its function and regulation remain elusive. In Drosophila melanogaster, a useful model organism for studying sleep, forward genetic screens have identified important sleep-modulating genes and pathways; however, the results of such screens may be limited by developmental abnormalities or lethality associated with mutation of certain genes. To circumvent these limitations, we used a small-molecule screen to identify sleep-modulating genes and pathways. We administered 1280 pharmacologically active small molecules to adult flies and monitored their sleep. We found that administration of reserpine, a small-molecule inhibitor of the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT) that repackages monoamines into presynaptic vesicles, resulted in an increase in sleep. Supporting the idea that VMAT is the sleep-relevant target of reserpine, we found that VMAT-null mutants have an increased sleep phenotype, as well as an increased arousal threshold and resistance to the effects of reserpine. However, although the VMAT mutants are consistently resistant to reserpine, other aspects of their sleep phenotype are dependent on genetic background. These findings indicate that small-molecule screens can be used effectively to identify sleep-modulating genes whose phenotypes may be suppressed in traditional genetic screens. Mutations affecting single monoamine pathways did not affect reserpine sensitivity, suggesting that effects of VMAT/reserpine on sleep are mediated by multiple monoamines. Overall, we identify VMAT as an important regulator of sleep in Drosophila and demonstrate that small-molecule screens provide an effective approach to identify genes and pathways that impact adult Drosophila behavior.
During mammalian cortical development, division of progenitor cells occurs at the apical ventricular zone. Apical complex proteins and adherens junctions regulate the different modes of division. Here, we have identified the membrane-associated guanylate kinase protein membrane palmitoylated protein 3 (MPP3) as an essential protein for the maintenance of these complexes. MPP3 localizes at the apical membrane in which it shows partial colocalization with adherens junction proteins and apical proteins. We generated Mpp3 conditional knock-out mice and specifically ablated Mpp3 expression in cortical progenitor cells. Conditional deletion of Mpp3 during cortical development resulted in a gradual loss of the apical complex proteins and disrupted adherens junctions. Although there is cellular disorganization in the ventricular zone, gross morphology of the cortex was unaffected during loss of MPP3. However, in the ventricular zone, removal of MPP3 resulted in randomization of spindle orientation and ectopically localized mitotic cells. Loss of MPP3 in the developing cortex resulted in delayed migration of progenitor cells, whereas the rate of cell division and exit from the cell cycle was not affected. This resulted in defects in cortical stratification and ectopically localized layer II-IV pyramidal neurons and interneurons. These data show that MPP3 is required for maintenance of the apical protein complex and adherens junctions and for stratification and proper migration of neurons during the development of the cortex.
The mammalian neocortex undergoes dramatic transformation during development, from a seemingly homogenous sheet of neuroepithelial cells into a complex structure that is tangentially divided into discrete areas. This process is thought to be controlled by a combination of intrinsic patterning mechanisms within the cortex and afferent axonal projections from the thalamus. However, roles of thalamic afferents in the formation of areas are still poorly understood. In this study, we show that genetically increasing or decreasing the size of the lateral geniculate nucleus of the mouse thalamus resulted in a corresponding change in the size of the primary visual area. Furthermore, elimination of most thalamocortical projections from the outset of their development resulted in altered areal gene expression patterns, particularly in the primary visual and somatosensory areas, where they lost sharp boundaries with adjacent areas. Together, these results demonstrate the critical roles of thalamic afferents in the establishment of neocortical areas.
Calcium-dependent release of vasoactive gliotransmitters is widely assumed to trigger vasodilation associated with rapid increases in neuronal activity. Inconsistent with this hypothesis, intact stimulus-induced vasodilation was observed in inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) type-2 receptor (R2) knock-out (KO) mice, in which the primary mechanism of astrocytic calcium increase-the release of calcium from intracellular stores following activation of an IP3-dependent pathway-is lacking. Further, our results in wild-type (WT) mice indicate that in vivo onset of astrocytic calcium increase in response to sensory stimulus could be considerably delayed relative to the simultaneously measured onset of arteriolar dilation. Delayed calcium increases in WT mice were observed in both astrocytic cell bodies and perivascular endfeet. Thus, astrocytes may not play a role in the initiation of blood flow response, at least not via calcium-dependent mechanisms. Moreover, an increase in astrocytic intracellular calcium was not required for normal vasodilation in the IP3R2-KO animals.
Subjects naturally form and use expectations to solve familiar tasks, but the accuracy of these expectations and the neuronal mechanisms by which these expectations enhance behavior are unclear. We trained animals (Macaca mulatta) in a challenging perceptual task in which the likelihood of a very brief pulse of motion was consistently modulated over time and space. Pulse likelihood had dramatic effects on behavior: unexpected pulses were nearly invisible to the animals. To examine the neuronal basis of such inattention blindness, we recorded from single neurons in the middle temporal (MT) area, an area related to motion perception. Fluctuations in how reliably MT neurons both signaled stimulus events and predicted behavioral choices were highly correlated with changes in performance over the course of individual trials. A simple neuronal pooling model reveals that the dramatic behavioral effects of attention in this task can be completely explained by changes in the reliability of a small number of MT neurons.
We recorded from middle-lateral (ML) and primary (A1) auditory cortex while macaques discriminated amplitude-modulated (AM) noise from unmodulated noise. Compared with A1, ML had a higher proportion of neurons that encoded increasing AM depth by decreasing their firing rates (&quot;decreasing&quot; neurons), particularly with responses that were not synchronized to the modulation. Choice probability (CP) analysis revealed that A1 and ML activity were different during the first half of the test stimulus. In A1, significant CP began before the test stimulus, remained relatively constant (or increased slightly) during the stimulus, and increased greatly within 200 ms of lever release. Neurons in ML behaved similarly, except that significant CP disappeared during the first half of the stimulus and reappeared during the second half and prerelease periods. CP differences between A1 and ML depend on neural response type. In ML (but not A1), when activity was lower during the first half of the stimulus in nonsynchronized, decreasing neurons, the monkey was more likely to report AM. Neurons that both increased firing rate with increasing modulation depth (&quot;increasing&quot; neurons) and synchronized their responses to AM had similar choice-related activity dynamics in ML and A1. These results suggest that, when ascending the auditory system, there is a transformation in coding AM from primarily synchronized increasing responses in A1 to nonsynchronized and dual (increasing/decreasing) coding in ML. This sensory transformation is accompanied by changes in the timing of activity related to choice, suggesting functional differences between A1 and ML related to attention and/or behavior.
Although we are confronted with an ever-changing environment, we do not have the capacity to analyze all incoming sensory information. Perception is selective and is guided both by salient events occurring in our visual field and by cognitive premises about what needs our attention. Although the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) and frontal eye field (FEF) are known to represent the position of visual attention, their respective contributions to its control are still unclear. Here, we report LIP and FEF neuronal activities recorded while monkeys performed a voluntary attention-orientation target-detection task. We show that both encode behaviorally significant events, but that the FEF plays a specific role in mapping abstract cue instructions onto a spatial priority map to voluntarily guide attention. On the basis of a latency analysis, we show that the coding of stimulus identity and position precedes the emergence of an explicit attentional signal within the FEF. We also describe dynamic temporal hierarchies between LIP and FEF: stimuli carrying the highest intrinsic saliency are signaled by LIP before FEF, whereas stimuli carrying the highest extrinsic saliency are signaled in FEF before LIP. This suggests that whereas the parietofrontal attentional network most probably processes visual information in a recurrent way, exogenous processing predominates in the parietal cortex and the endogenous control of attention takes place in the FEF.
Some rats [sign-trackers (STs)] are especially prone to attribute incentive salience to reward cues, relative to others [goal-trackers (GTs)]. Thus, reward cues are more likely to promote maladaptive reward-seeking behavior in STs than GTs. Here, we asked whether STs and GTs differ on another trait that can contribute to poor restraint over behavior evoked by reward cues. We report that, relative to GTs, STs have poor control over attentional performance, due in part to insufficient cholinergic stimulation of cortical circuitry. We found that, relative to GTs, STs showed poor performance on a sustained attention task (SAT). Furthermore, their performance fluctuated rapidly between periods of good to near-chance performance. This finding was reproduced using a separate cohort of rats. As demonstrated earlier, performance on the SAT was associated with increases in extracellular levels of cortical acetylcholine (ACh); however, SAT performance-associated increases in ACh levels were significantly attenuated in STs relative to GTs. Consistent with the view that the modulatory effects of ACh involve stimulation of 42* nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs), systemic administration of the partial nAChR agonist ABT-089 improved SAT performance in STs and abolished the difference between SAT-associated ACh levels in STs and GTs. Neither the nonselective nAChR agonist nicotine nor the psychostimulant amphetamine improved SAT performance. These findings suggest that individuals who have a propensity to attribute high-incentive salience to reward cues also exhibit relatively poor attentional control. A combination of these traits may render individuals especially vulnerable to disorders, such as obesity and addiction.
Operant control of a prosthesis by neuronal cortical activity is one of the successful strategies for implementing brain-machine interfaces (BMI), by which the subject learns to exert a volitional control of goal-directed movements. However, it remains unknown if the induced brain circuit reorganization affects preferentially the conditioned neurons whose activity controlled the BMI actuator during training. Here, multiple extracellular single-units were recorded simultaneously in the motor cortex of head-fixed behaving rats. The firing rate of a single neuron was used to control the position of a one-dimensional actuator. Each time the firing rate crossed a predefined threshold, a water bottle moved toward the rat, until the cumulative displacement of the bottle allowed the animal to drink. After a learning period, most (88%) conditioned neurons raised their activity during the trials, such that the time to reward decreased across sessions: the conditioned neuron fired strongly, reliably and swiftly after trial onset, although no explicit instruction in the learning rule imposed a fast neuronal response. Moreover, the conditioned neuron fired significantly earlier and more strongly than nonconditioned neighboring neurons. During the first training sessions, an increase in firing rate variability was seen only for the highly conditionable neurons. This variability then decreased while the conditioning effect increased. These findings suggest that modifications during training target preferentially the neuron chosen to control the BMI, which acts then as a &quot;master&quot; neuron, leading in time the reconfiguration of activity in the local cortical network.
Animals are thought to evaluate the desirability of action options using a unified scale that combines predicted benefits (&quot;rewards&quot;), costs, and the animal's internal motivational state. Midbrain dopamine neurons have long been associated with the reward part of this equation, but it is unclear whether these neurons also estimate the costs of taking an action. We studied the spiking activity of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta of monkeys (Macaca mulatta) during a reaching task in which the energetic costs incurred (friction loads) and the benefits gained (drops of food) were manipulated independently. Although the majority of dopamine neurons encoded the upcoming reward alone, a subset predicted net utility of a course of action by signaling the expected reward magnitude discounted by the invested cost in terms of physical effort. In addition, the tonic activity of some dopamine neurons was slowly reduced in conjunction with the accumulated trials, which is consistent with the hypothesized role for tonic dopamine in the invigoration or motivation of instrumental responding. The present results shed light on an often-hypothesized role for dopamine in the regulation of the balance in natural behaviors between the energy expended and the benefits gained, which could explain why dopamine disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, lead to a breakdown of that balance.
In both mammalian and insect models of ethanol intoxication, high doses of ethanol induce motor impairment and eventually sedation. Sensitivity to the sedative effects of ethanol is inversely correlated with risk for alcoholism. However, the genes regulating ethanol sensitivity are largely unknown. Based on a previous genetic screen in Drosophila for ethanol sedation mutants, we identified a novel gene, tank (CG15626), the homolog of the mammalian tumor suppressor EI24/PIG8, which has a strong role in regulating ethanol sedation sensitivity. Genetic and behavioral analyses revealed that tank acts in the adult nervous system to promote ethanol sensitivity. We localized the function of tank in regulating ethanol sensitivity to neurons within the pars intercerebralis that have not been implicated previously in ethanol responses. We show that acutely manipulating the activity of all tank-expressing neurons, or of pars intercerebralis neurons in particular, alters ethanol sensitivity in a sexually dimorphic manner, since neuronal activation enhanced ethanol sedation in males, but not females. Finally, we provide anatomical evidence that tank-expressing neurons form likely synaptic connections with neurons expressing the neural sex determination factor fruitless (fru), which have been implicated recently in the regulation of ethanol sensitivity. We suggest that a functional interaction with fru neurons, many of which are sexually dimorphic, may account for the sex-specific effect induced by activating tank neurons. Overall, we have characterized a novel gene and corresponding set of neurons that regulate ethanol sensitivity in Drosophila.
Homer postsynaptic scaffolding proteins regulate forebrain glutamate transmission and thus, are likely molecular candidates mediating hypofrontality in addiction. Protracted withdrawal from cocaine experience increases the relative expression of Homer2 versus Homer1 isoforms within medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Thus, this study used virus-mediated gene transfer strategies to investigate the functional relevance of an imbalance in mPFC Homer1/2 expression as it relates to various measures of sensorimotor, cognitive, emotional and motivational processing, as well as accompanying alterations in extracellular glutamate in C57BL/6J mice. mPFC Homer2b overexpression elevated basal glutamate content and blunted cocaine-induced glutamate release within the mPFC, whereas Homer2b knockdown produced the opposite effects. Despite altering mPFC glutamate, Homer2b knockdown failed to influence cocaine-elicited conditioned place preferences, nor did it produce consistent effects on any other behavioral measures. In contrast, elevating the relative expression of Homer2b versus Homer1 within mPFC, by overexpressing Homer2b or knocking down Homer1c, shifted the dose-response function for cocaine-conditioned reward to the left, without affecting cocaine locomotion or sensitization. Intriguingly, both these transgenic manipulations produced glutamate anomalies within the nucleus accumbens (NAC) of cocaine-naive animals that are reminiscent of those observed in cocaine experienced animals, including reduced basal extracellular glutamate content, reduced Homer1/2 and glutamate receptor expression, and augmented cocaine-elicited glutamate release. Together, these data provide novel evidence in support of opposing roles for constitutively expressed Homer1 and Homer2 isoforms in regulating mPFC glutamate transmission in vivo and support the hypothesis that cocaine-elicited increases in the relative amount of mPFC Homer2 versus Homer1 signaling produces abnormalities in NAC glutamate transmission that enhance vulnerability to cocaine reward.
Rapid action potential propagation in myelinated axons requires Na channel clustering at nodes of Ranvier. However, the mechanism of clustering at CNS nodes remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the assembly of nodes of Ranvier in the CNS involves three mechanisms: a glia-derived extracellular matrix (ECM) complex containing proteoglycans and adhesion molecules that cluster NF186, paranodal axoglial junctions that function as barriers to restrict the position of nodal proteins, and axonal cytoskeletal scaffolds (CSs) that stabilize nodal Na channels. We show that while mice with a single disrupted mechanism had mostly normal nodes, disruptions of the ECM and paranodal barrier, the ECM and CS, or the paranodal barrier and CS all lead to juvenile lethality, profound motor dysfunction, and significantly reduced Na channel clustering. Our results demonstrate that ECM, paranodal, and axonal cytoskeletal mechanisms ensure robust CNS nodal Na channel clustering.
Sleep has many inherent benefits, including an important role in memory consolidation. In this issue ofNeuron, Ngo etal. (2013b) demonstrate that appropriately timed sounds delivered during sleep can invigorate electrophysiological oscillations conducive to memory stabilization.
Brain rhythms regulate information processing in different states to enable learning and memory formation. The &lt;1 Hz sleep slow oscillation hallmarks slow-wave sleep and is critical to memory consolidation. Here we show in sleeping humans that auditory stimulation in phase with the ongoing rhythmic occurrence of slow oscillation up states profoundly enhances the slow oscillation rhythm, phase-coupled spindle activity, and, consequently, the consolidation of declarative memory. Stimulation out of phase with the ongoing slow oscillation rhythm remained ineffective. Closed-loop in-phase stimulation provides a straight-forward tool to enhance sleep rhythms and their functional efficacy.
Evidence has been accumulated for over a century indicating that the visual system of humans and many animals is more sensitive to contour stimulation at vertical or horizontal orientations than oblique orientations. However, the neural basis for this orientation anisotropy is still a subject of debate. In the present study, we recorded brain activity over the parietal-occipital and frontal lobes with functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) when human participants were presented with gratings in different orientations. The oblique gratings induced a much larger change in the oxygenated hemoglobin concentration than vertical and horizontal gratings in the left occipital lobe. However, we did not find any significant orientation anisotropy in the frontal lobe. Our study showed that different quantitative changes in the hemoglobin concentrations occurred in response to differently oriented stimuli in the visual cortex and that fNIRS could potentially be a valuable tool in the assessment of the hemodynamic responses of the visual system.
Withaferin A (WFA) is a natural product that binds to soluble forms of the type III intermediate filament (IF) vimentin. Currently, it is unknown under what pathophysiological contexts vimentin is druggable, as cytoskeltal vimentin-IFs are abundantly expressed. To investigate druggability of vimentin, we exploited rabbit Tenon's capsule fibroblast (RbTCF) cell cultures and the rabbit glaucoma filtration surgical (GFS) model of fibrosis. WFA potently caused G/G cell cycle inhibition (IC 25 nM) in RbTCFs, downregulating ubiquitin E3 ligase skp2 and inducing p27(Kip1) expression. Transforming growth factor (TGF)--induced myofibroblast transformation caused development of cell spheroids with numerous elongated invadopodia, which WFA blocked potently by downregulating soluble vimentin and -smooth muscle actin (SMA) expression. In the pilot proof-of-concept study using the GFS model, subconjunctival injections of a low WFA dose reduced skp2 expression in Tenon's capsule and increased p27(Kip1) expression without significant alteration to vimentin-IFs. This treatment maintains significant nanomolar WFA concentrations in anterior segment tissues that correspond to WFA's cell cycle targeting activity. A ten-fold higher WFA dose caused potent downregulation of soluble vimentin and skp2 expression, but as found in cell cultures, no further increase in p27(Kip1) expression was observed. Instead, this high WFA dose potently induced vimentin-IF disruption and downregulated -SMA expression that mimicked WFA activity in TGF--treated RbTCFs that blocked cell contractile activity at submicromolar concentrations. These findings illuminate that localized WFA injection to ocular tissues exerts pharmacological control over the skp2-p27(Kip1) pathway by targeting of soluble vimentin in a model of surgical fibrosis.
High-grade gliomas are extremely difficult to treat because they are invasive and therefore not curable by surgical resection; the toxicity of current chemo- and radiation therapies limits the doses that can be used. Neural stem cells (NSCs) have inherent tumor-tropic properties that enable their use as delivery vehicles to target enzyme/prodrug therapy selectively to tumors. We used a cytosine deaminase (CD)-expressing clonal human NSC line, HB1.F3.CD, to home to gliomas in mice and locally convert the prodrug 5-fluorocytosine to the active chemotherapeutic 5-fluorouracil. In vitro studies confirmed that the NSCs have normal karyotype, tumor tropism, and CD expression, and are genetically and functionally stable. In vivo biodistribution studies demonstrated NSC retention of tumor tropism, even in mice pretreated with radiation or dexamethasone to mimic clinically relevant adjuvant therapies. We evaluated safety and toxicity after intracerebral administration of the NSCs in non-tumor-bearing and orthotopic glioma-bearing immunocompetent and immunodeficient mice. We detected no difference in toxicity associated with conversion of 5-fluorocytosine to 5-fluorouracil, no NSCs outside the brain, and no histological evidence of pathology or tumorigenesis attributable to the NSCs. The average tumor volume in mice that received HB1.F3.CD NSCs and 5-fluorocytosine was about one-third that of the average volume in control mice. On the basis of these results, we conclude that combination therapy with HB1.F3.CD NSCs and 5-fluorocytosine is safe, nontoxic, and effective in mice. These data have led to approval of a first-in-human study of an allogeneic NSC-mediated enzyme/prodrug-targeted cancer therapy in patients with recurrent high-grade glioma.
Light responses in Drosophila photoreceptors are mediated by two Ca(2+) permeable cation channels, transient receptor potential (TRP) and TRP-like (TRPL). Although Ca(2+) influx via these channels is critical for amplification, inactivation, and light adaptation, the fractional contribution of Ca(2+) to the currents (Pf) has not been measured. We describe a slow (  350 ms) tail current in voltage-clamped light responses and show that it is mediated by electrogenic Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange. Assuming a 3Na:1Ca stoichiometry, we derive empirical estimates of Pf by comparing the charge integrals of the exchanger and light-induced currents. For TRPL channels, Pf was 17% as predicted by Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz (GHK) theory. Pf for TRP (29%) and wild-type flies (26%) was higher, but lower than the GHK prediction (45% and 42%). As predicted by GHK theory, Pf for both channels increased with extracellular [Ca(2+)], and was largely independent of voltage between -100 and -30 mV. A model incorporating intra- and extracellular geometry, ion permeation, diffusion, extrusion, and buffering suggested that the deviation from GHK predictions was largely accounted for by extracellular ionic depletion during the light-induced currents, and the time course of the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange current could be used to obtain estimates of cellular Ca(2+) buffering capacities.



Alzheimer's disease is the leading cause of dementia in the elderly. Pathologically it is characterized by the presence of amyloid plaques and neuronal loss within the brain tissue of affected individuals. It is now widely hypothesised that fibrillar structures represent an inert structure. Biophysical and toxicity assays attempting to characterize the formation of both the fibrillar and the intermediate oligomeric structures of A typically involves preparing samples which are largely monomeric; the most common method by which this is achieved is to use the fluorinated organic solvent 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoro-2-propanol (HFIP). Recent evidence has suggested that this method is not 100% effective in producing an aggregate free solution. We show, using dynamic light scattering, size exclusion chromatography and small angle X-ray scattering that this is indeed the case, with HFIP pretreated A peptide solutions displaying an increased proportion of oligomeric and aggregated material and an increased propensity to aggregate. Furthermore we show that an alternative technique, involving treatment with strong alkali results in a much more homogenous solution that is largely monomeric. These techniques for solubilising and controlling the oligomeric state of A are valuable starting points for future biophysical and toxicity assays.
Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is a pluripotent lipophilic mediator working as a ligand for G-protein coupled S1P receptors (S1PR), which is currently highlighted as a therapeutic target for autoimmune diseases including relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Sphingosine related compounds, FTY720 and KRP203 known as S1PR modulators, are phosphorylated by sphingosine kinase 2 (SphK2) to yield the active metabolites FTY720-P and KRP203-P, which work as functional antagonists for S1PRs. Here we report that FTY720 and KRP203 decreased production of Amyloid- peptide (A), a pathogenic proteins causative for Alzheimer disease (AD), in cultured neuronal cells. Pharmacological analyses suggested that the mechanism of FTY720-mediated A decrease in cells was independent of known downstream signaling pathways of S1PRs. Unexpectedly, 6-days treatment of APP transgenic mice with FTY720 resulted in a decrease in A40, but an increase in A42 levels in brains. These results suggest that S1PR modulators are novel type of regulators for A metabolisms that are active in vitro and in vivo.
Audition--what listeners hear--is generally studied in terms of the physical properties of sound stimuli and physiological properties of the auditory system. Based on recent work in vision, we here consider an alternative perspective that sensory percepts are based on past experience. In this framework, basic auditory qualities (e.g., loudness and pitch) are based on the frequency of occurrence of stimulus patterns in natural acoustic stimuli. To explore this concept of audition, we examined five well-documented psychophysical functions. The frequency of occurrence of acoustic patterns in a database of natural sound stimuli (speech) predicts some qualitative aspects of these functions, but with substantial quantitative discrepancies. This approach may offer a rationale for auditory phenomena that are difficult to explain in terms of the physical attributes of the stimuli as such.
Although extremely interesting in adult neuro-glio-genesis and promising as an endogenous source for repair, parenchymal progenitors remain largely obscure in their identity and physiology, due to a scarce availability of stage-specific markers. What appears difficult is the distinction between real cell populations and various differentiation stages of the same population. Here we focused on a subset of multipolar, polydendrocyte-like cells (mMap5 cells) expressing the microtubule associated protein 5 (Map5), which is known to be present in most neurons. We characterized the morphology, phenotype, regional distribution, proliferative dynamics, and stage-specific marker expression of these cells in the rabbit and mouse CNS, also assessing their existence in other mammalian species. mMap5 cells were never found to co-express the Ng2 antigen. They appear to be a population of glial cells sharing features but also differences with Ng2+progenitor cells. We show that mMap5 cells are newly generated, postmitotic parenchymal elements of the oligodendroglial lineage, thus being a stage-specific population of polydendrocytes. Finally, we report that the number of mMap5 cells, although reduced within the brain of adult/old animals, can increase in neurodegenerative and traumatic conditions.
Inflammatory mediators have crucial roles in leukocyte recruitment and subsequent central nervous system (CNS) neuroinflammation. The extent of neuronal injury and axonal loss are associated with the degree of CNS inflammation and determine physical disability in multiple sclerosis (MS). The aim of this study was to explore possible associations between a panel of selected cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers and robust clinical and demographic parameters in a large cohort of patients with MS and controls (n=1066) using data-driven multivariate analysis. Levels of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9), chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 13 (CXCL13), osteopontin (OPN) and neurofilament-light chain (NFL) were measured by ELISA in 548 subjects comprising different MS subtypes (relapsing-remitting, secondary progressive and primary progressive), clinically isolated syndrome and persons with other neurological diseases with or without signs of inflammation/infection. Principal component analyses and orthogonal partial least squares methods were used for unsupervised and supervised interrogation of the data. Models were validated using data from a further 518 subjects in which one or more of the four selected markers were measured. There was a significant association between increased patient age and lower levels of CXCL13, MMP9 and NFL. CXCL13 levels correlated well with MMP9 in the younger age groups, but less so in older patients, and after approximately 54 years of age the levels of CXCL13 and MMP9 were consistently low. CXCL13 and MMP9 levels also correlated well with both NFL and OPN in younger patients. We demonstrate a strong effect of age on both inflammatory and neurodegenerative biomarkers in a large cohort of MS patients. The findings support an early use of adequate immunomodulatory disease modifying drugs, especially in younger patients, and may provide a biological explanation for the relative inefficacy of such treatments in older patients at later disease stages.
TRAM-34, a clotrimazole analog characterized as a potent and selective inhibitor of intermediate-conductance, calcium-activated K(+) (IKCa) channels, has been used extensively in vitro and in vivo to study the biological roles of these channels. The major advantage of TRAM-34 over clotrimazole is the reported lack of inhibition of the former drug on cytochrome P450 (CYP) activity. CYPs, a large family of heme-containing oxidases, play essential roles in endogenous signaling and metabolic pathways, as well as in xenobiotic metabolism. However, previously published work has only characterized the effects of TRAM-34 on a single CYP isoform. To test the hypothesis that TRAM-34 may inhibit some CYP isoforms, the effects of this compound were presently studied on the activities of four rat and five human CYP isoforms. TRAM-34 inhibited recombinant rat CYP2B1, CYP2C6 and CYP2C11 and human CYP2B6, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 with IC50 values ranging from 0.9 M to 12.6 M, but had no inhibitory effects (up to 80 M) on recombinant rat CYP1A2, human CYP1A2, or human CYP19A1. TRAM-34 also had both stimulatory and inhibitory effects on human CYP3A4 activity, depending on the substrate used. These results show that low micromolar concentrations of TRAM-34 can inhibit several rat and human CYP isoforms, and suggest caution in the use of high concentrations of this drug as a selective IKCa channel blocker. In addition, in vivo use of TRAM-34 could lead to CYP-related drug-drug interactions.

A major challenge in neuroscience is to accurately decipher in vivo the entire brain circuitry (connectome) at a microscopic level. Currently, the only methodology providing a global noninvasive window into structural brain connectivity is diffusion tractography. The extent to which the reconstructed pathways reflect realistic neuronal networks depends, however, on data acquisition and postprocessing factors. Through a unique combination of approaches, we designed and evaluated herein a framework for reliable fiber tracking and mapping of the living mouse brain connectome. One important wiring scheme, connecting gray matter regions and passing fiber-crossing areas, was closely examined: the lemniscal thalamocortical (TC) pathway. We quantitatively validated the TC projections inferred from in vivo tractography with correlative histological axonal tracing in the same wild-type and reeler mutant mice. We demonstrated noninvasively that changes in patterning of the cortical sheet, such as highly disorganized cortical lamination in reeler, led to spectacular compensatory remodeling of the TC pathway.
The aggregation of -synuclein plays a major role in Parkinson disease (PD) pathogenesis. Recent evidence suggests that defects in the autophagy-mediated clearance of -synuclein contribute to the progressive loss of nigral dopamine neurons. Using an in vivo model of -synuclein toxicity, we show that the PD-like neurodegenerative changes induced by excess cellular levels of -synuclein in nigral dopamine neurons are closely linked to a progressive decline in markers of lysosome function, accompanied by cytoplasmic retention of transcription factor EB (TFEB), a major transcriptional regulator of the autophagy-lysosome pathway. The changes in lysosomal function, observed in the rat model as well as in human PD midbrain, were reversed by overexpression of TFEB, which afforded robust neuroprotection via the clearance of -synuclein oligomers, and were aggravated by microRNA-128-mediated repression of TFEB in both A9 and A10 dopamine neurons. Delayed activation of TFEB function through inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin blocked -synuclein induced neurodegeneration and further disease progression. The results provide a mechanistic link between -synuclein toxicity and impaired TFEB function, and highlight TFEB as a key player in the induction of -synuclein-induced toxicity and PD pathogenesis, thus identifying TFEB as a promising target for therapies aimed at neuroprotection and disease modification in PD.
Receptive fields (RFs) of neurons in primary visual cortex have traditionally been subdivided into two major classes: &quot;simple&quot; and &quot;complex&quot; cells. Simple cells were originally defined by the existence of segregated subregions within their RF that respond to either the on- or offset of a light bar and by spatial summation within each of these regions, whereas complex cells had ON and OFF regions that were coextensive in space [Hubel DH, et al. (1962) J Physiol 160:106-154]. Although other definitions based on the linearity of response modulation have been proposed later [Movshon JA, et al. (1978) J Physiol 283:53-77; Skottun BC, et al. (1991) Vision Res 31(7-8):1079-1086], the segregation of ON and OFF subregions has remained an important criterion for the distinction between simple and complex cells. Here we report that response profiles of neurons in primary auditory cortex of monkeys show a similar distinction: one group of cells has segregated ON and OFF subregions in frequency space; and another group shows ON and OFF responses within largely overlapping response profiles. This observation is intriguing for two reasons: (i) spectrotemporal dissociation in the auditory domain provides a basic neural mechanism for the segregation of sounds, a fundamental prerequisite for auditory figure-ground discrimination; and (ii) the existence of similar types of RF organization in visual and auditory cortex would support the existence of a common canonical processing algorithm within cortical columns.
Calcium is used throughout evolution as an intracellular signal transducer. In the mammalian central nervous system, calcium mediates the dialogue between the synapse and the nucleus that is required for transcription-dependent persistent neuronal adaptations. A role for nuclear calcium signaling in similar processes in the invertebrate brain has yet to be investigated. Here, we show by in vivo calcium imaging of adult brain neurons of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, that electrical foot shocks used in olfactory avoidance conditioning evoked transient increases in cytosolic and nuclear calcium concentrations in neurons. These calcium signals were detected in Kenyon cells of the flies' mushroom bodies, which are sites of learning and memory related to smell. Acute blockade of nuclear calcium signaling during conditioning selectively and reversibly abolished the formation of long-term olfactory avoidance memory, whereas short-term, middle-term, or anesthesia-resistant olfactory memory remained unaffected. Thus, nuclear calcium signaling is required in flies for the progression of memories from labile to transcription-dependent long-lasting forms. These results identify nuclear calcium as an evolutionarily conserved signal needed in both invertebrate and vertebrate brains for transcription-dependent memory consolidation.

PTEN plays an important role not only in tumorigenesis but also in the normal development of central nervous system. PTEN loss in neural progenitor cells during embryogenesis disrupts migration and proper formation of the brain laminar structure. We generated a conditional PTEN knockout mouse by crossing mice that express Cre recombinase driven by the human GFAP promoter to a floxed PTEN gene to investigate the role of astroglial PTEN signaling pathway in neuronal patterning and lamination. We found PTEN loss not only in astroglial cells, but also in radial glia-derived neurons in hGFAP-Cre(+/-)/PTEN(loxp/loxp) transgenic mice. Homozygous hGFAP-Cre(+/-)/PTEN(loxp/loxp) transgenic mice showed progressive brain enlargement with cellular disorganization that occurred predominantly in hippocampus and cerebellum and died by postnatal day 20. Confocal images show that nestin-positive radial glial cells were observed in the hippocampus, cortex, and cerebellum at postnatal day 0 in homozygous hGFAP-Cre(+/-)/PTEN(loxp/loxp), but not in heterozygous hGFAP-Cre(+/-)/PTEN(loxp/-) and hGFAP-Cre(-/-)/PTEN(loxp/loxp) mice. Homozygous hGFAP-Cre(+/-)/PTEN(loxp/loxp) transgenic mouse eyes, which lack radial glial lineage, were able to develop normal architectonics after birth. In addition, we also found that neuronal progenitor migration was defected at postnatal day 0 in homozygous hGFAP-Cre(+/-)/PTEN(loxp/loxp) mice. These results suggest that PTEN has a critical role in regulating radial glial differentiation, proliferation, maturation, and eventually neuronal patterning in central nervous system in a spatio-temporal dependent manner.
The degree of Granger causal modeling estimated influence for a brain region was reported to predict its blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) activity level in the resting-state default mode network (DMN). Many brain disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), may alter the influence strength, activity levels, or both. Whether the relationship or prediction between these two will be affected under disease condition is unknown. In this study, the spontaneous brain activity, and inter-regional Granger causality connection were investigated over eight core DMN regions in AD patients in contrast to that in normal controls. Compared to normal control (NC), AD patients had both decreased BOLD activity level and Granger causal influence in medial prefrontal cortex and decreased activity level in inferior parietal cortex showed. However, the positive correlation between the BOLD activity level and the degree of the Granger causal modeling defined influence was found not altered by AD.


With the advent of improved molecular biology techniques, the genetic basis of an increasing number of reproductive disorders has been elucidated. Mutations in at least 20 genes cause hypogonadotropic hypogonadism including Kallmann syndrome in about 35-40% of patients. The two most commonly involved genes are FGFR1 and CHD7. When combined pituitary hormone deficiency includes hypogonadotropic hypogonadism as a feature, PROP1 mutations are the most common of the six genes involved. For hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, mutations in 14 genes cause gonadal failure in 15% of affected females, most commonly in FMR1. In eugonadal disorders, activating FSHR mutations have been identified for spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome; and WNT4 mutations have been described in mullerian aplasia. For other eugonadal disorders, such as endometriosis, polycystic ovary syndrome, and leiomyomata, specific germline gene mutations have not been identified, but some chromosomal regions are associated with the corresponding phenotype. Practical genetic testing is possible to perform in both hypogonadotropic and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. However, clinical testing for endometriosis, polycystic ovary syndrome, and leiomyomata is not currently practical for the clinician.
The brain develops and functions within a strictly controlled environment resulting from the coordinated action of different cellular interfaces located between the blood and the extracellular fluids of the brain, which include the interstitial fluid and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). As a correlate, the delivery of pharmacologically active molecules and especially macromolecules to the brain is challenged by the barrier properties of these interfaces. Blood-brain interfaces comprise both the blood-brain barrier located at the endothelium of the brain microvessels and the blood-CSF barrier located at the epithelium of the choroid plexuses. Although both barriers develop extensive surface areas of exchange between the blood and the neuropil or the CSF, the molecular fluxes across these interfaces are tightly regulated. Cerebral microvessels acquire a barrier phenotype early during cerebral vasculogenesis under the influence of the Wnt/-catenin pathway, and of recruited pericytes. Later in development, astrocytes also play a role in blood-brain barrier maintenance. The tight choroid plexus epithelium develops very early during embryogenesis. It is specified by various signaling molecules from the embryonic dorsal midline, such as bone morphogenic proteins, and grows under the influence of Sonic hedgehog protein. Tight junctions at each barrier comprise a distinctive set of claudins from the pore-forming and tightening categories that determine their respective paracellular barrier characteristics. Vesicular traffic is limited in the cerebral endothelium and abundant in the choroidal epithelium, yet without evidence of active fluid phase transcytosis. Inorganic ion transport is highly regulated across the barriers. Small organic compounds such as nutrients, micronutrients and hormones are transported into the brain by specific solute carriers. Other bioactive metabolites, lipophilic toxic xenobiotics or pharmacological agents are restrained from accumulating in the brain by several ATP-binding cassette efflux transporters, multispecific solute carriers, and detoxifying enzymes. These various molecular effectors differently distribute between the two barriers. Receptor-mediated endocytotic and transcytotic mechanisms are active in the barriers. They enable brain penetration of selected polypeptides and proteins, or inversely macromolecule efflux as it is the case for immnoglobulins G. An additional mechanism specific to the BCSFB mediates the transport of selected plasma proteins from blood into CSF in the developing brain. All these mechanisms could be explored and manipulated to improve macromolecule delivery to the brain.



Dysregulation of cell proliferation and the cell cycle are associated with various diseases, such as cancer. Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) play central roles in cell proliferation and the cell cycle. Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is expressed in a restricted range of tissues, including the brain and numerous types of cancer. However, the molecular functions of UCH-L1 remain elusive. In this study, we found that UCH-L1 physically interacts with CDK1, CDK4, and CDK5, enhancing their kinase activity. Using several mutants of UCH-L1, we showed that this enhancement is dependent upon interaction levels between UCH-L1 and CDKs but is independent of the known ubiquitin-related functions of UCH-L1. Gain- and loss-of-function studies revealed that UCH-L1 enhances proliferation of multiple cell types, including human cancer cells. Inhibition of the interaction between UCH-L1 and cell cycle-associated CDK resulted in the abolishment of UCH-L1-induced enhancement of cell proliferation. RNA interference of UCH-L1 reduced the growth of human xenograft tumors in mice. We concluded that UCH-L1 is a novel regulator of the kinase activities of CDKs. We believe that our findings from this study will significantly contribute to our understanding of cell cycle-associated diseases.
The equilibrium state of CCR5 is manipulated here toward either activation or inactivation by introduction of single amino acid substitutions in the transmembrane domains (TMs) 6 and 7. Insertion of a steric hindrance mutation in the center of TM7 (G286F in position VII:09/7.42) resulted in biased signaling. Thus, -arrestin recruitment was eliminated, whereas constitutive activity was observed in Gi-mediated signaling. Furthermore, the CCR5 antagonist aplaviroc was converted to a full agonist (a so-called efficacy switch). Computational modeling revealed that the position of the 7TM receptor-conserved Trp in TM6 (Trp-248 in position VI:13/6.48, part of the CWXP motif) was influenced by the G286F mutation, causing Trp-248 to change orientation away from TM7. The essential role of Trp-248 in CCR5 activation was supported by complete inactivity of W248A-CCR5 despite maintaining chemokine binding. Furthermore, replacing Trp-248 with a smaller aromatic amino acid (Tyr/Phe) impaired the -arrestin recruitment, yet with maintained G protein activity (biased signaling); also, here aplaviroc switched to a full agonist. Thus, the altered positioning of Trp-248, induced by G286F, led to a constraint of G protein active, but -arrestin inactive and thus biased, CCR5 conformation. These results provide important information on the molecular interplay and impact of TM6 and TM7 for CCR5 activity, which may be extrapolated to other chemokine receptors and possibly to other 7TM receptors.
Our laboratory developed long-acting nanoformulations of antiretroviral therapy (nanoART) to improve drug compliance, reduce toxicities, and facilitate access of drug to viral reservoirs. These all function to inevitably improve treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Formulations are designed to harness the carrying capacities of mononuclear phagocytes (MP; monocytes and macrophages) and to use these cells as Trojan horses for drug delivery. Such a drug distribution system limits ART metabolism and excretion while facilitating access to viral reservoirs. Our prior works demonstrated a high degree of nanoART sequestration in macrophage recycling endosomes with broad and sustained drug tissue biodistribution and depots with limited untoward systemic toxicities. Despite such benefits, the effects of particle carriage on the cells' functional capacities remained poorly understood. Thus, we employed pulsed stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture to elucidate the macrophage proteome and assess any alterations in cellular functions that would affect cell-drug carriage and release kinetics. NanoART-MP interactions resulted in the induction of a broad range of activation-related proteins that can enhance phagocytosis, secretory functions, and cell migration. Notably, we now demonstrate that particle-cell interactions serve to enhance drug loading while facilitating drug tissue depots and transportation.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL) are the most common inherited progressive encephalopathies of childhood. One of the most prevalent forms of NCL, Juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (JNCL) or CLN3 disease (OMIM: 204200), is caused by mutations in the CLN3 gene on chromosome 16p12.1. Despite progress in the NCL field, the primary function of ceroid-lipofuscinosis neuronal protein 3 (CLN3) remains elusive. In this study, we aimed to clarify the role of human CLN3 in the brain by identifying CLN3-associated proteins using a Tandem Affinity Purification coupled to Mass Spectrometry (TAP-MS) strategy combined with Significance Analysis of Interactome (SAINT). Human SH-SY5Y-NTAP-CLN3 stable cells were used to isolate native protein complexes for subsequent TAP-MS. Bioinformatic analyses of isolated complexes yielded 58 CLN3 interacting partners (IP) including 42 novel CLN3 IP, as well as 16 CLN3 high confidence interacting partners (HCIP) previously identified in another high-throughput study by Behrends et al., 2010. Moreover, 31 IP of ceroid-lipofuscinosis neuronal protein 5 (CLN5) were identified (18 of which were in common with the CLN3 bait). Our findings support previously suggested involvement of CLN3 in transmembrane transport, lipid homeostasis and neuronal excitability, as well as link it to G-protein signaling and protein folding/sorting in the ER.
A fundamental function of the motor system is to gather key information from the environment in order to implement behavioral strategies appropriate to the context. Although several lines of evidence indicate that Parkinson's disease affects the ability to modify behavior according to task requirements, it is currently unknown whether deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) affects context-related planning. To explore this issue, we asked 12 Parkinson's patients with bilateral STN DBS and 13 healthy subjects to execute similar arm reaching movements in two different paradigms: go-only and countermanding tasks. In the former task patients had to perform speeded reaching movements to a peripheral target. In contrast, in the countermanding task participants had to perform the same reaches unless an infrequent and unpredictable stop-signal was shown during the reaction time (RT) indicating that they should withhold the ongoing action. We compared the performance of Parkinson's patients in different DBS conditions. We found that patients with both DBS-ON behaved similarly to healthy subjects, in that RTs of no-stop trial increased while movement times (MTs) decreased with respect to those of go-only-trials. However, when both DBS were off, both RTs and MTs were longer in no-stop trials than in go-only trials. These findings indicate that bilateral DBS of STN can partially restore the appropriate motor strategy according to the given cognitive contexts.
Dopamine modulates the synaptic plasticity in the primary motor cortex (M1). To evaluate whether the functioning of the cortico-striatal circuit is necessary for this modulation, we applied a paired associative stimulation (PAS) protocol that comprised an electric stimulus to the right median nerve at the wrist and subsequent transcranial magnetic stimulation of the left M1, to 10 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 10 with multiple system atrophy of the parkinsonian type (MSA-P) with and without dopamine replacement therapy (-on/off). To investigate the M1 function, motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) were measured before and after the PAS. In both patient groups without medication, the PAS protocol failed to increase the averaged amplitude of MEPs. The dopamine replacement therapy in PD, but not in MSA-P effectively restored the PAS-induced MEP increase. This suggests that not the existence of dopamine itself but the activation of cortico-striatal circuit might play an important role for cortical plasticity in the human M1.
Visual imagery during sleep has long been a topic of persistent speculation, but its private nature has hampered objective analysis. Here we present a neural decoding approach in which machine-learning models predict the contents of visual imagery during the sleep-onset period, given measured brain activity, by discovering links between human functional magnetic resonance imaging patterns and verbal reports with the assistance of lexical and image databases. Decoding models trained on stimulus-induced brain activity in visual cortical areas showed accurate classification, detection, and identification of contents. Our findings demonstrate that specific visual experience during sleep is represented by brain activity patterns shared by stimulus perception, providing a means to uncover subjective contents of dreaming using objective neural measurement.

Gliomas are resistant to radiation therapy, as well as to TNF induced killing. Radiation-induced TNF triggers Nuclear factor B (NFB)-mediated radioresistance. As inhibition of NFB activation sensitizes glioma cells to TNF-induced apoptosis, we investigated whether TNF modulates the responsiveness of glioma cells to ionizing radiation-mimetic Neocarzinostatin (NCS). TNF enhanced the ability of NCS to induce glioma cell apoptosis. NCS-mediated death involved caspase-9 activation, reduction of mitochondrial copy number and lactate production. Death was concurrent with NFB, Akt and Erk activation. Abrogation of Akt and NFB activation further potentiated the death inducing ability of NCS in TNF cotreated cells. NCS-induced p53 expression was accompanied by increase in TP53-induced glycolysis and apoptosis regulator (TIGAR) levels and ATM phosphorylation. siRNA-mediated knockdown of TIGAR abrogated NCS-induced apoptosis. While DN-IB abrogated NCS-induced TIGAR both in the presence and absence of TNF, TIGAR had no effect on NFB activation. Transfection with TIGAR mutant (i) decreased apoptosis and H2AX foci formation (ii) decreased p53 (iii) elevated ROS and (iv) increased Akt/Erk activation in cells cotreated with NCS and TNF. Heightened TIGAR expression was observed in GBM tumors. While NCS induced ATM phosphorylation in a NFB independent manner, ATM inhibition abrogated TIGAR and NFB activation. Metabolic gene profiling indicated that TNF affects NCS-mediated regulation of several genes associated with glycolysis. The existence of ATM-NFB axis that regulate metabolic modeler TIGAR to overcome prosurvival response in NCS and TNF cotreated cells, suggests mechanisms through which inflammation could affect resistance and adaptation to radiomimetics despite concurrent induction of death.
We expect scientists to follow a code of honor and conduct and to report their research honestly and accurately, but so-called scientific misconduct, which includes plagiarism, faked data, and altered images, has led to a tenfold increase in the number of retractions over the past decade. Among the reasons for this troubling upsurge is increased competition for journal placement, grant money, and prestigious appointments. The solutions are not easy, but reform and greater vigilance is needed.

Growing evidence shows that GM1 ganglioside is involved in amyloid deposition and toxicity. By means of real-time single particle tracking, we show that amyloid oligomers and aggregates formed by A1-42 and amylin, two peptides associated, respectively, with the development of Alzheimer's disease and type II diabetes, interact with GM1 and decrease dramatically its lateral diffusion on the plasma membrane of living neuroblastoma cells. The confinement of GM1, a constituent of membrane rafts involved in neuroprotection, at the level of both types of amyloid aggregates can interfere with cell signaling pathways and contribute to the loss of neuroprotection.
The mushroom body in the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster is an associative brain centre that translates odour representations into learned behavioural responses. Kenyon cells, the intrinsic neurons of the mushroom body, integrate input from olfactory glomeruli to encode odours as sparse distributed patterns of neural activity. We have developed anatomic tracing techniques to identify the glomerular origin of the inputs that converge onto 200 individual Kenyon cells. Here we show that each Kenyon cell integrates input from a different and apparently random combination of glomeruli. The glomerular inputs to individual Kenyon cells show no discernible organization with respect to their odour tuning, anatomic features or developmental origins. Moreover, different classes of Kenyon cells do not seem to preferentially integrate inputs from specific combinations of glomeruli. This organization of glomerular connections to the mushroom body could allow the fly to contextualize novel sensory experiences, a feature consistent with the role of this brain centre in mediating learned olfactory associations and behaviours.
Effective navigation requires planning extended routes to remembered goal locations. Hippocampal place cells have been proposed to have a role in navigational planning, but direct evidence has been lacking. Here we show that before goal-directed navigation in an open arena, the rat hippocampus generates brief sequences encoding spatial trajectories strongly biased to progress from the subject's current location to a known goal location. These sequences predict immediate future behaviour, even in cases in which the specific combination of start and goal locations is novel. These results indicate that hippocampal sequence events characterized previously in linearly constrained environments as 'replay' are also capable of supporting a goal-directed, trajectory-finding mechanism, which identifies important places and relevant behavioural paths, at specific times when memory retrieval is required, and in a manner that could be used to control subsequent navigational behaviour.

G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) act to desensitize G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). In addition to this role at the plasma membrane, a nuclear function for GRK5, a member of the GRK4 subfamily of GRKs, has been reported. GRK5 phosphorylates and promotes the nuclear export of the histone deacetylase, HDAC5. Here we demonstrate that the possession of a nuclear localization sequence (NLS) is a common feature of GRK4 subfamily members (GRKs 4, 5 and 6). However, the location of the NLS and the ability of these GRKs to bind DNA in vitro are different. The NLSs of GRK5 and 6 bind DNA in vitro, whilst the NLS of GRK4 does not. Using mutants of GRK5 we identify the regions of GRK5 required for DNA-binding in vitro and nuclear localization in cells. The DNA-binding ability of GRK5 requires both the NLS and an N-terminal calmodulin (CaM)-binding site. A functional nuclear export sequence (NES), required for CaM-dependent nuclear export of the kinase, is also identified. Based on our observations we propose a model to explain how nuclear localization of GRK5 may be regulated. Notably, the nuclear localization of GRK5 and 6 is differentially regulated. These results suggest subfamily specific nuclear functions for the GRK4 subfamily members. Identification of GRK specific small molecule inhibitors of nuclear localization and/or function for the GRK4 subfamily may thus be an achievable goal.


A 24-year-old female with 5 year history of heroin abuse experienced painless stiffness of elbow joints and weakness of shoulder and upper limb muscles. She was injecting herself 4-6 times daily alternatively in the upper extremities, sparing the lower limbs. Electromyography (EMG) showed myopathic changes in clinically affected and unaffected muscles. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed muscle fibrosis in directly injected muscles, whereas in subcutaneous fat and within muscles of anterior and posterior compartments of both thighs, not directly injected, there were signal changes supportive of oedema and inflammation. EMG and MRI were congruent in showing abnormalities in muscles not directly injected, suggesting long distant effects of heroin or adulterants with a mechanism either toxic or immunologically mediated.

While a number of genome-wide association studies have identified microtubule-associated protein tau as a strong risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD), little is known about the mechanism through which human tau can predispose an individual to this disease. Here, we demonstrate that expression of human wild-type tau is sufficient to disrupt the survival of dopaminergic neurons in a Drosophila model. Tau triggers a synaptic pathology visualized by vesicular monoamine transporter-pHGFP that precedes both the age-dependent formation of tau-containing neurofibrillary tangle-like pathology and the progressive loss of DA neurons, thereby recapitulating the pathological hallmarks of PD. Flies overexpressing tau also exhibit progressive impairments of both motor and learning behaviors. Surprisingly, contrary to common belief that hyperphosphorylated tau could aggravate toxicity, DA neuron degeneration is alleviated by expressing the modified, hyperphosphorylated tau(E14). Together, these results show that impairment of VMAT-containing synaptic vesicle, released to synapses before overt tauopathy may be the underlying mechanism of tau-associated PD and suggest that correction or prevention of this deficit may be appropriate targets for early therapeutic intervention.
Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) is a disorder affecting cognition and movement due to a progressive neurodegeneration associated with distinctive neuropathologic features, including abnormal phosphorylated tau protein in neurons and glia in cortex, basal ganglia, diencephalon, and brainstem, as well as ballooned neurons and astrocytic plaques. We identified three cases of CBD with olivopontocerebellar atrophy (CBD-OPCA) that did not have -synuclein-positive glial cytoplasmic inclusions of multiple system atrophy (MSA). Two patients had clinical features suggestive of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and the third case had cerebellar ataxia thought to be due to idiopathic OPCA. Neuropathologic features of CBD-OPCA are compared to typical CBD, as well as MSA and PSP. CBD-OPCA and MSA had marked neuronal loss in pontine nuclei, inferior olivary nucleus, and Purkinje cell layer. Neuronal loss and grumose degeneration in the cerebellar dentate nucleus were comparable in CBD-OPCA and PSP. Image analysis of tau pathology showed greater infratentorial tau burden, especially in pontine base, in CBD-OPCA compared with typical CBD. In addition, CBD-OPCA had TDP-43 immunoreactive neuronal and glial cytoplasmic inclusions and threads throughout the basal ganglia and in olivopontocerebellar system. CBD-OPCA met neuropathologic research diagnostic criteria for CBD and shared tau biochemical characteristics with typical CBD. These results suggest that CBD-OPCA is a distinct clinicopathologic variant of CBD with olivopontocerebellar TDP-43 pathology.
Epithelial tumours of the lacrimal gland represent a large spectrum of lesions with similarities in clinical signs and symptoms but with different biological behaviour and prognosis. They are rare, but with aggressive malignant potential. Tumours of the lacrimal gland may present with swelling of the lacrimal gland, displacement of the eyeball, reduced eye motility and diplopia. Pain and symptoms of short duration before the first ophthalmic consultation are characteristic of malignant tumours. The histological diagnosis determines the subsequent treatment regimen and provides important clues regarding the prognosis. The purpose of this paper is to describe the various primary epithelial tumours of the lacrimal gland. In the first part of the review, the frequency, demographics, clinical presentation and diagnostic features are described. In the second part, primarily tumour-specific histological characteristics are given. Finally, treatment modalities including surgical procedures and medical oncology as well as prognosis are discussed.



Previous studies suggest that mental rotation can be accomplished by using different mental spatial transformations. When adopting the allocentric transformation, individuals imagine the stimulus rotation referring to its intrinsic coordinate frame, while when adopting the egocentric transformation they rely on multisensory and sensory-motor mechanisms. However, how these mental transformations evolve during healthy aging has received little attention. Here we investigated how visual, multisensory, and sensory-motor components of mental imagery change with normal aging. Fifteen elderly and 15 young participants were asked to perform two different laterality tasks within either an allocentric or an egocentric frame of reference. Participants had to judge either the handedness of a visual hand (egocentric task) or the location of a marker placed on the left or right side of the same visual hand (allocentric task). Both left and right hands were presented at various angular departures to the left, the right, or to the center of the screen. When performing the egocentric task, elderly participants were less accurate and slower for biomechanically awkward hand postures (i.e., lateral hand orientations). Their performance also decreased when stimuli were presented laterally. The findings revealed that healthy aging is associated with a specific degradation of sensory-motor mechanisms necessary to accomplish complex effector-centered mental transformations. Moreover, failure to find a difference in judging left or right hand laterality suggests that aging does not necessarily impair non-dominant hand sensory-motor programs.
Both vision and touch yield comparable results in terms of roughness estimation of familiar textures as was shown in earlier studies. To our knowledge, no research has been conducted on the effect of sensory familiarity with the stimulus material on roughness estimation of unfamiliar textures. The influence of sensory modality and familiarity on roughness perception of dot pattern textures was investigated in a series of five experiments. Participants estimated the roughness of textures varying in mean center-to-center dot spacing in experimental conditions providing visual, haptic and visual-haptic combined information. The findings indicate that roughness perception of unfamiliar dot pattern textures is well described by a bi-exponential function of inter-dot spacing, regardless of the sensory modality used. However, sensory modality appears to affect the maximum of the psychophysical roughness function, with visually perceived roughness peaking for a smaller inter-dot spacing than haptic roughness. We propose that this might be due to the better spatial acuity of the visual modality. Individuals appeared to use different visual roughness estimation strategies depending on their first sensory experience (visual vs. haptic) with the stimulus material, primarily in an experimental context which required the combination of visual and haptic information in a single bimodal roughness estimate. Furthermore, the similarity of findings in experimental settings using real and virtual visual textures indicates the suitability of the experimental setup for neuroimaging studies, creating a more direct link between behavioral and neuroimaging results.
Anxiety is a key consequence of ethanol withdrawal and important risk factor for relapse. The neuropeptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) or agonists at this peptide's receptor (NOP) exert anxiolytic-like and antistress actions. N/OFQ dysfunction has been linked to both a high-anxiety behavioral phenotype and excessive ethanol intake. Recent studies suggest a possible link between genetic polymorphisms of the NOP transcript and alcoholism. Thus, in the present study, the effects of intracerebroventricularly administered N/OFQ were tested for modification of anxiety-like behaviors, using the shock-probe defensive burying and elevated plus-maze tests, in ethanol-dependent versus non-dependent rats, 1 and 3 weeks following termination of ethanol exposure. Additionally, prepro-N/OFQ (ppN/OFQ) and NOP receptor gene expression was measured in the central nucleus of the amygdala, in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and in the lateral hypothalamus at the same timepoints in separate subjects. One week post-ethanol, N/OFQ dose-dependently attenuated elevated anxiety-like behavior in ethanol-dependent rats and produced anxiolytic-like effects in non-dependent controls in both behavioral tests. However, 3 weeks post-ethanol, N/OFQ altered behavior consistent with anxiogenic-like actions in ethanol-dependent rats but continued to exert anxiolytic-like actions in non-dependent controls. These findings were paralleled by ethanol history-dependent changes of ppN/OFQ and NOP gene expression that showed a distinctive time course in the examined brain structures. The results demonstrate that ethanol dependence and withdrawal are associated with neuroadaptive changes in the N/OFQ-NOP system, suggesting a role of this neuropeptidergic pathway as a therapeutic target for the treatment of alcohol abuse.
Cocaine dependence is associated with orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)-dependent cognitive inflexibility in both humans and laboratory animals. A critical question is whether cocaine self-administration affects pre-existing individual differences in cognitive flexibility. Serotonin transporter knockout (5-HTT(-/-) ) mice show improved cognitive flexibility in a visual reversal learning task, whereas 5-HTT(-/-) rats self-administer increased amounts of cocaine. Here we assessed: (1) whether 5-HTT(-/-) rats also show improved cognitive flexibility (next to mice); and (2) whether this is affected by cocaine self-administration, which is increased in these animals. Results confirmed that nave 5-HTT(-/-) rats (n=8) exhibit improved cognitive flexibility, as measured in a sucrose reinforced reversal learning task. A separate group of rats was subsequently trained to intravenously self-administer cocaine (0.5mg/kg/infusion), and we observed that the 5-HTT(-/-) rats (n=10) self-administered twice as much cocaine [632.7mg/kg (26.3)] compared with 5-HTT(+/+) rats (n=6) [352.3mg/kg (62.0)] over 50 1-hour sessions. Five weeks into withdrawal the cocaine-exposed animals were tested in the sucrose-reinforced reversal learning paradigm. Interestingly, like the nave 5-HTT(-/-) rats, the cocaine exposed 5-HTT(-/-) rats displayed improved cognitive flexibility. In conclusion, we show that improved reversal learning in 5-HTT(-/-) rats reflects a pre-existing trait that is preserved during cocaine-withdrawal. As 5-HTT(-/-) rodents model the low activity s-allele of the human serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region, these findings may have heuristic value in the treatment of s-allele cocaine addicts.
Syrian hamsters are highly aggressive animals that reliably defend their home territory. After social defeat, however, hamsters no longer defend their home cage but instead display submissive and defensive behavior toward an intruder, a response that we have termed conditioned defeat. Plasma testosterone is significantly reduced in Syrian hamsters following repeated defeat suggesting that social defeat might also impair copulatory behavior. The present study aimed to determine whether copulatory behavior in male Syrian hamsters is suppressed following repeated social defeats and additionally whether exposure to a hormone-primed stimulus female after social defeat reduces the behavioral response to defeat. Hamsters were paired with an aggressive opponent for one or nine defeats using a resident-intruder model, while controls were placed into the empty cage of a resident aggressor. On the day after the last treatment, half of the hamsters were paired with a receptive female for 10 min. There were no significant differences in the copulatory behavior of defeated versus non-defeated hamsters, and the opportunity to copulate had no effect on subsequent conditioned defeat testing, as defeated animals displayed significantly more submissive behavior than did non-defeated animals. The current data suggest that conditioned defeat is not necessarily a maladaptive response to social stress, at least in terms of reproductive behavior, but may instead represent a viable behavioral strategy adopted by losing animals following social defeat. Further, these data indicate that conditioned defeat is relatively persistent and stable, as the opportunity to copulate does not reduce the subsequent display of submissive behavior.

N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are ion channels activated by the neurotransmitter glutamate and are highly expressed by neurons. These receptors are critical for excitatory synaptic signaling and inhibition of NMDA receptors leads to impaired cognition and learning. Ethanol inhibits NMDA currents at concentrations associated with intoxication and this action may underlie some of the behavioral effects of ethanol. Although numerous sites and mechanisms of action have been tested, the manner in which ethanol inhibits NMDA receptors remains unclear. Recent findings in the literature suggest that ethanol, via facilitation of tyrosine phosphatase activity, may dephosphorylate key tyrosine residues in the C-terminus of GluN2B subunits resulting in diminished channel function. To directly test this hypothesis, we engineered GluN2B mutants that contained phenylalanine in place of tyrosine at three different sites and transiently expressed them with the GluN1 subunit in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells. Whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology was used to record glutamate-activated currents in the absence and presence of ethanol (10-600mM). All mutants were functional and did not differ from one another with respect to current amplitude, steady-state to peak ratio, or magnesium block. Analysis of ethanol dose-response curves showed no significant difference in IC50 values between wild-type receptors and Y1252F, Y1336F, Y1472F or triple Y-F mutants. These findings suggest that dephosphorylation of C-terminal tyrosine residues does not account for ethanol inhibition of GluN2B receptors.







Lack of independence of data points or the pooling fallacy has been suggested as a potential problem in the study of handedness in nonhuman primates, particularly as it relates to whether hand use responses should be recorded as individual events or bouts of activity. Here, I argue that there is no evidence that the concept of statistical independence of data points or the pooling fallacy is a problem in the evaluation of population-level handedness in previous studies in nonhuman primates. I further argue these statistical concepts have been misapplied to the characterization of individual hand preferences. Finally, I argue that recording hand use responses as bouts rather than events has no significant effect on reports of hand use in nonhuman primates and, in fact, may unintentionally bias hand use toward the null hypothesis. Several suggestions for improvement in the measurement and statistical determination of individual handedness are offered in the article.
Postoperative rehabilitation for lumbar radiculopathy has shown little effect on reducing pain and disability. Current preoperative education programs with a focus on a biomedical approach feature procedural and anatomical information, and these too have shown little effect on postoperative outcomes. This report describes the development of an evidence-based educational program and booklet for patients undergoing lumbar surgery for radiculopathy using a recently conducted systematic review of neuroscience education for musculoskeletal pain. The previous systematic review produced evidence for neuroscience education as well as best-evidence synthesis of the content and delivery methods for neuroscience education for musculoskeletal pain. These evidence statements were extracted and developed into patient-centered messages and a booklet, which was then evaluated by peer and patient review. The neuroscience educational booklet and preoperative program convey key messages from the previous systematic review aimed at reducing fear and anxiety before surgery and assist in developing realistic expectations regarding pain after surgery. Key topics include the decision to undergo surgery, pain processing, peripheral nerve sensitization, effect of anxiety and stress on pain, surgery and the nervous system, and decreasing nerve sensitization. Feedback from the evaluations of the booklet and preoperative program was favorable from all review groups, suggesting that this proposed evidence-based neuroscience educational program may be ready for clinical application.
We have isolated a K(+)-selective, Ca(2+)-dependent whole cell current and single-channel correlate in the human erythroleukemia (HEL) cell line. The whole cell current was inhibited by the intermediate-conductance KCa3.1 inhibitors clotrimazole, TRAM-34, and charybdotoxin, unaffected by the small-conductance KCa2 family inhibitor apamin and the large-conductance KCa1.1 inhibitors paxilline and iberiotoxin, and augmented by NS309. The single-channel correlate of the whole cell current was blocked by TRAM-34 and clotrimazole, insensitive to paxilline, and augmented by NS309 and had a single-channel conductance in physiological K(+) gradients of ~9 pS. RT-PCR revealed that the KCa3.1 gene, but not the KCa1.1 gene, was expressed in HEL cells. The KCa3.1 current, isolated in HEL cells under whole cell patch-clamp conditions, displayed an activated current component during depolarizing voltage steps from hyperpolarized holding potentials and tail currents upon repolarization, consistent with voltage-dependent modulation. This activated current increased with increasing voltage steps above -40 mV and was sensitive to inhibition by clotrimazole, TRAM-34, and charybdotoxin and insensitive to apamin, paxilline, and iberiotoxin. In single-channel experiments, depolarization resulted in an increase in open channel probability (Po) of KCa3.1, with no increase in channel number. The voltage modulation of Po was an increasing monotonic function of voltage. In the absence of elevated Ca(2+), voltage was ineffective at inducing channel activity in whole cell and single-channel experiments. These data indicate that KCa3.1 in HEL cells displays a unique form of voltage dependence modulating Po.
Acupuncture has been demonstrated to improve menstrual frequency and to decrease circulating testosterone in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Our aim was to investigate whether acupuncture affects ovulation frequency and to understand the underlying mechanisms of any such effect by analyzing LH and sex steroid secretion in women with PCOS. This prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial was conducted between June 2009 and September 2010. Thirty-two women with PCOS were randomized to receive either acupuncture with manual and low-frequency electrical stimulation or to meetings with a physical therapist twice a week for 10-13 wk. Main outcome measures were changes in LH secretion patterns from baseline to after 10-13 wk of treatment and ovulation frequency during the treatment period. Secondary outcomes were changes in the secretion of sex steroids, anti-Mllerian hormone, inhibin B, and serum cortisol. Ovulation frequency during treatment was higher in the acupuncture group than in the control group. After 10-13 wk of intervention, circulating levels of estrone, estrone sulfate, estradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, androstenedione, testosterone, free testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, androsterone glucuronide, androstane-3,17-diol-3-glucuronide, and androstane-3,17-diol-17-glucuronide decreased within the acupuncture group and were significantly lower than in the control group for all of these except androstenedione. We conclude that repeated acupuncture treatments resulted in higher ovulation frequency in lean/overweight women with PCOS and were more effective than just meeting with the therapist. Ovarian and adrenal sex steroid serum levels were reduced with no effect on LH secretion.
The pathogenesis of pain in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is poorly understood, and treatment remains difficult. We have previously reported that colon-specific dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were hyperactive in a rat model of IBS induced by neonatal colonic inflammation (NCI). This study was designed to examine plasticity of voltage-gated Na(+) channel activities and roles for the endogenous hydrogen sulfide-producing enzyme cystathionine -synthetase (CBS) in chronic visceral hyperalgesia. Abdominal withdrawal reflex (AWR) scores were recorded in response to graded colorectal distention in adult male rats as a measure of visceral hypersensitivity. Colon-specific DRG neurons were labeled with 1,1'-dioleyl-3,3,3',3-tetramethylindocarbocyanine methanesulfonate and acutely dissociated for measuring Na(+) channel currents. Western blot analysis was employed to detect changes in expressions of voltage-gated Na(+) (Na(V)) channel subtype 1.7, Na(V)1.8, and CBS. NCI significantly increased AWR scores when compared with age-matched controls. NCI also led to an ~2.5-fold increase in Na(+) current density in colon-specific DRG neurons. Furthermore, NCI dramatically enhanced expression of Na(V)1.7, Na(V)1.8, and CBS in colon-related DRGs. CBS was colocalized with Na(V)1.7 or -1.8 in colon-specific DRG neurons. Administration of O-(carboxymethyl)hydroxylamine hemihydrochloride (AOAA), an inhibitor for CBS, remarkably suppressed Na(+) current density and reduced expression of Na(V)1.7 and Na(V)1.8. More importantly, intraperitoneal or intrathecal application of AOAA attenuated AWR scores in NCI rats in a dose-dependent manner. These data suggest that NCI enhances Na(+) channel activity of colon DRG neurons, which is most likely mediated by upregulation of CBS expression, thus identifying a potential target for treatment for chronic visceral pain in patients with IBS.
Optogenetics is an emerging technology for optical interrogation and control of biological function with high specificity and high spatiotemporal resolution. Mammalian cells and tissues can be sensitized to respond to light by a relatively simple and well-tolerated genetic modification using microbial opsins (light-gated ion channels and pumps). These can achieve fast and specific excitatory or inhibitory response, offering distinct advantages over traditional pharmacological or electrical means of perturbation. Since the first demonstrations of utility in mammalian cells (neurons) in 2005, optogenetics has spurred immense research activity and has inspired numerous applications for dissection of neural circuitry and understanding of brain function in health and disease, applications ranging from in vitro to work in behaving animals. Only recently (since 2010), the field has extended to cardiac applications with less than a dozen publications to date. In consideration of the early phase of work on cardiac optogenetics and the impact of the technique in understanding another excitable tissue, the brain, this review is largely a perspective of possibilities in the heart. It covers the basic principles of operation of light-sensitive ion channels and pumps, the available tools and ongoing efforts in optimizing them, overview of neuroscience use, as well as cardiac-specific questions of implementation and ideas for best use of this emerging technology in the heart.
In developing human children, joint attention (JA) is an important preverbal skill fundamental to the development of language. Poor JA skills have been described as a behavioral risk factor for some neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder. It has been hypothesized that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) plays an important role in the development of JA in human children. Here, we tested whether the morphometry and lateralization of the ACC differed between chimpanzees that were classified as either consistently or inconsistently engaging in JA with a human experimenter. Results showed that chimpanzees that performed poorly on the JA task had larger gray matter (GM) volumes in the ACC compared to apes that performed well on the task. In addition, both population-level asymmetries and sex differences in the volume of GM were found within the ACC. Specifically, females had relatively larger GM volumes in two of the three subregions of the ACC compared to males, and significant leftward asymmetries were found for two of the subregions whereas a rightward bias was observed in the third. Based on these findings, we suggest that the ACC plays an important role in mediating JA, not just in humans, but also chimpanzees. We further suggest that the differences found between groups may reflect inherent differences in the amount of white matter within the ACC, thereby suggesting reduced connectivity between the ACC and other cortical regions in chimpanzees with poor JA skills.




AMPA receptors (AMPAR) are the main ligand-gated ion channels responsible for the fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the mammalian brain. Whereas a number of proteins that interact with AMPAR are known to be involved in the trafficking and localization of the receptor and/or the regulation of receptor channel properties, the protein composition of the AMPAR supra-complexes are largely unclear. Recent interaction proteomics report the presence of up to 34 proteins as high-confidence constituents of the AMPAR. It was proposed that the inner core of the receptor complex consists of the GluA tetramer and four auxiliary proteins comprising transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins and/or cornichons. The other AMPAR interactors, present in lower amount, may form the outer shell of the AMPAR with a range in size and variability.
The identification of genetic and epigenetic factors that are associated with an increased risk of developing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or that modify the age of onset or rate of progression, requires a multimodal research strategy, facilitated through international collaboration. The discovery of several ALS genes strongly linked to RNA biology, the proteasome pathway, and axonal transport suggest they have an important role in pathogenesis, but the immense complexity of these processes is also apparent. The increasing rate of genetic discoveries brings the hope of designing more targeted and efficacious therapies.
The last 30 years have seen a major advance in the understanding of the clinical and pathological heterogeneity of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and its overlap with frontotemporal dementia. Multiple, seemingly disparate biochemical pathways converge on a common clinical syndrome characterized by progressive loss of upper and lower motor neurons. Pathogenic themes in ALS include excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuroinflammation, altered energy metabolism, and most recently RNA mis-processing. The transgenic rodent, overexpressing mutant superoxide dismutase-1, is now only one of several models of ALS pathogenesis. The nematode, fruit fly and zebrafish all offer fresh insight, and the development of induced pluripotent stem cell-derived motor neurons holds promise for the screening of candidate therapeutics. The lack of useful biomarkers in ALS contributes to diagnostic delay, and the inability to stratify patients by prognosis may be an important factor in the failure of therapeutic trials. Biomarkers sensitive to disease activity might lessen reliance on clinical measures and survival as trial endpoints and reduce study length. Emerging proteomic markers of neuronal loss and glial activity in cerebrospinal fluid, a cortical signature derived from advanced structural and functional MRI, and the development of more sensitive measurements of lower motor neuron physiology are leading a new phase of biomarker-driven therapeutic discovery.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized phenotypically by progressive weakness and neuropathologically by loss of motor neurons. Phenotypically, there is marked heterogeneity. Typical ALS has mixed upper motor neuron (UMN) and lower motor neuron (LMN) involvement. Primary lateral sclerosis has predominant UMN involvement. Progressive muscular atrophy has predominant LMN involvement. Bulbar and limb ALS have predominant regional involvement. Frontotemporal dementia has significant cognitive and behavioral involvement. These phenotypes can be so distinctive that they would seem to have differing biology. However, they cannot be distinguished, at least neuropathologically or genetically. In sporadic ALS (SALS), they are mostly characterized by ubiquitinated cytoplasmic inclusions of TDP-43. In familial ALS (FALS), where phenotypes are indistinguishable from SALS and similarly heterogeneous, each mutated gene has its own genetic and molecular signature. Overall, since the same phenotypes can have multiple causes including different gene mutations, there must be multiple molecular mechanisms causing ALS - and ALS is a syndrome. Since, however, multiple phenotypes can be caused by one single gene mutation, a single molecular mechanism can cause heterogeneity. What the mechanisms are remain unknown, but active propagation of the pathology neuroanatomically seems to be a principal component. Leading candidate mechanisms include RNA processing, cell-cell interactions between neurons and non-neuronal neighbors, focal seeding from a misfolded protein that has prion-like propagation, and fatal errors introduced during neurodevelopment of the motor system. If fundamental mechanisms could be identified and understood, ALS therapy could rationally target progression and stop the disease - a goal that seems increasingly achievable.
Our objective was to correlate saccadic abnormalities, including early saccades, in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with measures of motor and functional impairment. A portable saccadometer was used to record saccades in ALS patients and control subjects. The linear approach to threshold with ergodic rate model was used to characterize saccades, including sub-populations of early saccades. Patients with established cognitive impairment or frontotemporal dementia were excluded. Limb-onset (Limb ALS) and bulbar-onset (Bulbar ALS) patient groups were compared and saccadic abnormalities were correlated with measures of motor and functional impairment. In total, 48 participants were included in the study; 24 patients with ALS (15 males, 9 females; mean age 57.0 +/- 13.9 years; mean symptom duration 22.4 +/- 16.3 months, of whom 62.5% had Limb ALS) and 24 age-matched controls. Early saccades were increased in both Limb ALS and Bulbar ALS patients, but other saccadic parameters were normal in ALS. Saccadic abnormalities did not correlate with motor or functional impairment. In conclusion, ALS patients show increased early saccades, but exhibit no significant differences across ALS phenotypes.
Systematic review data demonstrate that 5% of ALS cases are familial (FALS). Causative superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) mutations are identified in 10-20% of FALS. Few reports of FALS epidemiology exist in Canada. We completed a retrospective review of all FALS cases within the province of Alberta between 2002 and 2011. Descriptive summaries of genotypes identified and calculation of prevalences were performed. We reviewed 946 clinic database records and 49 subjects with FALS were identified (5.2%). Clinic charts for 47/49 were available and reviewed. Causative SOD1 mutations were observed in 17/47 (36%). The SOD1 I113T mutation was identified in 11/47 unrelated patients and was associated with a less variable survival than previously reported. The period and point prevalences of FALS in Alberta are approximately 2.05 per 100,000 (95% CI 1.51-2.73) and 4.68 per 1,000,000 (95% CI 2.42-8.18), respectively. In conclusion, we report 47 cases of FALS in Alberta over the past decade. The proportion of SOD1-positive FALS cases is higher than reported elsewhere. The high proportion of I113T mutations is comparable to that previously observed in the adjacent province of British Columbia.
Morphological analyses of zonule conjugated with lens capsule were performed on the developmental change in eyes from the age of fetus to 7 years old of the rhesus macaques (Macaca fuscata). The zonule was filamentous network in late fetus. After birth, the zonular microfibrils originated from the nonpigmented epithelium of the ciliary process. On the extending path toward the lens capsule through the chamber, microfibril assembled with neighbor fibril and also cohered with one another forming bundle. With growth, these bundles bifurcated into anterior and posterior groups on the equatorial region of capsule. The developmental distribution of bundles in the capsule was characteristic on anterior group, that is, bifurcation into radial and circumferential extension. On the other hand, the posterior bundle undivided but radially extended within short distance from the equator. In the process of fixating with capsule, bundles untangled into fibrils and penetrated circumferentially into the superficial layer and radially into deep apical layer of the capsule. Zonule was composed fibrillin 1 microfibrils and on the extending path toward the lens capsule through the chamber, microfibril self-assembled with neighbored fibril in composition of fascicle and also cohered with one another forming bundle. Each bundle had alternating pale and dense horizontal bands in the intracapsular extension and the stripe pattern changed in flaccid or extensive tension of zonule between capsule and process. Zonular fibril intermingled with collagen fibril of capsule with interlacing molecule of laminin. At the base of ciliary muscle, elastin-positive connective tissue intercalated circumferentially between ciliary processes. The developmental changes of the intralamellar distribution and extension of zonule with striped pattern informed the functional role upon the elasticity in coordination with the lens capsule micromolecules.
Observational learning is the ability to learn through observing others' behavior. The benefit of observational learning is apparent in that individuals can save time and energy without trial-and-error, thus enhance the chance of survival and reproduction. Cephalopods (octopus, squid, and cuttlefish) have the most sophisticated central nervous system among invertebrates, and it is conceivable that cephalopods can develop some forms of cognition. Although it has been suggested that octopuses have the capacity of observational learning, a previous study indicates that cuttlefish do not improve their predation tactics by observing conspecifics. Given that the danger avoidance is important for animals' survival, we sought to reevaluate whether cuttlefish show some form of observational learning or observational conditioning under threatening conditions. Cuttlefish (Sepia pharaonis) were divided into three groups: the Experiencer group, the Observer group, and the Control group. In the training phase, a toy submarine was remotely controlled to expel the cuttlefish from its initially preferred place to establish the threat-place association in the Experiencer group. In the Observer group, the threat-place association was established by expelling a conspecific demonstrator at the observer's initially preferred place while the observer watched the whole process from behind a transparent divider. In the Control group, the observer watched a conspecific and a static toy submarine without actual threat. In the testing phase, the choice of safe place in the absence of threat was used to probe the learning/conditioning of cuttlefish. In the Experiencer group, we found that animals chose the safe place more often than their initially preferred place after training, an indication of the association learning/conditioning. However, in the Observer group, only a subset of animals showed this threat-place association by observation, while the place preference was unchanged in the Control group. These results indicate that most cuttlefish did not learn by observing others, but individual differences exist, and some cuttlefish may have the potential of observational learning/conditioning within their cognitive capacities.
A major key to increasing the safety of cranial surgery is a thorough understanding of anatomy. The anatomy of the head is of fundamental interest to dental and medical students early in their studies. Clinically, it is mostly relevant to surgeons who are performing interventions and reconstruction in the maxillofacial region, skull base, and the orbit. However, the level of appropriate anatomical knowledge necessary for general and special medical and surgical practice is still under discussion. This study maps the significant areas and structures of the head that are not normally accessible during dissection courses because of time and difficulties involved in the preparation. The detailed photodocumentation enriched by diagrams provides a view of structures until now only partially documented. Three parasympathetic ganglia are located in hardly accessible areas of the head - inside the orbit, infratemporal fossa, and in the pterygopalatine fossa. No detailed photographs have been found in current anatomical textbooks and atlases in relation to the morphology of fibers (roots) connected to the ciliary, otic, and pterygopalatine ganglia. Therefore, this study focused on the detailed display of sensory, sympathetic, and parasympathetic roots of ganglia to provide relevant photodocumentation and an improvement in human anatomy teaching. This study also confirms that cadaver dissection provides an excellent opportunity for the integration of anatomy and clinical medicine into the early clinical training of undergraduate dental and medical students. We believe this article, because of the details mentioned above, will be beneficial not only for the future anatomical undergraduate but also for postgraduate education.


We review the current application of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in Parkinson disease (PD) and consider the evidence that earlier use of DBS confers long-term symptomatic benefit for patients compared to best medical therapy. Electronic searches were performed of PubMed, Web of Knowledge, Embase, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials to identify all article types relating to the timing of DBS in PD. Current evidence suggests that DBS is typically performed in late stage PD, a mean of 14 to 15 years after diagnosis. Current guidelines recommend that PD patients who are resistant to medical therapies, have significant medication side effects and lengthening off periods, but are otherwise cognitively intact and medically fit for surgery be considered for DBS. If these criteria are rigidly interpreted, it may be that, by the time medical treatment options have been exhausted, the disease has progressed to the point that the patient may no longer be fit for neurosurgical intervention. From the evidence available, we conclude that surgical management of PD alone or in combination with medical therapy results in greater improvement of motor symptoms and quality of life than medical treatment alone. There is evidence to support the use of DBS in less advanced PD and that it may be appropriate for earlier stages of the disease than for which it is currently used. The improving short and long-term safety profile of DBS makes early application a realistic possibility.
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) is a rare but serious lesion of the jaw characterized by exposed necrotic bone and is related to several drugs usually used for treating patients with advanced malignancies. Common therapies inducing ONJ are nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (BPs), the human monoclonal antibody to the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B ligand denosumab and some anti-angiogenic drugs, alone or in combination with BPs. The real incidence of ONJ is unknown. Several cases of ONJ in patients with cancer who underwent denosumab therapy have been reported and it seems that the overall incidence of denosumab-related ONJ is similar to that for BP-related in this population, ranging between 1-2%. The cell-surface vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor plays a major role in cancer progression and can be targeted by drugs inhibiting the tyrosine kinase activator or other second messengers. Most angiogenesis inhibitors, such as the monoclonal antibody bevacizumab and the kinase inhibitor sunitinib, target the VEGF signaling pathway. Unfortunately, cases of bevacizumab-induced ONJ have been reported, especially in patients treated with bevacizumab and BPs in combination. There are only few studies reporting sunitinib-related ONJs. In patients with advanced cancer and malignancy-associated hypercalcemia undergoing BP, denosumab or bevacizumab therapy, enquiry into current dental health and dental examination is mandatory. Good oral hygiene, limiting of alcohol intake and stopping smoking should be suggested for all patients requiring such treatments.
Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species are currently considered not only harmful byproducts of aerobic respiration but also critical mediators of redox signaling. The molecules and the chemical principles sustaining the network of cellular redox regulated processes are described. Special emphasis is placed on hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), now considered as acting as a second messenger, and on sulfhydryl groups, which are the direct targets of the oxidant signal. Cysteine residues of some proteins, therefore, act as sensors of redox conditions and are oxidized in a reversible reaction. In particular, the formation of sulfenic acid and disulfide, the initial steps of thiol oxidation, are described in detail. The many cell pathways involved in reactive oxygen species formation are reported. Central to redox signaling processes are the glutathione and thioredoxin systems controlling H(2)O(2) levels and, hence, the thiol/disulfide balance. Lastly, some of the most important redox-regulated processes involving specific enzymes and organelles are described. The redox signaling area of research is rapidly expanding, and future work will examine new pathways and clarify their importance in cellular pathophysiology.



Touch is a critical factor in intimate bonds between romantic partners. Although cuddling is a key expression of intimacy, it has received little empirical attention. Past research suggests that cuddling has some sexual aspects (e.g., it increases testosterone [T]), but there are theoretical reasons to expect cuddling to also involve nurturant intimacy (which should decrease T). In this article, we examined the phenomenon of partner cuddling to: (1) provide a descriptive examination; (2) determine if cuddling involved only nurturant intimacy or also sexual intimacy; and (3) test whether cuddling was perceived as nurturant but experienced as sexual. Via an online questionnaire, 514 participants (338 women) responded to quantitative and qualitative questions about cuddling with their romantic partners. Results suggested that cuddling occurred frequently and for relatively long durations, and was viewed very positively. Findings also showed that cuddling was perceived as nurturant and non-sexual but was experienced as at least somewhat sexual, which may explain why past research had found that cuddling increased T. Correlational analyses linked cuddling frequency and enjoyment positively with partnered sexual activities, but negatively with solitary sexuality. Results were discussed relative to evolutionary theories of distinct but overlapping neurobiological systems underlying pair bonding that involve sexual and nurturant intimacy.
The personality and hormonal correlates of mate poaching (attempting to steal another person's partner away) and of the target of the seducer (the mate poached) were examined in a sample 154 undergraduate university students (91 females; 63 males). Thirteen variables were modeled into two regression equations to predict and profile mate poachers and the mate poached. Findings revealed that (1) male mate poachers were better looking and had higher cortisol levels, lower levels of testosterone, and reported being higher on self-esteem, cold affect, and criminal tendencies and (2) female mate poachers and targets of mate poachers reported being more physically attractive, as did male targets of mate poachers. Sex differences in the context of mate poaching attraction as well as the characteristics of those who are successful in their attempts to lure away another person's romantic partner were discussed.
Relaxin-3 is a recently discovered neuropeptide and the results of earlier anatomical and pharmacological studies suggest it plays a physiological role in modulating functions such as arousal, learning and memory, food intake and neuroendocrine homeostasis. Relaxin-3 is also postulated to modulate affective behaviour, based on high densities of the relaxin-3 G-protein coupled receptor (RXFP3) in brain areas involved in stress and mood/anxiety, including the central amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN); and strong activation of relaxin-3 neurons by stressors, via activation of corticotropin-releasing factor receptor-1 (CRF1). This study assessed the effect of central administration of a newly developed RXFP3-selective agonist, on anxiety- and depressive-like behaviour in rats. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats administered 5 g [R3A(11-24,C15A)B] (referred to as RXFP3-A2), intracerebroventricularly, demonstrated decreased anxiety-like behaviour in the light-dark box and elevated plus maze, but not in the open field. Notably, in the repeat forced swim test, central RXFP3-A2 administration decreased immobility in rats that had been subjected to the 'stress' of former exposure to the anxiety tests, but not in experimentally nave rats. These data implicate relaxin-3/RXFP3 signalling in the modulation of effects of acute (anxiety) and cumulative (depression) neurogenic stressors on behaviour; and suggest a potential for RXFP3 agonists as anxiolytic and anti-depressant agents. In addition, our results demonstrate that exposure of adult Sprague-Dawley rats to tests of anxiety-like behaviour (10-14 days prior) can significantly increase immobility time in the repeat forced swim test.
Animals readily learn the timing between salient events. They can even adapt their timed responding to rapidly changing intervals, sometimes as quickly as a single trial. Recently, drift-diffusion models-widely used to model response times in decision making-have been extended with new learning rules that allow them to accommodate steady-state interval timing, including scalar timing and timescale invariance. These time-adaptive drift-diffusion models (TDDMs) work by accumulating evidence of elapsing time through their drift rate, thereby encoding the to-be-timed interval. One outstanding challenge for these models lies in the dynamics of interval timing-when the to-be-timed intervals are non-stationary. On these schedules, animals often fail to exhibit strict timescale invariance, as expected by the TDDMs and most other timing models. Here, we introduce a simple extension to these TDDMs, where the response threshold is a linear function of the observed event rate. This new model compares favorably against the basic TDDMs and the multiple-time-scale (MTS) habituation model when evaluated against three published datasets on timing dynamics in pigeons. Our results suggest that the threshold for triggering responding in interval timing changes as a function of recent intervals.

Serotonin (5-HT) has been long recognized to modulate the stress response, and dysfunction of 5-HT has been implicated in numerous stress disorders. Accordingly, the 5-HT system has been targeted for the treatment of stress disorders. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in 5-HT synthesis, and the recent identification of a second, neuron-specific TPH isoform (TPH2) opened up a new area of research. With a decade of extensive investigation, it is now recognized that: (1) TPH2 exhibits a highly flexible gene expression that is modulated by an increasing number of internal and external environmental factors including the biological clock, stressors, endogenous hormones, and antidepressant therapies; and (2) genetically determined TPH2 activity is linked to a growing body of stress-related neuronal correlates and behavioral traits. These findings reveal an active role of TPH2 in the stress response and provide new insights into the long recognized but not yet fully understood 5-HT-stress interaction. As a major modulator of 5-HT neurotransmission and the stress response, TPH2 is of both pathophysiological and pharmacological significance, and is emerging as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of stress disorders. Given that numerous antidepressant therapies influence TPH2 gene expression, TPH2 is already inadvertently targeted for the treatment of stress disorders. With increased understanding of the regulation of TPH2 activity we can now purposely utilize TPH2 as a target to develop new or optimize current therapies, which are expected to greatly improve the prevention and treatment of a wide variety of stress disorders.
A-type K(+) channels are crucial in controlling neuronal excitability, and their regulation in sensory neurons may alter pain sensation. In this study, we identified the functional role of cobrotoxin, the short-chain -neurotoxin isolated from Naja atra venom, which acts in the regulation of the transient A-type K(+) currents (IA) and membrane excitability in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons via the activation of the muscarinic M3 receptor (M3R). Our results showed that cobrotoxin increased IA in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas the sustained delayed rectifier K(+) currents (IDR) were not affected. Cobrotoxin did not affect the activation of IA markedly, however, it shifted the inactivation curve significantly in the depolarizing direction. The cobrotoxin-induced IA response was blocked by the M3R-selective antagonists DAU-5884 and 4-DAMP. An siRNA targeting the M3R in small DRG neurons abolished the cobrotoxin-induced IA increase. In addition, dialysis of the cells with the novel protein kinase C-delta isoform (PKC-) inhibitor v1-1 or an siRNA targeting PKC- abolished the cobrotoxin-induced IA response, whereas inhibition of PKA or classic PKC activity elicited no such effects. Moreover, we observed a significant decrease in the firing rate of the neuronal action potential induced by M3R activation. Pretreatment of the cells with 4-aminopyridine, a selective blocker of IA, abolished this effect. Taken together, these results suggest that the short-chain cobrotoxin selectively enhances IA via a novel PKC--dependent pathway. This effect occurred via the activation of M3R and might contribute to its neuronal hypoexcitability in small DRG neurons.
The branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) valine, leucine and isoleucine are essential amino acids involved in several important brain functions. Although commonly used as nutritional supplements, excessive intake of BCAAs might favour the establishment of neurotoxic conditions as indicated by the severe neurological symptoms characterising inherited disorders of BCAA catabolism such as maple syrup urine disease (MSUD). Recent evidence indicates that BCAAs induce excitotoxicity through mechanisms that require the presence of astrocytes. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of BCAAs on microglia, the main immune cells of the brain. As an experimental model we used primary microglial cells harvested from mixed glial cultures that had been kept in normal or high BCAA medium (H-BCAA). We show that H-BCAA microglial cells exhibit a peculiar phenotype characterized by a partial skewing toward the M2 state, with enhanced IL-10 expression and phagocytic activity but also increased free radical generation and decreased neuroprotective functions. We suggest that such an intermediate M1/M2 phenotype might result in a less efficient microglial response, which would promote the establishment of a low grade chronic inflammation and increase the likelihood of neurodegeneration. Although based on in vitro evidence, our study adds on to an increasing literature indicating that the increasing use of dietary integrators might deserve consideration for the possible drawbacks. In addition to excitotoxicity, the altered immune profile of microglia might represent a further mechanism by which BCAAs might turn into toxicants and facilitate neurodegeneration.
Adolescence is a critical developmental stage during which substantial remodeling occurs in brain areas involved in emotional and learning processes. Although a robust literature on the biological effects of extremely low frequency magnetic fields (ELF-MFs) has been documented, data on the effects of ELF-MF exposure during this period on cognitive functions remain scarce. In this study, early adolescent male mice were exposed from postnatal day (P) 23-35 to a 50Hz MF at 2mT for 60min/day. On P36-45, the potential effects of the MF exposure on spatial memory performance were examined using the Y-maze and Morris water maze tasks. The results showed that the MF exposure did not affect Y-maze performance but improved spatial learning acquisition and memory retention in the water maze task under the present experimental conditions.
Many complex behaviors are genetically hardwired. Based on previous findings on genetic control of mating and other behaviors in invertebrate and mammalian systems, I suggest that genetic control of complex behaviors is modular: first, dedicated genes specify different behavioral patterns; secondly, separable genetic networks govern distinct behavioral components. I speculate that modular genetic encoding of complex behaviors may in part reflect modularity in brain development and function. Editor's suggested further reading in BioEssays From songs to synapses: Molecular mechanisms of birdsong memory Abstract.
It has recently been shown that stem and progenitor cells undergo population self-renewal to maintain epithelial homeostasis. The fate of individual cells is stochastic but the production of proliferating and differentiating cells is balanced across the population. This new paradigm, originating in mouse epidermis and since extended to mouse oesophagus and mouse and Drosophila intestine, is in contrast to the long held model of epithelial maintenance by exclusively asymmetric division of stem cells. Recent lineage tracing studies have now shown that wound responses vary between tissues, and that a stem cell reserve is not essential as cycling progenitors and even differentiating cells contribute to regeneration.
Given the ability of human serum albumin (HSA) to bind hydrophobic ligands, the binding mode of -tocopherol, the most representative member of the vitamin E family, is reported. -Tocopherol binds to HSA with Kd0 = (7.0  3.0)  10(-6) M (pH 7.2, 25.0C). Competitive and allosteric modulation of -tocopherol binding to full-length and truncated (Asp1-Glu382) HSA by endogenous and exogenous ligands suggests that it accommodates preferentially in the FA3-FA4 site. As HSA is taken up into cells, colocalizes with the -tocopherol transfer protein, and contributes to ligand secretion via ABCA1, it might participate in the distribution of -tocopherol between plasma, cells, and tissues.



The food addiction model of overeating has been proposed to help explain the widespread advancement of obesity over the last 30 years. Parallels in neural substrates and neurochemistry, as well as corresponding motivational and behavioral traits, are increasingly coming to light; however, there are still key differences between the two disorders that must be acknowledged. We critically examine these common and divergent characteristics using the theoretical framework of prominent drug addiction models, investigating the neurobiological underpinnings of both behaviors in an attempt to justify whether classification of obesity and binge eating as an addictive disorder is merited.
The task of the vasopressin system is homeostasis, a type of process which is fundamental to the brain's regulation of the body, exists in many different systems, and is vital to health and survival. Many illnesses are related to the dysfunction of homeostatic systems, including high blood pressure, obesity and diabetes. Beyond the vasopressin system's own importance, in regulating osmotic pressure, it presents an accessible model where we can learn how the features of homeostatic systems generally relate to their function, and potentially develop treatments. The vasopressin system is an important model system in neuroscience because it presents an accessible system in which to investigate the function and importance of, for example, dendritic release and burst firing, both of which are found in many systems of the brain. We have only recently begun to understand the contribution of dendritic release to neuronal function and information processing. Burst firing has most commonly been associated with rhythm generation; in this system it clearly plays a different role, still to be understood fully.
The human dopamine D2 receptor long isoform (D2L) has significant implications in neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. Detailed structural knowledge of this receptor is limited owing to its highly hydrophobic nature, which leads to protein aggregation and host toxicity when expressed in cellular systems. The newly emerging field of cell-free protein expression presents numerous advantages to overcome these challenges. This system utilizes protein synthesis machinery and exogenous DNA to synthesize functional proteins outside of intact cells. This study utilizes two different cell-free systems for the synthesis of human dopamine D2L receptor. These include the Escherichia coli lysate-based system and the wheat-germ lysate-based system. The bacterial cell-free method used pET 100/D-TOPO vector to synthesize hexa-histidine-tagged D2L receptor using a dialysis bag system; the resulting protein was purified using nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid affinity resin. The wheat germ system used pEU-glutathione-S-transferase (GST) vector to synthesize GST-tagged D2L receptor using a bilayer translation method; the resulting protein was purified using a GST affinity resin. The presence and binding capacity of the synthesized D2L receptor was confirmed by immunoblotting and radioligand competition assays, respectively. Additionally, in-gel protein sequencing via Nano LC-MS/MS was used to confirm protein synthesis via the wheat germ system. The results showed both systems to synthesize microgram quantities of the receptor. Improved expression of this highly challenging protein can improve research and understanding of the human dopamine D2L receptor.




Congenital amusia is a lifelong disorder of music perception and production. The present study investigated the cerebral bases of impaired pitch perception and memory in congenital amusia using behavioural measures, magnetoencephalography and voxel-based morphometry. Congenital amusics and matched control subjects performed two melodic tasks (a melodic contour task and an easier transposition task); they had to indicate whether sequences of six tones (presented in pairs) were the same or different. Behavioural data indicated that in comparison with control participants, amusics' short-term memory was impaired for the melodic contour task, but not for the transposition task. The major finding was that pitch processing and short-term memory deficits can be traced down to amusics' early brain responses during encoding of the melodic information. Temporal and frontal generators of the N100m evoked by each note of the melody were abnormally recruited in the amusic brain. Dynamic causal modelling of the N100m further revealed decreased intrinsic connectivity in both auditory cortices, increased lateral connectivity between auditory cortices as well as a decreased right fronto-temporal backward connectivity in amusics relative to control subjects. Abnormal functioning of this fronto-temporal network was also shown during the retention interval and the retrieval of melodic information. In particular, induced gamma oscillations in right frontal areas were decreased in amusics during the retention interval. Using voxel-based morphometry, we confirmed morphological brain anomalies in terms of white and grey matter concentration in the right inferior frontal gyrus and the right superior temporal gyrus in the amusic brain. The convergence between functional and structural brain differences strengthens the hypothesis of abnormalities in the fronto-temporal pathway of the amusic brain. Our data provide first evidence of altered functioning of the auditory cortices during pitch perception and memory in congenital amusia. They further support the hypothesis that in neurodevelopmental disorders impacting high-level functions (here musical abilities), abnormalities in cerebral processing can be observed in early brain responses.
Riluzole, a benzothiazole derivative, has been shown to be effective in prolonging survival in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The mechanisms by which riluzole exerts neuroprotective effects in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis remains to be fully elucidated, although inhibition of glutamatergic transmission and modulation of Na+ channel function have been proposed. In an attempt to determine the mechanisms by which riluzole exerts neuroprotective effects, in particular to dissect the relative contributions of inhibition of glutamatergic transmission and Na+ channel modulation, the present study utilized a combination of cortical and peripheral axonal excitability approaches to monitor changes in excitability and function in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Cortical assessment was undertaken by utilising the threshold tracking transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) technique and combined with peripheral axonal excitability studies in 25 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Studies were performed at baseline and repeated when patients were receiving riluzole 100 mg/day. At the time of second testing all patients were tolerating the medication well. Motor evoked potential and compound muscle action potential responses were recorded over the abductor pollicis brevis muscle. At baseline, features of cortical hyperexcitability were evident in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, indicated by marked reduction in short interval intracortical inhibition (P &lt; 0.001) and cortical silent period duration (P &lt; 0.001), as well as an increase in the motor evoked potential amplitude (P &lt; 0.01). Riluzole therapy partially normalized cortical excitability by significantly increasing short interval intracortical inhibition (short interval intracortical inhibitionbaseline 0.5  1.8%; short interval intracortical inhibitionON riluzole 7.9  1.7%, P &lt; 0.01). In contrast, riluzole did not exert any modulating effect on cortical silent period duration (P = 0.45) or motor evoked potential amplitude (P = 0.31). In terms of peripheral nerve function, axonal excitability studies established that, relative to control subjects, patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis had significant increases in depolarizing threshold electrotonus [amyotrophic lateral sclerosisbaseline TEd (90-100 ms) 49.1  1.8%; controlsTEd (90-100 ms) 45.2  0.6%, P &lt; 0.01] and superexcitability (amyotrophic lateral sclerosisbaseline 30.1  2.3%; control subjects 23.4  1.0%, P &lt; 0.01) at baseline. Following institution of riluzole therapy there was a significant reduction in superexcitability (amyotrophic lateral sclerosisbaseline 30.1  2.3%; amyotrophic lateral sclerosisON riluzole 27.3  2.3%, P &lt; 0.05) and refractoriness at 2 ms (amyotrophic lateral sclerosisbaseline 98.7  10.7%; amyotrophic lateral sclerosisON riluzole 67.8  9.3%, P &lt; 0.001). In conclusion, the present study has established that riluzole exerts effects on both central and peripheral nerve function, interpreted as partial normalization of cortical hyperexcitability and reduction of transient Na+ conductances. Taken together, these findings suggest that the neuroprotective effects of riluzole in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are complex, with evidence of independent effects across both compartments of the nervous system.
The proteasome is the major protein degradation system within the cell, comprised of different proteolytic subunits; amyloid- is thought to impair its activity in Alzheimer's disease. Neuroinflammation is a prominent hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, which may implicate an activation of the immunoproteasome, a specific proteasome variant induced by immune signalling that holds slightly different proteolytic properties than the constitutive proteasome. Using a novel cell-permeable proteasome activity probe, we found that amyloid- enhances proteasome activity in glial and neuronal cultures. Additionally, using a subunit-specific proteasome activity assay we showed that in the cortex of the APPswePS1dE9 plaque pathology mouse model, immunoproteasome activities were strongly increased together with increased messenger RNA and protein expression in reactive glia surrounding plaques. Importantly, this elevated activity was confirmed in human post-mortem tissue from donors with Alzheimer's disease. These findings are in contrast with earlier studies, which reported impairment of proteasome activity in human Alzheimer's disease tissue and mouse models. Targeting the increased immunoproteasome activity with a specific inhibitor resulted in a decreased expression of inflammatory markers in ex vivo microglia. This may serve as a potential novel approach to modulate sustained neuroinflammation and glial dysfunction associated with Alzheimer's disease.
Migrating partial seizures of infancy, also known as epilepsy of infancy with migrating focal seizures, is a rare early infantile epileptic encephalopathy with poor prognosis, presenting with focal seizures in the first year of life. A national surveillance study was undertaken in conjunction with the British Paediatric Neurology Surveillance Unit to further define the clinical, pathological and molecular genetic features of this disorder. Fourteen children with migrating partial seizures of infancy were reported during the 2 year study period (estimated prevalence 0.11 per 100,000 children). The study has revealed that migrating partial seizures of infancy is associated with an expanded spectrum of clinical features (including severe gut dysmotility and a movement disorder) and electrographic features including hypsarrhythmia (associated with infantile spasms) and burst suppression. We also report novel brain imaging findings including delayed myelination with white matter hyperintensity on brain magnetic resonance imaging in one-third of the cohort, and decreased N-acetyl aspartate on magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Putaminal atrophy (on both magnetic resonance imaging and at post-mortem) was evident in one patient. Additional neuropathological findings included bilateral hippocampal gliosis and neuronal loss in two patients who had post-mortem examinations. Within this cohort, we identified two patients with mutations in the newly discovered KCNT1 gene. Comparative genomic hybridization array, SCN1A testing and genetic testing for other currently known early infantile epileptic encephalopathy genes (including PLCB1 and SLC25A22) was non-informative for the rest of the cohort.
In traumatic brain injury mechanical forces applied to the cranium and brain cause irreversible primary neuronal and astroglial damage associated with terminal dendritic beading and spine loss representing acute damage to synaptic circuitry. Oedema develops quickly after trauma, raising intracranial pressure that results in a decrease of blood flow and consequently in cerebral ischaemia, which can cause secondary injury in the peri-contusional cortex. Spreading depolarizations have also been shown to occur after traumatic brain injury in humans and in animal models and are thought to accelerate and exacerbate secondary tissue injury in at-risk cortical territory. Yet, the mechanisms of acute secondary injury to fine synaptic circuitry within the peri-contusional cortex after mild traumatic brain injury remain unknown. A mild focal cortical contusion model in adult mouse sensory-motor cortex was implemented by the controlled cortical impact injury device. In vivo two-photon microscopy in the peri-contusional cortex was used to monitor via optical window yellow fluorescent protein expressing neurons, enhanced green fluorescent protein expressing astrocytes and capillary blood flow. Dendritic beading in the peri-contusional cortex developed slowly and the loss of capillary blood flow preceded terminal dendritic injury. Astrocytes were swollen indicating oedema and remained swollen during the next 24 h throughout the imaging session. There were no recurrent spontaneous spreading depolarizations in this mild traumatic brain injury model; however, when spreading depolarizations were repeatedly induced outside the peri-contusional cortex by pressure-injecting KCl, dendrites undergo rapid beading and recovery coinciding with passage of spreading depolarizations, as was confirmed with electrophysiological recordings in the vicinity of imaged dendrites. Yet, accumulating metabolic stress resulting from as few as four rounds of spreading depolarization significantly added to the fraction of beaded dendrites that were incapable to recover during repolarization, thus facilitating terminal injury. In contrast, similarly induced four rounds of spreading depolarization in another set of control healthy mice caused no accumulating dendritic injury as dendrites fully recovered from beading during repolarization. Taken together, our data suggest that in the mild traumatic brain injury the acute dendritic injury in the peri-contusional cortex is gated by the decline in the local blood flow, most probably as a result of developing oedema. Furthermore, spreading depolarization is a specific mechanism that could accelerate injury to synaptic circuitry in the metabolically compromised peri-contusional cortex, worsening secondary damage following traumatic brain injury.
Several studies have suggested the involvement of the hippocampus in the elaboration of epilepsy. There is evidence that suggests the hippocampus plays an important role in the affective and motivational components of nociceptive perception. However, the exact nature of this involvement remains unclear. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the role of muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the dorsal hippocampus (dH) in the organization of postictal analgesia. In a neuroanatomical study, afferent connections were found from the somatosensory cortex, the medial septal area, the lateral septal area, the diagonal band of Broca, and the dentate gyrus to the dH; all these areas have been suggested to modulate convulsive activity. Outputs to the dH were also identified from the linear raphe nucleus, the median raphe nucleus (MdRN), the dorsal raphe nucleus, and the locus coeruleus. All these structures comprise the endogenous pain modulatory system and may be involved either in postictal pronociception or antinociception that is commonly reported by epileptic patients. dH-pretreatment with cobalt chloride (1.0 mmol/L CoCl2/0.2 L) to transiently inhibit local synapses decreased postictal analgesia 10 min after the end of seizures. Pretreatment of the dH with either atropine or mecamylamine (1.0 g/0.2 L) attenuated the postictal antinociception 30 min after seizures, while the higher dose (5.0 g/0.2 L) decreased postictal analgesia immediately after the end of seizures. These findings suggest that the dH exerts a critical role in the organization of postictal analgesia and that muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic receptor-mediated mechanisms in the dH are involved in the elaboration of antinociceptive processes induced by generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
The ability to process facial expressions can be modified by altering the spatial frequency of the stimuli, an effect that has been attributed to differential properties of visual pathways that convey different types of information to distinct brain regions at different speeds. While this effect suggests a potential influence of spatial frequency on the processing speed of facial emotion, this hypothesis has not been examined directly. We addressed this question using a facial emotion identification task with photographs containing either high spatial frequency (HSF), low spatial frequency (LSF), or broadband spatial frequency (BSF). Temporal processing of emotion perception was manipulated by suppressing visual perception with a single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), delivered to the visual cortex at six intervals prior to (forward masking) or following (backward masking) stimulus presentation. Participants performed best in the BSF, followed by LSF, and finally HSF condition. A spatial frequency by forward/backward masking interaction effect demonstrated reduced performance in the forward masking component in the BSF condition and a reversed performance pattern in the HSF condition, with no significant differences between forward and backward masking in the LSF condition. Results indicate that LSF information may play a greater role than HSF information in emotional processing, but may not be sufficient for fast conscious perception of emotion. As both LSF and HSF filtering reduced the speed of extracting emotional information from faces, it is possible that intact BSF faces have an inherent perceptual advantage and hence benefit from faster temporal processing.
Crucifixion as a means of torture and execution was first developed in the 6th century B.C. and remained popular for over 1000 years. Details of the practice, which claimed hundreds of thousands of lives, have intrigued scholars as historical records and archaeological findings from the era are limited. As a result, various aspects of crucifixion, including the type of crosses used, methods of securing victims to crosses, the length of time victims survived on the cross, and the exact mechanisms of death, remain topics of debate. One aspect of crucifixion not previously explored in detail is the characteristic hand posture often depicted in artistic renditions of crucifixion. In this posture, the hand is clenched in a peculiar and characteristic fashion: there is complete failure of flexion of the thumb and index finger with partial failure of flexion of the middle finger. Such a &quot;crucified clench&quot; is depicted across different cultures and from different eras. A review of crucifixion history and techniques, median nerve anatomy and function, and the historical artistic depiction of crucifixion was performed to support the hypothesis that the &quot;crucified clench&quot; results from proximal median neuropathy due to positioning on the cross, rather than from direct trauma of impalement of the hand or wrist.
We have previously observed that the non-opioid morphine metabolite, morphine-3-glucuronide, enhances pain via a toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) dependent mechanism. The present studies were undertaken to determine whether TLR4-dependent pain enhancement generalizes to other classes of glucuronide metabolites. In silico modeling predicted that glucuronic acid alone and ethyl glucuronide, a minor but long-lasting ethanol metabolite, would dock to the same MD-2 portion of the TLR4 receptor complex previously characterized as the docking site for morphine-3-glucuronide. Glucuronic acid, ethyl glucuronide and ethanol all caused an increase in TLR4-dependent reporter protein expression in a cell line transfected with TLR4 and associated co-signaling molecules. Glucuronic acid-, ethyl glucuronide-, and ethanol-induced increases in TLR4 signaling were blocked by the TLR4 antagonists LPS-RS and (+)-naloxone. Glucuronic acid and ethyl glucuronide both caused allodynia following intrathecal injection in rats, which was blocked by intrathecal co-administration of the TLR4 antagonist LPS-RS. The finding that ethyl glucuronide can cause TLR4-dependent pain could have implications for human conditions such as hangover headache and alcohol withdrawal hyperalgesia, as well as suggesting that other classes of glucuronide metabolites could have similar effects.


Magnetoencephalography (MEG) has shown pseudohomophone priming effects at Broca's area (specifically pars opercularis of left inferior frontal gyrus and precentral gyrus; LIFGpo/PCG) within 100ms of viewing a word. This is consistent with Broca's area involvement in fast phonological access during visual word recognition. Here we used online transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to investigate whether LIFGpo/PCG is necessary for (not just correlated with) visual word recognition by 100ms. Pulses were delivered to individually fMRI-defined LIFGpo/PCG in Dutch speakers 75-500ms after stimulus onset during reading and picture naming. Reading and picture naming reactions times were significantly slower following pulses at 225-300ms. Contrary to predictions, there was no disruption to reading for pulses before 225ms. This does not provide evidence in favour of a functional role for LIFGpo/PCG in reading before 225ms in this case, but does extend previous findings in picture stimuli to written Dutch words.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by -synuclein pathology in the form of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. Braak etal described the spatial and temporal spread of -synuclein pathology in Parkinson's disease. Recent experimental studies have demonstrated that -synuclein can transfer from cell to cell. In this review, we highlight the involvement of -synuclein in Parkinson's disease and in Braak's staging of Parkinson's disease pathology. We discuss whether a prion-like mechanism of -synuclein spread might contribute to Parkinson's disease pathology. We describe recent studies investigating cell-to-cell transfer of -synuclein and focus our review on the long-distance axonal transport of -synuclein along neurons.
Multiple system atrophy is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized pathologically by abnormal accumulations of -synuclein in the cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes, which are termed glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs). Oligodendrocytes are responsible for myelinating axons and providing neurotrophic support, but in MSA, myelin loss, axonal loss and gliosis are consistent features suggesting that GCIs play a central role in disease pathogenesis. Oligodendroglial, myelin and axonal degeneration are also features of multiple sclerosis (MS) in which recent studies have highlighted the robust remyelination capacity of the central nervous system (CNS). The cells responsible for remyelination are called oligodendroglial precursor cells (OPCs). In this study, we investigated the role of OPCs in the pathogenesis of MSA and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), a neurodegenerative disease in which neuropathological changes include oligodendroglial inclusions composed of microtubule-associated protein tau. Despite the lability of OPC-specific antigens, we successfully identified OPCs and demonstrated that tau and -synuclein do not accumulate in OPCs. We also showed that the density of OPCs was increased in a white matter region of the MSA brain, which is also severely affected by GCIs and myelin degeneration. These findings raise the possibility that OPCs could be available to repair disease-associated damage in MSA, consistent with their biological function.
Cholinergic and GABAergic corticopetal neurons in the basal forebrain play important roles in cortical activation, sensory processing, and attention. Cholinergic neurons are intermingled with peptidergic, and various calcium binding protein-containing cells, however, the functional role of these neurons is not well understood. In this study we examined the expression pattern of secretagogin (Scgn), a newly described calcium-binding protein, in neurons of the basal forebrain. We also assessed some of the corticopetal projections of Scgn neurons and their co-localization with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), neuropeptide-Y, and other calcium-binding proteins (i.e., calbindin, calretinin, and parvalbumin). Scgn is expressed in cell bodies of the medial and lateral septum, vertical and horizontal diagonal band nuclei, and of the extension of the amygdala but it is almost absent in the ventral pallidum. Scgn is co-localized with ChAT in neurons of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, extension of the amygdala, and interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure. Scgn was co-localized with calretinin in the accumbens nucleus, medial division of the bed nucleus of stria terminalis, the extension of the amygdala, and interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure. We have not found co-expression of Scgn with parvalbumin, calbindin, or neuropeptide-Y. Retrograde tracing studies using Fluoro Gold in combination with Scgn-specific immunohistochemistry revealed that Scgn neurons situated in the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band project to retrosplenial and cingulate cortical areas.
Deep brain stimulation of the ventral striatum is an effective treatment for a variety of treatment refractory psychiatric disorders yet the mechanism of action remains elusive. We examined how five days of stimulation affected rhythmic brain activity in freely moving rats in terms of oscillatory power within, and coherence between, selected limbic regions bilaterally. Custom made bipolar stimulating/recording electrodes were implanted, bilaterally, in the nucleus accumbens core. Local field potential (LFP) recording electrodes were implanted, bilaterally in the prelimbic and orbitofrontal cortices and mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. Stimulation was delivered bilaterally with 100 s duration constant current pulses at a frequency of 130 Hz delivered at an amplitude of 100 A using a custom-made stimulation device. Synchronized video and LFP data were collected from animals in their home cages before, during and after stimulation. Signals were processed to remove movement and stimulation artifacts, and analyzed to determine changes in spectral power within, and coherence between regions. Five days stimulation of the nucleus accumbens core yielded temporally dynamic modulation of LFP power in multiple bandwidths across multiple brain regions. Coherence was seen to decrease in the alpha band between the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and core of the nucleus accumbens. Coherence between each core of the nucleus accumbens bilaterally showed rich temporal dynamics throughout the five day stimulation period. Stimulation cessation revealed significant &quot;rebound&quot; effects in both power and coherence in multiple brain regions. Overall, the initial changes in power observed with short-term stimulation are replaced by altered coherence, which may reflect the functional action of DBS.



Neuroscience studies on creativity have revealed highly variegated findings that often seem to be inconsistent. As recently argued in Fink and Benedek (Neurosci Biobehav Rev, 2012), this might be primarily due to the broad diversity in defining and measuring creativity as well as to the diversity of experimental procedures and methodologies used in this field of research. In specifically focusing on one measure of brain activation and on the well-established process of creative ideation (i.e., divergent thinking), EEG studies revealed a quite consistent and replicable pattern of right-lateralized brain activity over posterior parietal and occipital sites. In this study, we related regional gray matter density (as assessed by means of voxel-based morphometry) to different facets of psychometrically determined verbal creativity in a sample of 71 participants. Results revealed that verbal creativity was significantly and positively associated with gray matter density in clusters involving the right cuneus and the right precuneus. Enhanced gray matter density in these regions may be indicative of vivid imaginative abilities in more creative individuals. These findings complement existing functional studies on creative ideation which are, taken as a whole, among the most consistent findings in this field.
Within the central nervous system, microRNAs have emerged as important effectors of an array of developmental, physiological, and cognitive processes. Along these lines, the CREB-regulated microRNA miR-132 has been shown to influence neuronal maturation via its effects on dendritic arborization and spinogenesis. In the mature nervous system, dysregulation of miR-132 has been suggested to play a role in a number of neurocognitive disorders characterized by aberrant synaptogenesis. However, little is known about the inducible expression and function of miR-132 under normal physiological conditions in vivo. Here, we begin to explore this question within the context of learning and memory. Using in situ hybridization, we show that the presentation of a spatial memory task induced a significant ~1.5-fold increase in miR-132 expression within the CA1, CA3, and GCL excitatory cell layers of the hippocampus. To examine the role of miR-132 in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory, we employ a doxycycline-regulated miR-132 transgenic mouse strain to drive varying levels of transgenic miR-132 expression. These studies revealed that relatively low levels of transgenic miR-132 expression, paralleling the level of expression in the hippocampus following a spatial memory task, significantly enhanced cognitive capacity. In contrast, higher (supra-physiological) levels of miR-132 (&gt;3-fold) inhibited learning. Interestingly, both the impaired cognition and elevated levels of dendritic spines resulting from supra-physiological levels of transgenic miR-132 were reversed by doxycycline suppression of transgene expression. Together, these data indicate that miR-132 functions as a key activity-dependent regulator of cognition, and that miR-132 expression must be maintained within a limited range to ensure normal learning and memory formation.
Rodent models of Huntington disease (HD) are valuable tools for investigating HD pathophysiology and evaluating new therapeutic approaches. Non-invasive characterization of HD-related phenotype changes is important for monitoring progression of pathological processes and possible effects of interventions. The first transgenic rat model for HD exhibits progressive late-onset affective, cognitive, and motor impairments, as well as neuropathological features reflecting observations from HD patients. In this report, we contribute to the anatomical phenotyping of this model by comparing high-resolution ex vivo DTI measurements obtained in aged transgenic HD rats and wild-type controls. By region of interest analysis supplemented by voxel-based statistics, we find little evidence of atrophy in basal ganglia regions, but demonstrate altered DTI measurements in the dorsal and ventral striatum, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, substantia nigra, and hippocampus. These changes are largely compatible with DTI findings in preclinical and clinical HD patients. We confirm earlier reports that HD rats express a moderate neuropathological phenotype, and provide evidence of altered DTI measures in specific HD-related brain regions, in the absence of pronounced morphometric changes.
Medial thalamic damage produces memory deficits in humans (e.g., Korsakoff's syndrome) and experimental animals. Both the anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) and rostral intralaminar plus adjacent lateral thalamic nuclei (ILN/LT) have been implicated. Based on the differences in their main connections with other neural structures, we tested the prediction that ATN lesions would selectively impair acquisition of spatial location discrimination, reflecting a hippocampal system deficit, whereas ILN/LT lesions would impair acquisition of visual pattern discrimination, reflecting a striatal system deficit. Half the rats were first trained in a spatial task in a water maze before switching to a visual task in the same maze, while the remainder were tested with the reverse order of tasks. Compared with sham-operated controls, (1) rats with ATN lesions showed impaired place learning, but normal visual discrimination learning, (2) rats with ILN/LT lesions showed no deficit on either task. Rats with ATN lesions were also hyperactive when their home cage was placed in a novel room and remained more active than ILN/LT or SHAM rats for the subsequent 21h, especially during the nocturnal phase. These findings confirmed the influence of ATN lesions on spatial learning, but failed to support the view that ILN/LT lesions disrupt striatal-dependent memory.
Hot flashes are prevalent and severe symptoms that can interfere with mood, sleep, and quality of life for women and men with cancer. The purpose of this article is to review existing literature on the risk factors, pathophysiology, and treatment of hot flashes in individuals with cancer. Electronic searches were conducted to identify relevant English-language literature published through June 15, 2012. Results indicated that risk factors for hot flashes in cancer include patient-related factors (eg, age, race/ethnicity, educational level, smoking history, cardiovascular risk including body mass index, and genetics) and disease-related factors (eg, cancer diagnosis and dose/type of treatment). In addition, although the pathophysiology of hot flashes has remained elusive, these symptoms are likely attributable to disruptions in thermoregulation and neurochemicals. Therapies that have been offered or tested fall into 4 broad categories: pharmacological, nutraceutical, surgical, and complementary/behavioral strategies. The evidence base for this broad range of therapies varies, with some treatments not yet having been fully tested or showing equivocal results. The evidence base surrounding all therapies is evaluated to enhance hot flash treatment decision-making by clinicians and patients.


This review summarizes neurobiological and genetic findings in behavioural addictions, draws parallels with findings pertaining to substance use disorders, and offers suggestions for future research. Articles concerning brain function, neurotransmitter activity, and family history and (or) genetic findings for behavioural addictions involving gambling, Internet use, video game playing, shopping, kleptomania, and sexual activity were reviewed. Behavioural addictions involve dysfunction in several brain regions, particularly the frontal cortex and striatum. Findings from imaging studies incorporating cognitive tasks have arguably been more consistent than cue-induction studies. Early results suggest white and grey matter differences. Neurochemical findings suggest roles for dopaminergic and serotonergic systems, but results from clinical trials seem more equivocal. While limited, family history and genetic data support heritability for pathological gambling and that people with behavioural addictions are more likely to have a close family member with some form of psychopathology. Parallels exist between neurobiological and genetic and family history findings in substance and nonsubstance addictions, suggesting that compulsive engagement in these behaviours may constitute addictions. To date, findings are limited, particularly for shopping, kleptomania, and sexual behaviour. Genetic understandings are at an early stage. Future research directions are offered.
Behavioural addictions are characterized by an inability to resist an urge or drive resulting in actions that are harmful to oneself or others. Behavioural addictions share characteristics with substance and alcohol abuse, and in areas such as natural history, phenomenology, and adverse consequences. Behavioural addictions include pathological gambling, kleptomania, pyromania, compulsive buying, compulsive sexual behaviour, Internet addiction, and binge eating disorder. Few studies have examined the efficacy of pharmacological and psychological treatment for the various behavioural addictions, and therefore, currently, no treatment recommendations can be made.
The scorpion toxin maurocalcine acts as a high affinity agonist of the type-1 ryanodine receptor expressed in skeletal muscle. Here, we investigated the effects of the reducing agent dithiothreitol or the oxidizing reagent thimerosal on type-1 ryanodine receptor stimulation by maurocalcine. Maurocalcine addition to sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles actively loaded with calcium elicited Ca release from native vesicles and from vesicles pre-incubated with dithiothreitol; thimerosal addition to native vesicles after Ca uptake completion prevented this response. Maurocalcine enhanced equilibrium [H]-ryanodine binding to native and to dithiothreitol-treated reticulum vesicles, and increased 5-fold the apparent Ki for Mg inhibition of [H]-ryanodine binding to native vesicles. Single calcium release channels incorporated in planar lipid bilayers displayed a long-lived open sub-conductance state after maurocalcine addition. The fractional time spent in this sub-conductance state decreased when lowering cytoplasmic [Ca] from 10 M to 0.1 M or at cytoplasmic [Mg]30 M. At 0.1 M [Ca], only channels that displayed poor activation by Ca were readily activated by 5 nM maurocalcine; subsequent incubation with thimerosal abolished the sub-conductance state induced by maurocalcine. We interpret these results as an indication that maurocalcine acts as a more effective type-1 ryanodine receptor channel agonist under reducing conditions.
Peripheral astrocytic processes (PAPs) are highly motile structures that are strategically positioned in close proximity to synapses. Long-lasting PAP retraction in hypothalamus is known to alter synaptic transmission. The PAP motility is likely to be actin-based because they are known to contain actin-related proteins such as Ezrin. However, the link between dynamic activity-dependent changes in astrocytic morphology and the synaptic function has not been established experimentally, presumably due to lack of appropriate tools. To selectively suppress activity-dependent morphological plasticity of astrocytes, we developed a bicistronic construct that allows simultaneous tracing and manipulating the morphology of PAPs. The construct is designed for co-expression of (i) the mutant actin binding protein Profilin-1 (abdProf-1) with a single amino acid substitution (H119E) that prevents its binding to actin monomers with (ii) the membrane-targeted morphological tracer LckGFP. Cultured cortical astrocytes transfected with this construct showed abdProf-1 overexpression at a 5-fold level compared to the endogenous Profilin-1. The cells also expressed LckGFP at a level sufficient for precise morphological tracing. We found that photolysis of caged Ca induced a pronounced outgrowth of PAPs, which was suppressed by abdProf-1 overexpression in terms of PAP number, growth rate and maximal length. In contrast, the morphological complexity of astrocytes, basal motility of their PAPs and major cytoskeletal structures were not affected by abdProf-1 overexpression. In summary, we identified the actin binding by Profilin-1 as a pivotal mechanism in activity-dependent morphological plasticity of PAPs in cultured astrocytes.
Vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs), initially thought to act specifically on the vascular system, exert trophic effects on neural cells during development and adulthood. Therefore, the VEGF system serves as a promising therapeutic target for brain pathologies, but its simultaneous action on vascular cells paves the way for harmful side effects. To circumvent these deleterious effects, many studies have aimed to clarify whether VEGFs directly affect neural cells or if the effects are mediated secondarily via other cell types, like vascular cells. A great number of reports have shown the expression and function of VEGF receptors (VEGFRs), mainly VEGFR-1 and -2, in neural cells, where VEGFR-2 has been described as the major mediator of VEGF-A signals. This review aims to summarize and compare the divergent roles of VEGFR-1 and -2 during CNS development and homeostasis.
Social learning varies among primate species. Macaques only copy the product of observed actions, or emulate, while humans and chimpanzees also copy the process, or imitate. In humans, imitation is linked to the mirror system. Here we compare mirror system connectivity across these species using diffusion tensor imaging. In macaques and chimpanzees, the preponderance of this circuitry consists of frontal-temporal connections via the extreme/external capsules. In contrast, humans have more substantial temporal-parietal and frontal-parietal connections via the middle/inferior longitudinal fasciculi and the third branch of the superior longitudinal fasciculus. In chimpanzees and humans, but not in macaques, this circuitry includes connections with inferior temporal cortex. In humans alone, connections with superior parietal cortex were also detected. We suggest a model linking species differences in mirror system connectivity and responsivity with species differences in behavior, including adaptations for imitation and social learning of tool use.
G-protein-coupled signal transduction mediates most cellular responses to hormones and neurotransmitters; this signaling system transduces a large variety of extracellular stimuli into neurons and is the most widely used mechanism for cell communication at the synaptic level. The heterotrimeric G-proteins have been well established as key regulators of neuronal growth, differentiation, and function. More recently, the heterotrimeric G-protein genes group was associated with general cognitive ability. Although heterotrimeric G-proteins are linked to both cognitive ability and neuron signaling, it is unknown whether heterotrimeric G-proteins are also important for brain structure. We tested for association between local cerebral gray matter volume and the heterotrimeric G-protein genes group in 294 subjects; a replication analysis was performed in an independent sample of 238 subjects. Voxel-based morphometry revealed a strong replicated association between 2 genes encoding heterotrimeric G-proteins with specific local increase in medial frontal cortex volume, an area known to be involved in cognitive control and negative affect. This finding suggests that heterotrimeric G-proteins might modulate medial frontal cortex gray matter volume. The differences in gray matter volume due to variations in genes encoding G-proteins may be explained by the role of G-proteins in prenatal and postnatal neocortex development.
&quot;Sense of agency&quot; refers to the feeling of controlling an external event through one's own action. On one influential view, sense of agency is inferred after an action, by &quot;retrospectively&quot; comparing actual effects of actions against their intended effects. In contrast, a &quot;prospective&quot; component of agency, generated during action selection, and in advance of knowing the actual effect, has received less attention. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate prospective contributions of action selection processes to sense of agency. To do so, we dissociated action selection processes from action-outcome matching, by subliminally priming responses to a target. We found that participants experienced greater control over action effects when the action was compatibly versus incompatibly primed. Thus, compatible primes facilitated action selection processing, in turn boosting sense of agency over a subsequent effect. This prospective contribution of action selection processes to sense of agency was accounted for by exchange of signals across a prefrontal-parietal network. Specifically, we found that the angular gyrus (AG) monitors signals relating to action selection in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, to prospectively inform subjective judgments of control over action outcomes. Online monitoring of these signals by AG might provide the subject with a subjective marker of volition, prior to action itself.
Mechanical load-induced intracellular signaling events are important for subsequent skeletal muscle hypertrophy. We previously showed that load-induced activation of the cation channel TRPV1 caused an increase in intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca ( 2+) ]i) and that this activated mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and promoted muscle hypertrophy. However, the link between mechanical load-induced intracellular signaling events, and the TRPV1-mediated increases in [Ca ( 2+) ]i are not fully understood. Here we show that administration of the TRPV1 agonist, capsaicin, induces phosphorylation of mTOR, p70S6K, S6, Erk1/2 and p38 MAPK, but not Akt, AMPK or GSK3. Furthermore, the TRPV1-induced phosphorylation patterns resembled those induced by mechanical load. Our results continue to highlight the importance of TRPV1-mediated calcium signaling in load-induced intracellular signaling pathways.
Local anesthetics and related drugs block ionic currents of Na (+) , K (+) and Ca ( 2+) conducted across the cell membrane by voltage-dependent ion channels. Many of these drugs bind in the permeation pathway, occlude the pore and stop ion movement. However channel-blocking drugs have also been associated with decreased membrane stability of certain tetrameric K (+) channels, similar to the destabilization of channel function observed at low extracellular K (+) concentration. Such drug-dependent stability may result from electrostatic repulsion of K (+) from the selectivity filter by a cationic drug molecule bound in the central cavity of the channel. In this study we used the pore domain of the KcsA K (+) channel protein to test this hypothesis experimentally with a biochemical assay of tetramer stability and theoretically by computational simulation of local anesthetic docking to the central cavity. We find that two common local anesthetics, lidocaine and tetracaine, promote thermal dissociation of the KcsA tetramer in a K (+) -dependent fashion. Docking simulations of these drugs with open, open-inactivated and closed crystal structures of KcsA yield many energetically favorable drug-channel complexes characterized by nonbonded attraction to pore-lining residues and electrostatic repulsion of K (+) . The results suggest that binding of cationic drugs to the inner cavity can reduce tetramer stability of K (+) channels.

Volume transmission (VT) is a widespread mode of intercellular communication that occurs in the extracellular fluid (ECF) and in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the brain with VT signals moving from source to target cells via energy gradients leading to diffusion and convection (flow). The VT channels are diffuse forming a plexus in the extracellular space, while in wiring transmission (WT) the channels (axons, terminals) are private. The speed is slow (seconds-minutes) in VT while rapid in the millisecond range in WT. The extracellular space is the substrate for VT, which is modulated by the extracellular matrix. Extrasynaptic VT is linked to synaptic transmission and likely often takes place due to incomplete diffusion barriers with the synaptic transmitter reaching extrasynaptic domains of the pre-and post-synaptic membrane of the synapse, the astroglia, and even adjacent synapses. Indications exist for the existence of striatal D2-like receptor-mediated extrasynaptic form of dopamine (DA) VT at the local circuit level in vivo in the human striatum. Synaptic glutamate via extrasynaptic VT can act on extrasynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors located on the astroglia leading to Ca(2+) mediated astrocytic glutamate release into the extracellular space (ECS). Long distance peptide VT and CSF VT is the major long distance VT with distances more than 1 mm and flow in the CSF. Indications for long distance VT of beta-endorphin and oxytocin are obtained. We propose that monogamy in the female prairie vole may take place through an increase in oxytocin VT, especially in nucleus accumbens. Release of extracellular vesicles containing receptors, proteins, RNAs and mtDNA from cellular networks in the central nervous system (CNS) into the ECF and CSF may be a fundamental communication in the CNS. It represents a special form of volume transmission, the Roamer subtype of VT. It may greatly contribute to dynamic events of synaptic plasticity but also to spread of pathological proteins in protein conformational disorders. VT also occurs in the peripheral nervous system and associated cells. Short and long distance VT may take place in meridian channels via diffusion and flow in the interstitial fluid. Acupuncture can produce VT signals by releasing transmitters and modulators from nerve terminals and mast cells.
What can be learned from historical anatomical drawings and how to incorporate these drawings into anatomical teaching? The drawing &quot;A skull sectioned&quot; (RL 19058v) by Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519), hides more detailed information than reported earlier. A well-chosen section cut explores sectioned paranasal sinuses and ductus nasolacrimalis. A dissected lateral wall of the maxilla is also present. Furthermore, at the level of the foramen mentale, the drawing displays compact and spongious bony components, together with a cross-section through the foramen mentale and its connection with the canalis mandibulae. Leonardo was the first to describe a correct dental formula (6424) and made efforts to place this formula above the related dental elements. However, taking into account, the morphological features of the individual elements of the maxilla, it can be suggested that Leonardo sketched a &quot;peculiar dental element&quot; on the position of the right maxillary premolar in the dental sketch. The fact that the author did not make any comment on that special element is remarkable. Leonardo could have had sufficient knowledge of the precise morphology of maxillary and mandibular premolars, since the author depicted these elements in the dissected skull. The fact that the author also had access to premolars in situ corroborates our suggestion that &quot;something went wrong&quot; in this part of the drawing. The present study shows that historical anatomical drawings are very useful for interactive learning of detailed anatomy for students in medicine and dentistry.

Dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) are vascular lesions involving direct connections between intracranial dural arteries and venous sinuses. The goal of treatment of these vascular lesions is to alleviate symptoms and prevent future hemorrhage. While endovascular embolization remains the primary method of treatment and obliteration of dAVF recently, stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) has been used as a treatment modality in select dAVF either alone or in conjunction with endovascular embolization. Considering recent studies examining dAVFs natural history and possible therapeutic interventions, the authors provide a concise review of the literature and discuss the indications, efficacy, and safety of SRS in the management of dAVFs.




Prolonged-release fampridine (fampridine PR) is a potassium channel blocker that improves conductivity of signal on demyelinated axons in central nervous system. Fampridine PR has been approved to improve speed of walking in patients with multiple sclerosis. This statement provides a brief summary of data on fampridine PR and recommendations on practical use of the medication in clinical practice, prediction, and evaluation of response to treatment and patient management.

The belief that one can exert intentional control over behavior is deeply rooted in virtually all human beings. It has been shown that weakening such belief - e.g. by exposure to 'anti-free will' messages - can lead people to display antisocial tendencies. We propose that this cursory and irresponsible behavior may be facilitated by a breakdown of neurocognitive mechanisms underlying behavioral adjustments. In the study reported here, we tested the hypothesis that weakening belief in intentional control reduces cognitive markers of behavioral control. Participants performed a Simon task before and after reading a scientific text either denying free will (no-free will group) or not mentioning free will (control group). Results showed that the post-error slowing, a cognitive marker of performance adjustment, was reduced in the no-free will group. This reduction was proportional to a decrease of the belief in intentional control. These observations indicate that weakening the belief in free will can impact behavioral adjustment after an error, and could be the cause of antisocial and irresponsible behavior.
DNA molecules in mitochondria, just like those in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, are constantly damaged by noxious agents. Eukaryotic cells have developed efficient mechanisms to deal with this assault. The process of DNA repair in mitochondria, initially believed nonexistent, has now evolved into a mature area of research. In recent years, it has become increasingly appreciated that mitochondria possess many of the same DNA repair pathways that the nucleus does. Moreover, a unique pathway that is enabled by high redundancy of the mitochondrial DNA and allows for the disposal of damaged DNA molecules operates in this organelle. In this review, we attempt to present a unified view of our current understanding of the process of DNA repair in mitochondria with an emphasis on issues that appear controversial.
Cocaine leads to a strong euphoria, which is at the origin of its recreational use. Past the acute effects, the drug leaves traces in the brain that persist long after it has been cleared from the body. These traces eventually shape behavior such that drug use may become compulsive and addiction develops. Here we discuss cocaine-evoked synaptic plasticity of glutamatergic transmission onto dopamine (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) as one of the earliest traces after a first injection of cocaine. We review the literature that has examined the induction requirements as well as the expression mechanism of this form of plasticity and ask the question about its functional significance.
Drug addiction is a chronic relapsing disorder for which research has been dedicated to understand the various factors that contribute to development, loss of control, and persistence of compulsive addictive behaviors. In this review, we provide a broad overview of various theories of addiction, drugs of abuse, and the neurobiology involved across the addiction cycle. Specific focus is devoted to the role of the mesolimbic pathway in acute drug reinforcement and occasional drug use, the mesocortical pathway and associated areas (e.g., the dorsal striatum) in escalation/dependence, and the involvement of these pathways and associated circuits in mediating conditioned responses, drug craving, and loss of behavioral control thought to underlie withdrawal and relapse. With a better understanding of the neurobiological factors that underlie drug addiction, continued preclinical and clinical research will aid in the development of novel therapeutic interventions that can serve as effective long-term treatment strategies for drug-dependent individuals.
When holo-aequorin is injected into zebrafish embryos at the one-cell stage, it is normally depleted by ~24 h post-fertilization (hpf). In order to acquire Ca(2+) signaling information from embryos older than 24 hpf, we have developed a protocol to express apoaequorin transiently in embryos, after which we reconstitute active holo-aequorin in vivo by introducing the cofactor coelenterazine into the developing embryo. This protocol describes the preparation of apoaequorin mRNA, followed by microinjection into embryos and incubation with coelenterazine to reconstitute holo-aequorin.
The injection of holo-aequorin into embryos at the one-cell stage, along with the use of a simple photomultiplier tube or luminescence imaging system, allows transient localized elevations of free cytosolic Ca(2+) to be recorded and observed during the first 24 h of zebrafish development. The technique for loading dechorionated or intact one-cell stage zebrafish embryos with holo-aequorin is described here.
Ca(2+) signals, whether transient pulses, propagating waves, or long-duration, steady gradients, are generally considered to play an important role in the pattern-forming events that occur during vertebrate development. One vertebrate that has long been a favorite of embryologists because of its ex utero development and the optical clarity of its embryos is the zebrafish, Danio rerio. Using the bioluminescent Ca(2+) reporter aequorin, distinct Ca(2+) signals have been reported for at least the first 48 h of zebrafish development, with signals becoming progressively more complex as the embryo develops. Here we provide a general introduction to aequorin and its use in monitoring Ca(2+) signals and discuss methods for introducing aequorin into zebrafish embryos.
Evoked potentials (EPs) are of great interest in neuroscience, but their measurement is difficult as they are embedded in background spontaneous electroencephalographic (EEG) activity which has a much larger amplitude. The widely used averaging technique requires the delivery of a large number of identical stimuli and yields only an &quot;average&quot; EP which does not allow the investigation of the possible variability of single-trial EPs. In the present paper, we propose the use of a multi-task learning method (MTL) for the simultaneous extraction of both the average and the N single-trial EPs from N recorded sweeps. The technique is developed within a Bayesian estimation framework and uses flexible stochastic models to describe the average response and the N shifts between the single-trial EPs and this average. Differently from other single-trial estimation approaches proposed in the literature, MTL can provide estimates of both the average and the N single-trial EPs in a single stage. In the present paper, MTL is successfully assessed on both synthetic (100 simulated recording sessions with N=20 sweeps) and real data (11 subjects with N=20 sweeps) relative to a cognitive task carried out for the investigation of the P300 component of the EP.
Emotional states can influence the human voice during speech utterances. Here, we tested the sensitivity and signal adaptation of functional activity located in amygdala subregions to threatening voices during high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging. Bilateral superficial (SF) complex and the right laterobasal (LB) complex of the amygdala were generally sensitive to emotional cues from speech prosody. Activity was stronger, however, when listeners directly focused on the emotional prosody of the voice instead of attending to a nonemotional feature. Explicit attention to prosody especially elicited activity in the right LB complex. Furthermore, the right SF specifically showed an effect of sensitization indicated by a significant signal increase in response to emotional voices which were preceded by neutral events. The bilateral SF showed signal habituation to repeated emotional voices indicated by a significant signal decrease for an emotional event preceded by another emotional event. The right SF and LB finally showed an effect of desensitization after the processing of emotional voices indicated by a signal decrease for neutral events that followed emotional events. Thus, different amygdala subregions are sensitive to threatening emotional voices, and their activity depends on the attentional focus as well as on the proximal temporal context of other neutral and emotional events.
The vestibular system is classically associated with postural control, oculomotor reflexes and self-motion perception. The patients with vestibular loss are primarily concerned with balance and gait problems including head and trunk tilt and walking trajectory deviation to the lesioned side. These long-lasting postural and locomotor biases are thought to originate from changes in spatial perception of self. Indeed, we show here that vestibular cues are necessary for an accurate representation of body orientation. Patients with right (RVN; n=11) or left vestibular neurotomy (LVN; 9) as a treatment for Menire's disease were compared with 10 healthy controls. The subjective straight ahead (SSA) was investigated using a method disentangling lateral shift and tilt components of error. In the horizontal plane, subjects were required to align a rod with their body midline. In the frontal plane, they were asked to align the rod with the midline of head or trunk. The analysis of SSA clearly showed distinct results according to the side of the lesion. The LVN patients had a contralesional lateral shift of SSA. In addition, they showed an ipsilesional tilt, more severe for the head than for the trunk. By contrast, in RVN patients, the representation of the body midline was fairly accurate in both the horizontal and frontal planes and did not differ from that of control subjects. The present study shows deviations in body orientation representation after unilateral vestibular loss. Deviations are observed in the horizontal as well as in the frontal planes. Interestingly, only patients with left vestibular loss were concerned with these changes in perception of self-orientation in space. These data support the hypothesis of an asymmetric vestibular function in healthy subjects and confirm the similarity of functional disorders in patients with vestibular deficits or spatial neglect. For the first time, this similarity is found at the level of body representation.
Although neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding the involvement of prefrontal cortex (PFC) in human memory, the necessity of dorsolateral PFC (dlPFC) for key competencies of working memory remains largely unexplored. We therefore studied human brain lesion patients to determine whether dlPFC is necessary for working memory function, administering subtests of the Wechsler Memory Scale, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, and the N-Back Task to three participant groups: dlPFC lesions (n=19), non-dlPFC lesions (n=152), and no brain lesions (n=54). DlPFC damage was associated with deficits in the manipulation of verbal and spatial knowledge, with left dlPFC necessary for manipulating information in working memory and right dlPFC critical for manipulating information in a broader range of reasoning contexts. Our findings elucidate the architecture of working memory, providing key neuropsychological evidence for the necessity of dlPFC in the manipulation of verbal and spatial knowledge.

Apathy is a complex, behavioural disorder associated with reduced spontaneous initiation of actions. Although present in mild forms in some healthy people, it is a pathological state in conditions such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease where it can have profoundly devastating effects. Understanding the mechanisms underlying apathy is therefore of urgent concern but this has proven difficult because widespread brain changes in neurodegenerative diseases make interpretation difficult and there is no good animal model. Here we present a very rare case with profound apathy following bilateral, focal lesions of the basal ganglia, with globus pallidus regions that connect with orbitofrontal (OFC) and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) particularly affected. Using two measures of oculomotor decision-making we show that apathy in this individual was associated with reward insensitivity. However, reward sensitivity could be established partially with levodopa and more effectively with a dopamine receptor agonist. Concomitantly, there was an improvement in the patient's clinical state, with reduced apathy, greater motivation and increased social interactions. These findings provide a model system to study a key neuropsychiatric disorder. They demonstrate that reward insensitivity associated with basal ganglia dysfunction might be an important component of apathy that can be reversed by dopaminergic modulation.
There are two contrasting views on the nature of comprehension impairment in semantic dementia: (a) that it stems from degradation of a pan-modal &quot;hub&quot; that represents core conceptual knowledge or (b) that it results from degradation of modality-specific visual feature knowledge. These theories make divergent predictions regarding comprehension of concrete versus abstract words in the disorder. The visual hypothesis predicts that concrete words should be particularly impaired because they depend heavily on visual information. In contrast, the pan-modal hub hypothesis holds that all types of knowledge are affected but predicts less severe impairment of concrete words because they have richer and more detailed semantic representations than abstract words. We investigated concreteness effects in the comprehension of six SD patients. Across nouns, verbs, synonymous and associative relationships, a clear and consistent pattern emerged: concrete words were always comprehended more successfully than abstract words. These findings extend those of previous studies and suggest that conceptual impairment in SD is not confined to concepts that rely on visual information. Instead, all types of knowledge are affected by the progressive deterioration of modality-invariant representations (required for coherent pan-modal concepts). Concrete words succumb less quickly by virtue of their richer and more detailed semantic representations.
Number-space synesthetes visualize numbers in specific spatial configurations. Their spatial-numerical perceptions are assumed to be automatic in nature and have been found to affect performance in various numerical tasks. The current study tested whether synesthetic number-space associations can modulate the well-established Size Congruency Effect (SiCE), which is considered to be an indication for the automaticity of numerical processing. Two groups, number-space synesthetes and matched controls, were tested on a numerical Stroop task (Henik and Tzelgov, 1982). In separate blocks, participants were presented with two digits and asked to make comparative judgments regarding either numerical values (numerical comparison) or physical size (physical comparison). Both dimensions were manipulated orthogonally, creating three congruency levels: congruent (e.g., 2 7), incongruent (e.g., 2 7) and neutral (e.g., 2 2 and 2 7 for physical and numerical blocks, respectively). For the numerical block, both synesthetes and controls showed the classic SiCE, indicating similar automatic processing of physical magnitude. However, in the physical block, synesthetes showed a lack of automatic numerical magnitude processing when the numbers to be compared were presented incompatibly with their relative position on the synesthetic number-form. This finding strongly suggests that synesthetes' number-space perceptions affect their ability to automatically process the semantic meaning of numerals. The involvement of space in automatic magnitude processing for number-space synesthetes and non-synesthetes is discussed.


Research on matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and in particular on gelatinase B, alias MMP-9, has grown exponentially in the decade 2003-2012. Structural details about flexibility of MMP-9 monomers, together with glycosylation, oligomerization, heterogeneity and instability of the wildtype enzyme explain why crystallography experiments have not yet been successful for the intact enzyme. MMP-9 may be viewed as a multidomain enzyme in which the hemopexin, the O-glycosylated and the catalytic domains yield support for attachment, articulation and catalysis, respectively. The stepwise proteolytic activation of the inactive zymogen into a catalytically active form becomes gradually better understood. Priming of activation by MMP-3 may be executed by meprins that destabilize the interaction of the aminoterminus with the third fibronectin repeat. Alternatively, autocatalytic activation may occur in the presence of molecules that tightly bind to the catalytic site and that push the cystein residue in the prodomain away from the catalytic zinc ion. Thanks to the development of degradomics technologies, substrate repertoires of MMP-9 have been defined, but it remains a challenge to determine and prove which substrates are biologically relevant. The substrate repertoire has been enlarged from extracellular to membrane-bound and efficient intracellular substrates, such as crystallins, tubulins and actins. Biological studies of MMP-9 have tuned the field from being primarily cancer-oriented towards vascular and inflammatory research. In tumor biology, it has been increasingly appreciated that MMP-9 from inflammatory cells, particularly neutrophils, co-determines prognosis and outcome. Aside from the catalytic functions executed by aminoterminal domains of MMP-9, the carboxyterminal hemopexin (PEX) domain of gelatinase B exerts non-catalytic anti-apoptotic signaling effects. The recognition that gelatinase B is induced by many pro-inflammatory cytokines, whereas its inhibitors are increased by anti-inflammatory cytokines, has generated interest to target MMP-9 in acute lethal conditions, such as bacterial meningitis, sepsis and endotoxin shock, and in acute exacerbations of chronic diseases. Previously described transcriptional regulation of MMP-9 is complemented by epigenetic checkpoints, including histone modifications and microRNAs. Because activation of proMMP-9 may be executed by other MMPs, the therapeutic dogma that MMP inhibitors need to be highly selective may be keyed down for the treatment of life-threatening conditions. When inflammation and MMP-9 fulfill beneficial functions to clear damaging protein complexes, such as in systemic autoimmune diseases, therapeutic MMP inhibition has to be avoided. In Mmp9 gene knockout mice, specific spontaneous phenotypes emerged with effects on the skeletal, reproductive and nervous systems. These findings not only have clinical correlates in bone growth and fertility, but also stimulate research on the roles of MMPs and MMP-9 in endocrinology, immunology and the neurosciences. Mmp9-deficient mice are valuable tools to define MMP-9 substrates in vivo and to study the role of this enzyme in animal models of inflammatory, vascular, neoplastic and degenerative diseases. Future challenges include solving the crystal structure, definition of the functions of covalent oligomers and heteromers in biology and pathology, life-imaging of MMP-9 activity, substrate determination in situ and the study of inhibitor effects on fertility, cancer and inflammation and in neurobiology and regenerative medicine. Such studies will better define conditions in which inhibition of MMP-9 is beneficial or has to be avoided.
Semantic memory decline has been found in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). In this study performance on a range of semantic tasks and structural brain patterns were examined in a group of MCI patients. Fourteen MCI and sixteen healthy elderly controls underwent semantic memory assessment and MRI brain scanning. The cognitive battery included visual naming and naming from definition tasks for objects, actions and famous people, semantic fluency for animals, fruits, tools, furniture, singers, politicians, actions, word-association task for early and late acquired words and a reading task. MCI patients performed worse on semantic fluency in all categories except for tools, produced a smaller number of words associated with early acquired nouns and a smaller total number of word-associations. Patients scored more poorly in all tasks of naming, naming of famous people, overall reading and reading of famous people's names. MCIs had fewer correct immediate recalls and more correct responses with cue in famous people naming, made more errors in naming and in the naming from definition task for famous people. Grey matter reduction in parahippocampus, frontal and cingulate cortices and amygdala was found in the MCI sample when compared with controls. Patients presented a different pattern of brain areas correlated with semantic tasks from that seen in controls, with more extensive involvement of subcortical regions in semantic fluency and word-association and more contribution of frontal than temporo-parietal areas in visual naming. This evidence suggests a reorganization of cortical associations of semantic processes in MCI that, following damage in the semantic circuit, explains its progressive breakdown.
Deposition of amyloid- (A) peptides in the brain is a central event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), which makes A peptides a crucial target for therapeutic intervention. Significant efforts have been made towards the development of ligands that bind to A peptides with a goal of early detection of amyloid aggregation and the neutralization of A toxicity. Short single-stranded oligonucleotide aptamers bind with high affinity and specificity to their targets. Aptamers that specifically bind to A monomers, specifically the 40 and 42 amino acid species (A(1-40) and A(1- 42)), fibrils and plaques have a great potential for diagnostic applications and the treatment of AD. Herein, we review the aptamers that bind to the various forms of A peptides for use in diagnosis and to inhibit plaque formation.
This study aimed to show that the rat model of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD) generated by the intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of a sub-diabetogenic dose of streptozotocin (icvSTZ) is characterized by brain mitochondrial abnormalities. Three-month-old male Wistar rats were investigated 5 weeks after a single bilateral icv injection of STZ (3 mg/ Kg) or vehicle. icvSTZ administration induced a decrease in brain weight and cognitive decline, without affecting blood glucose levels. icvSTZ administration also resulted in a significant increase in hippocampal amyloid beta peptide 1-42 (A(1-42)) levels as well as in cortical and hippocampal hyperphosphorylated tau protein levels. Brain mitochondria from icvSTZ rats revealed deficits in their function, as shown by a decrease in mitochondrial transmembrane potential, repolarization level, ATP content, respiratory state 3, respiratory control ratio and ADP/O index and an increase in lag phase of repolarization. Mitochondria from icvSTZ rats also displayed a decrease in pyruvate and -ketoglutarate dehydrogenases and cytochrome c oxidase activities and an increase in the susceptibility to calcium-induced mitochondrial permeability transition. An increase in hydrogen peroxide and lipid peroxidation levels and a reduction in glutathione content were also observed in mitochondria from icvSTZ rats. These results demonstrate that the insulin-resistant brain state that characterizes this rat model of sAD is accompanied by the occurrence of mitochondrial abnormalities reinforcing the validity of this animal model to study sAD pathogenesis and potential therapies.
Disorders of emotion regulation such as anxiety disorders and depression are common and yet debilitating. Accumulating evidence suggests involvement of serotonin (5-HT) in the regulation of emotion. Mice with targeted deletion of genes encoding mediators of the serotonergic transmission have proven to be a powerful tool for understanding contributions of such mediators of emotion regulation. Over the last decade, research on mice with a targeted inactivation of the 5-HT transporter (5-Htt, Sert, Slc6a4) has considerably advanced our knowledge about functions that the 5-HTT plays in the context of emotion related to depression. Moreover, the recent advent of knockout (KO) mice for tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (Tph2 KO), which lacks the rate-limiting enzyme for 5-HT synthesis in the brain, has further provided insight to the brain serotonergic system and its role in emotion dysregulation. Here, we first highlight basic characteristics of the serotonergic system including the biosynthesis of 5-HT as well as the anatomy and firing activity of serotonergic neurons. Furthermore, characteristics of 5-Htt and Tph2 KO mice are covered together with association studies on human variants of 5-HTT and TPH2 in emotional regulation. Among various targets of serotonergic projections, which originate from the raphe nuclei in the brain stem, particular focus is placed on the hippocampus due to its unique dual role in memory and emotion. Finally, effects of therapeutic drugs and psychoactive drugs on KO mouse models as well as on synaptic plasticity will be discussed.
The current generation of antidepressant drugs acts predominantly by targeting the serotonin transporter (SERT). The original trend to do this selectively (e.g., with SSRIs or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) has given way to combining various additional pharmacologic mechanisms with SERT inhibition, including dual actions by single drugs (e.g., SNRIs or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors), or by augmenting SSRIs with a second drug of a different mechanism (e.g., bupropion with dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibition; trazodone with 5HT2A antagonism; mirtazapine with 5HT2A/5HT2C/5HT3/alpha2 antagonism; buspirone or some atypical antipsychotics with 5HT1A partial agonism; other atypical antipsychotics with 5HT2C/5HT7 antagonism and other mechanisms). Novel drugs in development include those that combine multiple simultaneous pharmacologic mechanisms in addition to SERT inhibition within the same molecule, such as vilazodone (combining 5HT1A partial agonism with SERT inhibition), triple reuptake inhibitors (combining norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibition with SERT inhibition), and vortioxetine, a multimodal antidepressant combining actions at the G protein receptor mode (5HT1A and 5HT1B partial agonism and 5HT7 antagonism), at the ion channel mode (5HT3 antagonism) as well as the neurotransmitter transporter mode (SERT inhibition). These various strategies that build upon SERT inhibition provide promise for novel therapeutic approaches to depression, including the possibility of targeting residual symptoms not well treated by SERT inhibition alone, and reducing side effects, such as sexual dysfunction.
In addition to centrally regulating electrolyte homeostasis and blood pressure, angiotensin IIhas various general effects on the central nervous system. The existence of renin-angiotensin system components in the brain has been well established. Angiotensin II and other renin-angiotensin system components are synthesized and distributed throughout the brain. Post-ischemic oral administration of a non-hypotensive dose (1/10th of the clinical dose) of angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) has protective effects on reducing cerebral ischemic injury and improving neurological outcomes. Brain tissue angiotensin II levels transiently increase after reperfusion through the local generation of angiotensin IIand not via the transudation of plasma angiotensin II. Systemic administration of ARBs decreases brain tissue angiotensin II in both the intact and ischemic brain tissue via downregulation of angiotensinogen and angiotensin-converting enzyme mRNA expression, although plasma ARB barely crosses the blood-brain barrier during systemic ARB treatment. Only hypotensive dose of ARB treatment opens leptomeningeal anastomoses. Therefore, systemic ARB treatment shows neuroprotective effects not through increasing collateral perfusion but decreasing brain tissue angiotensin II in a nonhypotensive dose.
It is a common belief that voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC) cannot carry toxic amounts of Ca(2+) in neurons. Also, some of them as L-type channels are essential for Ca(2+)-dependent regulation of prosurvival gene-programs. However, a wealth of data show a beneficial effect of drugs acting on VGCCs in several neurodegenerative and neurovascular diseases. In the present review, we explore several mechanisms by which the &quot;harmless&quot; VGCCs may become &quot;toxic&quot; for neurons. These mechanisms could explain how, though usually required for neuronal survival, VGCCs may take part in neurodegeneration. We will present evidence showing that VGCCs can carry toxic Ca(2+) when: a) their density or activity increases because of aging, chronic hypoxia or exposure to -amyloid peptides or b) Ca(2+)-dependent action potentials carry high Ca(2+) loads in pacemaker neurons. Besides, we will examine conditions in which VGCCs promote neuronal cell death without carrying excess Ca(2+). This can happen, for instance, when they carry metal ions into the neuronal cytoplasm or when a pathological decrease in their activity weakens Ca(2+)-dependent prosurvival gene programs. Finally, we will explore the role of VGCCs in the control of nonneuronal cells that take part to neurodegeneration like those of the neurovascular unit or of microglia.
Similar to clinically used antidepressants, cannabinoids can also regulate anxiety and depressive symptoms. Although the mechanisms of these effects are not completely understood, recent evidence suggests that changes in endocannabinoid system could be involved in some actions of antidepressants. Chronic antidepressant treatment modifies the expression of CB1 receptors and endocannabinoid (EC) content in brain regions related to mood and anxiety control. Moreover, both antidepressant and cannabinoids activate mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase(PI3-K)/Akt or PKB signaling, intracellular pathways that regulate cell proliferation and neural cell survival. Facilitation of hippocampal neurogenesis is proposed as a common effect of chronic antidepressant treatment. Genetic or pharmacological manipulations of cannabinoid receptors (CB1 and CB2) or enzymes responsible for endocannabinoid-metabolism have also been shown to control proliferation and neurogenesis in the hippocampus. In the present paper we reviewed the studies that have investigated the potential contribution of cannabinoids and neurogenesisto antidepressant effects. Considering the widespread brain distribution of the EC system, a better understanding of this possible interaction could contribute to the development of therapeutic alternatives to mood and anxiety disorders.


Abstract available from the publisher.
Meckel-Gruber syndrome (MKS) is an embryonic lethal ciliopathy resulting from mutations in genes encoding proteins localising to the primary cilium. Mutations in the basal body protein MKS1 account for 7% of cases of MKS. The condition affects the development of multiple organs, including brain, kidney and skeleton. Here we present a novel Mks1(tm1a(EUCOMM)Wtsi) knockout mouse which accurately recapitulates the human condition, consistently developing pre-axial polydactyly, complex posterior fossa defects (including the Dandy-Walker malformation), and renal cystic dysplasia. TOPFlash Wnt reporter assays in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) showed general de-regulated high levels of canonical Wnt/-catenin signalling in Mks1(-/-) cells. In addition to these signalling defects, we also observed ectopic high proliferation in the brain and kidney of mutant animals at mid- to late-gestation. The specific role of Mks1 in regulating cell proliferation was confirmed in Mks1 siRNA knockdown experiments which showed increased levels of proliferation after knockdown, an effect not seen after knockdown of other ciliopathy genes. We suggest that this is a result of the de-regulation of multiple signalling pathways (Wnt, mTOR and Hh) in the absence of functional Mks1. This novel model system offers insights into the role of MKS1 in Wnt signalling and proliferation, and the impact of deregulation of these processes on brain and kidney development in MKS, as well as expanding our understanding of the role of Mks1 in multiple signalling pathways.
Optogenetic manipulation of the neuronal activity enables one to analyze the neuronal network both in vivo and in vitro with precise spatio-temporal resolution. Channelrhodopsins (ChRs) are light-sensitive cation channels that depolarize the cell membrane, whereas halorhodopsins and archaerhodopsins are light-sensitive Cl(-) and H(+) transporters, respectively, that hyperpolarize it when exogenously expressed. The cause-effect relationship between a neuron and its function in the brain is thus bi-directionally investigated with evidence of necessity and sufficiency. In this review we discuss the potential of optogenetics with a focus on three major requirements for its application: (i) selection of the light-sensitive proteins optimal for optogenetic investigation, (ii) targeted expression of these selected proteins in a specific group of neurons, and (iii) targeted irradiation with high spatiotemporal resolution. We also discuss recent progress in the application of optogenetics to studies of non-neural cells such as glial cells, cardiac and skeletal myocytes. In combination with stem cell technology, optogenetics may be key to successful research using embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from human patients through optical regulation of differentiation-maturation, through optical manipulation of tissue transplants and, furthermore, through facilitating survival and integration of transplants.

Many areas of the central nervous system are organized into clusters of cell groups, with component cell groups exhibiting diverse but related functions. One such cluster, the superior olivary complex (SOC), is located in the ventral auditory brainstem in mammals. The SOC is an obligatory contact point for most projection neurons of the ventral cochlear nucleus and plays central roles in many aspects of monaural and binaural information processing. Despite their important interrelated functions, little is known about the embryonic origins of SOC nuclei, due in part to a paucity of developmental markers to distinguish individual cell groups. In this report, we present a collection of novel markers for the developing SOC nuclei in mice, including the transcription factors FoxP1, MafB, and Sox2, and the lineage-marking transgenic line En1-Cre. We use these definitive markers to examine the rhombic lip and rhombomeric origins of SOC nuclei and demonstrate that they can serve to uniquely identify SOC nuclei and subnuclei in newborn pups. The markers are also useful in identifying distinct nuclear domains within the presumptive SOC as early as embryonic day (E) 14.5, well before morphological distinction of individual nuclei is evident. These findings indicate that the mediolateral and dorsoventral position of SOC nuclei characteristic of the adult brainstem is established during early neurogenesis.
In response to a wound, astrocytes in culture extend microtubule-rich processes and polarize, orienting their centrosomes and Golgi apparatus woundside. 1 Integrin null astrocytes fail to extend processes toward the wound, and are disoriented, and often migrate away orthogonal, to the wound. The centrosome is unusually fragmented in 1 integrin null astrocytes. Expression of a 1 integrin cDNA in the null background yields cells with intact centrosomes that polarize and extend processes normally. Fragmented centrosomes rapidly assemble following integrin ligation and cell attachment. However, several experiments indicated that cell adhesion is not necessary. For example, astrocytes in suspension expressing a chimeric 1 subunit that can be activated by an antibody assemble centrosomes suggesting that 1 activation is sufficient to cause centrosome assembly in the absence of cell adhesion. siRNA knockdown of PCM1, a major centrosomal protein, inhibits cell polarization, consistent with the notion that centrosomes are necessary for polarity and that integrins regulate polarity via centrosome integrity. Screening inhibitors of molecules downstream of integrins indicate that neither FAK nor ILK is involved in regulation of centrosome integrity. In contrast, blebbistatin, a specific inhibitor of non-muscle myosin II (NMII), mimics the response of 1 integrin null astrocytes by disrupting centrosome integrity and cell polarization. Blebbistatin also inhibits integrin-mediated centrosome assembly in astrocytes attaching to fibronectin, consistent with the hypothesis that NMII functions downstream of integrins in regulating centrosome integrity.



Myosinopathies have emerged as a new group of diseases and are caused by mutations in genes encoding myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoforms. One major hallmark of these diseases is skeletal muscle weakness or paralysis, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we have undertaken a detailed functional study of muscle fibers from Myh4(arl) mice, which carry a mutation that provokes an L342Q change within the catalytic domain of the type IIb skeletal muscle myosin protein MYH4. Because homozygous animals develop rapid muscle-structure disruption and lower-limb paralysis, they must be killed by postnatal day 13, so all experiments were performed using skeletal muscles from adult heterozygous animals (Myh4(arl)/+). Myh4(arl)/+ mice contain MYH4(L342Q) expressed at 7% of the levels of the wild-type (WT) protein, and are overtly and histologically normal. However, mechanical and X-ray diffraction pattern analyses of single membrane-permeabilized fibers revealed, upon maximal Ca(2+) activation, higher stiffness as well as altered meridional and equatorial reflections in Myh4(arl)/+ mice when compared with age-matched WT animals. Under rigor conditions, by contrast, no difference was observed between Myh4(arl)/+ and WT mice. Altogether, these findings prove that, in adult MYH4(L342Q) heterozygous mice, the transition from weak to strong myosin cross-bridge binding is facilitated, increasing the number of strongly attached myosin heads, thus enhancing force production. These changes are predictably exacerbated in the type IIb fibers of homozygous mice, in which the embryonic myosin isoform is fully replaced by MYH4(L342Q), leading to a hypercontraction, muscle-structure disruption and lower-limb paralysis. Overall, these findings provide important insights into the molecular pathogenesis of skeletal myosinopathies.
Acute and chronic respiratory failure is one of the major and potentially life-threatening features in individuals with myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1). Despite several clinical demonstrations showing respiratory problems in DM1 patients, the mechanisms are still not completely understood. This study was designed to investigate whether the DMSXL transgenic mouse model for DM1 exhibits respiratory disorders and, if so, to identify the pathological changes underlying these respiratory problems. Using pressure plethysmography, we assessed the breathing function in control mice and DMSXL mice generated after large expansions of the CTG repeat in successive generations of DM1 transgenic mice. Statistical analysis of breathing function measurements revealed a significant decrease in the most relevant respiratory parameters in DMSXL mice, indicating impaired respiratory function. Histological and morphometric analysis showed pathological changes in diaphragmatic muscle of DMSXL mice, characterized by an increase in the percentage of type I muscle fibers, the presence of central nuclei, partial denervation of end-plates (EPs) and a significant reduction in their size, shape complexity and density of acetylcholine receptors, all of which reflect a possible breakdown in communication between the diaphragmatic muscles fibers and the nerve terminals. Diaphragm muscle abnormalities were accompanied by an accumulation of mutant DMPK RNA foci in muscle fiber nuclei. Moreover, in DMSXL mice, the unmyelinated phrenic afferents are significantly lower. Also in these mice, significant neuronopathy was not detected in either cervical phrenic motor neurons or brainstem respiratory neurons. Because EPs are involved in the transmission of action potentials and the unmyelinated phrenic afferents exert a modulating influence on the respiratory drive, the pathological alterations affecting these structures might underlie the respiratory impairment detected in DMSXL mice. Understanding mechanisms of respiratory deficiency should guide pharmaceutical and clinical research towards better therapy for the respiratory deficits associated with DM1.

The Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Neurology (AAN) is one of the largest international conferences for neurologists and neuroscience professionals, and is dedicated to basic, clinical, epidemiologic, translational and educational research. More than 10,000 attendees from all over the world converged on this international forum for the exchange of cutting-edge findings through comprehensive educational programs and more than 2,300 interesting presentations.




Autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved catabolic mechanism that targets intracellular molecules and damaged organelles to lysosomes. Autophagy is achieved by a series of membrane trafficking events, but their regulatory mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we report small GTPase Rab12 as a new type of autophagic regulator that controls the degradation of an amino-acid transporter. Knockdown of Rab12 results in inhibition of autophagy and in increased activity of mTORC1 (mammalian/mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1), an upstream regulator of autophagy. We also found that Rab12 promotes constitutive degradation of PAT4 (proton-coupled amino-acid transporter 4), whose accumulation in Rab12-knockdown cells modulates mTORC1 activity and autophagy. Our findings reveal a new mechanism of regulation of mTORC1 signalling and autophagy, that is, quality control of PAT4 by Rab12.
After reproductive senescence or gonadectomy, changes occur in neural gene expression, ultimately altering brain function. The endocrine mechanisms underlying these changes in gene expression beyond immediate hormone loss are poorly understood. To investigate this, we measured changes in gene expression the dorsal striatum, where 17-estradiol modulates catecholamine signaling. In human caudate, quantitative PCR determined a significant elevation in 1-adrenergic receptor (1AR) expression in menopausal females when compared with similarly aged males. No differences were detected in 2-adrenergic and D1- and D2-dopamine receptor expression. Consistent with humans, adult ovariectomized female rats exhibited a similar increase in 1AR expression when compared with gonadectomized males. No sex difference in 1AR expression was detected between intact adults, prepubertal juveniles, or adults gonadectomized before puberty, indicating the necessity of pubertal development and adult ovariectomy. Additionally, increased 1AR expression in adult ovariectomized females was not observed if animals were masculinized/defeminized with testosterone injections as neonates. To generate a model system for assessing functional impact, increased 1AR expression was induced in female-derived cultured striatal neurons via exposure to and then removal of hormone-containing serum. Increased 1AR action on cAMP formation, cAMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation and gene expression was observed. This up-regulation of 1AR action was eliminated with 17-estradiol addition to the media, directly implicating this hormone as a regulator of 1AR expression. Beyond having implications for the known sex differences in striatal function and pathologies, these data collectively demonstrate that critical periods early in life and at puberty program adult gene responsiveness to hormone loss after gonadectomy and potentially reproductive senescence.
Cognitive impairment is a common and often devastating comorbidity of pharmacoresistent epilepsy. The cognitive comorbidity can be both chronic, primarily due to the underlying etiology of the epilepsy, and dynamic or evolving because of recurrent seizures or interictal spikes. There is now considerable evidence that interictal spikes can contribute to cognitive impairment. Interictal spikes in both rodents and humans result in transient impairment of memory retrieval, whereas in immature animals, interictal spikes can result in long-term adverse effects on brain development. Interictal spikes therefore contribute to the cognitive impairment in the pharmacoresistant epilepsies. Effective treatment of pharmacoresistant epilepsy needs to target not only the overt seizures but interictal electroencephalography (EEG) abnormalities as well.
Pharmacoresistance to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is a barrier to seizure freedom for many persons with epilepsy. For nearly two decades, pharmacoresistance has been framed in terms of factors affecting the access of AEDs to their molecular targets in the brain or the actions of the drugs on these targets. Shortcomings in this prevailing view led to the formulation of the intrinsic severity hypothesis of pharmacoresistance to AEDs, which is based on the recognition that there are neurobiologic factors that confer phenotypic variation among individuals with etiologically similar forms of epilepsy and postulates that more severe epilepsy is more difficult to treat with AEDs. In recent years, progress has been made identifying potential genetic mechanisms of variation in epilepsy severity, including subclinical mutations in ion channels that increase or reduce epilepsy severity in mice. Efforts are underway to identify clinically important genetic modifiers. If it can be demonstrated that such severity factors play a role in pharmacoresistance, treatments could be devised to reverse severity mechanisms. By overcoming pharmacoresistance, this new approach to epilepsy therapy may allow drug refractory patients to achieve seizure freedom without side effects.
Clinical case definitions are the cornerstone of clinical communication and of clinical and epidemiologic research. The ramifications of establishing a case definition are extensive, including potentially large changes in epidemiologic estimates of frequency, and decisions for clinical management. Yet, defining a condition entails numerous challenges such as defining the scope and purpose, incorporating the strongest evidence base with clinical expertise, accounting for patients' values, and considering impact on care. The clinical case definition of drug-resistant epilepsy, in addition, must address what constitutes an adequate intervention for an individual drug, what are the outcomes of relevance, what period of observation is sufficient to determine success or failure, how many medications should be tried, whether seizure frequency should play a role, and what is the role of side effects and tolerability. On the other hand, the principles of evidence-based medicine (EBM) aim at providing a systematic approach to incorporating the best available evidence into the process of clinical decision for individual patients. The case definition of drug-resistant epilepsy proposed by the the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) in 2009 is evaluated in terms of the principles of EBM as well as the stated goals of the authors of the definition.




Although attention problems have often been described in children with childhood absence epilepsy (CAE), the use of different methodological approaches, neuropsychological tests, and heterogeneous experimental groups has prevented identification of the selective areas of attention deficit in this population. In this study, we investigated several components of attention in children with CAE using a unique computerized test battery for attention performance. Participants included 24 patients with CAE and 24 controls matched for age and sex. They were tested with a computerized test battery, which included the following tasks: selective attention, impulsivity, focused attention, divided attention, alertness, and vigilance. Compared with healthy controls, patients with CAE made more commission errors in the Go/No-Go task and more omission errors in the divided attention task. Childhood absence epilepsy patients also showed decreased reaction times in measures of selective attention and a great variability of reaction times in alertness and Go/No-Go tasks. Our findings suggest that patients with CAE were impaired in tonic and phasic alertness, divided attention, selective attention, and impulsivity.
Cannabinoids and drugs that increase endocannabinoid levels inhibit neuronal excitability and restrain epileptic seizures through CB1 receptor activation. Nevertheless, the results have not been entirely consistent, since pro-convulsant effects have also been reported. The present study aimed to further investigate the effects of cannabinoid-related compounds on seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) in rats. Video-EEG recordings were used to determine both electrographic and behavioral thresholds to ictal activity. The animals received injections of WIN-55,212-2 (0.3-3 mg/kg, non-selective) or ACEA (1-4 mg/kg, CB1-selective), two synthetic cannabinoids, or URB-597 (0.3-3 mg/kg), an anandamide-hydrolysis inhibitor (FAAH enzyme inhibitor), followed by PTZ. Both WIN-55,212-2 (1 mg/kg) and ACEA (1-4 mg/kg) reduced the threshold for myoclonic seizures and enhanced epileptiform EEG activity, typical pro-convulsive effects. On the contrary, URB-597 (1 mg/kg) had an anti-convulsive effect, as it increased the threshold for the occurrence of minimal seizures and reduced EEG epileptiform activity. None of the drugs tested altered the tonic-clonic maximal seizure threshold. These data suggest that the effects of CB1 signaling upon seizure activity may depend on how this receptor is activated. Contrary to direct agonists, drugs that increase anandamide levels seem to promote an optimal tonus and represent a promising strategy for treating myoclonic seizures.




Axonal projections in the CNS can be categorized as either crossed or uncrossed. Crossing and uncrossing of axons has been explained by attractive and repulsive molecules like Netrin-1 and Slits, which are secreted by midline structures. However, uncrossed projections can be established even in double knockout mice of slit1 and slit2 or of roundabout1 (robo1) and robo2, two receptors for Slits. Here, we found that a novel mechanism mediated by Neuropilin-2 (Nrp2) contributes to the formation of uncrossed projections of midbrain dopaminergic neurons (mDANs). Nrp2 transcriptional activities were detected in a subset of mDANs, and its protein was expressed in mDAN axons growing through the ipsilateral diencephalon. In nrp2(lac) (Z) (/lac) (Z) mice, mDAN axons aberrantly grew toward the ventral midline and even crossed it, suggesting that Nrp2 is necessary for the development of mDAN ipsilateral projections. We investigated the involvement of Semaphorin 3B (Sema3B) and Sema3F, two ligands of Nrp2, by analysing mDAN axon trajectories in single or double knockout mice. In both cases, mDAN axons still projected ipsilaterally, suggesting the involvement mechanisms independent of these Sema3s. Nrp2-deficient mDAN axons retained their responsiveness to Slit2, demonstrating that aberrant mDAN axons in nrp2(lac) (Z) (/lac) (Z) mice were not indirectly mediated by alterations in Slit/Robo signaling. Taken together, our results indicate that a novel mechanism mediated by Nrp2 contributes to the establishment of uncrossed projections by mDAN axons.
Face perception in adults depends on skilled processing of interattribute distances ('configural' processing), which is disrupted for faces presented in inverted orientation (face inversion effect or FIE). Children are not proficient in configural processing, and this might relate to an underlying immaturity to use facial information in low spatial frequency (SF) ranges, which capture the coarse information needed for configural processing. We hypothesized that during adolescence a shift from use of high to low SF information takes place. Therefore, we studied the influence of SF content on neural face processing in groups of children (9-10years), adolescents (14-15years) and young adults (21-29years) by measuring event-related potentials (ERPs) to upright and inverted faces which varied in SF content. Results revealed that children show a neural FIE in early processing stages (i.e. P1; generated in early visual areas), suggesting a superficial, global facial analysis. In contrast, ERPs of adults revealed an FIE at later processing stages (i.e. N170; generated in face-selective, higher visual areas). Interestingly, adolescents showed FIEs in both processing stages, suggesting a hybrid developmental stage. Furthermore, adolescents and adults showed FIEs for stimuli containing low SF information, whereas such effects were driven by both low and high SF information in children. These results indicate that face processing has a protracted maturational course into adolescence, and is dependent on changes in SF processing. During adolescence, sensitivity to configural cues is developed, which aids the fast and holistic processing that is so special for faces.
The physiological significance of canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) ion channels in sensory systems is rapidly emerging. Heterologous expression studies show that TRPC3 is a significant Ca(2+) entry pathway, with dual activation via G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)-phospholipase C-diacylglycerol second messenger signaling, and through negative feedback, whereby a fall in cytosolic Ca(2+) releases Ca(2+) -calmodulin channel block. We hypothesised that the latter process contributes to cochlear hair cell cytosolic Ca(2+) homeostasis. Confocal microfluorimetry with the Ca(2+) indicator Fluo-4 acetoxymethylester showed that, when cytosolic Ca(2+) was depleted, Ca(2+) re-entry was significantly impaired in mature TRPC3(-/-) inner and outer hair cells. The impact of this disrupted Ca(2+) homeostasis on sound transduction was assessed with the use of distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs), which constitute a direct measure of the outer hair cell transduction that underlies hearing sensitivity and frequency selectivity. TRPC3(-/-) mice showed significantly stronger DPOAE (2f1 -f2 ) growth functions than wild-type (WT) littermates within the frequency range of best hearing acuity. This translated to hyperacusis (decreased threshold) measured by the auditory brainstem response (ABR). TRPC3(-/-) and WT mice did not differ in the levels of temporary and permanent threshold shift arising from noise exposure, indicating that potential GPCR signaling via TRPC3 is not pronounced. Overall, these data suggest that the Ca(2+) set-point in the hair cell, and hence membrane conductance, is modulated by TRPC3s through their function as a negative feedback-regulated Ca(2+) entry pathway. This TPRC3-regulated Ca(2+) homeostasis shapes the sound transduction input-output function and auditory neurotransmission.
The present immunohistochemical study was aimed at characterizing the serotonin (5-HT) innervation of the internal (GPi) and external (GPe) pallidal segments in the squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) with an antibody against the 5-HT transporter (SERT). At the light microscopic level, unbiased counts of SERT+ axon varicosities showed that the density of innervation is similar in the GPi (0.570.0310(6) varicosities/mm(3) of tissue) and the GPe (0.600.0410(6) ), with the anterior half of both segments being more densely innervated than the posterior half. Dorsoventral and mediolateral decreasing gradients of SERT varicosities occur in both pallidal segments, but are statistically significant only in the GPi. The neuronal density being significantly greater in the GPe (3.410.2310(3) neurons/mm(3) ) than in the GPi (2.900.11103), the number of 5-HT axon varicosities per pallidal neuron was found to be superior in the GPi (20127) than in the GPe (15626). At the electron microscopic level, SERT+ axon varicosities are comparable in size and vesicular content in GPi and GPe, where they establish mainly asynaptic contacts with unlabeled profiles. Less than 25% of SERT+ varicosities display a synaptic specialization, which is of the symmetrical or asymmetrical type and occurs exclusively on pallidal dendrites. No SERT+ axo-axonic synapses are present, suggesting that 5-HT exerts its well-established modulatory action upon various pallidal afferents mainly through diffuse transmission, whereas its direct control of pallidal neurons results from both volumic and synaptic release of the transmitter.
The cAMP signaling pathway mediates synaptic plasticity and is essential for memory formation in both vertebrates and invertebrates. In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, mutations in the cAMP pathway lead to impaired olfactory learning. These mutant genes are preferentially expressed in the mushroom body (MB), an anatomical structure essential for learning. While cAMP-mediated synaptic plasticity is known to be involved in facilitation at the excitatory synapses, little is known about its function in GABAergic synaptic plasticity and learning. In this study, using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques on Drosophila primary neuronal cultures, we demonstrate that focal application of an adenylate cyclase activator forskolin (FSK) suppressed inhibitory GABAergic postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). We observed a dual regulatory role of FSK on GABAergic transmission, where it increases overall excitability at GABAergic synapses, while simultaneously acting on postsynaptic GABA receptors to suppress GABAergic IPSCs. Further, we show that cAMP decreased GABAergic IPSCs in a PKA-dependent manner through a postsynaptic mechanism. PKA acts through the modulation of ionotropic GABA receptor sensitivity to the neurotransmitter GABA. This regulation of GABAergic IPSCs is altered in the cAMP pathway and short-term memory mutants dunce and rutabaga, with both showing altered GABA receptor sensitivity. Interestingly, this effect is also conserved in the MB neurons of both these mutants. Thus, our study suggests that alterations in cAMP-mediated GABAergic plasticity, particularly in the MB neurons of cAMP mutants, account for their defects in olfactory learning.
We have previously shown, in the rat, that neuropathic and inflammatory events produce a neuroplastic change in nociceptor function whereby a subsequent exposure to a proinflammatory mediator (e.g. prostaglandin E2 ; PGE2 ) produces markedly prolonged mechanical hyperalgesia. While the initial approximately 30min of this prolonged PGE2 hyperalgesia remains PKA-dependent, it subsequently switches to become dependent on protein kinase C epsilon (PKC). In this study we tested the hypothesis that the delayed onset, PKC-mediated, component of PGE2 hyperalgesia is generated by the active release of a nucleotide from the peripheral terminal of the primed nociceptor and this nucleotide is then metabolized to produce adenosine, which acts on a Gi-coupled A1 adenosine receptor on the nociceptor to generate PKC-dependent hyperalgesia. We report that inhibitors of ATP-binding cassette transporters, of ecto-5'-phosphodiesterase and ecto-5'nucleotidase (enzymes involved in the metabolism of cyclic nucleotides to adenosine) and of A1 adenosine receptors each eliminated the late, but not the early, phase of PGE2 -induced hyperalgesia in primed animals. A second model of chronic pain induced by transient attenuation of G-protein-coupled receptor kinase2, in which the prolongation of PGE2 hyperalgesia is not PKC-dependent, was not attenuated by inhibitors of any of these mechanisms. Based on these results we propose a contribution of an autocrine mechanism, in the peripheral terminal of the nociceptor, in the hyperalgesic priming model of chronic pain.
Both execution and observation of erroneous actions have been shown to increase the activity of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) as reflected in characteristic event-related potential (ERP) components labelled error-related negativity (ERN) and observer error-related negativity (oERN), respectively. Whereas these labels implicate a modulation of both components by response accuracy, recent findings suggest a more general involvement of the ACC in the detection of unexpected events. In previous studies, a lower frequency of erroneous as compared with correct observed actions resulted in lower expectation of erroneous actions. The present study investigates whether ERPs following observed actions are modulated by response accuracy or violation of expectation. Sixteen human subjects observed a virtual person whose actions in a game were expected or unexpected. Action expectation was independent of accuracy. In both conditions, subjects observed correct and incorrect actions equally often. Whereas ERPs were not modulated by accuracy, we found an enhanced amplitude of a negative frontocentral ERP component in the time window of the oERN for unexpected as compared with expected observed actions, which we suggest reflects an action prediction error. These results propose that the function of the ACC in performance monitoring depends less on accuracy of actions but rather on predictions and their violations. Future research will have to clarify whether the present ERP modulations revealed a feature of the oERN or whether they represent a distinct component.
Accumulating evidence indicates that impulsivity, in its multiple forms, involves cortical and subcortical mechanisms and abnormal dopamine (DA) transmission. Although decreased DA D2/D3 receptor availability in the nucleus accumbens (NAcb) predicts trait-like impulsivity in rats it is unclear whether this neurochemical marker extends to both the NAcb core (NAcbC) and shell (NAcbS) and whether markers for other neurotransmitter systems implicated in impulsivity such as serotonin (5-HT), endogenous opioids and -amino-butyric acid (GABA) are likewise altered in impulsive rats. We therefore used autoradiography to investigate DA transporter (DAT), 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) and D1, D2/D3, -opioid and GABA(A) receptor binding in selected regions of the prefrontal cortex and striatum in rats expressing low and high impulsive behaviour on the five-choice serial reaction-time task. High-impulsive (HI) rats exhibited significantly lower binding for DAT and D2/D3 receptors in the NAcbS and for D1 receptors in the NAcbC compared with low-impulsive (LI) rats. HI rats also showed significantly lower GABA(A) receptor binding in the anterior cingulate cortex. For all regions where receptor binding was altered in HI rats, binding was inversely correlated with impulsive responding on task. There were no significant differences in binding for 5-HTT or -opioid receptors in any of the regions investigated. These results indicate that altered D2/D3 receptor binding is localised to the NAcbS of trait-like impulsive rats and is accompanied by reduced binding for DAT. Alterations in binding for D1 receptors in the NAcbC and GABA(A) receptors in the anterior cingulate cortex demonstrate additional markers and putative mechanisms underlying the expression of behavioural impulsivity.



Primary intradural extramedullary hydatid cyst is a rare form of parasitic infection, causing focal neurological signs, commonly observed in sheep-raising areas of the world. We report a rare case of intradural, extramedullary spinal cyst, which we had misdiagnosis in the first surgery, because of rarity of the case. A 55-year-old man presented to our hospital in August 2008. He was admitted to our clinic because of lumbar pain of increasing severity and progressive difficulty with walking and stiffness of both lower limbs, which had lasted for 1 month. On the basis of imaging results, arachnoid cyst of the lumbar spine was diagnosed. Due to rapid progression of the patient's symptoms toward spastic paraplegia, he underwent an emergency surgical decompression procedure. The patient underwent exploratory surgery using a posterior approach. A L1-L2 laminectomy was performed. After opening the dura, an intradural extramedullary cystic mass was determined. The surgical specimen measured 6  2 cm and was described as a whitish, pearl-like, semitranslucent, cystic material, which was thought to be parasitic. Surgery has to be followed by albendazole therapy.

It is widely accepted that protein oxidation is involved in a variety of diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases. Especially during aging, a reduction in anti-oxidant defence mechanisms leads to an increased formation of free radical oxygen species and consequently results in a damage of proteins, including mitochondrial and synaptic ones. Even those proteins involved in repair and protein clearance via the ubiquitin proteasome and lysosomal system are subject to damage and show a reduced function. Here, we will discuss a variety of mechanisms and provide examples where cognition is affected and where repair mechanisms are no longer sufficient to compensate for a dysfunction of damaged proteins or even may become toxic. Next to physiological deficits, an accumulation of deficient proteins in aggresomes may occur and result in a formation of pathological hallmark structures typical for aging and disease. A major challenge is how to prevent aberrant oxidation, given that oxidation plays an essential role in aging and neurodegenerative diseases. Particularly interesting are the possibilities to reduce the formation of radical oxygen species leading to a dysfunction of protein repair and protein clearance, or to a formation of toxic byproducts accelerating neurodegeneration.
In goal-oriented locomotion, healthy adults generate highly stereotyped trajectories and a consistent anticipatory head orienting behaviour, both evidence of top-down, open-loop control. The aim of this study is to describe the typical development of anticipatory orienting strategies and trajectory formation. Our hypothesis is that full-blown anticipatory control requires advanced navigational skills. Twenty-six healthy subjects (14 children: 4-11 years; 6 adolescents: 13-17 years; 6 adults) were asked to walk freely towards one of the three visual targets, in a randomised order. Movement was captured via an optoelectronic system, with 15 body markers. The whole-body displacement, yaw orientation of head, trunk and pelvis, heading direction and foot placements were extracted. Head-heading anticipation, trajectory curvature, indexes of variability of trajectories, foot placements and kinematic profiles were studied. The mean head-heading anticipation time and trajectory curvature did not significantly differ among age groups. In children, however, head anticipation was more often lacking (2 = 9.55, p &lt; 0.01), and there were significant intra- and inter-subject variations. Trajectory curvature was often very high in children, while it became consistently lower in adolescence (2 = 78.59, p &lt; 10(-17)). The indexes of spatial and kinematic variability all followed a decreasing developmental trend (R (2) &gt; 0.5, p &lt; 0.0001). In conclusion, children under 11 do not perform curvilinear locomotor trajectories as adolescents and adults do. Anticipatory head orientation and trajectory formation develop in late childhood, well after gait maturation. Navigational skills, such as path planning and shifting from ego- to allocentric spatial reference frames, are proposed as necessary requisites for mature locomotor control.
Assuming that behavior observed during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is comparable with behavior outside the scanner appears to be a basic tenet in cognitive neuroscience. Nevertheless, this assumption has rarely been tested directly. Here, we examined the reliability and validity of speeded performance during fMRI scanning by having the same 30 participants perform a battery of five reaction time (RT) tasks in two separate fMRI sessions and a standard laboratory (i.e., outside-scanner) session. Medium-to-high intra-class correlations between the three sessions showed that individual RT differences were conserved across sessions. Thus, for the range of tasks used, test-retest reliability and criterion validity of performance during scanning were satisfactory. Further, the pattern of between-task relations did not change within the scanner, attesting to the construct validity of performance measurements during scanning. In some tasks, however, RTs obtained from fMRI conditions were significantly shorter than those observed under normal laboratory conditions. In summary, RTs obtained during fMRI scanning appear to be largely reliable and valid measures of behavior. The observed RT speed-up during scanning might reflect task-specific interactions with a slightly different neuro-cognitive state, indicating some limits to generalizing brain-behavior relations observed with fMRI. These findings encourage further efforts in fMRI research to establish the external validity of within-scanner task performance.
Humans are thought to be able to form shared representations, considered a keystone of social cognition. However, whether and to what extent such representations are social in nature is still open for debate. In the present study, we address the question of whether action co-representation can be modulated by social attitudes, such as judgments about one's own social status. Two groups of participants performed an Interactive Simon task after the experimental induction of a feeling of social inclusion or exclusion (ostracism) by means of a virtual ball tossing game. Results showed a compatibility effect in included, but not in excluded participants. This indicates that judgments about one's own social status modulate action co-representation. We suggest that this modulation may occur by way of a redirection of one's attentional focus away from others when one experiences social exclusion. This is a far-reaching issue given the increasing need for integration in modern society. Indeed, if integration fails, modern society fails also.
It has been proposed that the subthalamic nucleus (STN) mediates response inhibition and conflict resolution through the fronto-basal ganglia pathways. Our aim was to compare the effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the STN on reactive and proactive inhibition and conflict resolution in Parkinson's disease using a single task. We used the conditional Stop signal reaction time task that provides the Stop signal reaction time (SSRT) as a measure of reactive inhibition, the response delay effect (RDE) as a measure of proactive inhibition and conflict-induced slowing (CIS) as a measure of conflict resolution. DBS of the STN significantly prolonged SSRT relative to stimulation off. However, while the RDE measure of proactive inhibition was not significantly altered by DBS of the STN, relative to healthy controls, RDE was significantly lower with DBS off but not DBS on. DBS of the STN did not alter the mean CIS but produced a significant differential effect on the slowest and fastest RTs on conflict trials, further prolonging the slowest RTs on the conflict trials relative to DBS off and to controls. These results are the first demonstration, using a single task in the same patient sample, that DBS of the STN produces differential effects on reactive and proactive inhibition and on conflict resolution, suggesting that these effects are likely to be mediated through the impact of STN stimulation on different fronto-basal ganglia pathways: hyperdirect, direct and indirect.
Both normal aging and dementia are associated with altered circadian regulation of physiology and behavior. Elderly individuals and dementia patients commonly experience disrupted sleep-wake cycles, which may lead to psychomotor agitation, confusion, and wandering. These behaviors are disruptive to both patients and caregivers. Sundowning syndrome, which encompasses many of these behaviors, is characterized by a temporal pattern in the severity of symptoms, usually expressed as worse during the late afternoon or evening. Other than antipsychotic medications, off-label medications, and restraint, few treatment options are available. The aim of this paper is to review mouse studies of circadian behavioral disturbances relevant to sundowning, in order to determine potential models for studying the mechanisms of sundowning syndrome. The emergence of a useful mouse model should facilitate the development of novel therapeutic approaches.



Migraine is a common neurological syndrome that affects approximately 10-20% of the population. The pathophysiology of migraine is unclear. 5-hydroxytriptamine is a key mediator in the pathogenesis of migraine and thus 5-HT1-receptor agonists are the principal drugs for acute migraine therapy. There are three classes of drugs for migraine: over-the-counter analgesics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for acute mild migraine, specific prescription drugs (triptans and ergot alkaloids) for acute severe migraine and pharmacological agents for prophylaxis of migraine. Sumatriptan, naratriptan and others, referred to as 'triptans', are the mainstay for acute treatment of migraine. Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine, dihydroergotamine) are used in patients with frequent, moderate migraine, but are less effective than triptans. There are several agents for prevention of migraine occurrence in patients with frequent or severe disabling migraine attacks. New drugs with improved efficacy and reduced side effects are needed for effective treatment and prevention of migraine.
In this article, the authors aim to present a critical review of recent MRI studies addressing white matter (WM) abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), by searching PubMed and reviewing MRI studies evaluating subjects with AD or MCI using WM volumetric methods, diffusion tensor imaging and assessment of WM hyperintensities. Studies have found that, compared with healthy controls, AD and MCI samples display WM volumetric reductions and diffusion tensor imaging findings suggestive of reduced WM integrity. These changes affect complex networks relevant to episodic memory and other cognitive processes, including fiber connections that directly link medial temporal structures and the corpus callosum. Abnormalities in cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical WM interconnections are associated with an increased risk of progression from MCI to dementia. It can be concluded that WM abnormalities are detectable in early stages of AD and MCI. Degeneration of WM networks causes disconnection among neural cells and the degree of such changes is related to cognitive decline.
Human attention selectively focuses on aspects of experience that are threatening, pleasant, or novel. The physical threats of the ancient times have largely been replaced by chronic psychological worries and hurts. The mind gets drawn to these worries and hurts, mostly in the domain of the past and future, leading to mind wandering. In the brain, a network of neurons called the default mode network has been associated with mind wandering. Abnormal activity in the default mode network may predispose to depression, anxiety, attention deficit, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Several studies show that meditation can reverse some of these abnormalities, producing salutary functional and structural changes in the brain. This narrative review presents a mechanistic understanding of meditation in the context of recent advances in neurosciences about mind wandering, attention, and the brain networks.
The brain is constantly adapting to a changing environment. It detects environmental stimuli, integrates that information with internal states, and engages appropriate behavioral and physiological responses. This process of stability through change is termed &quot;allostasis&quot;, and serves as a mechanism by which an organism can adapt to a changing environment to function optimally, and ultimately ensure survival. The ability to adapt to stressors in the environment by &quot;bending&quot; but not &quot;breaking&quot; can be considered as &quot;resilience&quot;. Individuals that are more able to withstand such challenges to their stability, and bounce back after, can be considered more resilient than those that do not. This review will explore what resilience means in a neurobiological context, the role of stress and allostasis, and focuses on the role of neurotrophins, particularly BDNF, in mediating adaptive plasticity.
-Site amyloid precursor protein convertase enzyme 1 (BACE1), a type I transmembrane aspartyl protease required to cleave amyloid precursor protein for releasing a toxic amyloid peptide, also cleaves type I and type III neuregulin-1 (Nrg-1). BACE1 deficiency in mice causes hypomyelination during development and impairs remyelination if injured. In BACE1-null mice, the abolished cleavage of neuregulin-1 by BACE1 is speculated to cause reduced myelin sheath thickness in both the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system because reduced cleavage of Nrg-1 correlates with reduced Akt phosphorylation, a downstream signaling molecule of the Nrg-1/ErbB pathway. Here we tested specifically whether increasing Akt activity alone in oligodendrocytes would be sufficient to reverse the hypomyelination phenotype in BACE1-null mice. BACE1-null mice were bred with transgenic mice expressing constitutively active Akt (Akt-DD; mutations with D(308)T and D(473)S) in oligodendrocytes. Relative to littermate BACE1-null controls, BACE1(-/-)/Akt-DD mice exhibited enhanced expression of myelin basic protein and promoter of proteolipid protein. The elevated expression of myelin proteins correlated with a thicker myelin sheath in optic nerves; comparison of quantified g ratios with statistic significance was used to confirm this reversion. However, it appeared that myelin sheath thickness in the sciatic nerves was not increased in BACE1(-/-)/Akt-DD mice, as the g ratio was not significantly different from the control. Hence, increased Akt activity in BACE1-null myelinating cells only compensates for the loss of BACE1 activity in the central nervous system, which is consistent with the observation that overexpression of Akt-DD in Schwann cells did not induce hypermyelination. Our results suggest that signaling activity other than Akt may also contribute to proper myelination in peripheral nerves.
Endocannabinoids are readily accumulated from the extracellular space by cells. Although their uptake properties have the appearance of a process of facilitated diffusion, it is by no means clear as to whether there is a plasma membrane transporter dedicated to this task. Intracellular carrier proteins that shuttle the endocannabinoid anandamide from the plasma membrane to its intracellular targets such as the metabolic enzyme, fatty acid amide hydrolase, have been identified. These include proteins with other primary functions, such as fatty-acid-binding proteins and heat shock protein 70, and possibly a fatty acid amide hydrolase-like anandamide transporter protein. Thus, anandamide uptake can be adequately described as a diffusion process across the plasma membrane followed by intracellular carrier-mediated transport to effector molecules, catabolic enzymes and sequestration sites, although it is recognized that different cells are likely to utilize different mechanisms of endocannabinoid transport depending upon the utility of the endocannabinoid for the cell in question.
Differentiation of masculine and feminine behavior in mammals depends on perinatal sex steroids. As bisphenol-A (BPA) can be estrogenic and anti-androgenic, we examined impacts of perinatal exposure upon adult sexual behavior and morphology of male mice. In Experiment 1, dams were fed either a high- or low-phytoestrogen diet and received daily oral doses of 0, 0.175, 1.75, or 17.5g BPA from gestation day 10 through post-partum day 9. Male offspring from the high-phytoestrogen plus 17.5g BPA condition showed reduced mass of vesicular-coagulating but not other male glands, and showed increased latency to insemination when paired with females. In Experiment 2, these procedures were replicated but with all animals fed the high-phytoestrogen diet and perinatal BPA doses of 0, 17.5, 175, or 1750g/day. Adult masses of testes and male-accessory glands and levels of urinary steroids were not significantly affected. When males each encountered a sexually receptive female, there were fewer intromissions among those given 17.5 or 175g and fewer ejaculations among those given 17.5g, but the 1750g dose had no effect. Perinatal BPA dosages thus influenced male sexual behavior non-monotonically, with impairment evident in a discrete dose range among males on a high-phytoestrogen diet.
Bipolar disorders constitute a group of frequent, chronic psychiatric illnesses with a most severe impact on the patient's life. The course can be very individual and heterogeneous, the best known and most frequent manifestations include the classical bipolar I and bipolar II disorders. However, in Germany even typical bipolar I disorders are underdiagnosed and, consequently, undertreated. This is true despite the fact that the number of pharmacological treatment options has rapidly increased during recent years, both in the field of anticonvulsants and atypical antipsychotics. This supplies us today with new therapeutic strategies, not only for acute mania, but also for bipolar depression and maintenance treatment, and it is feasible to assume that there will be more options available within the next few years.
Dietary nitrate is reduced to nitrite and nitric oxide (()NO) in the gut, producing reactive species able to nitrate proteins and lipids. We investigated intragastric production of ()NO and nitrating agents in vivo by examining selective nitration of pepsinogen and pepsin. We further addressed the functional impact of nitration on peptic activity by evaluating the progression of secretagogue-induced ulcers. Pepsinogen nitration was assessed in healthy and diclofenac-induced ulcerated rat stomachs. Both groups were fed nitrite or water by oral gavage. Protein nitration was studied by immunofluorescence and immunoprecipitation. In parallel experiments, pentagastrin was administered to rats and nitrite was then instilled intragastrically. ()NO levels were measured before and after nitrite administration by chemiluminescence. Macroscopic damage was assessed and nitrated pepsin was examined in the margin of ulcers. Protein nitration was detected physiologically in the stomach of healthy animals. Nitrite had a dual effect on intragastric nitration: overall nitration was decreased under physiological conditions but enhanced by acute inflammation. Pepsin and pepsinogen were also nitrated via a nitrite-dependent pathway. Nitration of both pepsin and its zymogen led to decreased peptic activity in response to classical substrates (e.g., collagen). Under conditions of acute ulceration, nitrite-dependent pepsin nitration prevented the development of gastric ulcers. Dietary nitrite generates nitrating agents in the stomach in vivo, markedly decreasing peptic activity. Under inflammatory and ulcerogenic conditions pepsin nitration attenuates the progression of gastric ulceration. These results suggest that dietary nitrite-dependent nitration of pepsin may have a novel antiulcerogenic effect in vivo.


Interleukin-25 (IL-25) is the only anti-inflammatory cytokine of the IL-17 family, and it has been shown to be efficacious in inhibiting neuroinflammation. Known for its effects on cells of the adaptive immune system, it has been more recently described to be effective also on cells of the innate immune system, namely macrophages. We used a lentiviral-mediated gene therapy approach to deliver IL-25 to the central nervous system (CNS) in two mouse models of neuroinflammation, entorhinal cortex lesion and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In both, we found that IL-25 gene therapy was able to modulate CNS myeloid cells, either infiltrating macrophages or resident microglia, towards an anti-inflammatory, tissue-protective phenotype, as testified by the increase in markers such as Arginase-1 (Arg1), Mannose receptor 1 (CD206) and Chitinase 3-like 3 (Ym1). As a consequence, neuroinflammation was partly inhibited and the CNS protected from immune-mediated damage. To our knowledge, this is the first example of M2 shift (alternative activation) induced in vivo on CNS-resident myeloid cells by gene therapy, and may constitute a promising strategy to investigate the potential role of protective microglia in neurological disorders.
PINK1 (PTEN induced putative kinase 1), a familial Parkinson's disease (PD)-related gene, is expressed in astrocytes, but little is known about its role in this cell type. Here, we found that astrocytes cultured from PINK1-knockout (KO) mice exhibit defective proliferative responses to epidermal growth factor (EGF) and fetal bovine serum. In PINK1-KO astrocytes, basal and EGF-induced p38 activation (phosphorylation) were increased whereas EGF receptor (EGFR) expression and AKT activation were decreased. p38 inhibition (SB203580) or knockdown with small interfering RNA (siRNA) rescued EGFR expression and AKT activation in PINK1-KO astrocytes. Proliferation defects in PINK1-KO astrocytes appeared to be linked to mitochondrial defects, manifesting as decreased mitochondrial mass and membrane potential, increased intracellular reactive oxygen species level, decreased glucose-uptake capacity, and decreased ATP production. Mitochondrial toxin (oligomycin) and a glucose-uptake inhibitor (phloretin) mimicked the PINK1-deficiency phenotype, decreasing astrocyte proliferation, EGFR expression and AKT activation, and increasing p38 activation. In addition, the proliferation defect in PINK1-KO astrocytes resulted in a delay in the wound healing process. Taken together, these results suggest that PINK1 deficiency causes astrocytes dysfunction, which may contribute to the development of PD due to delayed astrocytes-mediated repair of microenvironment in the brain.
Stroke induces extensive tissue remodeling, resulting in the activation of several cell types in the brain as well as recruitment of blood-borne leucocytes. Radixin is part of a cytoskeleton linker protein family with the ability to connect transmembrane proteins to the actin cytoskeleton, promoting cell functions involving a dynamic cytoskeleton such as morphological changes, cell division and migration which are common events of different cell types after stroke. In the healthy adult brain radixin is expressed in Olig2(+) cells throughout the brain and in neural progenitor cells in the subventricular zone. In the current study, we detected a 2.5 fold increase in the number of radixin positive cells in the peri-infarct cortex two weeks after the induction of cortical stroke by photothrombosis. Similarly, the number of Olig2(+) cells increased in the peri-infarct area after stroke; however, the number of radixin(+)/Olig2(+) cells was unchanged. Neural progenitor cells maintained radixin expression on their route to the infarct. More surprising however, was the expression of radixin in activated microglia in the peri-infarct cortex. Seventy percent of Iba1(+) cells expressed radixin after stroke, a population which was not present in the control brain. Furthermore, activation of radixin was predominantly detected in the peri-infarct region of oligodendrocyte progenitors and microglia. The specific location of radixin(+) cells in the peri-infarct region and in microglia suggests a role for radixin in microglial activation after stroke.
Differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) is the most important event for the myelination of central nervous system (CNS) axons during development and remyelination in demyelinating diseases, while the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here we show that NMDA receptor (NMDAR) is a functional regulator of OPCs differentiation and remyelination. First, GluN1, GluN2A, and GluN2B subunits are expressed in oligodendrocyte lineage cells (OLs) in vitro and in vivo by immunostaining and Western blot analysis. Second, in a purified rat OPC culture system, NMDARs specially mediate OPCs differentiation by enhancing myelin proteins expression and the processes branching at the immature to mature oligodendrocyte transition analyzed by a serial of developmental stage-specific antigens. Moreover, pharmacological NMDAR antagonists or specific knockdown of GluN1 by RNA interference in OPCs prevents the differentiation induced by NMDA. NMDA can activate the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signal in OPCs and the pro-differentiation effect of NMDA is obstructed by the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, suggesting NMDAR exerts its effect through mTOR-dependent mechanism. Furthermore, NMDA increases numbers of myelin segments in DRG-OPC cocultures. Finally, NMDAR specific antagonist MK801 delays remyelination in the cuprizone model examined by LFB-PAS, immunofluorescence and electron microscopy. This effect appears to result from inhibiting OPCs differentiation as more NG2(+) OPCs but less GST-(+) mature oligodendrocytes are observed. Together, these results indicate that NMDAR plays a critical role in the regulation of OPCs differentiation in vitro and remyelination in cuprizone model which may provide potential target for the treatment of demyelination disease.
Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) or Krabbe disease, is a fatal demyelinating disease attributed to mutations in the galactocerebrosidase (GALC) gene. Loss of function mutations in GALC result in accumulation of the glycolipid intermediate, galactosylsphingosine (psychosine). Due to the cytotoxicity of psychosine, it has been hypothesized that accumulated psychosine underlie the pathophysiology of GLD. However, the cellular mechanisms of GLD pathophysiology remain unclear. Globoid cells, multinucleated microglia/macrophages in the central nervous system (CNS), are a defining characteristic of GLD. Here we report that exposure of primary glial cultures to psychosine induces the expression and the production of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3 that mediated a morphological transformation of microglia into a multinucleated globoid cell type. Additionally, psychosine-induced globoid cell formation from microglia was prevented by either genetic ablation or chemical inhibition of MMP-3. These effects are microglia-specific as peripheral macrophages exposed to psychosine did not become activated or express increased levels of MMP-3. In the brain from twitcher mice, a murine model of human GLD, elevated MMP-3 expression relative to wild-type littermates was contemporaneous with disease onset and further increased with disease progression. Further, bone marrow transplantation (BMT), currently the only therapeutically beneficial treatment for GLD, did not mitigate the elevated expression of MMP-3 in twitcher mice. Hence, elevated expression of MMP-3 in GLD may promote microglial responses to psychosine that may represent an important pathophysiological process in this disease and its treatment.
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is expressed in several regions of brain and plays regulatory roles such as neurite outgrowth, synaptic plasticity and long term potentiation. The activity of tPA is regulated by an endogenous inhibitor plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), which is expressed mainly in astrocytes. Valproic acid (VPA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor that is used for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorders, promotes neurite extension, neuronal growth and has neuroprotective effect in neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we examined whether the neurite extension effects of VPA is mediated by modulating tPA/PAI-1 system. VPA dose-dependently increased tPA activity and decreased PAI-1 activity in rat primary astrocytes but not in neurons. PAI-1 protein level secreted into the culture medium but not tPA per se was decreased by VPA. In co-culture system or in neuronal culture stimulated with astrocyte conditioned media but not in pure neuronal cell culture, VPA induced neurite outgrowth via increased tPA activity due to the decreased PAI-1 activity in astrocytes. The decrease in PAI-1 activity and increased neurite extension was regulated via JNK mediated post-transcriptional pathway. The essential role of tPA/PAI-1 system in the regulation of VPA-mediated neurite extension was further demonstrated by experiments using astrocyte conditioned media obtained from tPA or PAI-1 knockout mice. Regulation of PAI-1 activity in astrocyte by VPA may affect both physiological and pathological processes in brain by upregulating tPA activity.

Despite an incidence of approximately 3.8 million sports-related concussions per year, the pathophysiological basis of this injury remains poorly understood. Associated post-traumatic headache, both acute and chronic, can also provide a unique treatment challenge for medical personnel. The presence of new onset or persistent headache following injury often complicates return to play decisions. It is also now evident that recurrent head trauma may be associated with the development of some chronic neurodegenerative disorders. Although anecdotal reports and consensus guidelines are utilized in the management of sports concussion and associated post-traumatic headache, further evidence-based data are needed. Improved prevention and management of this injury will occur with ongoing educational and research efforts. As such advances are made, it is imperative the headache specialist have continued understanding of this evolving field.

Sturge-Weber syndrome is known to be associated with migraine attacks and prolong aura even without cerebral infarction. We report the case of a 36-year-old woman with type III Sturge-Weber syndrome developing with prolonged left homonymous hemianopsia after an intractable migraine-like headache and becoming a permanent visual field defect at 18-month follow up. By adopting a multimodality imaging study, we suggested that the underlying mechanism of prolonged visual field defect was due to blood flow disturbance and vasogenic leakage under the leptomeningeal angioma combining with atrophy and the damaged integrity of white matter in right occipital lobe.
Despite decades of research, consensus regarding the dynamics of fear appeals remains elusive. A meta-analysis was conducted that was designed to resolve this controversy. Publications that were included in previous meta-analyses were re-analysed, and a number of additional publications were located. The inclusion criteria were full factorial orthogonal manipulations of threat and efficacy, and measurement of behaviour as an outcome. Fixed and random effects models were used to compute mean effect size estimates. Meta-analysis of the six studies that satisfied the inclusion criteria clearly showed a significant interaction between threat and efficacy, such that threat only had an effect under high efficacy (d = 0.31), and efficacy only had an effect under high threat (d = 0.71). Inconsistency in results regarding the effectiveness of threatening communication can likely be attributed to flawed methodology. Proper tests of fear appeal theory yielded the theoretically hypothesised interaction effect. Threatening communication should exclusively be used when pilot studies indicate that an intervention successfully enhances efficacy.
This paper sets out the case that personality traits are central to health psychology. To achieve this, three aims need to be addressed. First, it is necessary to show that personality influences a broad range of health outcomes and mechanisms. Second, the simple descriptive account of Aim 1 is not sufficient, and a theoretical specification needs to be developed to explain the personality-health link and allow for future hypothesis generation. Third, once Aims 1 and 2 are met, it is necessary to demonstrate the clinical utility of personality. In this review I make the case that all three Aims are met. I develop a theoretical framework to understand the links between personality and health drawing on current theorising in the biology, evolution, and neuroscience of personality. I identify traits (i.e., alexithymia, Type D, hypochondriasis, and empathy) that are of particular concern to health psychology and set these within evolutionary cost-benefit analysis. The literature is reviewed within a three-level hierarchical model (individual, group, and organisational) and it is argued that health psychology needs to move from its traditional focus on the individual level to engage group and organisational levels.
Cochlear implant (CI) users typically have excellent speech recognition in quiet but struggle with understanding speech in noise. It is thought that broad current spread from stimulating electrodes causes adjacent electrodes to activate overlapping populations of neurons which results in interactions across adjacent channels. Current focusing has been studied as a way to reduce spread of excitation, and therefore, reduce channel interactions. In particular, partial tripolar stimulation has been shown to reduce spread of excitation relative to monopolar stimulation. However, the crucial question is whether this benefit translates to improvements in speech perception. In this study, we compared speech perception in noise with experimental monopolar and partial tripolar speech processing strategies. The two strategies were matched in terms of number of active electrodes, microphone, filterbanks, stimulation rate and loudness (although both strategies used a lower stimulation rate than typical clinical strategies). The results of this study showed a significant improvement in speech perception in noise with partial tripolar stimulation. All subjects benefited from the current focused speech processing strategy. There was a mean improvement in speech recognition threshold of 2.7dB in a digits in noise task and a mean improvement of 3dB in a sentences in noise task with partial tripolar stimulation relative to monopolar stimulation. Although the experimental monopolar strategy was worse than the clinical, presumably due to different microphones, frequency allocations and stimulation rates, the experimental partial-tripolar strategy, which had the same changes, showed no acute deficit relative to the clinical.
Encoding of a goal with a specific value while performing a place navigation task involves the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC), and depends on the coordination between mPFC and the ventro-intermediate hippocampus (vHPC).The present work investigates the contribution of mPFC, dHPC, and vHPC when the rat has to update the value of a goal. Rats were trained to navigate to an uncued goal in order to release a food pellet in a continuous place navigation task. When they had reached criterion performance level in the task, they were subjected to a single &quot;flash session&quot; in which they were exposed to an aversive strobe light during goal visits instead of receiving a food reward. Just before the flash session, the GABA(A) agonist muscimol was injected to temporarily inactivate mPFC, dHPC, or vHPC. The ability to recall the changed value of the goal was tested on the next day. We first demonstrate the aversive effect of the strobe light by showing that rats learn to avoid the goal much more rapidly in the flash session than during a simple extinction session in which goal visits are not rewarded. Furthermore, while dHPC inactivation had no effect on learning and recalling the new goal value, vHPC muscimol injections considerably delayed goal value updating during the flash session, which resulted in a slight deficit during recall. In contrast, mPFC muscimol injections induced faster goal value updating but the rats were markedly impaired on recalling the new goal value on the next day. These results suggest that, contrary to mPFC and dHPC, vHPC is required for updating the value of a goal. In contrast, mPFC is necessary for long-term retention of this updating.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is essential for neuronal survival, differentiation, and plasticity and is one of those genes that generate multiple mRNAs with different alternatively spliced 5'UTRs. The functional significance of many BDNF transcripts, each producing the same protein, is emerging. On the basis of the analysis of the four most abundant brain BDNF transcripts, we recently proposed the &quot;spatial code hypothesis of BDNF splice variants&quot; according to which the BDNF transcripts, through their differential subcellular localization in soma or dendrites, represent a mechanism to synthesize the protein at distinct locations and produce local effects. In this study, using laser microdissection of hippocampal laminae and reverse transcription-quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR), we analyzed all known BDNF mRNA variants at resting conditions or following 3 h pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. In untreated rats, we found dendritic enrichment of BDNF transcripts encoding exons 6 and 7 in CA1; exons 1, 6, and 9a in CA3; and exons 5, 6, 7, and 8 in DG. Considering the low abundance of the other transcripts, exon 6 was the main transcript in dendrites under resting conditions. Pilocarpine treatment induced an increase of BDNF transcripts encoding exons 4 and 6 in all dendritic laminae and, additionally, of exon 2 in CA1 stratum radiatum and exons 2, 3, 9a in DG molecular layer while the other transcripts were decreased in dendrites, suggesting restriction to the soma. These results support the hypothesis of a spatial code to differentially regulate BDNF in the somatic or dendritic compartment under conditions of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus and, furthermore, highlight the existence of subfield-specific differences.
Damage to anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) is a well-known cause of diencephalic pathology that produces a range of cognitive deficits reminiscent of a hippocampal syndrome. Anatomical connections of the ATN also extend to cerebral areas that support affective cognition. Enriched environments promote recovery of declarative/relational memory after ATN lesions and are known to downregulate emotional behaviors. Hence, the performance of standard-housed and enriched ATN rats in a range of behavioral tasks engaging affective cognition was compared. ATN rats exhibited reduced anxiety responses in the elevated plus maze, increased activity and reduced corticosterone responses when exploring an open field, and delayed acquisition of a conditioned contextual fear response. ATN rats also exhibited reduced c-Fos and phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (pCREB) immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation and the amygdala after completion of the contextual fear test. Marked c-Fos hypoactivity and reduced pCREB levels were also evident in the granular retrosplenial cortex and, to a lesser extent, in the anterior cingulate cortex. Unlike standard-housed ATN rats, enriched ATN rats expressed virtually no fear of the conditioned context. These results show that the ATN regulate affective cognition and that damage to this region may produce markedly different behavioral effects as a function of environmental housing conditions.
Functional imaging studies frequently report that the hippocampus is engaged by successful episodic memory retrieval. However, considering that concurrent encoding of the background environment occurs during retrieval and influences medial temporal lobe activity, it is plausible that hippocampal encoding functions are reduced with increased attentional engagement during effortful retrieval. Expanding upon evidence that retrieval efforts suppress activity in hippocampal regions implicated in encoding, this study examines the influence of retrieval effort on encoding performance and the interactive effects of encoding and retrieval on hippocampal and neocortical activity. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was conducted while subjects performed a word recognition task with incidental picture encoding. Both lower memory strength and increased search duration were associated with encoding failure and reduced hippocampal and default network activity. Activity in the anterior hippocampus tracked encoding, which was more strongly deactivated when incidental encoding was unsuccessful. These findings highlight potential contributions from background encoding processes to hippocampal activations during neuroimaging studies of episodic memory retrieval.
Substance use disorders are exceedingly complicated as is the treatment. In order to increase positive outcomes an understanding of all facets; bio, psycho/social/spiritual, economic, and interdisciplinary aspects are essential to successful treatment. There are an increasing number of integrative addictions treatment centers across the United States, and disciplines that care for this population who are committed to a holistic, integrative approach to addictions treatment. Whole-person interventions, the foundational underpinnings of complementary and integrative therapies that attend to mind, body, and spirit simultaneously, in combination with traditional health care, will serve to provide the most effective treatment and patient outcomes.
Many mammalian species use chemosignals to coordinate reproduction by altering the physiology and behavior of both sexes. Chemosignals prime reproductive physiology so that individuals become sexually mature and active at times when mating is most probable and suppress it when it is not. Once in reproductive condition, odors produced and deposited by both males and females are used to find and select individuals for mating. The production, dissemination and appropriate responses to these cues are modulated heavily by organizational and activational effects of gonadal sex steroids and thereby intrinsically link chemical communication to the broader reproductive context. Many compounds have been identified as &quot;pheromones&quot; but very few have met the expectations of that term: a unitary, species-typical substance that is both necessary and sufficient for an experience-independent behavioral or physiological response. In contrast, most responses to chemosignals are dependent or heavily modulated by experience, either in adulthood or during development. Mechanistically, chemosignals are perceived by both main and accessory (vomeronasal) olfactory systems with the importance of each system tied strongly to the nature of the stimulus rather than to the response. In the central nervous system, the vast majority of responses to chemosignals are mediated by cortical and medial amygdala connections with hypothalamic and other forebrain structures. Despite the importance of chemosignals in mammals, many details of chemical communication differ even among closely related species and defy clear categorization. Although generating much research and public interest, strong evidence for the existence of a robust chemical communication among humans is lacking.
Many neuropsychiatric disorders are associated with a strong dysregulation of the immune system, and several have a striking etiology in development as well. Our recent evidence using a rodent model of neonatal Escherichia coli infection has revealed novel insight into the mechanisms underlying cognitive deficits in adulthood, and suggests that the early-life immune history of an individual may be critical to understanding the relative risk of developing later-life mental health disorders in humans. A single neonatal infection programs the function of immune cells within the brain, called microglia, for the life of the rodent such that an adult immune challenge results in exaggerated cytokine production within the brain and associated cognitive deficits. I describe the important role of the immune system, notably microglia, during brain development, and discuss some of the many ways in which immune activation during early brain development can affect the later-life outcomes of neural function, immune function, and cognition.
Previous studies suggest the importance of medial temporal lobe, areas of parietal cortex, and retrosplenial cortex in human spatial navigation, though the exact role of these structures in representing the relations of elements within a spatial layout (&quot;allocentric&quot; representation) remains unresolved. Hippocampal involvement, in particular, during memory processing is affected by whether a previously formed representation is employed in a novel fashion (&quot;flexible&quot; usage) or in a manner comparable with how it was encoded originally (&quot;rigid&quot; usage). To address whether brain systems are differentially involved during flexible vs. rigid utilization of a pre-existing allocentric representation, subjects encoded the position of six different target buildings relative to a centrally located landmark building in a virtual city seen from an aerial view. They then actively searched for the locations of these target buildings using the landmark (rigid retrieval) or using a previously shown target building in a novel fashion (flexible retrieval) while undergoing fMRI. Activations in posterior superior parietal cortex and precuneus were greater during more rigid than flexible forms of allocentric retrieval while activation in the hippocampus decreased linearly over blocks during flexible allocentric retrieval. A functional connectivity analysis further revealed significant interactions between hippocampus and these parietal areas during flexible compared with rigid allocentric retrieval. These results extend previous models of the neural basis of spatial navigation by suggesting that while the posterior superior parietal cortex/precuneus play an important role in allocentric representation, the hippocampus, and interactions between hippocampus and these parietal areas, are important for flexible utilization of these representations.
Fine surface texture is best discriminated by touch, in contrast to macro geometric features like shape. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging and a delayed match-to-sample task to investigate the neural substrate for working memory of tactile surface texture. Blindfolded right-handed males encoded the texture or location of up to four sandpaper stimuli using the dominant or non-dominant hand. They maintained the information for 10-12 s and then answered whether a probe stimulus matched the memory array. Analyses of variance with the factors Hand, Task, and Load were performed on the estimated percent signal change for the encoding and delay phase. During encoding, contralateral effects of Hand were found in sensorimotor regions, whereas Load effects were observed in bilateral postcentral sulcus (BA2), secondary somatosensory cortex (S2), pre-SMA, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC), and superior parietal lobule (SPL). During encoding and delay, Task effects (texture &gt; location) were found in central sulcus, S2, pre-SMA, dlPFC, and SPL. The Task and Load effects found in hand- and modality-specific regions BA2 and S2 indicate involvement of these regions in the tactile encoding and maintenance of fine surface textures. Similar effects in hand- and modality-unspecific areas dlPFC, pre-SMA and SPL suggest that these regions contribute to the cognitive monitoring required to encode and maintain multiple items. Our findings stress both the particular importance of S2 for the encoding and maintenance of tactile surface texture, as well as the supramodal nature of parieto-frontal networks involved in cognitive control.
During task switching, if we occasionally encounter stimuli that cue more than one task (i.e., bivalent stimuli), response slowing is observed on all univalent trials within that block, even when no features overlap with the bivalent stimuli. This observation is known as the bivalency effect. Previous fMRI work (Woodward et al., 2008) clearly suggests a role for the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) in the bivalency effect, but the time course remains uncertain. Here, we present the first high-temporal resolution account for the bivalency effect using stimulus-locked event-related potentials. Participants alternated among three simple tasks in six experimental blocks, with bivalent stimuli appearing occasionally in bivalent blocks (blocks 2, 4, and 6). The increased reaction times for univalent stimuli in bivalent blocks demonstrate that these stimuli are being processed differently from univalent stimuli in purely univalent blocks. Frontal electrode sites captured significant amplitude differences associated with the bivalency effect within time windows 100-120 ms, 375-450 ms, and 500-550 ms, which may reflect additional extraction of visual features present in bivalent stimuli (100-120 ms) and suppression of processing carried over from irrelevant cues (375-450 ms and 500-550 ms). Our results support the fMRI findings and provide additional evidence for involvement of the dACC. Furthermore, the bivalency effect dissipated with extended practice both behaviorally and electrophysiologically. These findings are discussed in relation to the differential processing involved in a controlled response style.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal disease caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the huntingtin (HTT) gene. The resultant mutant HTT protein (mHTT) forms aggregates in various types of cells, including neurons and glial cells and preferentially affects brain function. We found that two HD mouse models (Hdh(150Q) and R6/2) were more susceptible than wild-type (WT) mice to lipopolysaccharide-evoked systemic inflammation and produced more proinflammatory cytokines in the brain. Such an enhanced inflammatory response in the brain was not observed in N171- 82Q mice that express mHTT only in neurons, but not in glial cells. Thus, HD glia might play an important role in chronic inflammation that accelerates disease progression in HD mice. Intriguingly, enhanced activation of nuclear factor (NF)-B-p65 (p65), a transcriptional mediator of inflammatory responses, was observed in astrocytes of patients and mice with HD. Results obtained using primary R6/2 astrocytes suggest that these cells exhibited higher IB kinase (IKK) activity that caused prolongation of NF-B activation, thus upregulating proinflammatory factors during inflammation. R6/2 astrocytes also produced a more-damaging effect on primary R6/2 neurons than did WT astrocytes during inflammation. Blockage of IKK reduced the neuronal toxicity caused by R6/2 astrocytes and ameliorated several HD symptoms of R6/2 mice (e.g. decreased neuronal density, impaired motor coordination and poor cognitive function). Collectively, our results indicate that enhancement of the p65-mediated inflammatory response in astrocytes contributes to HD pathogenesis. Therapeutic interventions aimed at preventing neuronal inflammation may be an important strategy for treating HD.
Defects in axonal transport are thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease. Because -tubulin acetylation facilitates axonal transport, inhibition of the -tubulin deacetylating enzymes, histone deacetylase 6 (Hdac6) and silent information regulator 2 (Sirt2), is thought to be an interesting therapeutic strategy for these conditions. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a one such rapidly progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disorder, in which axonal transport defects have been found in vitro and in vivo. To establish whether the inhibition of Hdac6 or Sirt2 may be of interest for ALS treatment, we investigated whether deleting Hdac6 or Sirt2 from the superoxide dismutase 1, SOD1(G93A) mouse affects the motor neuron degeneration in this ALS model. Deletion of Hdac6 significantly extended the survival of SOD1(G93A) mice without affecting disease onset, and maintained motor axon integrity. This protective effect was associated with increased -tubulin acetylation. Deletion of Sirt2 failed to affect the disease course, but also did not modify -tubulin acetylation. These findings show that Hdac6, rather than Sirt2, is a therapeutic target for the treatment of ALS. Moreover, Sirt2 appears not to be a major -tubulin deacetylase in the nervous system.
Laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) and laser speckle contrast imaging (LSCI) allow the monitoring of microvascular blood perfusion. The relationship between the measurements obtained by these two techniques remains unclear. In the present contribution, we demonstrate, experimentally and theoretically, that skin blood flow measurements obtained by LDF and LSCI techniques cannot be compared directly even after &quot;classical&quot; normalization procedure. This technical problem is generated by the nonlinear relationship existing between LDF and LSCI flow data. The experiments have been performed on five healthy voluntary subjects (forearm) by using repeated ischemia/reperfusion cycles to induce the necessary skin blood flow changes. LDF and LSCI data were simultaneously acquired on the same region of interest. Considering the importance of this problem from the clinical point of view, it is concluded that the definition of new corrected algorithms for LSCI is probably a mandatory step that must be taken into account if LDF and LSCI blood flow have to be compared.
Understanding the underlying mechanism of the propagation of neuronal activities within the brain is a fundamental issue in neuroscience. Traditionally, communication and information processing have been exclusively considered as the province of synaptic coupling between neurons. Astrocytes, however, have recently been acknowledged as active partners in neuronal information processing. So, it is more reasonable and accurate to study the nature of neuronal signal propagation with the participation of astrocytes. In this paper, we first propose a feedforward neuronal-astrocytic network (FNAsN), which includes the mutual neuron-astrocyte interaction. Besides, we also consider the unreliability of both the synaptic transmission between neurons and the coupling between neurons and astrocytes. Then, the performance of firing rate propagation through the proposed FNAsN is studied through a series of simulations. Results show that the astrocytes can mediate neuronal activities, and consequently improve the performance of firing rate propagation, especially in a weak and noisy environment. From this point of view, astrocytes can be regarded as a realistic internal source of noise, which collaborates with an externally applied weak noise to prevent synchronous neuron firing within the same layer and thus to ensure reliable transmission.
Contamination of the electroencephalogram (EEG) by artifacts related to head movement is a major cause of reduced signal quality. This is a problem in both neuroscience and other uses of the EEG. To attempt to reduce the influence, on the EEG, of artifacts related to head movement, an accelerometer is placed on the head and independent component analysis is applied to attempt to separate artifacts which are statistically related to head movements. To evaluate the method, EEG and accelerometer measurements are made from 14 individuals with Cerebral palsy attempting to control a sensorimotor rhythm based brain-computer interface. Results show that the approach significantly reduces the influence of head movement related artifacts in the EEG.
In this paper, we provide a broad overview of models and technologies pertaining to transcranial current brain stimulation (tCS), a family of related noninvasive techniques including direct current (tDCS), alternating current (tACS), and random noise current stimulation (tRNS). These techniques are based on the delivery of weak currents through the scalp (with electrode current intensity to area ratios of about 0.3-5 A/m2) at low frequencies (typically &lt; 1 kHz) resulting in weak electric fields in the brain (with amplitudes of about 0.2-2 V/m). Here we review the biophysics and simulation of noninvasive, current-controlled generation of electric fields in the human brain and the models for the interaction of these electric fields with neurons, including a survey of in vitro and in vivo related studies. Finally, we outline directions for future fundamental and technological research.
Mast cells and macrophages are critical regulators of inflammation and immunological response in the tumor microenvironment. Increased number of mast cells and macrophages have been reported to correlate with poor prognosis in numerous solid and hematological tumors. In contrast to their pro-tumorigenic role, mast cells and macrophages have shown also anti-tumorigenic effect in certain malignancies, for example by supporting cancer rejection. Thus, mast cells and macrophages can exert both detrimental and beneficial effects on tumor progression. Mast cell- and macrophages-derived growth factors able to promote tumor development and angiogenesis include TNF-, TGF-1, FGF-2, VEGF, PDGF, IL-8, osteopontin, and NGF. On the contrary, mast cell- and macrophages-produced cytokines that may participate in anti-tumor response include IL-1, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, and IFN-. It is to note that mast cells and macrophages may also show beneficial and detrimental effects in the same cancer depending on the tumor stage.
Demographic, personality, and disease-related factors all contribute when patients disagree with physicians on the severity of subjective symptoms. This study aims to create a model, on the basis of patient factors at treatment initiation, for longitudinal prediction of disagreement on treatment response and remission in depressed patients. Four hundred patients with major depressive disorder were studied during a clinical drug trial. Repeated assessments with the Montgomery-sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) and the self-rating version (MADRS-S) were used to indicate response or remission. Factors at baseline and week 2 were tested for inclusion in a model for the prediction of discordance on remission and response between patients and physicians at week 8. The models were then tested, in the same population, at weeks 12, 16, and 24. Model AUCs ranged from 0.71 to 0.74 for week 8. The models that were validated at weeks 12, 16, and 24 indicated stability in the predictive value of the models. The risk for longitudinal disagreement in the evaluation of depression treatment response and remission in clinical practice and drug trials can be predicted using factors at study initiation and at week 2.
Depression and heart disease are commonly comorbid. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are commonly used to treat depression. In March 2011, we carried out a 15-year search of PubMed for preclinical and clinical publications related to SSRIs and ischemic heart disease (IHD) or congestive heart failure (CHF). We identify and discuss a number of mechanisms by which SSRIs may influence cardiovascular functioning and health outcomes in patients with heart disease; many of the mechanisms that we present have received little attention in previous reviews. We examine studies with positive, neutral, and negative outcomes in IHD and CHF patients treated with SSRIs. SSRIs influence cardiovascular functioning and health through several different mechanisms; for example, they inhibit serotonin-mediated and collagen-mediated platelet aggregation, reduce inflammatory mediator levels, and improve endothelial function. SSRIs improve indices of ventricular functioning in IHD and heart failure without adversely affecting electrocardiographic parameters. SSRIs may also be involved in favorable or unfavorable drug interactions with medications that influence cardiovascular functions. The clinical evidence suggests that, in general, SSRIs are safe in patients with IHD and may, in fact, exert a cardioprotective effect. The clinical data are less clear in patients with heart failure, and the evidence for benefits with SSRIs is weak.




Anxiety and depression are highly prevalent and frequently co-morbid conditions. The ionotropic glutamate receptors N-methyl-D-aspartate and -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) mediate actions of monoaminergic antidepressants and have been directly targeted by novel fast-acting antidepressants. Less is known about the role of these receptors in anxiety-like states. Here we investigate how two distinct anxiolytic agents, buspirone, a partial 5-HT(1A) agonist, and diazepam, a benzodiazepine, influence phosphorylation of GluA1 subunits of AMPA receptors at the potentiating residue Ser(845) and Ser(831) in corticolimbic regions. To test the functional relevance of these changes, phosphomutant GluA1 mice lacking phosphorylatable Ser(845) and Ser(831) were examined in relevant behavioural paradigms. These mutant mice exhibited a reduced anxiety-like phenotype in the light/dark exploration task and elevated plus maze, but not in the novelty induced hypophagia paradigm. These data indicate that reduced potentiation of the AMPA receptor signalling, via decreased GluA1 phoshorylation, is specifically involved in approach-avoidance based paradigms relevant for anxiety-like behaviours.
There is considerable variability in the rate of response and remission following treatment with antidepressant drugs or placebo in depression patients. No pharmacogenetic studies of bupropion response have been done. We investigated 532 tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 34 candidate genes for association with remission and response to either bupropion (n=319) or placebo (n=257) in patients with major depressive disorder. Analyses were performed using conditional logistic regression. Significant association (gene-wide correction) was observed for remission following treatment with bupropion for a SNP within the serotonin receptor 2A gene (HTR2A rs2770296, p(corrected)=0.02). Response to bupropion treatment was significantly associated with a SNP in the dopamine transporter gene (rs6347, p(corrected)=0.013). Among the patients who received placebo, marginal association for remission was observed between a SNP in HTR2A (rs2296972, p(corrected)=0.055) as well as in the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTT or SLC6A4 rs4251417, p(corrected)=0.050). Placebo response was associated with SNPs in the glucocorticoid receptor gene (NR3C1; rs1048261, p(corrected)=0.040) and monoamine oxidase A gene (MAOA; rs6609257, p corrected=0.046). Although the above observations were significant after gene-wide corrections, none of these would be significant after a more conservative study-wide correction for multiple tests. These results suggest a possible role for HTR2A in remission to bupropion treatment. In accordance with bupropion pharmacology, dopamine transporter may play a role in response. The MAOA gene may be involved in placebo response.
Studies in rodents have shown that psychostimulant drugs such as cocaine and amphetamine cause endorphin release in the brain reward system. There is also evidence for the involvement of the opioid system in human psychostimulant dependence. The acute effects of an i.v. psychostimulant drug on the brain opioid system, however, have not yet been investigated in humans. We hypothesized that an i.v. dose of amphetamine as compared to placebo would cause an opioid release in the human brain reward system, measurable as a reduction of the binding potential of the -opioid receptor radioligand [(11)C]carfentanil. Ten healthy young men were examined using positron emission tomography (PET) and [(11)C]carfentanil in three sessions: at baseline; after placebo; after an i.v. amphetamine dose of 0.3 mg/kg bodyweight. The order of amphetamine and placebo was double-blinded and randomized. PET examinations were performed with a Siemens high resolution research tomograph. Data were analysed with the simplified reference tissue model, applying manually drawn regions of interest for every subject. Using repeated measures analysis of variance, we found no significant differences in [(11)C]carfentanil binding potential between amphetamine and placebo conditions in any of the investigated brain regions. In contrast to data from rodent studies and a recent study of oral amphetamine administration in humans, an i.v. dose of amphetamine does not cause any acute opioid release in healthy human subjects. The postulated role of the opioid system in mediating the effects of amphetamine needs to be further investigated in animal models of the disease as well as in patient populations.
Cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia (CDS) are implicated as a core symptom cluster of the disease and are associated with poor daily life functioning. Unfortunately, current antipsychotic agents provide little alleviation of CDS, representing a critical unmet therapeutic need. Here we investigated the effects of ABT-239 and A-431404, non-imidazole histamine H(3) receptor (H(3)R) antagonists, in animal models with relevance to CDS. As N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor hypofunction is considered an important factor in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia, acute administration of ketamine or MK-801 was used to induce cognitive impairments. The assays employed in the current studies were spontaneous alternation in cross-maze, used as an indication of working memory, and inhibitory avoidance (IA), used to assess long-term memory retention. Risperidone and olanzapine were also tested to directly compare the effects of H(3)R antagonists to two widely used antipsychotics. ABT-239 and A-431404, but not risperidone and olanzapine, attenuated ketamine-induced deficits on spontaneous alternation in cross-maze, while none of these compounds affected alternation performance on their own. ABT-239 and A-431404 also attenuated MK-801-induced impairments in IA; no effects were observed when given alone. Risperidone and olanzapine, however, failed to attenuate MK-801-induced deficits in IA and produced dose-dependent impairments when given alone. ABT-239 was also investigated in methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) treated rats, a neurodevelopmental model for schizophrenia. Chronic, but not acute, treatment with ABT-239 significantly improved spontaneous alternation impairments in MAM rats tested in cross-maze. In summary, these results suggest H(3)R antagonists may have the potential to ameliorate CDS.


















Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a multifactorial disease (caused by both environmental and genetic features) that could results from a demyelination of the myelin sheath. Subsequently, it leads to many scars or lesions in different places within the central nervous system. The symptoms that occur depend on the site and rigorousness of the lesions and this is why people with MS experience different symptoms. Although, it is not clearly known that why people develop MS, research suggests that vitamin D plays a key role in preventing or repairing the damaged myelin. Previous studies have shown that vitamin D is a potent natural immune-regulator and has an anti-inflammatory action. Increased exposure to vitamin D may result in changed immunologic profiles or commotion that donates to MS risk. Vitamin D deficiency is caused by insufficient sunlight exposure or low dietary vitamin D3 intake. Recent studies have also indicated that, there are several polymorphisms for vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene, but the effect of VDR gene polymorphisms on protein function of VDR and how exerts second signaling pathways in cells is still unknown. Therefore, this review focuses on vitamin D metabolism and genetic polymorphisms related to VDR and MS to better understand of discrepancies among patients.

Stroke is an important cause of death in the world and disability world-wide especially in developed countries. Following acute phase of stroke, some procedures and medical treatment such as thrombolytic agents has been recommended; nevertheless many patients have enduring deficits. Thus, there is a realistic need to develop treatment strategies for reducing neurological deficits. However, the stem cell (SC) therapy could arrange an alternative intervention for disease modifying therapy. In this article, we present a brief review of different methods of SC therapy in stroke patients and discuss the results with different cell types and routes of administration.
The association between changes of trait affect and changes of vagal tone was investigated in the present study. Basal physiological data were collected from 70 college students of high (n=33) and low trait positive affect (n=37) (HPA vs. LPA) groups selected by Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS). Then the final LPA participants (n=34) were randomly assigned to either a four month Positive Psychotherapy (PPT) group (n=16) or a control group (n=18), and their basal physiological and PANAS data were collected immediately after the treatment. The study results showed that compared to the LPA group, the HPA group had higher basal respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA). Compared to the control group, the PPT group had changes in trait affect and basal RSA, and increases in trait PA were associated with increases in basal RSA independently of decreases in trait NA. These findings suggest that basal vagal tone of individuals with low trait PA might be improved by increasing their trait PA.

Objective(s): As far as we know, there has been no report regarding the effects of opium addiction or dependency of both parents on the learning and memory process in offspring. The aim of this study was to examine the learning and memory changes of adult male offspring whose mothers, fathers and/or both parents had dependency to opium before and during pregnancy. Materials and Methods : All experiments were carried out on Wistar rats. Opium dependency was induced by daily injections of opium (10 mg/kg/SC, bid/10 d) before mating. The presence of a vaginal plug was designated as gestation day. Treatment with opium continued through breeding and gestation until parturition. Spatial memory was tested in male offspring of control, saline and prenatal opium treated groups by a training trial and the probe test in the Morris water maze. Swimming escape latency in the maze and the ability to find the platform in the training trial were recorded. The time spent in the trigger zone and number of times the rats crossed the platform during the probe phase and swimming speed were measured. Results: The data revealed increased escape latency and a greater distance traveled to find the hidden platform in the offspring's whose mother, father and /or both parents were exposed to opium. Crossings to target quadrant at probe trials was significantly reduced in all of the prenatal opium exposed offsprings. The swimming speed showed a significant increase in father and parent's opium exposed offspring. Conclusion: Prenatal opium exposure of either parent may cause deficits in spatial learning, but the precise mechanism(s) remain largely unknown.
Background: More than 40% of infertilities are due to endometriosis. Ultrustructural and histochemical study of endometrium will help to clarify the etiology of endometriosis. Objective: The aim of the present study was to investigate the ultrastructure and occurrence of apoptosis in endometrial cells of women with or without endometriosis. Materials and Methods: In the present case-control study, endometrial specimens from 12 women without endometriosis (as control) and 12 women with endometriosis (as case) were examined. Specimens for control group were obtained from the patients that were referred to gynecology hospital for hysterectomy due to various reasons. In case group the endometriosis was diagnosed according to laparoscopy and endometrial samples were taken using pippel biopsy. The specimens from both case and control groups were processed for Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), TUNEL reaction technique and morphometric studies. Results: The results show that endometrial epithelium lost its continuity in women with endometriosis and endometrial cells have euchromatic nucleus in comparison to those from non-endometriosis. There were several apoptotic cells in the luminal and glandular endometrial epithelium and stroma from endometrium of control group. However, apoptotic cells were rarely seen in the endometrium from women with endometriosis. The difference in number of apoptotic cells between two groups statically was significant (p&lt;0.001). Conclusion: Regarding the ultrastructural characteristics of endometrial epithelial cells and comparison of apoptotic occurrence in control and case groups it is concluded that endometrial cells in endometriosis group have higher potential to survive and possibly implant.

Research suggests that prenatal testosterone exposure may masculinize (i.e., lower) disordered eating (DE) attitudes and behaviors and influence the lower prevalence of eating disorders in males versus females. How or when these effects become prominent remains unknown, although puberty may be a critical developmental period. In animals, the masculinizing effects of early testosterone exposure become expressed during puberty when gonadal hormones activate sex-typical behaviors, including eating behaviors. This study examined whether the masculinizing effects of prenatal testosterone exposure on DE attitudes emerge during puberty in 394 twins from opposite-sex and same-sex pairs. Twin type (opposite sex vs. same sex) was used as a proxy for level of prenatal testosterone exposure because females from opposite-sex twin pairs are thought to be exposed to testosterone in utero from their male co-twin. Consistent with animal data, there were no differences in levels of DE attitudes between opposite-sex and same-sex twins during pre-early puberty. However, during mid-late puberty, females from opposite-sex twin pairs (i.e., females with a male co-twin) exhibited more masculinized (i.e., lower) DE attitudes than females from same-sex twin pairs (i.e., females with a female co-twin), independent of several &quot;third variables&quot; (e.g., body mass index [BMI], anxiety). Findings suggest that prenatal testosterone exposure may decrease DE attitudes and at least partially underlie sex differences in risk for DE attitudes after mid-puberty.
The identification of 12 English vowels was measured in quiet and in long-term speech-shaped noise (LTSSN) and multi-talker babble for English-native (EN) listeners and Chinese-native listeners in the U.S. (CNU) and China (CNC). The signal-to-noise ratio was manipulated from -15 to 0 dB. As expected, EN listeners performed significantly better in quiet and noisy conditions than CNU and CNC listeners. Vowel identification in LTSSN was similar between CNU and CNC listeners; however, performance in babble was significantly better for CNU listeners than for CNC listeners, indicating that exposing non-native listeners to native English may reduce informational masking of multi-talker babble.
Individuals with sensorineural hearing loss often report frustration with speech being loud but not clear, especially in background noise. Despite advanced digital technology, hearing aid users may resort to removing their hearing aids in noisy environments due to the perception of excessive loudness. In an animal model, sensorineural hearing loss results in greater auditory nerve coding of the stimulus envelope, leading to a relative deficit of stimulus fine structure. Based on the hypothesis that brainstem encoding of the temporal envelope is greater in humans with sensorineural hearing loss, speech-evoked brainstem responses were recorded in normal hearing and hearing impaired age-matched groups of older adults. In the hearing impaired group, there was a disruption in the balance of envelope-to-fine structure representation compared to that of the normal hearing group. This imbalance may underlie the difficulty experienced by individuals with sensorineural hearing loss when trying to understand speech in background noise. This finding advances the understanding of the effects of sensorineural hearing loss on central auditory processing of speech in humans. Moreover, this finding has clinical potential for developing new amplification or implantation technologies, and in developing new training regimens to address this relative deficit of fine structure representation.










Two studies investigated whether typically developing children (TD) and children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) were able to decide whether two characters were communicating or not on the basis of point-light displays. Point-lights portrayed actors engaged or not in a social interaction. In study 1, TD children (4-10years old; n=36) grasped social intentions from body language, with a notable improvement around 7/8. In study 2, children with ASD (6-12years old; n=12) could categorize the point-light displays at above-chance levels, but performed less efficiently, especially for the social interaction displays, than TD children (matched to chronological and non-verbal mental age, 6-12years old; n=24). An action representation deficit is discussed in relation to a social representation deficit and it is suggested that these deficits might be linked to altered maturational process of the mirror system in ASD.
In this pilot study, we tested the effects of a novel intervention (JASPER, Joint Attention Symbolic Play Engagement and Regulation) on 3 to 5year old, minimally verbal children with autism who were attending a non-public preschool. Participants were randomized to a control group (treatment as usual, 30h of ABA-based therapy per week) or a treatment group (substitution of 30min of JASPER treatment, twice weekly during their regular program). A baseline of 12 weeks in which no changes were noted in core deficits was followed by 12weeks of intervention for children randomized to the JASPER treatment. Participants in the treatment group demonstrated greater play diversity on a standardized assessment. Effects also generalized to the classroom, where participants in the treatment group initiated more gestures and spent less time unengaged. These results provide further support that even brief, targeted interventions on joint attention and play can improve core deficits in minimally verbal children with ASD.
As Main (1999) noted in her obituary for Mary Ainsworth, 'she was interacting weekly by letter and manuscript with her mentor and friend, John Bowlby, and their academic correspondence formed an important part of her, and implicitly our, life.' These letters of Ainsworth to John Bowlby during the 1980s, available in the Wellcome Trust Library in London, contain valuable reflections on the work of her pupils to extend her system of classifying infant behaviour in the Strange Situation Procedure. Mary Main proposed a D classification and interpreted such behaviour as a breakdown in an ABC strategy caused by a conflict between a disposition to approach and flee from the caregiver. Patricia Crittenden extended the subtypes of A and C, using a developmental model of information processing, and observed that they could be used together in A/C combinations. These letters offer insight into Ainsworth's intellectual rationale for encouraging both Main and Crittenden in their conflicting endeavours.
Living cells are continuously exposed to mechanical cues, and can translate these signals into biochemical information (e.g. mechanotransduction). This process is crucial in many normal cellular functions, e.g. cell adhesion, migration, proliferation, and survival, as well as the progression of diseases such as cancer. Focal adhesions are the major sites of interactions between extracellular mechanical environments and intracellular biochemical signalling molecules/cytoskeleton, and hence focal adhesion proteins have been suggested to play important roles in mechanotransduction. Here, we overview the current molecular understanding in mechanotransduction occurring at focal adhesions. We also introduce recent studies on how extracellular matrix and mechanical microenvironments contribute to the development of cancer.
After cerebral ischemia or trauma, secondary neurodegeneration may occur in brain regions remote from the lesion. Little is known about the capacity of cerebral gliomas to induce secondary neurodegeneration. A previous study showed that cis-4-[(18)F]fluoro-D-proline (D-cis-[(18)F]FPro) detects secondary reactions of thalamic nuclei after cortical infarction with high sensitivity. Here we investigated the potential of D-cis-[(18)F]FPro to detect neuronal reactions in remote brain areas in the F98 rat glioma model using ex vivo autoradiography. Although the tumor tissue of F98 gliomas showed no significant D-cis-[(18)F]FPro uptake, we observed prominent tracer uptake in 7 of 10 animals in the nuclei of the ipsilateral thalamus, which varied with the specific connectivity with the cortical areas affected by the tumor. In addition, strong D-cis-[(18)F]FPro accumulation was noted in the hippocampal area CA1 in two animals with ipsilateral F98 gliomas involving hippocampal subarea CA3 rostral to that area. Furthermore, focal D-cis-[(18)F]FPro uptake was present in the necrotic center of the tumors. Cis-4-[(18)F]fluoro-D-proline uptake was accompanied by microglial activation in the thalamus, in the hippocampus, and in the necrotic center of the tumors. The data suggest that brain tumors induce secondary neuronal reactions in remote brain areas, which may be detected by positron emission tomography (PET) using D-cis-[(18)F]FPro.
In neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia, the protein tau is hyperphosphorylated and eventually aggregates to develop neurofibrillary tangles. Here, the consequences of tau hyperphosphorylation on both neuronal and astrocytic metabolism and amino-acid neurotransmitter homeostasis were assessed in transgenic mice expressing the pathogenic mutation P301L in the human tau gene (pR5 mice) compared with nontransgenic littermate controls. Mice were injected with the neuronal and astrocytic substrate [1-(13)C]glucose and the astrocytic substrate [1,2-(13)C]acetate. Hippocampus and cerebral cortex extracts were analyzed using (1)H and (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and high-performance liquid chromatography. The glutamate level was reduced in the hippocampus of pR5 mice, accompanied by reduced incorporation of (13)C label derived from [1-(13)C]glucose in glutamate. In the cerebral cortex, glucose utilization as well as turnover of glutamate, glutamine, and GABA, were increased. This was accompanied by a relative increase in production of glutamate via the pyruvate carboxylation pathway in cortex. Overall, we revealed that astrocytes as well as glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons in the cortex of pR5 mice were in a hypermetabolic state, whereas in the hippocampus, where expression levels of mutant human tau are the highest, glutamate homeostasis was impaired.
We have studied the distribution of immunoreactive cell bodies and axons are containing methionine-enkephalin in the minipig brainstem. Immunoreactive axons were widely distributed, whereas the distribution of perikarya was less widespread. A high or moderate density of axons containing methionine-enkephalin were found from rostral to caudal levels in the substantia nigra, nucleus interpeduncularis, nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis, nucleus dorsalis raphae, nucleus centralis raphae, nuclei dorsalis and ventralis tegmenti of Gudden, locus ceruleus, nucleus sensorius principalis nervi trigemini, nucleus cuneatus externalis, nucleus tractus solitarius, nuclei vestibularis inferior and medialis, nucleus ambiguus, nucleus olivaris inferior and in the nucleus tractus spinalis nervi trigemini. Immunoreactive perikarya were observed in the nuclei centralis and dorsalis raphae, nucleus motorius nervi trigemini, nucleus centralis superior, nucleus nervi facialis, nuclei parabrachialis medialis and lateralis, nucleus ventralis raphae, nucleus reticularis lateralis and in the formatio reticularis. We have also described the presence of perikarya containing methionine-enkephalin in the nuclei nervi abducens, ruber, nervi oculomotorius and nervi trochlearis. These results suggest that in the minipig the pentapeptide may be involved in many physiological functions (for example, proprioceptive and nociceptive information; motor, respiratory and cardiovascular mechanisms).
A 17-year-old girl presented with rapidly progressive quadriparesis and ventilatory failure. The clinical findings indicated a spinal level, but the diagnosis of myelopathy was not supported by her initial spinal imaging and cerebrospinal fluid studies. She had completed treatment for Guillain-Barr syndrome before a follow-up spinal imaging study showed interval expansion and enhancement of the cervical cord.

Many neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and frontotemporal dementia, are proteinopathies that are associated with the aggregation and accumulation of misfolded proteins. While remarkable progress has been made in understanding the triggers of these conditions, several challenges have hampered the translation of preclinical therapies targeting pathways downstream of the initiating proteinopathies. Clinical trials in symptomatic patients using therapies directed toward initiating trigger events have met with little success, prompting concerns that such therapeutics may be of limited efficacy when used in advanced stages of the disease rather than as prophylactics. Herein, we discuss gaps in our understanding of the pathological processes downstream of the trigger and potential strategies to identify common features of the downstream degenerative cascade in multiple CNS proteinopathies, which could potentially lead to the development of common therapeutic targets for multiple disorders.

Uric acid (UA) is a hydrophilic antioxidant product associated with multiple sclerosis (MS). We conducted a randomized case-control study to evaluate the serum level of UA in different phases of MS in comparison with levels in a healthy control population. Serum UA was checked in 130 patients with relapsing-remitting MS (85 patients in remitting and 45 patients in relapsing phase) and 50 age-matched controls using a quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The mean concentrations of UA in serum was 6.41(3.18)mg/dL in patients with remitting MS, 4.76(1.66)mg/dL in patients with relapsing MS and 6.33(2.94)mg/dL in controls. There was a significant difference between mean UA concentration in relapsing MS and remitting MS (p&lt;0.001), and between patients with relapsing MS and controls (p=0.002); however, the difference between levels for patients in the remitting phase of MS and the control group was not significant (p=0.87). It seems probable that UA has a role in the prevention of disease activity in MS.
Lymphocytic hypophysitis (LH) is a rare inflammatory disorder of the pituitary gland that typically affects women in the peripartum period. We describe two male patients (ages 43 years and 36 years), who presented with headaches, visual disturbance and hypopituitarism. MRI revealed a heterogeneous pituitary lesion that extended into the suprasellar region and with a thickened pituitary stalk. In both patients a histopathological diagnosis of LH was made after endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery. LH in males, although rare, should be considered as a differential diagnosis in those with hypopituitarism and a heterogeneous pituitary fossa mass, extending into pituitary stalk.
Cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVM) are congenital malformations that may grow in functional areas such as the primary motor cortex, but do not lead to motor deficits unless they rupture. We attempted to determine whether cortical reorganization was present in patients with AVM. We identified 22 patients with AVM who undergone had motor functional MRI (fMRI) evaluation. Patients were categorized according to AVM location: Group 1-away from motor areas (13 patients, 59.1%); Group 2-adjacent to motor areas (3 patients, 13.6%); and Group 3-overlying motor areas (6 patients, 27.3%). Groups 2 and 3 were compared to Group 1. In Group 3, six of six patients demonstrated cortical reorganisation (p=0.00037), and the four who underwent AVM removal did not sustain new neurological deficits. In Groups 1 and 2 no patient showed cortical reorganisation. Evidence of cortical reorganisation in patients with AVM overlying eloquent areas suggests that resection of these AVM may be possible with acceptable neurological deficits.

Motor neurons become hyperexcitable during progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This abnormal firing behavior has been explained by changes in their membrane properties, but more recently it has been suggested that changes in premotor circuits may also contribute to this abnormal activity. The specific circuits that may be altered during development of ALS have not been investigated. Here we examined the Renshaw cell recurrent circuit that exerts inhibitory feedback control on motor neuron firing. Using two markers for Renshaw cells (calbindin and cholinergic nicotinic receptor subunit alpha2 [Chrna2]), two general markers for motor neurons (NeuN and vesicular acethylcholine transporter [VAChT]), and two markers for fast motor neurons (Chondrolectin and calcitonin-related polypeptide alpha [Calca]), we analyzed the survival and connectivity of these cells during disease progression in the Sod1(G93A) mouse model. Most calbindin-immunoreactive (IR) Renshaw cells survive to end stage but downregulate postsynaptic Chrna2 in presymptomatic animals. In motor neurons, some markers are downregulated early (NeuN, VAChT, Chondrolectin) and others at end stage (Calca). Early downregulation of presynaptic VAChT and Chrna2 was correlated with disconnection from Renshaw cells as well as major structural abnormalities of motor axon synapses inside the spinal cord. Renshaw cell synapses on motor neurons underwent more complex changes, including transitional sprouting preferentially over remaining NeuN-IR motor neurons. We conclude that the loss of presynaptic motor axon input on Renshaw cells occurs at early stages of ALS and disconnects the recurrent inhibitory circuit, presumably resulting in diminished control of motor neuron firing.
Motor neurons become hyperexcitable during progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This abnormal firing behavior has been explained by changes in their membrane properties, but more recently it has been suggested that changes in premotor circuits may also contribute to this abnormal activity. The specific circuits that may be altered during development of ALS have not been investigated. Here we examined the Renshaw cell recurrent circuit that exerts inhibitory feedback control on motor neuron firing. Using two markers for Renshaw cells (calbindin and cholinergic nicotinic receptor subunit alpha2 [Chrna2]), two general markers for motor neurons (NeuN and vesicular acethylcholine transporter [VAChT]), and two markers for fast motor neurons (Chondrolectin and calcitonin-related polypeptide alpha [Calca]), we analyzed the survival and connectivity of these cells during disease progression in the Sod1(G93A) mouse model. Most calbindin-immunoreactive (IR) Renshaw cells survive to end stage but downregulate postsynaptic Chrna2 in presymptomatic animals. In motor neurons, some markers are downregulated early (NeuN, VAChT, Chondrolectin) and others at end stage (Calca). Early downregulation of presynaptic VAChT and Chrna2 was correlated with disconnection from Renshaw cells as well as major structural abnormalities of motor axon synapses inside the spinal cord. Renshaw cell synapses on motor neurons underwent more complex changes, including transitional sprouting preferentially over remaining NeuN-IR motor neurons. We conclude that the loss of presynaptic motor axon input on Renshaw cells occurs at early stages of ALS and disconnects the recurrent inhibitory circuit, presumably resulting in diminished control of motor neuron firing. J. Comp. Neurol. 521:1449-1469, 2013.  2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The relationship between structure and function is an invaluable context with which to explore biological mechanisms of normal and dysfunctional hearing. The systematic and topographic representation of frequency originates at the cochlea, and is retained throughout much of the central auditory system. The cochlear nucleus (CN), which initiates all ascending auditory pathways, represents an essential link for understanding frequency organization. A model of the CN that maps frequency representation in 3D would facilitate investigations of possible frequency specializations and pathologic changes that disturb frequency organization. Toward this goal, we reconstructed in 3D the trajectories of labeled auditory nerve (AN) fibers following multiunit recordings and dye injections in the anteroventral CN of the CBA/J mouse. We observed that each injection produced a continuous sheet of labeled AN fibers. Individual cases were normalized to a template using 3D alignment procedures that revealed a systematic and tonotopic arrangement of AN fibers in each subdivision with a clear indication of isofrequency laminae. The combined dataset was used to mathematically derive a 3D quantitative map of frequency organization throughout the entire volume of the CN. This model, available online (http://3D.ryugolab.com/), can serve as a tool for quantitatively testing hypotheses concerning frequency and location in the CN.


In the C-not-B task, 2.5-year-old children tend to look for an object in a location to which the hiding agent moved his hand (C) after moving an object from A to B. In three experiments, the authors investigated the nature of the constraints underlying toddlers' performance in this task. In Experiment 1, 2.5-year-olds were tested in a new version of the C-not-B task to investigate whether reaching with a detour leads to inhibition of direct visuomotor activation. The findings show that toddlers succeed more in the C-not-B task when a transparent barrier obstructs the path of the reaching movement. The results of Experiment 2 indicate that the successful performance of the children with a barrier cannot merely be the consequence of the longer duration of arm movements. In Experiment 3, pointing responses generated more toddlers' success in the C-not-B task than did reaching responses. These experiments suggest that decision-making processes and judgments in toddlers are affected by constraints intrinsic to the perceptual-motor system.
To date, the nature of the phonological deficit in developmental dyslexia is still debated. We concur with possible impairments in the representations of the universal phonological constraints that universally govern how phonemes co-occur as a source of this deficit. We were interested in whether-and how-dyslexic children have sensitivity to sonority-related markedness constraints. We tested 10 French dyslexic children compared with 20 typically developing chronological age-matched and reading level-matched controls. All were tested with two aurally administered syllable counting tasks that manipulated well-formedness of unattested consonant clusters, as determined by universal phonological sonority-related markedness constraints (onset clusters in Experiment 1; intervocalic clusters in Experiment 2). Surprisingly, dyslexic children's response patterns were similar to those in both control groups; as universal phonological sonority-related markedness increased, dyslexic children increasingly perceptually confused and phonologically repaired clusters with an illusory epenthetic vowel (e.g., /bal/). Although dyslexic children were systematically slower, like both control groups, they were influenced by universal sonority-related markedness constraints and hierarchically ranked constraints specific to French over evident acoustic-phonetic contrasts or sonority-unrelated cues. Our results are counterintuitive but innovative and compete to question an impaired universal phonological grammar because dyslexic children were found to have normal universal phonological constraints and were skilled to restore phonotactically legal syllable structures with a language-specific illusory epenthetic vowel (i.e., //-like vowel). We discuss them regarding active phonological decoding and recoding processes within the framework of the optimality theory.
We report on the 1st experimental elicitation of nonbelieved memories for childhood events in adults (Study 1) and children (Study 2) using a modified false memory implantation paradigm. Participants received true (trip to a theme park) and false (hot air balloon ride) narratives and recalled these events during 2 interviews. After debriefing, 13% of adults and 15% of children reported nonbelieved memories. While phenomenal ratings were higher for true than for nonbelieved memories immediately after the debriefing, after a month nonbelieved memories behaved as true memories. Also following debriefing, 23% of adults and 15% of children retracted their false memory claims. Prior to debriefing, participants with nonbelieved memories were most likely to indicate remembering the event, whereas participants with false memories who retracted their claim were most likely to endorse believing but not remembering the event. This research suggests that debriefings in previous false memory studies can lead to the development of nonbelieved memories. Additional findings regarding the correspondence between subjective belief, subjective memory, and objective memory judgments prior to and following debriefing are discussed.
The representation of numbers is commonly viewed as an ordered continuum of magnitudes, referred to as the mental number line. Previous work has repeatedly shown that number representations evoked by a given task can be easily altered, yielding an ongoing discussion about the basic properties of the mental number line and how malleable they are. Here we studied whether the resolution of the mental number line is fixed or depends on the relative magnitudes that are being processed. In 2 experiments, participants compared the same number pairs under 2 conditions that differed in terms of the overall range of numbers present. We report a novel number range effect, such that comparisons of the same number pairs were responded to faster under the smaller versus larger number range. This finding is consistent with the idea that the resolution of the mental number line can be adjusted, as if a unit difference is perceived as larger in smaller ranges.

We analyze the effect of chronic undernourishment on extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle maturation in the rat. Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) and alkaline ATPase histoenzymatic techniques were used to determine the relative proportion of different fiber types (oxidative/glycolytic and type I, IIa/IId, or IIb, respectively) and their cross-sectional area in control and undernourished EDL muscles at several postnatal (PN) ages. From PN days 15 to 45, undernourished EDL muscles showed predominance of oxidative and type IIa/IId fibers, but from PN days 60 to 90, there were a larger proportion of oxidative fibers and an equal proportion of type IIa/IId and IIb fibers. Meanwhile, in adult stages (from PN days 130-365), the relative proportion of fiber types in control and undernourished EDL muscles showed no significant differences. In addition, from PN days 15 to 90, there was a significant reduction in the cross-sectional area of all fibers (slow: 13-53%; intermediate: 24-74%; fast: 9-80%) but no differences from PN days 130 to 365. It is suggested that chronic undernourishment affects the maturation of fast-type muscle fibers only at juvenile stages (from PN days 15-45) and the probable occurrence of adaptive mechanisms in muscle fibers, allowing adult rats to counterbalance the alterations provoked by chronic food deprivation.
This study investigates glio-vascular interactions in human fetal brain at midgestation, specifically examining the expression and immunolocalization of the CXCL12/CXCR4/CXCR7 ligand-receptor axis and its possible role in the vascular patterning of the developing brain. At midgestation, the telencephalic vesicles are characterized by well developed radial glia cells (RGCs), the first differentiated astrocytes and a basic vascular network mainly built of radial vessels. RGCs have been recognized to contribute to cerebral cortex neuro-vascular architecture and have also been demonstrated to act as a significant source of neural cells (Rakic, Brain Res 33:471-476, 1971; Malatesta et al, Development 127:5253-5263, 2000). According to our hypothesis CXCL12, a potent migration and differentiation chemokine released by RGCs, may act as a linking factor coordinating neuroblast migration with vessel growth and patterning through the activation of different ligand/receptor axes. The obtained results support this hypothesis showing that together with CXCR4/CXCR7-reactive neuroblasts, which migrate in close association with CXCL12 RGCs, layer-specific subsets of CXCL12 RGCs and astrocytes specifically contact the microvessel wall. Moreover, the CXCL12/CXCR4/CXCR7 system appears to be directly involved in microvessel growth, its members being differentially expressed in angiogenically activated microvessels and vascular sprouts.
Transcription factor NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) is a key regulator of endogenous anti-oxidant systems shown to play a neuroprotective role in the adult by preserving blood-brain barrier function. The choroid plexus, site for the blood-CSF barrier, has been suggested to be particularly important in maintaining brain barrier function in development. We investigated the expression of Nrf2- and detoxification-system genes in choroid plexus following systemic LPS injections, unilateral cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) as well as the combination of LPS and HI (LPS/HI). Plexuses were collected at different time points after LPS, HI and LPS/HI in 9-day old mice. mRNA levels of Nrf2 and many of its target genes were analyzed by quantitative PCR. Cell death was analyzed by caspase-3 immunostaining and TUNEL. LPS caused down-regulation of the Nrf2-system genes while HI increased expression at earlier time points. LPS exposure prior to HI prevented many of the HI-induced gene increases. None of the insults resulted in any apparent cell death to choroidal epithelium. These data imply that the function of the inducible anti-oxidant system in the choroid plexus is down-regulated by inflammation, even if choroid cells are not structurally damaged. Further, LPS prevented the endogenous antioxidant response following HI, suggesting the possibility that the choroid plexus may be at risk if LPS is united with an insult that increases oxidative stress such as hypoxia-ischemia.

Impairments in attention and information processing speed are common in multiple sclerosis (MS) and may contribute to impairments of other cognitive abilities. This study examined attentional efficiency, information processing speed and intra-individual variability in response speed using the Attention Network Test-Interactions (ANT-I) in mildy-affected patients with MS. Thirty-one patients with relapsing-remitting MS and 30 age, sex, and education-matched controls completed the ANT-I, as well as the Paced Auditory Serial Attention Test (PASAT), as a standard clinical measure of information processing efficiency. As expected, patients with MS were slower in reaction time performance on the ANT-I and had poorer performance on the PASAT compared to controls. Patients with MS also demonstrated poorer efficiency in their executive control of attention on the ANT-I, suggesting difficulties with top-down allocation of attention. In addition, the MS group demonstrated greater intra-individual variability in the responses to the ANT-I even when their slower overall response time and other factors such as practice were accounted for. Intra-individual variability was found to best predict group membership compared to PASAT scores and other ANT-I scores. These results suggest that intra-individual variability may provide sensitive, unique and important information regarding cognitive functioning in early MS.
Amongst environmental chemical contaminants, methylmercury (MeHg) remains a major concern because of its detrimental effects on developing organisms, which appear to be particularly susceptible to its toxicity. Here, we investigated the effects of low MeHg levels on the development of the nervous system using both in vitro and in vivo experimental models. In neural stem cells (NSCs), MeHg decreased proliferation and neuronal differentiation and induced cellular senescence associated with impairment in mitochondrial function and a concomitant decrease in global DNA methylation. Interestingly, the effects were heritable and could be observed in daughter NSCs never directly exposed to MeHg. By chronically exposing pregnant/lactating mice to MeHg, we found persistent behavioural changes in the male offspring, which exhibited depression-like behaviour that could be reversed by chronic treatment with the antidepressant fluoxetine. The behavioural alterations were associated with a decreased number of proliferating cells and lower expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) mRNA in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. MeHg exposure also induced long-lasting DNA hypermethylation, increased histone H3-K27 tri-methylation and decreased H3 acetylation at the Bdnf promoter IV, indicating that epigenetic mechanisms play a critical role in mediating the long-lasting effects of perinatal exposure to MeHg. Fluoxetine treatment restored the Bdnf mRNA expression levels, as well as the number of proliferating cells in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, which further supports the hypothesis that links depression to impaired neurogenesis. Altogether, our findings have shown that low concentrations of MeHg induce long-lasting effects in NSCs that can potentially predispose individuals to depression, which we have reported earlier to occur in experimental animals exposed to MeHg during prenatal and early postnatal development.
Many people infected with the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV) exhibit mild or severe neurological problems, termed HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND), even when receiving antiretroviral therapy. Thus, novel adjunctive therapies must be developed to overcome the neurotoxic effect of HIV. New therapies require a better understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms of HIV-induced neurotoxicity and the risk factors that, besides inflammation and T-cell depletion and drugs of abuse, render the central nervous system (CNS) a target of HIV-induced neurotoxicity. HIV appears to impair neuronal plasticity, which refers to the innate ability of the CNS respond to injury and promote recovery of function. The availability of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a potent neurotrophic factor that is present in abundance in the adult brain, is essential for neuronal plasticity. BDNF acts through a receptor system composed of Trk and p75NTR. Here, we present experimental evidence that some of the clinical features of HIV-mediated neurological impairment could result from altered BDNF/TrkB/p75NTR regulation and function.

The Single Point Ramped Imaging with T1 Enhancement (SPRITE) sequence is well suited for the acquisition of magnetic resonance signals from fast relaxing nuclei and from heterogeneous materials. However, it is time inefficient compared to sequences that are based on frequency encoding because only one single point is acquired per excitation. Multiple-point SPRITE (mSPRITE) mitigates this problem with the acquisition of multiple FID points. mSPRITE images reconstructed from early FID samples suffer from reduced spatial resolution due to the limited extent of its corresponding k-space. In this work we present a new reconstruction algorithm for spatial resolution enhancement that solves this problem without changes to the mSPRITE sequence. The method, called Multi-Frame mSPRITE, substitutes high spatial frequencies from late FID points into k-spaces of limited extent constructed from early FID points. In this way, images of high quality and resolution can be obtained despite a large range of zoom factors used to reconstruct images with the same FOV and resolution.
The existence of spatially localized solutions in neural networks is an important topic in neuroscience as these solutions are considered to characterize working (short-term) memory. We work with an unbounded neural network represented by the neural field equation with smooth firing rate function and a wizard hat spatial connectivity. Noting that stationary solutions of our neural field equation are equivalent to homoclinic orbits in a related fourth order ordinary differential equation, we apply normal form theory for a reversible Hopf bifurcation to prove the existence of localized solutions; further, we present results concerning their stability. Numerical continuation is used to compute branches of localized solution that exhibit snaking-type behaviour. We describe in terms of three parameters the exact regions for which localized solutions persist.
This paper is a response to Giubilini and Minerva's defence of infanticide. I argue that any account of moral worth or moral rights that depends on the intrinsic properties of individuals alone is committed to agreeing with Giubilini and Minerva that birth cannot by itself make a moral difference to the moral worth of the infant. However, I argue that moral worth need not depend on intrinsic properties alone. It might also depend on relational and social properties. I claim that the in principle availability of neonates to participate in scaffolded interactions with carers might plausibly be seen as contributing to their moral worth.
Impaired memory performance in offspring is one of the long-lasting neurobehavioral consequences of prenatal opiate exposure. Here, we studied the effects of prenatal morphine exposure on inhibitory avoidance memory performance in male and female offspring and also investigated whether these deficits are reversible during the postnatal development. Pregnant Wistar rats received morphine sulfate through drinking water, from the first day of gestation up to the day 13, M, or to the time of delivery, M. Four- and ten-week-old (adolescent and adult, respectively) male and female offspring were subjected to behavioral assays and then analysis of proteins involved in apoptosis or in synaptic plasticity. Results revealed that adolescent and adult female rats failed in passive avoidance retention task in both M and M groups. Adolescent and adult male offspring were similar to control animals in M group. However M impaired retention task in prepubertal male offspring, and this memory loss was repaired in postpubertal stage. Consistently, Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and cleaved caspase-3 were significantly increased in both M and M adolescent and adult female rats, but only in M adolescent male rats. Furthermore, prenatal morphine exposure reduced the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor precursor protein in adolescent and adult female offspring and also decreased p-ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II/ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II ratio in adolescent male and female rats. Altogether, the results show that prenatal morphine exposure, depending on the time or duration of exposure, has distinct effects on male and female rats, and postnatal development may reverse these deficits more likely in males.
Transient receptor potential subfamily V, member 1 (TRPV1) is a nonselective cation channel expressed in both the peripheral and central nervous systems (CNS). TRPV1 protein levels in rat tissues were determined under normal and pain states using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In naive rats, brain TRPV1 protein concentrations ranged from 1.5 to 4 ng/mg in hippocampus, cortex, hypothalamus, and cerebellum. Rat spinal cord TRPV1 protein levels were 40-50 ng/mg in L1-L5 of the lumbar regions, but increased to 97  9.3 ng/mg toward the end of the lumbar region (L6-S1). In the complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammatory pain model, TRPV1 protein level significantly increased on both the contralateral (36.5 %, p &lt; 0.05) and ipsilateral (31.4 %, p &lt; 0.05) L4-L6 dorsal root ganglia (DRG). TRPV1 protein levels also increased 33.3 % (p &lt; 0.05) on the ipsilateral sciatic nerve, but no significant change in the lumbar spinal cord of CFA rats. In the monoiodoacetate-induced rat knee joint pain model, TRPV1 protein level was significantly reduced in the ipsilateral L3-L5 DRG (33.3 %, p &lt; 0.01), no significant difference was detected in the lumbar region of the spinal cord. Quantitative determination of TRPV1 protein levels may help to elucidate the TRPV1 physiological roles and regulatory mechanisms in various pain states.

The diagnosis of bipolar disorder (BD) is predominantly clinical. Some authors have suggested that BD is underdiagnosed and that many patients, particularly those with major depressive disorder, actually have BD. Some studies have suggested that BD is wrongly diagnosed, probably because of the idea of a &quot;bipolar spectrum.&quot; To address this potential overdiagnosis, clinicians should carefully and systematically assess whether symptoms are included in diagnostic criteria and include the individual context of the patient.

Expression of c-fos is used for the characterization of brain areas activated by stressors. Recently, some epigenetic markers associated with enhanced transcription have been identified that may be also useful to detect neuronal populations important for the processing of stressors: phosphorylation of histone H3 in serine 10 or 28 (pH3S or pH3S). Then, we compared in rats the response to stress of c-fos and these epigenetic changes. More specifically, we studied the influence of the type of stressor (novel environment vs. immobilization, IMO) and the dynamics of the response to IMO. Stress increased pH3S positive neurons, with a more restricted pattern than that of c-fos, both in terms of brain areas activated and number of positive neurons. Changes in pH3S showed a maximum at 30 min, then progressively declining in most areas in spite of the persistence of IMO. Moreover, the decline was in general more sensitive than c-fos to the termination of IMO. The pattern of pH3S was even more restricted that of pH3S, but they showed co-localization. The present data demonstrate a more selective pattern of stress-induced histone H3 phosphorylation than c-fos. The factors determining such a selectivity and its biological meaning remain to be studied.
Neurotoxic regimens of methamphetamine (METH) result in reactive microglia and astrocytes in striatum. Prior data indicate that rats with partial dopamine (DA) loss resulting from prior exposure to METH are resistant to further decreases in striatal DA when re-exposed to METH 30days later. Such resistant animals also do not show an activated microglia phenotype, suggesting a relation between microglial activation and METH-induced neurotoxicity. To date, the astrocyte response in such resistance has not been examined. Thus, this study examined glial-fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and CD11b protein expression in striata of animals administered saline or a neurotoxic regimen of METH on post-natal days 60 and/or 90 (Saline:Saline, Saline:METH, METH:Saline, METH:METH). Consistent with previous work, animals experiencing acute toxicity (Saline:METH) showed both activated microglia and astocytes, whereas those resistant to the acute toxicity (METH:METH) did not show activated microglia. Interestingly, GFAP expression remained elevated in rats exposed to METH at PND60 (METH:Saline), and was not elevated further in resistant rats treated for the second time with METH (METH:METH). These data suggest that astrocytes remain reactive up to 30days post-METH exposure. In addition, these data indicate that astrocyte reactivity does not reflect acute, METH-induced DA terminal toxicity, whereas microglial reactivity does.
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) are multipotent cells within the embryonic and adult brain that give rise to both neuronal and glial cell lineages. Maintenance of NSPC multipotency is promoted by low oxygen tension, although the metabolic underpinnings of this trait have not been described. In this study, we investigated the metabolic state of undifferentiated NSPCs in culture, and tested their relative reliance on oxidative versus glycolytic metabolism for survival, as well as their dependence on hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1) expression for maintenance of metabolic phenotype. Unlike primary neurons, NSPCs from embryonic and adult mice survived prolonged hypoxia in culture. In addition, NSPCs displayed greater susceptibility to glycolytic inhibition compared with primary neurons, even in the presence of alternative mitochondrial TCA substrates. NSPCs were also more resistant than neurons to mitochondrial cyanide toxicity, less capable of utilizing galactose as an alternative substrate to glucose, and more susceptible to pharmacological inhibition of the pentose phosphate pathway by 6-aminonicotinamide. Inducible deletion of exon 1 of the Hif1a gene improved the ability of NSPCs to utilize pyruvate during glycolytic inhibition, but did not alter other parameters of metabolism, including their ability to withstand prolonged hypoxia. Taken together, these data indicate that NSPCs have a relatively low requirement for oxidative metabolism for their survival and that hypoxic resistance is not dependent upon HIF-1 signaling.
The classic myelin basic protein (MBP) splice isoforms range in nominal molecular mass from 14 to 21.5 kDa, and arise from the gene in the oligodendrocyte lineage (Golli) in maturing oligodendrocytes. The 18.5-kDa isoform that predominates in adult myelin adheres the cytosolic surfaces of oligodendrocyte membranes together, and forms a two-dimensional molecular sieve restricting protein diffusion into compact myelin. However, this protein has additional roles including cytoskeletal assembly and membrane extension, binding to SH3-domains, participation in Fyn-mediated signaling pathways, sequestration of phosphoinositides, and maintenance of calcium homeostasis. Of the diverse post-translational modifications of this isoform, phosphorylation is the most dynamic, and modulates 18.5-kDa MBP's protein-membrane and protein-protein interactions, indicative of a rich repertoire of functions. In developing and mature myelin, phosphorylation can result in microdomain or even nuclear targeting of the protein, supporting the conclusion that 18.5-kDa MBP has significant roles beyond membrane adhesion. The full-length, early-developmental 21.5-kDa splice isoform is predominantly karyophilic due to a non-traditional P-Y nuclear localization signal, with effects such as promotion of oligodendrocyte proliferation. We discuss in vitro and recent in vivo evidence for multifunctionality of these classic basic proteins of myelin, and argue for a systematic evaluation of the temporal and spatial distributions of these protein isoforms, and their modified variants, during oligodendrocyte differentiation.
The expression of the neurotrophins and their receptors is essential for peripheral nervous system development and myelination. We have previously demonstrated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) exerts contrasting influences upon Schwann cell myelination in vitro - promoting myelination via neuronally expressed p75NTR, but inhibiting myelination via neuronally expressed TrkB. We have generated a small peptide called cyclo-dPAKKR that structurally mimics the region of BDNF that binds p75NTR. Here, we have investigated whether utilizing cyclo-dPAKKR to selectively target p75NTR is an approach that could exert a unified promyelinating response. Like BDNF, cyclo-dPAKKR promoted myelination of nerve growth factor-dependent neurons in vitro, an effect dependent on the neuronal expression of p75NTR. Importantly, cyclo-dPAKKR also significantly promoted the myelination of tropomyosin-related kinase receptor B-expressing neurons in vitro, whereas BDNF exerted a significant inhibitory effect. This indicated that while BDNF exerted a contrasting influence upon the myelination of distinct subsets of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in vitro, cyclo-dPAKKR uniformly promoted their myelination. Local injection of cyclo-dPAKKR adjacent to the developing sciatic nerve in vivo significantly enhanced myelin protein expression and significantly increased the number of myelinated axons. These results demonstrate that cyclo-dPAKKR promotes peripheral myelination in vitro and in vivo, suggesting it is a strategy worthy of further investigation for the treatment of peripheral demyelinating diseases.






Previous papers show discordant patterns of monthly and seasonal differences in the frequency of multiple sclerosis relapses. Attacks are more often reported in spring and summer, but there are many variations, mainly as to summer peaks. This paper, an MSBase collaboration substudy, reports multiple series of relapses from 1980 to 2010, comparing ultradecennal trends of seasonal frequency of attacks in different countries. The MSBase international database was searched for relapses in series recording patient histories from 1980 up to 2010. The number of relapses by month was stratified by decade (1981-1990, 1991-2000, 2001-2010). Positive spring versus summer peaks were compared by odds ratios; different series were compared by weighted odds ratio (Peto OR). Decade comparison of the 1990s versus 2000s shows inversion of spring-summer peak (2000s = March; 1990s = July), significant in the whole group (Peto odds ratio = 1.31, CI = 1.10-1.56, p = 0.003) and in Salerno series (OR = 1.97, CI = 1.14-1.40). The global significance persisted also excluding Salerno series (Peto odds ratio = 1.25, CI = 1.04-1.50, p = 0.002). Multicentric data confirm a summer peak of relapses in the 1991-2000 decade, significantly different from the spring peak of 2001-2010. Seasonal frequency of relapses shows long-term variations, so that other factors such as viral epidemics might have more relevance than ultraviolet exposure.






Activity in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) represents a priority map that can be used to direct attention and guide eye movements. However, it is not known whether this activity represents the location of saccade targets or the actual eye movement made to acquire them. We recorded single neurons from rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) while they performed memory-guided delayed saccades to characterize the response profiles of LIP cells. We then separated the saccade target from the saccade end point by saccadic adaptation, a method that induces a change in the gain of the oculomotor system. We plotted LIP activity for all three epochs of the memory-guided delayed-response task (visual, delay period, and presaccadic responses) as a function of target location and saccade end point. We found that under saccadic adaptation the response profile for all three epochs was unchanged as a function of target location. We conclude that neurons in LIP reliably represent the locations of saccade targets, not the amplitude of the saccade required to acquire those targets. Although LIP transmits target information to the motor system, that information represents the location of the target and not the amplitude of the saccade that the monkey will make.
It has been previously shown that small- and large-amplitude saccades have different functions during vision in natural environments. Large saccades are associated with reaching movements toward objects, whereas small saccades facilitate the identification of more detailed object features necessary for successful grasping and manual manipulation. To determine whether these represent dichotomous processing streams, we used resting-state functional MRI to examine the functional connectivity patterns of the medial and lateral frontal eye field (FEF) regions that encode large- and small-amplitude saccades, respectively. We found that the spontaneous blood oxygen level-dependent signals of the medial FEF were functionally correlated with areas known to be involved in reaching movements and executive control processes, whereas lateral FEF was functionally correlated with cortical areas involved in object processing and in grasping, fixation, and manipulation of objects. The results provide strong evidence for two distinct visuomotor network systems in the primate brain that likely reflect the alternating phases of vision for action in natural environments.
Purkinje cells have specialized intrinsic ionic conductances that generate high-frequency action potentials. Disruptions of their Ca or Ca-activated K (KCa) currents correlate with altered firing patterns in vitro and impaired motor behavior in vivo. To examine the properties of somatic KCa currents, we recorded voltage-clamped KCa currents in Purkinje cell bodies isolated from postnatal day 17-21 mouse cerebellum. Currents were evoked by endogenous Ca influx with approximately physiological Ca buffering. Purkinje somata expressed voltage-activated, Cd-sensitive KCa currents with iberiotoxin (IBTX)-sensitive (&gt;100 nS) and IBTX-insensitive (&gt;75 nS) components. IBTX-sensitive currents activated and partially inactivated within milliseconds. Rapid, incomplete macroscopic inactivation was also evident during 50- or 100-Hz trains of 1-ms depolarizations. In contrast, IBTX-insensitive currents activated more slowly and did not inactivate. These currents were insensitive to the small- and intermediate-conductance KCa channel blockers apamin, scyllatoxin, UCL1684, bicuculline methiodide, and TRAM-34, but were largely blocked by 1 mM tetraethylammonium. The underlying channels had single-channel conductances of 150 pS, suggesting that the currents are carried by IBTX-resistant (4-containing) large-conductance KCa (BK) channels. IBTX-insensitive currents were nevertheless increased by small-conductance KCa channel agonists EBIO, chlorzoxazone, and CyPPA. During trains of brief depolarizations, IBTX-insensitive currents flowed during interstep intervals, and the accumulation of interstep outward current was enhanced by EBIO. In current clamp, EBIO slowed spiking, especially during depolarizing current injections. The two components of BK current in Purkinje somata likely contribute differently to spike repolarization and firing rate. Moreover, augmentation of BK current may partially underlie the action of EBIO and chlorzoxazone to alleviate disrupted Purkinje cell firing associated with genetic ataxias.
Intrinsic connections in the anterior portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST-A) were studied using patch recordings and ultraviolet (UV) glutamate uncaging (GU) in vitro. UV light was delivered at small BNST-A sites in a grid-like pattern while evoked responses were monitored in different BNST-A regions. Three sectors were distinguished in the BNST-A using fiber bundles readily identifiable in transilluminated slices: the anterior commissure, dividing the BNST-A into dorsal and ventral (BNST-AV) regions, and the intra-BNST component of the stria terminalis, subdividing the dorsal portion into medial (BNST-AM) and lateral (BNST-AL) regions. Overall, GU elicited GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) more frequently than excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The incidence of intraregional connections was higher than interregional links. With respect to the latter, asymmetric connections were seen between different parts of the BNST-A. Indeed, while reciprocal connections were found between the BNST-AL and BNST-AM, BNST-AL to BNST-AM connections were more frequent than in the opposite direction. Similarly, while GU in the BNST-AM or BNST-AL often elicited IPSPs in BNST-AV cells, the opposite was rarely seen. Within the BNST-AM, connections were polarized, with dorsal GU sites eliciting IPSPs in more ventrally located cells more frequently than the opposite. This trend was not seen in other regions of the BNST. Consistent with this, most BNST-AM cells had dorsally directed dendrites and ventrally ramified axons, whereas this morphological polarization was not seen in other parts of the BNST-A. Overall, our results reveal a hitherto unsuspected level of asymmetry in the connections within and between different BNST-A regions, implying a degree of interdependence in their activity.
The cardiac ganglion (CG) of Homarus americanus is a central pattern generator that consists of two oscillatory groups of neurons: &quot;small cells&quot; (SCs) and &quot;large cells&quot; (LCs). We have shown that SCs and LCs begin their bursts nearly simultaneously but end their bursts at variable phases. This variability contrasts with many other central pattern generator systems in which phase is well maintained. To determine both the consequences of this variability and how CG phasing is controlled, we modeled the CG as a pair of Morris-Lecar oscillators coupled by electrical and excitatory synapses and constructed a database of 15,000 simulated networks using random parameter sets. These simulations, like our experimental results, displayed variable phase relationships, with the bursts beginning together but ending at variable phases. The model suggests that the variable phasing of the pattern has important implications for the functional role of the excitatory synapses. In networks in which the two oscillators had similar duty cycles, the excitatory coupling functioned to increase cycle frequency. In networks with disparate duty cycles, it functioned to decrease network frequency. Overall, we suggest that the phasing of the CG may vary without compromising appropriate motor output and that this variability may critically determine how the network behaves in response to manipulations.
Pathological synchronization of neuronal firing is considered to be an inherent property of epileptic seizures. However, it remains unclear whether the synchrony increases for the high-frequency multiunit activity as well as for the local field potentials (LFPs). We present spatio-temporal analysis of synchronization during epileptiform activity using wide-band (up to 2,000 Hz) spectral analysis of multielectrode array recordings at up to 60 locations throughout the mouse hippocampus in vitro. Our study revealed a prominent structure of LFP profiles during epileptiform discharges, triggered by elevated extracellular potassium, with characteristic distribution of current sinks and sources with respect to anatomical structure. The cross-coherence of high-frequency activity (500-2,000 Hz) across channels was reduced during epileptic bursts compared with baseline activity and showed the opposite trend for lower frequencies. Furthermore, the magnitude of cross-coherence during epileptiform activity was dependent on distance: electrodes closer to the epileptic foci showed increased cross-coherence and electrodes further away showed reduced cross-coherence for high-frequency activity. These experimental observations were re-created and supported in a computational model. Our study suggests that different intrinsic and synaptic processes can mediate paroxysmal synchronization at low, medium, and high frequencies.
One of the most important functions of astrocytes is removal of glutamate released during synaptic transmission. Surprisingly, the mechanisms by which astrocyte glutamate uptake is acutely modulated remain to be clarified. Astrocytes express metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and other G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are activated during neuronal activity. Here, we test the hypothesis that astrocytic group I mGluRs acutely regulate glutamate uptake by astrocytes in situ. This hypothesis was tested in acute mouse hippocampal slices. Activation of astrocytic mGluRs, using a tetanic high-frequency stimulus (HFS) applied to Schaffer collaterals, led to potentiation of the amplitude of the synaptically evoked glutamate transporter currents (STCs) and associated charge transfer without changes in kinetics. Similar potentiation of STCs was not observed in the presence of group I mGluR antagonists or the PKC inhibitor, PKC 19-36, suggesting that HFS-induced potentiation of astrocyte glutamate uptake is astrocytic group I mGluR and PKC dependent. Pharmacological stimulation of a transgenic GPCR (MrgA1R), expressed exclusively in astrocytes, also potentiated STC amplitude and charge transfer, albeit quicker and shorter lasting compared with HFS-induced potentiation. The amplitude of the slow, inward astrocytic current due to potassium (K(+)) influx was also enhanced following activation of the endogenous mGluRs or the astrocyte-specific MrgA1 Gq GPCRs. Taken together, these findings suggest that astrocytic group I mGluR activation has a synergistic, modulatory effect on the uptake of glutamate and K(+).
Everyday painful experiences are usually single events accompanied by tissue damage, and yet most experimental studies of cutaneous nociceptive processing in the brain use repeated laser, thermal, or electrical stimulations that do not damage the skin. In this study the nociceptive activity in the brain evoked by tissue-damaging skin lance was analyzed with electroencephalography (EEG) in 20 healthy adult volunteers (13 men and 7 women) aged 21-40 yr. Time-frequency analysis of the evoked activity revealed a distinct late event-related vertex potential (lance event-related potential, LERP) at 100-300 ms consisting of a phase-locked energy increase between 1 and 20 Hz (delta-beta bands). A pairwise comparison between lance and sham control stimulation also revealed a period of ultralate stronger desynchronization after lance in the delta band (1-5 Hz). Skin application of mustard oil before lancing, which sensitizes a subpopulation of nociceptors expressing the cation channel TRPA1, did not affect the ultralate desynchronization but reduced the phase-locked energy increase in delta and beta bands, suggesting a central interaction between different modalities of nociceptive inputs. Verbal descriptor screening of individual pain experience revealed that lance pain is predominantly due to A fiber activation, but when individuals describe lances as C fiber mediated, an ultralate delta band event-related desynchronization occurs in the brain-evoked activity. We conclude that pain evoked by acute tissue damage is associated with distinct A and C fiber-mediated patterns of synchronization and desynchronization of EEG oscillations in the brain.
A desirable goal of functional MRI (fMRI), both clinically and for basic research, is to produce detailed maps of cortical function in individual subjects. Single-subject mapping of the somatotopic hand representation in the human primary somatosensory cortex (S1) has been performed using both phase-encoding and block/event-related designs. Here, we review the theoretical strengths and limits of each method and empirically compare high-resolution (1.5 mm isotropic) somatotopic maps obtained using fMRI at ultrahigh magnetic field (7 T) with phase-encoding and event-related designs in six subjects in response to vibrotactile stimulation of the five fingertips. Results show that the phase-encoding design is more efficient than the event-related design for mapping fingertip-specific responses and in particular allows us to describe a new additional somatotopic representation of fingertips on the precentral gyrus. However, with sufficient data, both designs yield very similar fingertip-specific maps in S1, which confirms that the assumption of local representational continuity underlying phase-encoding designs is largely valid at the level of the fingertips in S1. In addition, it is shown that the event-related design allows the mapping of overlapping cortical representations that are difficult to estimate using the phase-encoding design. The event-related data show a complex pattern of overlapping cortical representations for different fingertips within S1 and demonstrate that regions of S1 responding to several adjacent fingertips can incorrectly be identified as responding preferentially to one fingertip in the phase-encoding data.
Neurotransmitters can have diverse effects that occur over multiple time scales often making the consequences of neurotransmission difficult to predict. To explore the consequences of this diversity, we used the buccal ganglion of Aplysia to examine the effects of GABA release by a single interneuron, B40, on the intrinsic properties and motor output of the radula closure neuron B8. B40 induces a picrotoxin-sensitive fast IPSP lasting milliseconds in B8 and a slow EPSP lasting seconds. We found that the excitatory effects of this slow EPSP are also mediated by GABA. Together, these two GABAergic actions structure B8 firing in a pattern characteristic of ingestive programs. Furthermore, we found that repeated B40 stimulation induces a persistent increase in B8 excitability that was occluded in the presence of the GABA B receptor agonist baclofen, suggesting that GABA affects B8 excitability over multiple time scales. The phasing of B8 activity during the feeding motor programs determines the nature of the behavior elicited during that motor program. The persistent increase in B8 excitability induced by B40 biased the activity of B8 during feeding motor programs causing the motor programs to become more ingestive in nature. Thus, a single transmitter released from a single interneuron can have consequences for motor output that are expressed over multiple time scales. Importantly, despite the differences in their signs and temporal characteristics, the three actions of B40 are coherent in that they promote B8 firing patterns that are characteristic of ingestive motor outputs.
In naturalistic settings, observers often have to monitor multiple objects dispersed throughout the visual scene. However, the degree to which spatial attention can be divided across spatially noncontiguous objects has long been debated, particularly when those objects are in close proximity. Moreover, the temporal dynamics of divided attention are unclear: is the process of dividing spatial attention gradual and continuous, or does it onset in a discrete manner? To address these issues, we recorded steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs) as subjects covertly monitored two flickering targets while ignoring an intervening distractor that flickered at a different frequency. All three stimuli were clustered within either the lower left or the lower right quadrant, and our dependent measure was SSVEP power at the target and distractor frequencies measured over time. In two experiments, we observed a temporally discrete increase in power for target- vs. distractor-evoked SSVEPs extending from 350 to 150 ms prior to correct (but not incorrect) responses. The divergence in SSVEP power immediately prior to a correct response suggests that spatial attention can be divided across noncontiguous locations, even when the targets are closely spaced within a single quadrant. In addition, the division of spatial attention appears to be relatively discrete, as opposed to slow and continuous. Finally, the predictive relationship between SSVEP power and behavior demonstrates that these neurophysiological measures of divided attention are meaningfully related to cognitive function.
The functions of the basal ganglia are critically dependent on dopamine. In mammals, dopamine differentially modulates the excitability of the direct and indirect striatal projection neurons, and these populations selectively express dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, respectively. Although the detailed organization of the basal ganglia is conserved throughout the vertebrate phylum, it was unknown whether the differential dopamine modulation of the direct and indirect pathways is present in non-mammalian species. We aim here to determine whether the receptor expression and opposing dopaminergic modulation of the direct and indirect pathways is present in one of the phylogenetically oldest vertebrates, the river lamprey. Using in situ hybridization and patch-clamp recordings, we show that D1 receptors are almost exclusively expressed in the striatal neurons projecting directly to the homolog of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. In addition, the majority of striatal neurons projecting to the homolog of the globus pallidus interna/globus pallidus externa express D1 or D2 receptors. As in mammals, application of dopamine receptor agonists differentially modulates the excitability of these neurons, increasing the excitability of the D1-expressing neurons and decreasing the excitability of D2-expressing neurons. Our results suggest that the segregated expression of the D1 and D2 receptors in the direct and indirect striatal projection neurons has been conserved across the vertebrate phylum. Because dopamine receptor agonists differentially modulate these pathways, increasing the excitability of the direct pathway and decreasing the excitability of the indirect pathway, this organization may be conserved as a mechanism that biases the networks toward action selection.
Physical exercise is known to reduce anxiety. The ventral hippocampus has been linked to anxiety regulation but the effects of running on this subregion of the hippocampus have been incompletely explored. Here, we investigated the effects of cold water stress on the hippocampus of sedentary and runner mice and found that while stress increases expression of the protein products of the immediate early genes c-fos and arc in new and mature granule neurons in sedentary mice, it has no such effect in runners. We further showed that running enhances local inhibitory mechanisms in the hippocampus, including increases in stress-induced activation of hippocampal interneurons, expression of vesicular GABA transporter (vGAT), and extracellular GABA release during cold water swim stress. Finally, blocking GABAA receptors in the ventral hippocampus, but not the dorsal hippocampus, with the antagonist bicuculline, reverses the anxiolytic effect of running. Together, these results suggest that running improves anxiety regulation by engaging local inhibitory mechanisms in the ventral hippocampus.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are required for experience-driven plasticity during formative periods of brain development and are critical for neurotransmission throughout postnatal life. Most NMDAR functions have been ascribed to postsynaptic sites of action, but there is now an appreciation that presynaptic NMDARs (preNMDARs) can modulate neurotransmitter release in many brain regions, including the neocortex. Despite these advances, the cellular mechanisms by which preNMDARs can affect neurotransmitter release are largely unknown. Here we interrogated preNMDAR functions pharmacologically to determine how these receptors promote spontaneous neurotransmitter release in mouse primary visual cortex. Our results provide three new insights into the mechanisms by which preNMDARs can function. First, preNMDARs can enhance spontaneous neurotransmitter release tonically with minimal extracellular Ca(2+) or with major sources of intracellular Ca(2+) blocked. Second, lowering extracellular Na(+) levels reduces the contribution of preNMDARs to spontaneous transmitter release significantly. Third, preNMDAR enhance transmitter release in part through protein kinase C signaling. These data demonstrate that preNMDARs can act through novel pathways to promote neurotransmitter release in the absence of action potentials.
Baseline and nicotine-modulated behaviors were assessed in mice harboring a null mutant allele of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit gene 2 (Chrna2). Homozygous Chrna2(-/-) mice are viable, show expected sex and Mendelian genotype ratios, and exhibit no gross neuroanatomical abnormalities. A broad range of behavioral tests designed to assess genotype-dependent effects on anxiety (elevated plus maze and light/dark box), motor coordination (narrow bean traverse and gait), and locomotor activity revealed no significant differences between mutant mice and age-matched wild-type littermates. Furthermore, a panel of tests measuring traits, such as body position, spontaneous activity, respiration, tremors, body tone, and startle response, revealed normal responses for Chrna2-null mutant mice. However, Chrna2(-/-) mice do exhibit a mild motor or coordination phenotype (a decreased latency to fall during the accelerating rotarod test) and possess an increased sensitivity to nicotine-induced analgesia in the hotplate assay. Relative to wild-type, Chrna2(-/-) mice show potentiated nicotine self-administration and withdrawal behaviors and exhibit a sex-dependent enhancement of nicotine-facilitated cued, but not trace or contextual, fear conditioning. Overall, our results suggest that loss of the mouse nAChR 2 subunit has very limited effects on baseline behavior but does lead to the potentiation of several nicotine-modulated behaviors.
When motor commands are accompanied by an unexpected outcome, the resulting error induces changes in subsequent commands. However, when errors are artificially eliminated, changes in motor commands are not sustained but show decay. Why does the adaptation-induced change in motor output decay in the absence of error? A prominent idea is that decay reflects the stability of the memory. We show results that challenge this idea and instead suggest that motor output decays because the brain actively disengages a component of the memory. Humans adapted their reaching movements to a perturbation and were then introduced to a long period of trials in which errors were absent (error-clamp). We found that, in some subjects, motor output did not decay at the onset of the error-clamp block but a few trials later. We manipulated the kinematics of movements in the error-clamp block and found that, as movements became more similar to subjects' natural movements in the perturbation block, the lag to decay onset became longer and eventually reached hundreds of trials. Furthermore, when there was decay in the motor output, the endpoint of decay was not zero but a fraction of the motor memory that was last acquired. Therefore, adaptation to a perturbation installed two distinct kinds of memories: (1) one that was disengaged when the brain detected a change in the task and (2) one that persisted despite it. Motor memories showed little decay in the absence of error if the brain was prevented from detecting a change in task conditions.
The mechanisms of arousal from apneas during sleep in patients suffering from obstructive sleep apnea are not well understood. However, we know that respiratory chemosensory pathways converge on the parabrachial nucleus (PB), which sends glutamatergic projections to a variety of forebrain structures critical to arousal, including the basal forebrain, lateral hypothalamus, midline thalamus, and cerebral cortex. We tested the role of glutamatergic signaling in this pathway by developing an animal model for repetitive CO2 arousals (RCAs) and investigating the effect of deleting the gene for the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (Vglut2) from neurons in the PB. We used mice with lox P sequences flanking exon2 of the Vglut2 gene, in which adeno-associated viral vectors containing genes encoding Cre recombinase and green fluorescent protein were microinjected into the PB to permanently and selectively disrupt Vglut2 expression while labeling the affected neurons. We recorded sleep in these mice and then investigated the arousals during RCA. Vglut2 deletions that included the external lateral and lateral crescent subdivisions of the lateral PB more than doubled the latency to arousal and resulted in failure to arouse by 30 s in &gt;30% of trials. By contrast, deletions that involved the medial PB subdivision had minimal effects on arousal during hypercapnia but instead increased non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep by 43% during the dark period, and increased delta power in the EEG during NREM sleep by 50%. Our results suggest that glutamatergic neurons in the lateral PB are necessary for arousals from sleep in response to CO2, while medial PB glutamatergic neurons play an important role in promoting spontaneous waking.

Tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) plays a prominent role in the brain damage and functional deficits that result from ischemic stroke. It was recently reported that the thalidomide analog 3,6'-dithiothalidomide (3,6'-DT) can selectively inhibit the synthesis of TNF in cultured cells. We therefore tested the therapeutic potential of 3,6'-DT in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke. Administration of 3,6'-DT immediately prior to a stroke or within 3 hr after the stroke reduced infarct volume, neuronal death, and neurological deficits, whereas thalidomide was effective only when administered prior to stroke. Neuroprotection was accompanied by decreased inflammation; 3,6'-DT-treated mice exhibited reduced expression of TNF, interleukin-1, and inducible nitric oxide synthase; reduced numbers of activated microglia/macrophages, astrocytes, and neutrophils; and reduced expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in the ischemic brain tissue. 3,6'-DT treatment attenuated stroke-induced disruption of the blood-brain barrier by a mechanism that appears to involve suppression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 and preservation of occludin. Treatment with 3,6'-DT did not reduce ischemic brain damage in mice lacking TNF receptors, consistent with a critical role for suppression of TNF production and TNF signaling in the therapeutic action of 3,6'-DT. These findings suggest that anti-inflammatory mechanisms underlie the therapeutic actions of 3,6-DT in an animal model of stroke.


Exposure to a blast wave has been proposed to cause mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), with symptoms including altered cognition, memory, and behavior. This idea, however, remains controversial, and the mechanisms of blast-induced brain injury remain unknown. To begin to resolve these questions, we constructed a simple compressed air shock tube, placed rats inside the tube, and exposed them to a highly reproducible and controlled blast wave. Consistent with the generation of a mild injury, 2 weeks after exposure to the blast, we found that motor performance was unaffected, and a panel of common injury markers showed little or no significant changes in expression in the cortex, corpus callosum, or hippocampus. Similarly, we were unable to detect elevated spectrin breakdown products in brains collected from blast-exposed rats. Using an object recognition task, however, we found that rats exposed to a blast wave spent significantly less time exploring a novel object when compared with control rats. Intriguingly, we also observed a significant shortening of the axon initial segment (AIS) in both the cortex and hippocampus of blast-exposed rats, suggesting altered neuronal excitability after exposure to a blast. A computational model showed that shortening the AIS increased both threshold and the interspike interval of repetitively firing neurons. These results support the conclusion that exposure to a single blast wave can lead to mTBI with accompanying cognitive impairment and subcellular changes in the molecular organization of neurons.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a complex and common problem resulting in the loss of cognitive function. In order to build a comprehensive knowledge base of the proteins that underlie these cognitive deficits, we employed unbiased quantitative mass spectrometry, proteomics, and bioinformatics to identify and quantify dysregulated proteins in the CA3 subregion of the hippocampus in the fluid percussion model of TBI in rats. Using stable isotope 18O-water differential labeling and multidimensional tandem liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS with high stringency statistical analyses and filtering, we identified and quantified 1002 common proteins, with 124 increased and 76 decreased. The ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) bioinformatics tool identified that TBI had profound effects on downregulating global energy metabolism, including glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and oxidative phosphorylation, as well as cellular structure and function. Widespread upregulation of actin-related cytoskeletal dynamics was also found. IPA indicated a common integrative signaling node, calcineurin B1 (CANB1, CaNB, or PPP3R1), which was downregulated by TBI. Western blotting confirmed that the calcineurin regulatory subunit, CANB1, and its catalytic binding partner PP2BA, were decreased without changes in other calcineurin subunits. CANB1 plays a critical role in downregulated networks of calcium signaling and homeostasis through calmodulin and calmodulin-dependent kinase II to highly interconnected structural networks dominated by tubulins. This large-scale knowledge base lays the foundation for the identification of novel therapeutic targets for cognitive rescue in TBI.




[Purpose] To quantify the activity levels of individuals in an acute stroke ward, and to determine if their activity levels change within the first month after stroke. [Methods] In this pilot study, participant activity was monitored prospectively over a single day from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on two separate occasions. Individuals with confirmed stroke &gt; 18years of age and less than 15 days post-stroke at the time of recruitment were eligible for inclusion in this study. Activity was recorded using an electronic device. The first day was scheduled within 15 days and the second at four weeks post-stroke. We looked at the following activity categories: number of transitions, and the times spent lying, sitting and in dynamic activity. [Results] Sixteen individuals were included in this study with a median age of 79.5years (interquartile range 62.5 to 85). Fifty-six % of the participants had mild, 31% had moderate and 13% had severe stroke, according to the NIHSS score. There were no significant changes in number of transitions, or times spent in dynamic activity and lying and sitting. [Conclusion] Activity levels were low at an acute stroke ward and did not significantly change within the first month.
Ageing is associated with a decline in muscle mass and strength leading to increased physical dependency in old age. Postmenopausal women experience a greater decline than men of similar age in parallel with the decrease in female sex steroid hormone production. We recruited six monozygous female twin pairs (55-59 years old) where only one twin pair was on hormone replacement therapy (HRT use = 7.8  4.3 years) to investigate the association of HRT with the cytoplasmic volume supported by individual myonuclei (myonuclear domain (MND) size,) together with specific force at the single fibre level. HRT use was associated with a significantly smaller (27%; P &lt; 0.05) mean MND size in muscle fibres expressing the type I but not the IIa myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoform. In comparison to non-users, higher specific force was recorded in HRT users both in muscle fibres expressing type I (27%; P &lt; 0.05) and type IIa (23%; P &lt; 0.05) MyHC isoforms. These differences were fibre-type dependent, i.e. the higher specific force in fast-twitch muscle fibres was primarily caused by higher force per cross-bridge while slow-twitch fibres relied on both a higher number and force per cross-bridge. HRT use had no effect on fibre cross-sectional area (CSA), velocity of unloaded shortening (V0) and relative proportion of MyHC isoforms. In conclusion, HRT appears to have significant positive effects on both regulation of muscle contraction and myonuclei organization in postmenopausal women.
Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) induced by the application of a novel taste such as sodium saccharin (Sac) as the conditioned stimulus (CS) and a malaise-inducing agent as the unconditioned stimulus (US), results in acquisition of CTA memory to Sac. In contrast, CTA is extinguished by repeated presentations of the CS without the US, resulting in acquisition of the extinction memory. We examined the effects of androgenic hormones on acquisition and retention of extinction memory in mice. We gonadectomized sexually immature mice and continuously administered androgens to these animals. After sexual maturation, the mice underwent a conditioning period followed by an extinction period. Retrieval tests revealed that the androgen-treated group showed significantly greater retention of extinction memory than the non-treated group 5 weeks later, whereas such significant difference was not observed in acquisition of extinction memory. These results demonstrate the enhancing effect of androgens on retention of extinction memory.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of melatonin on low-grade inflammation and oxidative stress in young male Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, an experimental model of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). ZDF rats (n = 30) and lean littermates (ZL) (n = 30) were used. At 6 wk of age, both lean and fatty animals were subdivided into three groups, each composed of 10 rats: naive (N), vehicle treated (V), and melatonin treated (M) (10 mg/kg/day) for 6 wk. Vehicle and melatonin were added to the drinking water. Pro-inflammatory state was evaluated by plasma levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), and C-reactive protein (CRP). Also, oxidative stress was assessed by plasma lipid peroxidation (LPO), both basal and after Fe(2+)/H2O2 inducement. ZDF rats exhibited higher levels of IL-6 (112.4  1.5 pg/mL), TNF- (11.0  0.1 pg/mL) and CRP (828  16.0 g/mL) compared with lean rats (IL-6, 89.9  1.0, P &lt; 0.01; TNF-, 9.7  0.4, P &lt; 0.01; CRP, 508  21.5, P &lt; 0.001). Melatonin lowered IL-6 (10%, P &lt; 0.05), TNF- (10%, P &lt; 0.05), and CRP (21%, P &lt; 0.01). Basal and Fe(2+)/H2O2-induced LPO, expressed as malondialdehyde equivalents (mol/L), were higher in ZDF rats (basal, 3.2  0.1 versus 2.5  0.1 in ZL, P &lt; 0.01; Fe(2+)/H2O2-induced, 8.7  0.2 versus 5.5  0.3 in ZL; P &lt; 0.001). Melatonin improved basal LPO (15%, P &lt; 0.05) in ZDF rats, and Fe(2+)/H2O2- induced LPO in both ZL (15.2%, P &lt; 0.01) and ZDF rats (39%, P &lt; 0.001). These results demonstrated that oral melatonin administration ameliorates the pro-inflammatory state and oxidative stress, which underlie the development of insulin resistance and their consequences, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.
People living with mental illnesses, their family members, and advocacy groups have long encouraged the mental health system to adopt a greater focus on wellness and recovery. A superficial interpretation of wellness and recovery may cause some clinicians to devalue the possibility and importance of wellness and recovery for the people they serve, and this may inhibit or disrupt the development of a working therapeutic relationship. This column reviews definitions of wellness and recovery and their applicability to serious mental illnesses and provides an overview of several programs that promote wellness and recovery. In addition to peer-led courses, ongoing peer support and a range of applications for mobile devices can help consumers lead a self-directed and affirming life that facilitates symptom management and reduction and maximizes wellness. By understanding wellness and recovery and how people living with mental illnesses achieve these goals, psychiatrists may build rapport with their patients and improve outcomes. By familiarizing oneself with new resources available to people with serious mental illness, mental health clinicians may be able to suggest supports that extend far beyond the time constraints of our current treatment model.
Cardiac vagal control (CVC), an index of parasympathetic contribution to cardiac regulation, has been linked to enhanced executive functioning (EF). However, findings to date have been based on small or unique samples. Additionally, previous studies assessed the CVC-EF link only during rest or recovery period from a cognitive challenge, but not during both states. In the present study, data on 817 socioeconomically diverse participants were obtained from the Midlife Development in the United States (MIDUS) study. As part of this study, participants completed cognitive tests, including EF, along with laboratory-based measures of CVC during rest and following recovery from a cognitive challenge. Regression analyses adjusting for respiratory rate revealed no effect of CVC at rest or during recovery on a global index of EF. However, exploratory post-hoc analyses of the components of the global EF index revealed a significant association between faster vagal recovery and better attention-switching and response inhibition abilities, as indexed by faster reaction time to the mixed SGST. This association remained significant after controlling for demographic, clinical (BMI, diseases and medications altering cardiac autonomic functioning, etc.), and health behavior covariates (Beta = .148, p = .010). Our findings suggest that future studies may need to investigate the links of CVC to specific EF abilities, rather than global measures of EF. Additionally, our results highlight the importance of assessing CVC during both rest and recovery from a cognitive challenge. The authors discuss the putative neurobiological underpinning of this link, as well as suggestions for future basic and clinical research.

Despite the availability of established antipsychotic agents for the treatment of schizophrenia, continued unmet needs exist for effective medications with lower adverse-effect burden. The present study evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of treatment with the atypical antipsychotic lurasidone for patients with an acute exacerbation of schizophrenia. Patients were randomized to 6 weeks of double-blind treatment with lurasidone 40 mg/day, 80 mg/day, or 120 mg/day, or placebo. Changes in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores were evaluated using mixed-model repeated-measures (MMRM) analysis. Vital signs, laboratory parameters, extrapyramidal symptoms, and electrocardiogram were assessed. Treatment with lurasidone 80 mg/day resulted in significantly greater improvement in PANSS total score compared with placebo (-23.4 versus -17.0; p &lt; 0.05) at study endpoint (MMRM); lurasidone 40 mg/day and 120 mg/day achieved clinically meaningful overall PANSS score reductions from baseline (-19.2 and -20.5), but not significant separation from placebo. Differences between all lurasidone groups and placebo for changes in laboratory parameters and electrocardiographic measures were minimal. Weight gain  7% occurred in 8.2% of patients receiving lurasidone and 3.2% receiving placebo. Modest increases in prolactin (median increase, 0.7 ng/mL) and extrapyramidal symptoms were observed following treatment with lurasidone compared with placebo. Akathisia was the most commonly reported adverse event with lurasidone (17.6%, versus 3.1% with placebo). In this study, in which a large placebo response was observed, lurasidone 80 mg/day, but not 40 mg/day or 120 mg/day, was statistically superior to placebo in treating acute exacerbation of chronic schizophrenia. All lurasidone doses were generally well tolerated.


Full, persistent blockade of central neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptors may be a potential antidepressant mechanism. The selective NK1 antagonist orvepitant (GW823296) was used to test this hypothesis. A preliminary positron emission tomography study in eight male volunteers drove dose selection for two randomized six week studies in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Displacement of central [(11)C]GR205171 binding indicated that oral orvepitant doses of 30-60 mg/day provided &gt;99% receptor occupancy for 24 h. Studies 733 and 833 randomized patients with MDD and 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D)22 to double-blind treatment with orvepitant 30 mg/day, orvepitant 60 mg/day or placebo (1:1:1). Primary outcome measure was change from baseline in 17-item HAM-D total score at Week 6 analyzed using mixed models repeated measures. Study 733 (n=328) demonstrated efficacy on the primary endpoint (estimated drug-placebo differences of 30 mg: -2.41, 95% confidence interval (CI) (-4.50 to -0.31) p=0.0245; 60 mg: -2.86, 95% CI (-4.97 to -0.75) p=0.0082). Study 833 (n=345) did not show significance (estimated drug-placebo differences of 30 mg: -1.67, 95% CI (-3.73 to 0.39) p=0.1122; 60 mg: -0.76, 95% CI (-2.85 to 1.32) p=0.4713). The results support the hypothesis that full, long lasting blockade of central NK1 receptors may be an efficacious mechanism for the treatment of MDD.
Preclinical data suggest that the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) 6 (5-HT6) receptor may be a potential target for the development of new therapies for treating cognitive dysfunctions in schizophrenia and other central nervous system disorders. Recent evidence indicates that not only blockade but also activation of 5-HT6 receptors exerts procognitive effects. Nevertheless, little is known about the potential efficacy of 5-HT6 receptor agonists in models of schizophrenia-like cognitive deficits. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of the 5-HT6 receptor agonist, EMD 386088, on the ketamine-induced deficits in the attentional set-shifting task (ASST), novel object recognition (NOR) task and prepulse inhibition (PPI) task in rats. Acute administration of EMD 386088 (2.5 and 5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) to Sprague-Dawley rats reversed the deficit in the ASST induced by repeated ketamine administration. Moreover, the ketamine-induced deficit in the NOR task was ameliorated by EMD 386088 at a dose of 5 mg/kg. However, in contrast to the antipsychotic drug clozapine, the 5-HT6 agonist did not affect PPI disrupted by ketamine. The present study demonstrated the beneficial effects of the 5-HT6 agonist in ameliorating some of the ketamine-induced deficits relevant to schizophrenia. It thus seems likely that the 5-HT6 receptor activation may represent a useful pharmacological approach to the treatment of cognitive disturbances observed in this disorder.



There is no previously published well-designed study on long-term outcome of stroke from India. The present study has examined the case fatality rate and survival pattern in patients with stroke in a stratified, randomly selected sample from a large Indian metropolitan area. This prospective study was conducted over 7 years (March 2003 to February 2010) using a validated questionnaire administered by a field team and headed by a neurologist. A cross-sectional house-to-house survey was repeated twice yearly. A verbal autopsy was performed to assess cases of death. The Kaplan-Meier method was applied for survival analysis. A cohort of 763 stroke cases were followed up. The overall stroke fatality was approximately 59% at 5 years and 61% at 7 years. Early fatality was 33% within 7 days and 42% within 30 days. Men were at greater risk of death than women. Logistic regression analysis revealed male sex and diabetes to be important predictors of fatality. The majority of deaths were attributable to the index stroke (70%), followed by recurrent stroke (19%) and cardiovascular causes (7%). Beyond the first year, recurrent stroke was by far the most common cause of death. Median survival time exceeded the 84-month observation period when 30-day fatalities were excluded. Early stroke fatality is higher in this study compared with reports from developed countries, but long-term survival is similar. Beyond 1 year, the causes of stroke fatality are similar to that reported in other Asian populations. Access to acute stroke care and appropriate preventive strategy are urgently needed to reduce early stroke fatality in India.
The study examined joint trajectories of methamphetamine (MA) use and substance abuse treatment utilization and identified differences among pattern groups for a sample of 348 treated for MA use. Results from group-based trajectory modeling showed that treatment utilization during the first 10 years after initiation of MA use could be categorized into three distinctive patterns: about half the MA users have a pattern of low treatment utilization; one-fourth follow a quicker-to-treatment trajectory with higher probability of treatment during the first 5 years of MA use and less treatment in the next 5 years; and one-fourth have a slower-to-treatment trajectory with more treatment during the second half of the 10-year period. Four MA use patterns were identified: consistently low use, moderate, and high use, as well as a decreasing use pattern. Periods of greater likelihood of treatment participation were associated with periods of decreasing or lower frequency of MA use.
Greater impulsivity, assessed by the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale-11 (BIS-11) and Stroop interference scores, has been associated with treatment completion in cocaine-dependent patients. This study evaluated the relationships among impulsivity, stimulant-dependence diagnosis, and treatment completion. Six sites evaluating 12-step facilitation for stimulant abusers obtained the BIS-11 and Stroop from 182 methamphetamine- and/or cocaine-dependent participants. Methamphetamine-dependent, relative to cocaine-dependent, participants evidenced significantly greater BIS-11 non-planning and total scores. There was a trend for poorer response inhibition, measured by the Stroop, in cocaine-dependent, relative to methamphetamine-dependent, participants. Accounting for other factors related to treatment completion, BIS-11 motor score, assessing the tendency to act without thinking, predicted treatment completion for both cocaine-dependent and methamphetamine-dependent patients. These results suggest that methamphetamine-dependent and cocaine-dependent patients may have different impulsivity profiles but that the BIS-11 may be useful in identifying both methamphetamine-dependent and cocaine-dependent patients who are at risk for treatment non-completion.
During development, within a specific temporal window called the critical period, the mammalian visual cortex is highly plastic and literally shaped by visual experience; to what extent this extraordinary plasticity is retained in the adult brain is still a debated issue. We tested the residual plastic potential of the adult visual cortex for both achromatic and chromatic vision by measuring binocular rivalry in adult humans following 150 minutes of monocular patching. Paradoxically, monocular deprivation resulted in lengthening of the mean phase duration of both luminance-modulated and equiluminant stimuli for the deprived eye and complementary shortening of nondeprived phase durations, suggesting an initial homeostatic compensation for the lack of information following monocular deprivation. When equiluminant gratings were tested, the effect was measurable for at least 180 minutes after reexposure to binocular vision, compared with 90 minutes for achromatic gratings. Our results suggest that chromatic vision shows a high degree of plasticity, retaining the effect for a duration (180 minutes) longer than that of the deprivation period (150 minutes) and twice as long as that found with achromatic gratings. The results are in line with evidence showing a higher vulnerability of the P pathway to the effects of visual deprivation during development and a slower development of chromatic vision in humans.
In line with pathological investigations, in vivo magnetic resonance imaging has consistently shown both focal and diffuse damage in the cerebral cortex of patients with multiple sclerosis. Cortical injury tends to progress over time and is only partially related to white matter abnormalities. This review summarizes the main findings from studies using both conventional and modern quantitative magnetic resonance-based techniques for the assessment of cortical damage and dysfunction in patients with multiple sclerosis.

It is estimated that around the year 1480 Leonardo da Vinci painted Saint Jerome in the Wilderness, representing the saint during his years of retreat in the Syrian dessert where he lived the life of a hermit. One may interpret Leonardo's Saint Jerome in the Wilderness as St. Jerome practicing self-chastisement with a stone in his right hand, seemingly punching his chest repeatedly. The stone, the lion and a cardinal's hat are conventionally linked to the saint. A skull was also almost always present with the image of the saint symbolically representing penance. With careful analysis of the painting one can identify the skull which is hidden in an arc represented as a lion's tail. The image is of a hemicranium (midline sagittal view) showing the intracranial dura, including the falx and tentorium, and venous system with the sinuses and major deep veins. This may have been the first time when the intracranial sinuses and the major deep venous vessels were illustrated.
The mdx mouse, the most widely used animal model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), develops a seriously impaired blood-brain barrier (BBB). As glucocorticoids are used clinically to delay the progression of DMD, we evaluated the effects of chronic treatment with -methyl-prednisolone (PDN) on the expression of structural proteins and markers in the brain and skeletal muscle of the mdx mouse. We analyzed the immunocytochemical and biochemical expression of four BBB markers, including endothelial ZO-1 and occludin, desmin in pericytes, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in glial cells, and the expression of the short dystrophin isoform Dp 71, the dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs), and aquaporin-4 (AQP4) and - dystroglycan (DG) in the brain. We evaluated the BBB integrity of mdx and PDN-treated mdx mice by means of intravascular injection of horseradish peroxidase (HRP). The expression of DAPs was also assessed in gastrocnemius muscles and correlated with utrophin expression, and laminin content was measured in the muscle and brain. PDN treatment induced a significant increase in the mRNA and protein content of the BBB markers; a reduction in the phosphorylation of occludin in the brain and of AQP4/ DG in both tissues; an increase of Dp71 protein content; and an increase of both mRNA and protein levels of the AQP4/- DG complex. The latter was associated with enhanced laminin and utrophin in the muscle. The HRP assay demonstrated functional restoration of the BBB in the PDN-treated mdx mice. Specifically, mdx mice showed extensive perivascular labeling due to escape of the marker, while HRP was exclusively intravascular in the PDN-treated mice and the controls. These data illustrate for the first time that PDN reverses the BBB alterations in the mdx mouse and re-establishes the proper expression and phosphorylation of -DG in both the BBB and skeletal muscle. Further, PDN partially protects against muscle damage. The reduction in AQP4 and occludin phosphorylation, coupled with their anchoring to glial and endothelial membranes in PDN-treated mice, suggests that the drug may target the glial and endothelial cells. Our results suggest a novel mechanism for PDN action on cerebral and muscular function, restoring the link between DAPs and the extracellular matrix, most likely through protein kinase inactivation.

The neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR) is utilized by a variety of pathogens to gain entry into the central nervous system (CNS). We tested if this entry portal might be exploited using a phage display library to isolate internalizing antibodies that target the CNS in vivo. By applying a phage library that expressed human single chain variable fragment (scFv) antibodies on their surface to a transected sciatic nerve, we showed that (1) phage conjugated to anti-p75(NTR) antibody or phage scFv library pre-panned against p75(NTR) are internalized by neurons expressing p75(NTR); (2) subsequent retrograde axonal transport separates internalized phage from the applied phage; and, (3) internalized phage can be recovered from a proximal ligature made on a nerve. This approach resulted in 13-fold increase in the number of phage isolated from the injured nerve compared with the starting population, and isolation of 18 unique internalizing p75(NTR) antibodies that were transported from the peripheral nerve into the spinal cord, through the blood-brain barrier. In addition, antibodies recognizing other potentially internalized antigens were identified through in vivo selection using a fully diverse library. Because p75(NTR) expression is upregulated in motor neurons in response to injury and in disease, the p75(NTR) antibodies may have substantial potential for cell-targeted drug/gene delivery. In addition, this novel selection method provides the potential to generate panels of antibodies that could be used to identify further internalization targets, which could aid drug delivery across the blood-brain barrier.
This work demonstrates how the rapid steady state T1 MRI technique for cerebral blood volume fraction (BVf) quantification can be used with intraperitoneal Gd-DOTA injections in mice at 4.7 T. The peak signal amplitude after intravenous administration (0.7 mmol/kg) and the steady state signal amplitude reached 15 min after intraperitoneal administration (6 mmol/kg) in the same mice lead to equivalent BVf measures in the order of 0.02 in the brain. The resulting time window for BVf quantification is 30 min and allows for cerebral BVf mapping with increased spatial resolution or signal-to-noise ratio, or for monitoring functional BVf changes. A cerebral BVf increase of up to 25% induced by the vasodilator acetazolamide was observed, validating the vascular origin of the signal. The noninvasive and quantitative rapid steady state T1 technique can be used in serial studies to evaluate new drugs or disease models, such as antiangiogenic therapies in tumors.
Amongst the various implementations of arterial spin labeling MRI methods for quantifying cerebral perfusion, the QUASAR method is unique. By using a combination of labeling with and without flow suppression gradients, the QUASAR method offers the separation of macrovascular and tissue signals. This permits local arterial input functions to be defined and &quot;model-free&quot; analysis, using numerical deconvolution, to be used. However, it remains unclear whether arterial spin labeling data are best treated using model-free or model-based analysis. This work provides a critical comparison of these two approaches for QUASAR arterial spin labeling in the healthy brain. An existing two-component (arterial and tissue) model was extended to the mixed flow suppression scheme of QUASAR to provide an optimal model-based analysis. The model-based analysis was extended to incorporate dispersion of the labeled bolus, generally regarded as the major source of discrepancy between the two analysis approaches. Model-free and model-based analyses were compared for perfusion quantification including absolute measurements, uncertainty estimation, and spatial variation in cerebral blood flow estimates. Major sources of discrepancies between model-free and model-based analysis were attributed to the effects of dispersion and the degree to which the two methods can separate macrovascular and tissue signal.

President Obama of the United States of America announced this April the Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN for short) investment, while Professor Henry Markram's team based in the European Union will spend over a billion euros on the Human Brain Project, breaking through the unknowns in the fifth science of the decade: Neuroscience. Malaysia's growth in the same field needs to be augmented, and thus the Universiti Sains Malaysia's vision is to excel in the field of clinical brain sciences, mind sciences and neurosciences. This will naturally bring up the level of research in the country simultaneously. Thus, a center was recently established to coordinate this venture. The four-year Integrated Neuroscience Program established recently will be a sustainable source of neuroscientists for the country. We hope to establish ourselves by 2020 as a global university with neurosciences research as an important flagship.
Combination antiretroviral therapy for persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) has extended life expectancy, and enabled PLHA to live productive lives that can include having children. Despite calls to address childbearing for PLHA there has been limited attention to developing safe conception programs. This research sought to assess the childbearing desires of PLHA and the experiences of health care providers serving this population. Research entailed a brief cross-sectional client survey given to HIV-infected men and women over age 18 at two Los Angeles County clinics administered over an 8-week period. Focus group discussions were conducted with providers at each clinic site. Although 39% of the 93 clients surveyed reported a desire to have children, two-thirds of clients had not discussed their desires, or methods of safe conception, with providers. Providers reported challenges in providing safe conception services in resource poor settings where clients cannot afford assisted fertility services and in the absence of national, state, or county guidelines for safe conception. They noted complex and varied client circumstances and a critical need for provider training in safe conception. Guidelines that focus on safe conception and harm reduction strategies as well as the legal ramifications of counseling on these practices are needed. HIV providers need training and patients need educational tools and workshops informing them of the risks, challenges, and options available to them and their partners to safely conceive and bear an HIV-negative child.
Cockayne syndrome (CS) is a rare multisystem disorder characterized by cachectic dwarfism, nervous system abnormalities and features of premature aging. CS symptoms are associated with mutations in 5 genes, CSA, CSB, XPB, XPD and XPG encoding for proteins involved in the transcription-coupled subpathway of nucleotide excision DNA repair (NER). Mutant mice have been generated for all CS-associated genes and provide tools to examine how the cellular defects translate into CS symptoms. Mice deficient for Csa or Csb genetically mimic CS in man, and develop mild CS symptoms including reduced fat tissue, photoreceptor cell loss, and mild, but characteristic, nervous system pathology. These mild CS models are converted into severe CS models with short life span, progressive nervous system degeneration and cachectic dwarfism after simultaneous complete inactivation of global genome NER. A spectrum of mild-to-severe CS-like symptoms occurs in Xpb, Xpd, and Xpg mice that genetically mimic patients with a disorder that combines CS symptoms with another NER syndrome, xeroderma pigmentosum. In conclusion, CS mouse models mice develop a range of CS phenotypes and open promising perspectives for testing interventional approaches.
This article gives an updated account of the clinical application of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer disease (AD). The clinically most relevant biomarkers, total tau, phospho-tau and A42 are discussed, and how they may be used, together with other diagnostic investigations, to make a predementia diagnosis of AD. Recent findings in sporadic and genetic preclinical AD are also discussed and, more specifically, what the biomarkers have taught us on the sequence of events in the pathogenic process underlying AD.
Tight linkages between metabolic states and cerebral cortical excitability have been observed and may be enabled by orexinergic neurons in the lateral hypothalamus (LH). However, despite reports of the close relationship between &quot;dysfunction&quot; in metabolism and &quot;dysfunction&quot; in cerebral cortical excitability, a mechanism has yet to be proposed to explain this coupling. We propose that the &quot;compensatory actions&quot; of orexinergic neurons in the LH may enable the coupling of metabolic and cortical dysfunction. When metabolites are inefficiently utilized during metabolic dysfunction with insulin/leptin resistance, orexinergic neurons can be activated to initiate negative feedback by triggering sympathetic innervation to elevate compromised catabolism. Activated orexinergic neurons as an intentional metabolic compensation, however, may unintentionally cause cortical dysfunction in the end by making the cortex, thalamus, and hippocampus hyperexcitable. Similarly, during cortical dysfunction, activated orexinergic neurons can trigger negative feedback on unstably high cortical rhythms by increasing food intake, which can potentially relieve cortical excitability via hypothalamic satiety modulation mechanisms. However, hyperphagia, an intentional cortical compensation, metabolically challenges bodies and eventually may result in metabolic dysfunction. Our model proposes a new therapeutic rationale for metabolic and cortical disorders. We suggest that by maintaining the negative feedback loop mediated by orexinergic neurons intact and pharmacologically blocking unintentional branches that may give rise to new types of dysfunction, the vicious cycle of metabolic and cortical dysfunction can be avoided.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a major form of adult brain tumour with relatively poor prognosis and high mortality. Temozolomide (TMZ)-based chemotherapy following neurosurgery and radiotherapy has been suggested as the first line of treatment and is proven to effectively prolong overall survival and enhance patient quality of life. However, not all patients benefit from this treatment because of drug resistance. Even patients with TMZ-sensitive GBM may become resistant, which is partly due to the restoration of activity of the DNA repair enzyme O(6)-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT); thus, patients cannot evade eventual tumour recurrence. The cellular activity of MGMT is the most important determinant of TMZ-resistance. However, some patients with a low level of activated MGMT are also TMZ-resistant. The aberrant expression of HOXA9, one of the 39 class I homeobox genes, is a marker of poor prognosis, and its level gradually increases with histologic malignant progression, shorter time to overall survival (OS) and free progression survival (FPS) in glioma patients, which further supports an oncogenic role for HOXA9 in gliomas. The HOXA9-PI3K signalling pathway is an important mechanism in GBM that is independent of MGMT promoter methylation status. The DNA binding sites of growth factor independent-1 (Gfi1) can overlap with the HOXA9 promoter through the &quot;AATC&quot; versus &quot;GATT&quot; core sequence. The competition for this binding site inhibits the expression of HOXA9 and induces different transcriptional outcomes, which suggests a new direction for investigation of the mechanism underlying targeted therapy of malignant gliomas.
The neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) participates in a broad range of physiological functions, both in the brain and in the periphery, where it is a principal output molecule of the sympathetic nervous system. NE receptors are present in nearly all, if not all, organs of the body, which may allow this molecule to play a role in a variety of disease processes. This paper examines the hypothesis elevated NE signaling, through genetics and/or environmental factors, is an etiological factor in a variety of diseases outside of the brain, including age-related macular degeneration, systemic lupus erythematosus, atrial fibrillation, and metabolic syndrome. Lines of evidence presented to assess the hypothesis include: (1) studies of noradrenergic drugs modulating the four diseases; (2) association of these diseases with bipolar disorder, hypertension, and obesity, where the latter three conditions may involve elevated NE signaling; and (3) association with psychological stress, since NE is released in response to stress. Many of the studies cited tend to support the hypothesis, or are at least consistent with it. If the hypothesis is correct, perhaps a large number of individuals would benefit from chronically taking drugs that systemically diminish noradrenergic signaling, thereby helping prevent or treat a wide variety of diseases.
The present study explored the degree to which repetition effects in color pop-out search from trial n - 1 to trial n are subject to the attentional control settings of the observer. Intertrial priming effects were compared between two contexts that differed in terms of the utility of immediate prior experience for current performance; in one context, the target was likely to repeat, and in the other context, the target was likely to alternate from one trial to the next. Across two experiments, priming of pop-out (PoP) effects (Malkjovic &amp; Nakayama; Memory &amp; Cognition 22:657-672, 1994) were modulated in accord with the probability of target color repetition in a given trial context. Importantly, this modulation persisted when trial history preceding trial n - 1 was controlled for. Furthermore, this control over PoP seems not to derive from explicit strategies and is not an artifact of randomly occurring strings of same-target trials. We argue that priming effects in singleton search from trial n - 1 to trial n are subject to a form of implicit top-down control.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder affecting a range of cellular and molecular functions in the brain. Deficits in adult hippocampal neurogenesis (AHN) have been documented in the R6/1 mouse model of HD. Here we examined basal and running-induced neuronal precursor proliferation in adult female and male R6/1 HD mice. We further tested whether sequential delivery of voluntary running followed by environmental enrichment could synergistically enhance functional AHN in female R6/1 HD mice. R6/1 HD mice engaged in significantly reduced levels of voluntary running, with males showing a more severe deficit. Basal neural precursor proliferation in the hippocampal sub-granular zone remained unchanged between female and male R6/1 HD mice and neither sex significantly responded to running-induced proliferation. While discrete provision of running wheels and enriched environments doubled AHN in adult female R6/1 HD mice it did not reflect the significant 3-fold increase in female wildtypes. Nevertheless, triple-label c-Fos/BrdU/NeuN immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy provided evidence that the doubling of AHN in female R6/1 HD mice was functional. Intrinsic cellular dysfunction mediated by protein aggregates containing mutant huntingtin (mHtt) did not appear to coincide with AHN deficits. In the hippocampus of female R6/1 HD mice, proliferating precursors and 6 week old adult-generated neurons were devoid of mHtt immuno-reactive aggregates, as were endothelial, microglial and astroglial cells populating the neurogenic niche. Serum transforming growth factor- concentrations remained unaltered in female R6/1 HD mice as did the hippocampal levels of proliferating microglia and glial fibrillarly acidic protein expression. Examining the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor 1 (GH/IGF-1) axis showed no change in base-line serum GH between genotypes. However, despite a reduced distance, acute running increases serum GH in both female wildtype and R6/1 HD mice. Serum IGF-1 levels were increased in female R6/1 HD mice compared to wildtypes during daytime inactive period, while hippocampal levels of the IGF-1 receptor remained unchanged. Running induced Akt phosphorylation in the hippocampus of female wildtype mice, which was not reflected in R6/1 HD mice. Total Akt levels were decreased in the hippocampus of both control and running R6/1 HD mice. Our results show adult-generated hippocampal neurons in female R6/1 HD mice express c-Fos and that running and Akt signaling deficits may mediate reduced basal and running-induced AHN levels.
Positive allosteric modulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu) is a promising novel approach for the treatment of schizophrenia and cognitive disorders. Allosteric binding sites are topographically distinct from the endogenous ligand (orthosteric) binding site, allowing for co-occupation of a single receptor with the endogenous ligand and an allosteric modulator. Negative allosteric modulators (NAMs) inhibit and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) enhance the affinity and/or efficacy of the orthosteric agonist. The molecular determinants that govern mGlu modulator affinity versus cooperativity are not well understood. Focusing on the modulators based on the acetylene scaffold, we sought to determine the molecular interactions that contribute to PAM versus NAM pharmacology. Generation of a comparative model of the transmembrane-spanning region of mGlu served as a tool to predict and interpret the impact of mutations in this region. Application of an operational model of allosterism allowed for determination of PAM and NAM affinity estimates at receptor constructs that possessed no detectable radioligand binding as well as delineation of effects on affinity versus cooperativity. Novel mutations within the transmembrane domain (TM) regions were identified that had differential effects on acetylene PAMs versus 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine, a prototypical NAM. Three conserved amino acids (Y658, T780, and S808) and two nonconserved residues (P654 and A809) were identified as key determinants of PAM activity. Interestingly, we identified two point mutations in TMs 6 and 7 that, when mutated, engender a mode switch in the pharmacology of certain PAMs.
The nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide (NOP) receptor is the fourth and most recently discovered member of the opioid receptor superfamily that also includes , , and  opioid receptor subtypes (MOR, DOR, and KOR, respectively). The widespread anatomic distribution of the NOP receptor enables the modulation of several physiologic processes by its endogenous agonist, N/OFQ. Accordingly, the NOP receptor has gained a lot of attention as a potential target for the development of ligands with therapeutic use in several pathophysiological states. NOP receptor activation frequently results in effects opposing classic opioid receptor action; therefore, regulation of the NOP receptor and conditions affecting its modulatory tone are important to understand. Mounting evidence reveals a heterologous interaction of the NOP receptor with other G protein-coupled receptors, including MOR, DOR, and KOR, which may subsequently influence their function. Our focus in this review is to summarize and discuss the findings that delineate the cellular mechanisms of NOP receptor signaling and regulation and the regulation of other receptors by N/OFQ and the NOP receptor.

Perturbation of Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) and D-serine/NMDA receptor hypofunction have both been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders. In the present study, we demonstrate that these two pathways intersect with behavioral consequences. DISC1 binds to and stabilizes serine racemase (SR), the enzyme that generates D-serine, an endogenous co-agonist of the NMDA receptor. Mutant DISC1 fails to bind to SR, facilitating ubiquitination and degradation of SR and a decrease in D-serine production. To elucidate DISC1-SR interactions in vivo, we generated a mouse model of selective and inducible expression of mutant DISC1 in astrocytes, the main source of D-serine in the brain. Expression of mutant DISC1 downregulates endogenous DISC1 and decreases protein but not mRNA levels of SR, resulting in diminished production of D-serine. In contrast, mutant DISC1 does not alter levels of ALDH1L1, connexins, GLT-1 or binding partners of DISC1 and SR, LIS1 or PICK1. Adult male and female mice with lifelong expression of mutant DISC1 exhibit behavioral abnormalities consistent with hypofunction of NMDA neurotransmission. Specifically, mutant mice display greater responses to an NMDA antagonist, MK-801, in open field and pre-pulse inhibition of the acoustic startle tests and are significantly more sensitive to the ameliorative effects of D-serine. These findings support a model wherein mutant DISC1 leads to SR degradation via dominant negative effects, resulting in D-serine deficiency that diminishes NMDA neurotransmission thus linking DISC1 and NMDA pathophysiological mechanisms in mental illness.
Schizophrenia is a chronic, severe and highly complex mental illness. Current treatments manage the positive symptoms, yet have minimal effects on the negative and cognitive symptoms, two prominent features of the disease with critical impact on the long-term morbidity. In addition, antipsychotic treatments trigger serious side effects that precipitate treatment discontinuation. Here, we show that activation of the trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1), a modulator of monoaminergic neurotransmission, represents a novel therapeutic option. In rodents, activation of TAAR1 by two novel and pharmacologically distinct compounds, the full agonist RO5256390 and the partial agonist RO5263397, blocks psychostimulant-induced hyperactivity and produces a brain activation pattern reminiscent of the antipsychotic drug olanzapine, suggesting antipsychotic-like properties. TAAR1 agonists do not induce catalepsy or weight gain; RO5263397 even reduced haloperidol-induced catalepsy and prevented olanzapine from increasing body weight and fat accumulation. Finally, TAAR1 activation promotes vigilance in rats and shows pro-cognitive and antidepressant-like properties in rodent and primate models. These data suggest that TAAR1 agonists may provide a novel and differentiated treatment of schizophrenia as compared with current medication standards: TAAR1 agonists may improve not only the positive symptoms but also the negative symptoms and cognitive deficits, without causing adverse effects such as motor impairments or weight gain.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a number of loci that have strong support for their association with bipolar disorder (BD). The Psychiatric Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) Consortium Bipolar Disorder Working Group (PGC-BD) meta-analysis of BD GWAS data sets and replication samples identified evidence (P=6.7  10, odds ratio (OR)=1.147) of association with the risk of BD at the polymorphism rs9371601 within SYNE1, a gene which encodes nesprin-1. Here we have tested this polymorphism in an independent BD case (n=1527) and control (n=1579) samples, and find evidence for association (P=0.0095) with similar effect sizes to those previously observed in BD (allelic OR=1.148). In a combined (meta) analysis of PGC-BD data (both primary and replication data) and our independent BD samples, we found genome-wide significant evidence for association (P=2.9  10, OR=1.104). We have also examined the polymorphism in our recurrent unipolar depression cases (n=1159) and control (n=2592) sample, and found that the risk allele was associated with risk for recurrent major depression (P=0.032, OR=1.118). Our findings add to the evidence that association at this locus influences susceptibility to bipolar and unipolar mood disorders.
There is increasing interest in discovering mechanisms that mediate the effects of childhood stress on late-life disease morbidity and mortality. Previous studies have suggested one potential mechanism linking stress to cellular aging, disease and mortality in humans: telomere erosion. We examined telomere erosion in relation to children's exposure to violence, a salient early-life stressor, which has known long-term consequences for well-being and is a major public-health and social-welfare problem. In the first prospective-longitudinal study with repeated telomere measurements in children while they experienced stress, we tested the hypothesis that childhood violence exposure would accelerate telomere erosion from age 5 to age 10 years. Violence was assessed as exposure to maternal domestic violence, frequent bullying victimization and physical maltreatment by an adult. Participants were 236 children (49% females; 42% with one or more violence exposures) recruited from the Environmental-Risk Longitudinal Twin Study, a nationally representative 1994-1995 birth cohort. Each child's mean relative telomere length was measured simultaneously in baseline and follow-up DNA samples, using the quantitative PCR method for T/S ratio (the ratio of telomere repeat copy numbers to single-copy gene numbers). Compared with their counterparts, the children who experienced two or more kinds of violence exposure showed significantly more telomere erosion between age-5 baseline and age-10 follow-up measurements, even after adjusting for sex, socioeconomic status and body mass index (B=-0.052, s.e.=0.021, P=0.015). This finding provides support for a mechanism linking cumulative childhood stress to telomere maintenance, observed already at a young age, with potential impact for life-long health.
Depression is usually associated with alterations in the monoaminergic system. However, new evidences suggest the involvement of the glutamatergic system in the aetiology of depression. Here we explored the glutamatergic system in a rat model of depression (i.e., the flinders sensitive line (FSL)) to reveal the mechanism underlying the emotional and cognitive aspects associated with the disease. We showed a dramatically elevated level of baseline glutamatergic synaptic transmission by whole-cell recordings as well as impairment in long-term potentiation induced by high-frequency stimulation in hippocampal slices from FSL rats compared with Sprague-Dawley rats. At behavioural level, FSL rats displayed recognition memory impairment in the novel object recognition test. Enantioselective chromatography analysis revealed lower levels of D-serine in the hippocampus of FSL rats and both synaptic plasticity and memory impairments were restored by administration of D-serine. We also observed dysfunctional astrocytic glutamate regulation including downregulation of the glia glutamate transporter GLAST as shown by western blot. One possibility is that the dysfunctional astrocytic glutamate reuptake triggers a succession of events, including the reduction of D-serine production as a safety mechanism to avoid NMDA receptor overactivation, which in turn causes the synaptic plasticity and memory impairments observed. These findings open up new brain targets for the development of more potent and efficient antidepressant drugs.


Protein misfolding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) leads to cell death through PERK-mediated phosphorylation of eIF2, although the mechanism is not understood. ChIP-seq and mRNA-seq of activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), key transcription factors downstream of p-eIF2, demonstrated that they interact to directly induce genes encoding protein synthesis and the unfolded protein response, but not apoptosis. Forced expression of ATF4 and CHOP increased protein synthesis and caused ATP depletion, oxidative stress and cell death. The increased protein synthesis and oxidative stress were necessary signals for cell death. We show that eIF2-phosphorylation-attenuated protein synthesis, and not Atf4 mRNA translation, promotes cell survival. These results show that transcriptional induction through ATF4 and CHOP increases protein synthesis leading to oxidative stress and cell death. The findings suggest that limiting protein synthesis will be therapeutic for diseases caused by protein misfolding in the ER.

A hallmark of addiction is the loss of control over drug intake, which is seen in only a fraction of those exposed to stimulant drugs such as cocaine. The cellular mechanisms underlying vulnerability or resistance to compulsive drug use remain unknown. We found that individual variability in the development of highly motivated and perseverative behavior toward cocaine is associated with synaptic plasticity in medium spiny neurons expressing dopamine D2 receptors (D2-MSNs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of mice. Potentiation of glutamatergic inputs onto indirect pathway D2-MSNs was associated with resilience toward compulsive cocaine seeking. Inhibition of D2-MSNs using a chemicogenetic approach enhanced the motivation to obtain cocaine, whereas optogenetic activation of D2-MSNs suppressed cocaine self-administration. These results indicate that recruitment of D2-MSNs in NAc functions to restrain cocaine self-administration and serves as a natural protective mechanism in drug-exposed individuals.
Oligodendrocytes associate with axons to establish myelin and provide metabolic support to neurons. In the spinal cord of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mice, oligodendrocytes downregulate transporters that transfer glycolytic substrates to neurons and oligodendrocyte progenitors (NG2(+) cells) exhibit enhanced proliferation and differentiation, although the cause of these changes in oligodendroglia is unknown. We found extensive degeneration of gray matter oligodendrocytes in the spinal cord of SOD1 (G93A) ALS mice prior to disease onset. Although new oligodendrocytes were formed, they failed to mature, resulting in progressive demyelination. Oligodendrocyte dysfunction was also prevalent in human ALS, as gray matter demyelination and reactive changes in NG2(+) cells were observed in motor cortex and spinal cord of ALS patients. Selective removal of mutant SOD1 from oligodendroglia substantially delayed disease onset and prolonged survival in ALS mice, suggesting that ALS-linked genes enhance the vulnerability of motor neurons and accelerate disease by directly impairing the function of oligodendrocytes.
Senescence affects the ability to utilize information about the likelihood of rewards for optimal decision-making. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans, we found that healthy older adults had an abnormal signature of expected value, resulting in an incomplete reward prediction error (RPE) signal in the nucleus accumbens, a brain region that receives rich input projections from substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA) dopaminergic neurons. Structural connectivity between SN/VTA and striatum, measured by diffusion tensor imaging, was tightly coupled to inter-individual differences in the expression of this expected reward value signal. The dopamine precursor levodopa (L-DOPA) increased the task-based learning rate and task performance in some older adults to the level of young adults. This drug effect was linked to restoration of a canonical neural RPE. Our results identify a neurochemical signature underlying abnormal reward processing in older adults and indicate that this can be modulated by L-DOPA.
Neurons require trophic support during neural circuit formation; however, how the cellular milieu contributes to neuronal survival remains unclear. We found that layer V cortical neurons require support from microglia for survival during postnatal development. Specifically, we found that microglia accumulated close to the subcerebral and callosal projection axons in the postnatal brain. Inactivation of microglia by minocycline treatment or transient ablation of microglia in CD11b-DTR transgenic mice led to increased apoptosis, specifically in layer V subcerebral and callosal projection neurons. CX3CR1 in microglia was required for the survival of layer V neurons. Microglia consistently promoted the survival of cortical neurons in vitro. In addition, we identified microglia-derived IGF1 as a trophic factor that maintained neuronal survival. Our results highlight a neuron-glia interaction that is indispensable for network formation during a specific period in the developing brain.
Visceral sensory neurons activate reflex pathways that control gut function and also give rise to important sensations, such as fullness, bloating, nausea, discomfort, urgency and pain. Sensory neurons are organised into three distinct anatomical pathways to the central nervous system (vagal, thoracolumbar and lumbosacral). Although remarkable progress has been made in characterizing the roles of many ion channels, receptors and second messengers in visceral sensory neurons, the basic aim of understanding how many classes there are, and how they differ, has proven difficult to achieve. We suggest that just five structurally distinct types of sensory endings are present in the gut wall that account for essentially all of the primary afferent neurons in the three pathways. Each of these five major structural types of endings seems to show distinctive combinations of physiological responses. These types are: 'intraganglionic laminar' endings in myenteric ganglia; 'mucosal' endings located in the subepithelial layer; 'muscular-mucosal' afferents, with mechanosensitive endings close to the muscularis mucosae; 'intramuscular' endings, with endings within the smooth muscle layers; and 'vascular' afferents, with sensitive endings primarily on blood vessels. 'Silent' afferents might be a subset of inexcitable 'vascular' afferents, which can be switched on by inflammatory mediators. Extrinsic sensory neurons comprise an attractive focus for targeted therapeutic intervention in a range of gastrointestinal disorders.
A study with low statistical power has a reduced chance of detecting a true effect, but it is less well appreciated that low power also reduces the likelihood that a statistically significant result reflects a true effect. Here, we show that the average statistical power of studies in the neurosciences is very low. The consequences of this include overestimates of effect size and low reproducibility of results. There are also ethical dimensions to this problem, as unreliable research is inefficient and wasteful. Improving reproducibility in neuroscience is a key priority and requires attention to well-established but often ignored methodological principles.
We present a novel method to generate realistic simulations of extracellular recordings. The simulations were obtained by superimposing the activity of neurons placed randomly in a cube of brain tissue. Detailed models of individual neurons were used to reproduce the extracellular action potentials of close-by neurons. To reduce the computational load, the contributions of neurons further away were simulated using previously recorded spikes with their amplitude normalized by the distance to the recording electrode. For making the simulations more realistic, we also considered a model of a finite-size electrode by averaging the potential along the electrode surface and modeling the electrode-tissue interface with a capacitive filter. This model allowed studying the effect of the electrode diameter on the quality of the recordings and how it affects the number of identified neurons after spike sorting. Given that not all neurons are active at a time, we also generated simulations with different ratios of active neurons and estimated the ratio that matches the signal-to-noise values observed in real data. Finally, we used the model to simulate tetrode recordings.
Convolutional models of object recognition achieve invariance to spatial transformations largely because of the use of a suitably defined pooling operator. This operator typically takes the form of a max or average function defined across units tuned to the same feature. As a model of the brain's ventral pathway, where computations are carried out by weighted synaptic connections, such pooling can lead to spatial invariance only if the weights that connect similarly tuned units to a given pooling unit are of approximately equal strengths. How identical weights can be learned in the face of nonuniformly distributed data remains unclear. In this letter, we show how various versions of the trace learning rule can help solve this problem. This allows us in turn to explain previously published results and make recommendations as to the optimal rule for invariance learning.
Despite their small brains, insects show advanced capabilities in learning and task solving. Flies, honeybees and ants are becoming a reference point in neuroscience and a main source of inspiration for autonomous robot design issues and control algorithms. In particular, honeybees demonstrate to be able to autonomously abstract complex associations and apply them in tasks involving different sensory modalities within the insect brain. Mushroom Bodies (MBs) are worthy of primary attention for understanding memory and learning functions in insects. In fact, even if their main role regards olfactory conditioning, they are involved in many behavioral achievements and learning capabilities, as has been shown in honeybees and flies. Owing to the many neurogenetic tools, the fruit fly Drosophila became a source of information for the neuroarchitecture and biochemistry of the MBs, although the MBs of flies are by far simpler in organization than their honeybee orthologs. Electrophysiological studies, in turn, became available on the MBs of locusts and honeybees. In this paper a novel bio-inspired neural architecture is presented, which represents a generalized insect MB with the basic features taken from fruit fly neuroanatomy. By mimicking a number of different MB functions and architecture, we can replace and improve formerly used artificial neural networks. The model is a multi-layer spiking neural network where key elements of the insect brain, the antennal lobes, the lateral horn region, the MBs, and their mutual interactions are modeled. In particular, the model is based on the role of parts of the MBs named MB-lobes, where interesting processing mechanisms arise on the basis of spatio-temporal pattern formation. The introduced network is able to model learning mechanisms like olfactory conditioning seen in honeybees and flies and was found able also to perform more complex and abstract associations, like the delayed matching-to-sample tasks known only from honeybees. A biological basis of the proposed model is presented together with a detailed description of the architecture. Simulation results and remarks on the biological counterpart are also reported to demonstrate the possible applications of the designed computational model. Such neural architecture, able to autonomously learn complex associations is envisaged to be a suitable basis for an immediate implementation within an robot control architecture.
Reinforcement (trial-and-error) learning in animals is driven by a multitude of processes. Most animals have evolved several sophisticated systems of 'extrinsic motivations' (EMs) that guide them to acquire behaviours allowing them to maintain their bodies, defend against threat, and reproduce. Animals have also evolved various systems of 'intrinsic motivations' (IMs) that allow them to acquire actions in the absence of extrinsic rewards. These actions are used later to pursue such rewards when they become available. Intrinsic motivations have been studied in Psychology for many decades and their biological substrates are now being elucidated by neuroscientists. In the last two decades, investigators in computational modelling, robotics and machine learning have proposed various mechanisms that capture certain aspects of IMs. However, we still lack models of IMs that attempt to integrate all key aspects of intrinsically motivated learning and behaviour while taking into account the relevant neurobiological constraints. This paper proposes a bio-constrained system-level model that contributes a major step towards this integration. The model focusses on three processes related to IMs and on the neural mechanisms underlying them: (a) the acquisition of action-outcome associations (internal models of the agent-environment interaction) driven by phasic dopamine signals caused by sudden, unexpected changes in the environment; (b) the transient focussing of visual gaze and actions on salient portions of the environment; (c) the subsequent recall of actions to pursue extrinsic rewards based on goal-directed reactivation of the representations of their outcomes. The tests of the model, including a series of selective lesions, show how the focussing processes lead to a faster learning of action-outcome associations, and how these associations can be recruited for accomplishing goal-directed behaviours. The model, together with the background knowledge reviewed in the paper, represents a framework that can be used to guide the design and interpretation of empirical experiments on IMs, and to computationally validate and further develop theories on them.
Adeno-associated virus serotype 6 (AAV6) viral vectors encoding mutant and normal tau were used to produce focal tau pathology. Two mutant forms of tau were used; the P301S tau mutation is associated with neurofibrillary tangle formation in humans, and the 3PO mutation leads to rapid tau aggregation and is associated with pathogenic phosphorylation and cytotoxicity in vitro. We show that adeno-associated viral injection into entorhinal cortex of normal and tau knockout animals leads to local overexpression of tau, and the presence of human tau in axons projecting to and emanating from the entorhinal cortex. Starting at 2 months and increasing by 6 months post-injection neurons expressing mutant tau developed hyperphosphorylated tau pathology, in addition to dystrophic neurites. There was neuronal loss in tau-expressing regions, which was similar in normal and in TASTPM mice injected with mutant tau. There was neuroinflammation around plaques, and in regions expressing mutant tau. We saw no evidence that mutant tau had affected amyloid-beta pathology or vice versa. Morris water maze behavioral tests demonstrated mild memory impairment attributable to amyloid-beta pathology at 2 and 4 months, with severe impairment at 6 months in animals receiving adeno-associated viral-3PO. Therefore, TASTPM mice injected with mutant tau displayed many of the main features characteristic of human Alzheimer's disease patients and might be used as a model to test new drugs to ameliorate clinical features of Alzheimer's disease.
Using microarray technology we studied the genome-wide gene expression profiles in the frontal cortex of APPswe/PS1dE9 mice and age and sex-matched littermates at the age of 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 15-18 months to investigate transcriptional changes that are associated with beta amyloid protein (A) plaque formation and buildup. We observed the occurrence of an immune response with glial activation, but no changes in genes involved in synaptic transmission or plasticity. Comparison of the mouse gene expression data set with a human data set representing the course of Alzheimer's disease revealed a strikingly limited overlap between gene expression in the APPswe/PS1dE9 and human Alzheimer's disease prefrontal cortex. Only plexin domain containing 2, complement component 4b, and solute carrier family 14 (urea transporter) member 1 were significantly upregulated in the mouse and human brain which might suggest a function in A pathology for these 3 genes. In both data sets we detected clusters of upregulated genes involved in immune-related processes. We conclude that the APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse can be a good model to study the immune response associated with cortical A plaques.
Neuronal inclusions of -synuclein (-syn), termed Lewy bodies, are a hallmark of Parkinson disease (PD). Increased -syn levels can occur in brains of aging human and neurotoxin-treated mice. Because previous studies have shown increased brain lactate levels in aging brains, in PD affected subjects when compared with age-matched controls, and in mice treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine(MPTP), we tested the effects of lactate exposure on -syn in a cell-based study. We demonstrated that (1) lactate treatment led to -syn accumulation and oligomerization in a time- and concentration-dependent manner; (2) such alterations were mediated via adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and associated with increasing cytoplasmic phosphorylated AMPK levels; (3) AMPK activation facilitated -syn accumulation and phosphorylation; (4) lactate treatment or overexpression of the active form of AMPK decreased -syn turnover and neurite outgrowth; and (5) Lewy body-bearing neurons displayed abnormal cytoplasmic distribution of phosphorylated AMPK, which normally is located in nuclei. Together, our results suggest that chronic neuronal accumulation of -syn induced by lactate-triggered AMPK activation in aging brains might be a novel mechanism underlying -synucleinopathies in PD and related disorders.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a severe neurodegenerative disease that causes progressive muscle weakness, eventually resulting in death because of respiratory failure. Genetic variants are thought to predispose to the disease. A recent, large, genome-wide association study identified 2 loci that increase susceptibility to ALS. These 2 loci on chromosomes 9 and 19 consist of 4 genes: UNC13a, IFNK, MOBKL2b, and C9ORF72. A hexanucleotide repeat expansion in the noncoding region of C9ORF72 was recently identified as the cause of chromosome 9-linked ALS-FTD (frontotemporal dementia). In this study, our aim was to determine whether the coding regions of these genes harbor rare, nonsynonymous variants that play a role in ALS pathogenesis. In DNA from 1019 sporadic ALS patients and 1103 control subjects of Dutch descent, we performed a mutation screening analysis in the coding region of these 4 genes by resequencing the exons. A total of 16 amino acid-changing rare variations were identified, 11 in UNC13a and 5on chromosome 9. Some of these were unique to ALS, but were detected in a single patient. None of the genes showed significant enrichment of rare variants in the coding sequence. Rare variants in the coding region of UNC13a, IFNK, MOBKL2b, and C9ORF72 are unlikely to be a genetic cause of ALS.
Mutations in the profilin 1 (PFN1) gene, encoding a protein regulating filamentous actin growth through its binding to monomeric G-actin, have been recently identified in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Functional studies performed on ALS-associated PFN1 mutants demonstrated aggregation propensity, alterations in growth cone, and cytoskeletal dynamics. Previous screening of PFN1 gene in sporadic ALS (SALS) cases led to the identification of the p.E117G mutation, which is likely to represent a less pathogenic variant according to both frequency data in control subjects and cases, and functional experiments. To determine the effective contribution of PFN1 mutations in SALS, we analyzed a large cohort of 1168 Italian SALS patients and also included 203 frontotemporal dementia (FTD) cases because of the great overlap between these 2 neurodegenerative diseases. We detected the p.E117G variant in 1 SALS patient and the novel synonymous change p.G15G in another patient, but none in a panel of 1512 control subjects. Our results suggest that PFN1 mutations in sporadic ALS and in FTD are rare, at least in the Italian population.
The H63D polymorphism in HFE has frequently been associated with susceptibility to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Regarding the role of HFE in iron homeostasis, iron accumulation is considered an important process in ALS. Furthermore, novel therapeutic strategies are being developed targeting this process. Evidence for this genetic association is, however, limited to several small studies. For this reason we studied the H63D polymorphism in a large European cohort including 3962 ALS patients and 5072 control subjects from 7 countries. After meta-analysis of previous studies and current findings we conclude that the H63D polymorphism in HFE is not associated with susceptibility to ALS, age at disease onset, or survival.
Mutations in TAR DNA-binding protein (TARDBP) are associated with heterogenic phenotypes, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal dementia, and Parkinson's disease. In this study, we investigated the presence of TARDBP mutations in a cohort of 429 Dutch patients with Parkinson's disease. Though we detected 1 silent mutation, p.S332S, no missense mutations were present in our cohort. Our findings, therefore, demonstrate that TARDBP mutations do not appear to contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease in The Netherlands.
GABAergic interneurons of the cerebral cortex (cINs) play crucial roles in many aspects of cortical function. The diverse types of cINs are classified into subgroups according to their morphology, intrinsic physiology, neurochemical markers and synaptic targeting. Recent advances in mouse genetics, imaging and electrophysiology techniques have greatly advanced our efforts to understand the role of normal cIN function and its dysfunction in neuropsychiatric disorders. In schizophrenia (SCZ), a wealth of data suggests that cIN function is perturbed, and that interneuron dysfunction may underlie key symptoms of the disease. In this review, we discuss the link between cINs and SCZ, focusing on the evidence for GABAergic signaling deficits from both SCZ patients and mouse models.
The Egr family of transcription factors plays a key role in long-term plasticity and memory in a number of vertebrate species. Here we identify and characterize ApEgr (GenBank: KC608221), an Egr homolog in the marine mollusk Aplysia californica. ApEgr codes for a predicted 593-amino acid protein with the highly conserved trio of zinc-fingered domains in the C-terminus that characterizes the Egr family of transcription factors. Promoter analysis shows that the ApEgr protein selectively recognizes the GSG motif recognized by vertebrate Egrs. Like mammalian Egrs, ApEgr is constitutively expressed in a range of tissues, including the CNS. Moreover, expression of ApEgr is bi-directionally regulated by changes in neural activity. Of most interest, the association between ApEgr function and memory may be conserved in Aplysia, as we observe rapid and long-lasting up-regulation of expression after long-term sensitization training. Taken together, our results suggest that Egrs may have memory functions that are conserved from mammals to mollusks.
Serotonin syndrome (SS) is a serious life-threatening disorder associated with elevated brain serotonergic function. With the growing use of serotonergic drugs, SS affects a large portion of general population, becoming a major biomedical concern. SS-like behaviors have also been reported in animals following administration of serotonergic drugs. Although clinical and rodent studies have provided significant insight into the etiology of SS, its exact mechanisms and risk factors remain poorly understood. The need to develop more efficient psychotropic drugs also requires extensive high-throughput screening of novel compounds using sensitive in-vivo tests. The use of zebrafish (Danio rerio) in neuroscience research is rapidly expanding due to their homology to humans, robust behavioral and physiological responses, genetic tractability, and low costs. Here we discuss the potential of zebrafish models to study SS-related phenotypes induced by selected serotonergic drugs. Overall, zebrafish exposed to serotonergic agents and their combinations exhibit a characteristic top dwelling (surfacing behavior) and hypolocomotion which may represent potential markers of SS-like states in zebrafish. This behavior in zebrafish models positively correlates with brain concentrations of serotonin, suggesting the developing utility of zebrafish (and other aquatic models) for studying SS. Future research is expected to foster high-throughput screening of drug interactions, and pharmacogenetics studies identifying zebrafish mutations implicated in pathological SS-like states.
d-Serine, an endogenous co-agonist of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is synthesized from l-serine by serine racemase (SRR). A previous study of Srr knockout (Srr-KO) mice showed that levels of d-serine in forebrain regions, such as frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum, but not cerebellum, of mutant mice are significantly lower than those of wild-type (WT) mice, suggesting that SRR is responsible for d-serine production in the forebrain. In this study, we attempted to determine whether SRR affects the level of other amino acids in brain tissue. We found that tissue levels of d-aspartic acid in the forebrains (frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum) of Srr-KO mice were significantly lower than in WT mice, whereas levels of d-aspartic acid in the cerebellum were not altered. Levels of d-alanine, l-alanine, l-aspartic acid, taurine, asparagine, arginine, threonine, -amino butyric acid (GABA) and methionine, remained the same in frontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum of WT and mutant mice. Furthermore, no differences in d-aspartate oxidase (DDO) activity were detected in the forebrains of WT and Srr-KO mice. These results suggest that SRR and/or d-serine may be involved in the production of d-aspartic acid in mouse forebrains, although further detailed studies will be necessary to confirm this finding.
The incidence of acute and chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) in the United States is more than 10,000 per year, resulting in 720 cases per million persons enduring permanent disability each year. The economic impact of SCI is estimated to be more than 4 billion dollars annually. Preclinical studies, case reports, and small clinical trials suggest that early treatment may improve neurological recovery. To date, no proven therapeutic modality exists that has demonstrated a positive effect on neurological outcome. Emerging data from recent preclinical and clinical studies offer hope for this devastating condition. This review gives an overview of current basic research and clinical studies for the treatment of SCI.

The recent epidemic of obesity corresponds closely with the decline in the average number of hours of sleep obtained nightly. While growing research suggests that sleep loss may affect hormonal and other physiological systems related to food intake, no studies have yet explored the role that sleepiness may play in reducing prefrontal inhibitory control over food intake. Because evidence suggests that women may be more prone to obesity and eating disorders, as well as more likely to suffer from sleep problems, we examined the relation between general daytime sleepiness, brain responses to food stimuli, and self-reported overeating separately for men and women. Thirty-eight healthy adults (16 women; 22 men) aged 18 to 45 underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while viewing pictures of high- and low-calorie foods. Subjects completed the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and provided a rating to the query &quot;how often do you eat more than you intend to.&quot; Contrast images comparing brain activation derived from the high- versus low-calorie conditions were correlated voxel-wise with scores from the ESS in a second-level regression model, the output of which was used to predict self-reported overeating. As hypothesized, daytime sleepiness correlated with reduced activation in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex during perception of high- versus low-calorie food images. Moreover, activation within this cluster predicted overeating, but only for women. Findings suggest that normal fluctuations in sleepiness may be sufficient to affect brain regions important for regulating food intake, but that these effects may differ between men and women.
The neuropeptide S (NPS) system has been suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of anxiety. In order to further characterize the cognitive-neurophysiological relevance of neuropeptide S in the etiology of anxiety, the influence of a functional neuropeptide S receptor gene (NPSR1) variant on response inhibition and error monitoring was investigated under consideration of the dimensional phenotype of anxiety sensitivity (AS). In a sample of N=97 healthy probands, event-related potential (ERP) measurement using a modified Flanker task was applied allowing for a distinct neurophysiological examination of processes related to response inhibition (Nogo-N2, Nogo-P3) and error monitoring (Ne/ERN). All subjects were genotyped for the functional NPSR1 A/T (Asn(107)Ile) variant (rs324981) and characterized for anxiety sensitivity using the Anxiety Sensitivity Index (ASI). Carriers of the NPSR1 T allele displayed intensified response inhibition (Nogo-P3) and error monitoring (Ne/ERN), which was in both cases paralleled by the behavioral data. Furthermore, anxiety sensitivity was found to be higher in NPSR1 T allele carriers and to correlate with Nogo-P3 and Ne/ERN. A mediation analysis revealed the ERN to mediate the effect between NPSR1 genotype and anxiety sensitivity. In summary, the more active NPSR1 T allele may confer enhanced response inhibition and increased error monitoring and might drive particularly error monitoring as a neurophysiological endophenotype of anxiety as reflected by increased anxiety sensitivity. These findings further corroborate a major role of the neuropeptide S system in the pathogenesis of anxiety and suggest a potentially beneficial use of therapeutic agents targeting the NPS system in anxiety disorders.

Patients with chronic migraine (CM) and medication overuse (MO) have high frequency of psychiatric comorbidity. Aims of this open label, prospective, independent study were: to evaluate the efficacy of duloxetine in a sample of patients with MO due to CM and with concomitant depression; to investigate, if the presence of OCD influences the outcome in this subgroup of patients. A total of 50 consecutive patients (40 F,10 M, aged 20-65 years, mean 39.4 years) from those attending our Headache Center to undergo an inpatient withdrawal programme followed by anti-migraine prophylaxis was enrolled. After a 1-month baseline period, all patients were prescribed duloxetine 30 mg in the morning for the first week, and 60 mg for the following 12 weeks. They filled a daily headache diary during the whole study period. They also completed Hamilton depression rating scale (HDRS) and migraine disability assessment scale (MIDAS) at baseline and at the 12-week follow-up. The primary outcome measure was the percentage of responders, i.e. of patients with a reduction 50 % in headache frequency as well as in symptomatic drug consumption. Comparison between patients with and without OCD was performed. Our results showed a rather high responder rate in the total sample (64 %), while none of the patients with OCD fell among responders. MIDAS and HDRS scores had a more evident decrease in patients without OSD. These findings suggest that duloxetine may be effective in patients with MO due to CM and with comorbid depression. They also confirm the importance of a systematic assessment of the psychopathological profile in these patients, and indicate that clinicians should be aware of the relevant prognostic role of OCD in favoring a poor outcome and persistent disability in headache patients with MO.
Patients with chronic headache and medication overuse are particularly difficult to treat, with no one approach being universally accepted. Some type of withdrawal program, however, is typically implemented before beginning a pharmacological prophylaxis treatment. Different withdrawal modalities have been performed for managing these patients: at first step, in-patient withdrawal has been confirmed effective in preceding clinical experiences. In recent years, new modalities for withdrawal have been developed as day-hospital setting. Purpose of this study was to determine the clinical course of a sample of chronic migraine patients with medication overuse 3 years after day-hospital withdrawal. A group of 202 patients were treated. Patients were suffering from chronic migraine with medication overuse according with IHS criteria. All patients were submitted to a day-hospital withdrawal and then they were followed with meetings every 3 months until the first year and then every 6 months until the last follow-up 3 years after withdrawal. Eighty patients achieved the last follow-up meeting 3 years after withdrawal. Patients clinically improved, significantly, both for days of headache per month and consumption of medications per month. From these results, the day-hospital setting for withdrawal, followed by periodic clinical meetings, seems to be effective for this category of patients to improve significantly at long-term headache frequency and analgesics intake.
Five years ago we reported the case of three patients affected by basilar-type migraine (BM) responsive to lamotrigine. At that time, proven treatment options for BM are rather limited and lamotrigine has been tested in BM patients because it was a widely tested treatment for migraine with aura. That positive 1-year experience leaded us to suggest that lamotrigine could be a preventive therapeutic option for BM patients, with and without menstruation association. We now report the five-year follow-up of the same patients to confirm and underlie the possible role of lamotrigine to induce BM attacks remission.
Primary stabbing headache (PSH) is a primary syndrome of unknown aetiology, characterised by brief, jabbing stabs predominantly felt in the orbital, temporal and parietal areas, whose frequency may vary from one to many per day, usually responding to indomethacin. PSH frequency in the general population is not well defined, but recent evidence suggests it could be more frequent than previously thought. In clinical series, PSH incidence was 33/100,000 per year, while in a population study 35.2 % prevalence was found. PSH was previously described as isolated or associated to other headache syndromes, most frequently with migraine. There is evidence that an idiopathic intracranial hypertension without papilledema, a condition usually associated to significant stenosis of dural sinuses (93 % sensitivity and specificity), is much more prevalent than believed and may run asymptomatically in up to 11 % of otherwise healthy individuals. In migrainous prone people, a sinus stenosis-associated intracranial hypertension without papilledema (ss-IHWOP) comorbidity may represent a powerful risk factor for progression of pain. Besides migraine, significant sinus stenosis has been found overrepresented also in chronic tension type headache as well as in exertional, cough, sexual activity-associated headaches (all indomethacin responsive primary headaches) and in altitude headache (an acetazolamide responsive condition). To explore the possible association between venous outflow disturbances and PSH, we retrospectively investigated the co-occurrence of sinus venous stenosis in patients referring to our headache centre since 2004 diagnosed with PSH who completed the diagnostic protocol. Out of 50 consecutive patients reporting PSH as the main or as accessory complaint, 8 (6 females, 2 males) performed MR venography (MRV). All MRV revealed significant unilateral or bilateral sinus stenosis. Mean age at PSH onset was 35.3  18.9 years (range 11-67 years). Duration of attacks ranged 1-3 s. Median daily frequency of attacks was 4 (range 2-20); median number of days per month with PSH presentation was 14 (range 4-30). Six patients described attacks in temporal or parietal areas, one at the top of the head, and one in the occipital area. Only one patient had isolated PSH; all the others were diagnosed also with migraine without aura. Seven out of eight patients responded to indomethacin 75 mg/die, and one to topiramate 100 mg/die. Interestingly, both drugs share with acetazolamide a CSF pressure lowering effect. Our findings indicate that PSH is associated with central sinus stenosis and suggest that an undiagnosed ss-IHWOP might be involved in PSH pathogenesis.
Headache is a key symptom of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). Operational diagnostic criteria for &quot;Headache attributed to IIH&quot; are included in the international classification of headache disorders, the ICHD-2. The association of IIH with obesity was established by several reports. We investigate the prevalence of headache and its main clinical features in a clinical sample of IIH patients. The possible correlations between the presence of headache and body mass index (BMI) and intracranial pressure (ICP) levels were studied in a consecutive clinical series of patients, in whom diagnosis of IIH was confirmed by exclusion of secondary forms and by the evidence of increased ICP. Differences for age, BMI, and ICP between patients with and without headache and between males and females were assessed with Mann-Whitney U test. Spearman's correlation analysis was used to assess relationships between age, BMI, and ICP. P value &lt; 0.05 was used to set statistical significance. 40 patients entered the study (9 males, 31 females; mean age 39, 8 years, SD 13.2). Headache was reported by 75 % patients. Those characteristics which are included in the present international diagnostic criteria for &quot;Headache attributed to IIH&quot; were reported by a remarkable proportion of the studied patients, but not by all. On the other hand, some headache features usually attributed to migraine forms, and which are not among the required criteria were present in some patients: pulsating quality and unilateral distribution of pain in around 20 %, and migrainous associated symptoms in more than 40 % of the sample. According to statistical analyses, no differences were found for age, BMI, and ICP between patients with and without headache. Our results confirmed the strong association between headache and IIH. Although no significant correlations between some of the key features of IIH were found in this study, we suggest that further studies on larger series--possibly with a longitudinal evaluation--are needed, to help clinicians in categorizing different subgroups among IIH patients as well as in identifying the main factors influencing the prognosis of this disorder.
A subset of headache patients are chronic and results refractory to standard medical treatments, they are unsatisfied or unable to tolerate the side effects of medications. In the lack of more effective prophylactic treatment, there is need of alternative approach. Migraine is conceptualized as a chronic and potentially progressive disorder. It is conceivable that more aggressive therapeutic efforts could be warranted in drug-refractory chronic migraine. In this prospective, the new, device-based therapies that allow to affect brain function in less invasive ways may represent a therapeutic opportunity. Peripheral occipital neurostimulation resulted in several trials and case reports to be beneficial in a large variety of headache and craniofacial pain disorders, with chronic primary headache the most studied. We comment on our experience in the application of ONS in drug-refractory chronic cluster headache and chronic migraine patients.
Migraine might be associated with high blood pressure (BP), which can cause more severe and more difficult to treat forms of headache. To evaluate the efficacy of frovatriptan and other triptans in the acute treatment of migraine, in patients classified according to a history of arterial hypertension, enrolled in three randomized, double-blind, crossover, Italian studies. Migraineurs with or without aura were randomized to frovatriptan 2.5 mg or rizatriptan 10 mg (study 1), frovatriptan 2.5 mg or zolmitriptan 2.5 mg (study 2), frovatriptan 2.5 mg or almotriptan 12.5 mg (study 3). After treating up to three episodes of migraine in 3 months with the first treatment, patients switched to the alternate treatment for the next 3 months. The present analysis assessed triptan efficacy in 60 subjects with a history of treated or untreated essential arterial hypertension (HT) and in 286 normotensive (NT) subjects. During the study, migraine attacks with aura were significantly more prevalent in HT subjects (21 vs. 13 % NT, p &lt; 0.001). The proportion of pain free at 2 h did not significantly differ between HTs and NTs for either frovatriptan (25 vs. 26 %) or the comparators (33 vs. 32 %). Pain relief was achieved in significantly (p &lt; 0.05) fewer episodes in HT subjects for both frovatriptan (41 vs. 52 % NT) and the comparators (48 vs. 58 %). Relapses at 48 h were similarly low in HTs and NTs with frovatriptan (29 vs. 31 %), while they were significantly (p &lt; 0.05) larger in HTs (62 %) than in NTs (44 %) with comparators. No BP or heart rate increment was observed during the study in HT subjects. No difference in tolerability was reported between HTs and NTs. In conclusion, HT individuals tend to be less responsive than NT migraineurs to triptan therapy. However, frovatriptan, in contrast to other triptans, seems to have a sustained antimigraine effect in both HT and NT patients.
The role of the cortical spreading depression (CSD)-dependent trigeminovascular activation in migraine etiopathogenesis, long considered paradigmatic, has remained substantially unproven in humans. The parallel advancement of functional neuroimaging techniques promoted the extensive exploration of the brain networks involved in pain processing in search of a possible central migraine generator. However, despite initial enthusiasms, it has not been possible to clarify whether the functional central &quot;markers&quot; of pain observed in primary headaches could be considered as causative or just the neural correlates of the ongoing pain. Nonetheless, our knowledge on the complex interactions between CSD, neurogenic inflammation, peripheral trigeminovascular input, central cortico-trigeminal nuclei direct modulation and pain processing and limbic system networks has enormously grown, allowing the reconceptualisation of migraine from a neurovascular to a pure neurolimbic pain disorder, therefore relocating it in the much broader frame of the brain and whole organism homeostatic control. In this work, the available evidences currently supporting the relevance of CSD, of peripheral trigeminovascular input and of direct cortico-trigeminal nuclei modulation in migraine pathogenesis are reviewed in the light of a possible integrated migraine etiopathogenetic perspective.
Migraine is a neurologic disorder characterized by disabling attacks of throbbing headache with specific features and associated symptoms. Despite the recent discoveries in basic neurosciences, migraine pathophysiology is not completely understood. Nevertheless, in the last decades, advances in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have significantly provided new insights into migraine mechanisms. Blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) fMRI technique is the most commonly used method to explore brain function and connectivity due to high temporal and spatial resolution. The purpose of this review is to present a synthesis of recent BOLD-fMRI studies which have allowed us to elucidate the complex process involved in migraine pathophysiology.
The aim of this paper is to review hypotheses regarding pain mechanisms in headache and relationships between headache pain and the brain's emotional network. There is evidence that chronic pain in idiopathic headaches is, in part, an emotional response induced by alterations in the homeostasis of the interoceptive system--a system that integrates nociceptive information with the emotional network (mediating emotional awareness). These findings suggest that idiopathic headaches are probably due to both an altered pain matrix on the one hand, and an altered affective-cognitive state on the other.
Chronic migraine is a common and debilitating headache syndrome. Botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT), a potent toxin produced by the anaerobic bacterium Clostridium botulinum, used largely for treatment of disorders associated with increased muscle tone and hyperidrosis, has been recently used for patients suffering from chronic migraine. In this study, two groups of patients were treated with different dosages of BoNT A to verify the efficacy for chronic migraine. The results confirmed the efficacy of BoNT A when used at the dosage of 150 U. In the second group of patients treated with 100 U, results were not significant. Although these results are preliminary, they led to intense efforts to evaluate the analgesic properties of BoNT A and to assess their clinical applicability.
The question concerning treatment of chronic forms of migraine associated with medication overuse has been largely debated and discussed in the last years and clinical experience has indicated the withdrawal as the first step to treat these patients as the withdrawal is useful so that a preventive pharmacologic therapy can be effective. Moreover, in the last 15 years it has been realized that chronic migraine with medication overuse is clearly a biobehavioral disorder. This clinical condition is not only a painful condition residing in an abnormality of receptor physiology; it is more aptly recognized as a condition wherein emotion and pain are intermingled. For this reason a multidisciplinary strategy of treatment which considers every aspect of individual life, social and emotional, is needed.
Headache disorders determine relevant personal and societal burden, and thus the use of patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) investigating the level of disability and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) have been increasingly used in headache research. The aim of this review was to address the status of research on disability and HRQoL, by addressing results from recently published clinical trials as well as in longitudinal observational studies on headache patients. PubMed has been searched for papers in which measures of HRQoL and/or disability were used as primary or secondary outcome on adult subjects with primary headache, and published in 2010-2012. Among the 70 records retrieved, 12 papers were selected for narrative synthesis. They included data on 2,621 patients with episodic migraine with and without aura, chronic daily headache, and/or chronic migraine with and without medication overuse. The selected trials investigated the efficacy of different pharmacological prophylaxis, of some surgical approaches, of education programmes and osteopathic manipulative treatment; two studies reported longitudinal observations of patients currently under treatment. Overall, the results of our review showed that headache frequency as well as HRQoL and disability were positively impacted by treatment interventions; positive outcomes were less evident in two studies, and similar results were found in the two observational studies. Our findings confirmed that the most commonly used PROMs, including disease-specific tools to assess disability and HRQoL and SF-36, are sensitive to the beneficial effects occurring over time in functioning and quality of life domains in headache patients. They also suggest that the personal and societal costs of headache disorders are likely to be reduced when headache patients receive appropriate treatments and when continuity of care is offered. In terms of future directions, we note that the systematic use of appropriate PROMs should be encouraged both in the clinical practice and in the research field, as they offer a valid option to assess the global effect of treatments on patient-perceived sense of well-being and quality of performance.
Affected patients with hypogonadism have unnaturally low amounts of sex hormones that produce male and female sex characteristics. Males who suffer from this condition lack testosterone, while females fail to produce enough estrogen. Hypogonadism may be present at birth, or it may take effect years later following injury or illness to the sex glands. Hypogonadism has remarkable associations with variable medical disorders; however, it is characterized by a distinctive association with variable neurological disorders: such as epilepsy, ataxia, dysmyelination, nerve muscle disease, movement disorders, mental retardation and deafness. The remarkable neurological diseases with hypogonadism should not basically be regarded as coincidental findings, but possibly related to an intrinsic pathophysiological association.
The article contains a historical note on the concept of sleep hygiene, developed in 1977 by Peter Hauri, who developed a set of sleep-promoting rules, considered the fundament for sleep-hygiene techniques. Somnologists, unanimously ascribed to Hauri the fatherhood of the lucky term, while numerous books included at least a section on sleep hygiene. &quot;Inadequate sleep hygiene&quot; was included as a nosological entity in the International Classification of Sleep Disorders. This article intends to demonstrate that the concept of sleep hygiene was developed many years before, thanks to the pioneering work of Paolo Mantegazza, a scientist and a professor in the Medical School of the University of Pavia, Italy. After presenting briefly the history of the University of Pavia and illustrating the profile of Paolo Mantegazza, the article presents the original book published by Mantegazza in 1864 (second edition in 1865). The authors report extensive citations of Mantegazza's original book dealing with sleep hygiene. Mantegazza's indications, compared with Hauri's rules show important similarities. The authors support the view that the fatherhood of sleep hygiene should be acknowledged to Mantegazza and antedated to 1864. Hauri keeps the merit of giving more solid scientific roots to the concept of sleep hygiene and of inserting it in the frame of modern sleep medicine.
Endovascular procedures are a less invasive revascularization strategies than endoarterectomy for carotid stenosis, but to date Guidelines recommend surgery for a major periprocedural safety. Evidences come from randomized studies where operator's experience in endovascular group was not considered. We retrospectively evaluated 524 endovascular procedures (carotid angioplasty  stenting, CAS) performed between 1996 and 2010 on 486 patients (mean age 71.3  7.8 years) with symptomatic or asymptomatic carotid stenosis from a single center. We evaluated efficacy (residual stenosis 30 % after postprocedural angiography) and safety [minor (TIAs or myocardial infarcts) and major (stroke or death) complications in the first 30 days] of procedures and correlated them with the increasing experience of the operator. CAS was successful in 504/524 cases (96.2 %); unsuccessful procedures occurred more frequently in case of angioplasty alone rather than angioplasty and stenting (13/61, 21.3 % vs. 7/463, 1.5 %, OR 17.64, 95 % CI 6.69-46.06). 17/524 (3.2 %) CAS met the combined safety endpoint: stroke in 2.4 % and death in 0.8 %; the rate of disabling stroke/death was 1.6 %. Center experience was inversely related to the rate of stroke/death (R (2) = 0.9375), passing from 5.0 % after 100 CAS to 2.8 % after 500 CAS; for disabling stroke/death (R(2) = 0.9386), the rate was 4 % after 100 CAS and 1.6 % after 500 CAS. CAS is an effective and safe revascularization procedure in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients, if effected in experienced centers. The use of carotid artery stenting than angioplasty alone and emboli protection devices can much more improve the previous considerations.



Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4J (CMT4J), a rare form of demyelinating CMT, caused by recessive mutations in the phosphoinositide phosphatase FIG4 gene, is characterised by progressive proximal and distal weakness and evidence of chronic denervation in both proximal and distal muscles. We describe a patient with a previous diagnosis of CMT1 who presented with a two year history of rapidly progressive weakness in a single limb, resembling an acquired inflammatory neuropathy. Nerve conduction studies showed an asymmetrical demyelinating neuropathy with conduction block and temporal dispersion. FIG4 sequencing identified a compound heterozygous I41T/K278YfsX5 genotype. CMT4J secondary to FIG4 mutations should be added to the list of inherited neuropathies that need to be considered in suspected cases of inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy, especially if there is a background history of a more slowly progressive neuropathy.
Congenital myopathy related to mutations in myosin MyHC IIa gene (MYH2) is a rare neuromuscular disease. A single dominant missense mutation has been reported so far in a family in which the affected members had congenital joint contractures at birth, external ophthalmoplegia and proximal muscle weakness. Afterward only additional 4 recessive mutations have been identified in 5 patients presenting a mild non-progressive early-onset myopathy associated with ophthalmoparesis. We report a new de novo MYH2 missense mutation in a baby affected by a congenital myopathy characterized by severe dysphagia, respiratory distress at birth and external ophthalmoplegia. We describe clinical, histopathological and muscle imaging findings expanding the clinical and genetic spectrum of MYH2-related myopathy.
Neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) are characterized by aberrant and delayed early-life development of the brain, leading to deficits in language, cognition, motor behaviour and other functional domains, often accompanied by somatic symptoms. Environmental factors like perinatal infection, malnutrition and trauma can increase the risk of the heterogeneous, multifactorial and polygenic disorders, autism and schizophrenia. Conversely, discrete genetic anomalies are involved in Down, Rett and Fragile X syndromes, tuberous sclerosis and neurofibromatosis, the less familiar Phelan-McDermid, Sotos, Kleefstra, Coffin-Lowry and &quot;ATRX&quot; syndromes, and the disorders of imprinting, Angelman and Prader-Willi syndromes. NDDs have been termed &quot;synaptopathies&quot; in reference to structural and functional disturbance of synaptic plasticity, several involve abnormal Ras-Kinase signalling (&quot;rasopathies&quot;), and many are characterized by disrupted cerebral connectivity and an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory transmission. However, at a different level of integration, NDDs are accompanied by aberrant &quot;epigenetic&quot; regulation of processes critical for normal and orderly development of the brain. Epigenetics refers to potentially-heritable (by mitosis and/or meiosis) mechanisms controlling gene expression without changes in DNA sequence. In certain NDDs, prototypical epigenetic processes of DNA methylation and covalent histone marking are impacted. Conversely, others involve anomalies in chromatin-modelling, mRNA splicing/editing, mRNA translation, ribosome biogenesis and/or the regulatory actions of small nucleolar RNAs and micro-RNAs. Since epigenetic mechanisms are modifiable, this raises the hope of novel therapy, though questions remain concerning efficacy and safety. The above issues are critically surveyed in this review, which advocates a broad-based epigenetic framework for understanding and ultimately treating a diverse assemblage of NDDs (&quot;epigenopathies&quot;) lying at the interface of genetic, developmental and environmental processes. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neurodevelopmental Disorders'.
Schizophrenia is a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder that, despite extensive research, still poses a considerable challenge to attempts to unravel its heterogeneity, and the complex biochemical mechanisms by which it arises. While the majority of cases are of unknown etiology, accumulating evidence suggests that rare genetic mutations, such as 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome (22qDS), can play a significant role in predisposition to the illness. Up to 25% of individuals with 22qDS eventually develop schizophrenia; conversely, this deletion is estimated to account for 1-2% of schizophrenia cases overall. This locus of Chromosome 22q11.2 contains genes that encode for proteins and enzymes involved in regulating neurotransmission, neuronal development, myelination, microRNA processing, and post-translational protein modifications. As a consequence of the deletion, affected individuals exhibit cognitive dysfunction, structural and functional brain abnormalities, and neurodevelopmental anomalies that parallel many of the phenotypic characteristics of schizophrenia. As an illustration of the value of rare, highly penetrant genetic subtypes for elucidating pathological mechanisms of complex neuropsychiatric disorders, we provide here an overview of the cellular, network, and systems-level anomalies found in 22qDS, and review the intriguing evidence for this disorder's association with schizophrenia. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neurodevelopmental Disorders'.
Reelin is a glycoprotein that serves important roles both during development (regulation of neuronal migration and brain lamination) and in adulthood (maintenance of synaptic function). A number of neuropsychiatric disorders including autism, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depression, Alzheimer's disease and lissencephaly share a common feature of abnormal Reelin expression in the brain. Altered Reelin expression has been hypothesized to impair neuronal connectivity and synaptic plasticity, leading ultimately to the cognitive deficits present in these disorders. The mechanisms for abnormal Reelin expression in some of these disorders are currently unknown although possible explanations include early developmental insults, mutations, hypermethylation of the promoter for the Reelin gene (RELN), miRNA silencing of Reelin mRNA, FMRP underexpression and Reelin processing abnormalities. Increasing Reelin expression through pharmacological therapies may help ameliorate symptoms resulting from Reelin deficits. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neurodevelopmental Disorders'.
Translational research is needed to discover pharmacological targets and treatments for the diagnostic behavioral domains of autism spectrum disorders. Animal models with phenotypic relevance to diagnostic criteria offer clear experimental strategies to test the efficacy and safety of novel treatments. Antagonists of mGluR5 receptors are in clinical trials for Fragile X syndrome and under investigation for the treatment of autism spectrum disorders. However, in preclinical studies of mGluR5 compounds tested in our laboratory and others, increased locomotion following mGluR5 modulation has been observed. Understanding the influence of general activity on sociability and repetitive behaviors will increase the accuracy of interpretations of positive outcomes measured from pharmacological treatment that produces locomotor activating or sedating effects. In the present studies, dose-response curves for d-amphetamine (AMPH)-induced hyperlocomotion were similar in standard B6 mice and in the BTBR mouse model of autism. AMPH produced significant, robust reductions in the high level of repetitive self-grooming that characterizes BTBR, and also reduced the low baseline grooming in B6, indicating that AMPH-induced hyperlocomotion competes with time spent engaged in self-grooming. We then tested AMPH in B6 and BTBR on the 3-chambered social approach task. One component of sociability, the time spent in the chamber with the novel mouse, in B6 mice was reduced, while the sniffing time component of sociability in BTBR mice was enhanced. This finding replicated across multiple cohorts treated with AMPH and saline vehicle. In-depth analysis revealed that AMPH increased the number and decreased the duration of sniffing bouts in BTBR, suggesting BTBR treated with AMPH mostly engaged in brief sniffs rather than true social interactions with the novel mouse during the social approach task. Our data suggest that compounds with stimulant properties may have some direct benefits on reducing repetitive behaviors in autism spectrum disorders, particularly in the subset of autistic individuals with hyperactivity. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neurodevelopmental Disorders'.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a pervasive developmental disorder, primarily affecting girls with a prevalence of 1 in every 10,000 births; it represents the second most common cause of intellectual disability in females. Mutations in the gene encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) have been identified as clear etiological factors in more than 90% of classical RTT cases. Whereas the mechanisms leading to the severe, progressive and specific neurological dysfunctions when this gene is mutated still remain to be elucidated, a series of different mouse models have been generated, bearing different Mecp2 mutation. Neurobehavioural analysis in these mouse lines have been carried out and phenotyping analysis can be now utilised to preclinically evaluate the effects of potential RTT treatments. This review summarizes the different results achieved in this research field taking into account different key targets identified to ameliorate RTT phenotype in mouse models, including those not directly downstream of MeCP2 and those limited to the early phases of postnatal development. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neurodevelopmental Disorders'.
In rodents, insufficient adenosine produces behavioral and physiological symptoms consistent with several comorbidities of autism. In rodents and humans, stimuli postulated to increase adenosine can ameliorate these comorbidities. Because adenosine is a broad homeostatic regulator of cell function and nervous system activity, increasing adenosine's influence might be a new therapeutic target for autism with multiple beneficial effects. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neurodevelopmental Disorders'.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder, primarily affecting girls. RTT causes a wide variety of debilitating symptoms and no cure currently exists. Mouse models bearing mutations in the Mecp2 gene recapitulate most physiological and behavioural RTT-related abnormalities. Stimulating neonatal environments (e.g. brief maternal separations or maternal low-dose corticosterone supplementation) reduce stress and fear responses at adulthood. The present study investigated whether impacting early in development the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, by exposing Mecp2-308 mutant pups to a low dose of corticosterone (50g/ml, during the 1st week of life) may contrast RTT-related abnormalities in neuroendocrine regulation and behavioural adaptation at adulthood. In line with previous reports, when fully symptomatic, MeCP2-308 mice showed a reduction in the regular nocturnal hyperactivity in the home-cage and increased anxiety-like behaviours and plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels in response to restraint stress. An abnormal elevation in mRNA levels of mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) and BDNF gene was also evident in the hippocampus of fully symptomatic mutant mice. Neonatal CORT modulated MR gene expression and behavioural reactivity towards a novel object, also restoring wt-like levels of locomotor/exploratory behaviour in mutant mice. Enhanced sensitivity to the neonatal treatment (in terms of increase in GR and MR mRNA levels), was also evident in the hippocampus of MeCP2-308 mice compared to wt littermates. Present results corroborate the hypothesis that targeting the glucocorticoid system may prove valid in contrasting at least some of the RTT-related symptoms and provide evidence that pharmacological interventions during critical early time windows can persistently improve the behavioural phenotype of RTT mice. Current data also support the emerging role played by Mecp2 in mediating the epigenetic programming induced by early life events and indicate that, in the absence of functional MeCP2, programming of the central nervous system in response to early environmental stimuli is abnormally regulated. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Neurodevelopmental Disorders'.
Subjective experience often accompanies perception and cognition. This elusive feeling is difficult to characterize, both theoretically and experimentally. Perceptual subjective experience is at the heart of a theoretical debate in consciousness research: does it correspond to a genuine psychological and biological process independent from cognitive abilities, or is it a cognitive illusion, a post-hoc construct, implying that perceptual consciousness can be reduced to a sum of cognitive functions? We reconsider this debate in the light of known properties of the visual system, derived from studies on visual object and scene recognition but not specifically targeting consciousness issues. We propose here that initial visual subjective experience is characterized by two key properties, coarseness and vividness: initial subjective experience is integrated, meaningful, but does not contain detailed information. Subjective experience is likely to arise first in high-level visual areas, in which information is encoded in a coarse and integrated manner. We propose that initial subjective experience is related to the concept of &quot;vision at a glance&quot;, thought to result from a fast, implicit feed-forward sweep of activity in the visual system progressing from low-level areas to high-level areas (Hochstein and Ahissar (2002)Neuron, 36, 791-804). The details needed to overtly guide behavior would be retrieved in a secondary processing step of &quot;vision with scrutiny&quot;, proceeding in a feed-back manner, from high-level to low-level areas. This secondary and optional descending process could thus later enrich conscious visual percepts with details. Our hypothesis provides parsimonious explanations for two intriguing findings: the double dissociation between attention and consciousness, and the mismatch between objective measures and subjective reports, that is sometimes used to argue that subjective experience is an illusion. We argue here that because visual subjective experience is initially coarse, it should not be probed by asking subjects to specify details. The coarse vividness hypothesis therefore offers a framework that accounts for the existence of an initial genuine subjective experience, defined by its coarseness and vividness, optionally followed by more refined and detailed processing that could underlie finer perceptual and cognitive abilities.

Classical conditioning is widely used to study motivational properties of addictive drugs in animals, but has rarely been used in humans. We established a procedure suitable for studying the neurobiology and individual determinants of classical conditioning in humans. Healthy volunteers were randomly assigned to four groups that received methamphetamine or placebo in the presence of distinctive environmental cues under paired or unpaired conditions. During each session, subjects performed tasks known to activate the ventral striatum. Tasks were performed in the presence of a distinctive context, consisting of a screen background image of a beach or mountains, accompanied by corresponding sounds. Separate groups of subjects carried out the tasks under high ($35-50) or low ($5-20) reward conditions. Within each of the two reward conditions, one group (paired) received methamphetamine (20mg, oral) or placebo consistently associated with one of the contexts, while the other (unpaired) received drug or placebo unrelated to context. A fifth group (paired) performed the tasks with contextual cues but in the absence of monetary incentives. Before and after conditioning, participants carried out a series of forced choice tasks for the contextual cues, and change of preference over time was analyzed. All paired groups showed a significant increase in preference for the drug-associated context, with a linear trend for increase across the levels of reward. Preference was unrelated to subjective drug effects, and did not change in the unpaired group. These data support the translational utility of our conditioning procedure for studies of reward mechanisms in humans.
Xanthurenic acid (XA), an endogenous kynurenine, is a known vesicular glutamate transport (VGLUT) inhibitor and has also been proposed as an mGlu2/3 receptor agonist. Changes in these systems have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders; however, little is known of how XA affects synaptic transmission. We therefore investigated the effects of XA on synaptic transmission at two hippocampal glutamatergic pathways and evaluated the ability of XA to bind to mGlu2/3 receptors. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were recorded from either the dentate gyrus (DG) or CA1 region of mouse hippocampal slices in vitro. Addition of XA to the bathing medium (1-10mM) resulted in a dose-related reduction of fEPSP amplitudes (up to 52% reduction) in both hippocampal regions. In the DG, the VGLUT inhibitors Congo Red and Rose Bengal, and the mGlu2/3 agonist LY354740, also reduced fEPSPs (up to 80% reduction). The mGlu2/3 antagonist LY341495 reversed the LY354740 effect, but not the XA effect. LY354740, but not XA, also reduced DG paired-pulse depression. XA had no effect on specific binding of 1nM [(3)H]LY341495 to membranes with human mGlu2 receptors. We conclude that XA can modulate synaptic transmission via a mechanism that may involve VGLUT inhibition rather than activation of mGlu2/3 receptors. This could be important in the pathophysiology of nervous system disorders including schizophrenia and might represent a target for developing novel pharmacological therapies.
Long-term abolition of a brain arousal system impairs wakefulness (W), but little is known about the consequences of long-term enhancement. The brain histaminergic arousal system is under the negative control of H3-autoreceptors whose deletion results in permanent enhancement of histamine (HA) turnover. In order to determine the consequences of enhancement of the histaminergic system, we compared the cortical EEG and sleep-wake states of H3-receptor knockout (H3R-/-) and wild-type mouse littermates. We found that H3R-/-mice had rich phenotypes. On the one hand, they showed clear signs of enhanced HA neurotransmission and vigilance, i.e., a higher EEG  power during spontaneous W and a greater extent of W or sleep restriction during behavioral tasks, including environmental change, locomotion, and motivation tests. On the other hand, during the baseline dark period, they displayed deficient W and signs of sleep deterioration, such as pronounced sleep fragmentation and reduced cortical slow activity during slow wave sleep (SWS), most likely due to a desensitization of postsynaptic histaminergic receptors as a result of constant HA release. Ciproxifan (H3-receptor inverse agonist) enhanced W in wild-type mice, but not in H3R-/-mice, indicating a functional deletion of H3-receptors, whereas triprolidine (postsynaptic H1-receptor antagonist) or -fluoromethylhistidine (HA-synthesis inhibitor) caused a greater SWS increase in H3R-/- than in wild-type mice, consistent with enhanced HA neurotransmission. These sleep-wake characteristics and the obesity phenotypes previously reported in this animal model suggest that chronic enhancement of histaminergic neurotransmission eventually compromises the arousal system, leading to sleep-wake, behavioral, and metabolic disorders similar to those caused by voluntary sleep restriction in humans.
[(11)C](R)PK11195-PET measures upregulation of translocator protein, which is associated with microglial activation, [(11)C]PIB-PET is a marker of amyloid, while [(18)F]FDG-PET measures cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGlc). We hypothesize that microglial activation is an early event in the Parkinson's disease (PD) spectrum and is independent of the amyloid pathology. The aim of this study is to evaluate in vivo the relationship between microglial activation, amyloid deposition, and glucose metabolism in Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) and PD subjects without dementia. Here, we evaluated 11 PDD subjects, 8 PD subjects without dementia, and 24 control subjects. Subjects underwent T1 and T2 MRI, [(11)C](R)PK11195, [(18)F]FDG, and [(11)C]PIB PET scans. Parametric maps of [(11)C](R)PK11195 binding potential, rCMRGlc, and [(11)C]PIB uptake were interrogated using region of interest and SPM (statistical parametric mapping) analysis. The PDD patients showed a significant increase of microglial activation in anterior and posterior cingulate, striatum, frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortical regions compared with the controls. The PD subjects also showed a statistically significant increase in microglial activation in temporal, parietal, and occipital regions. [(11)C]PIB uptake was marginally increased in PDD and PD. There was a significant reduction in glucose metabolism in PDD and PD. We have also demonstrated pixel-by-pixel correlation between mini-mental state examination (MMSE) score and microglial activation, and MMSE score and rCMRGlc. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that cortical microglial activation and reduced glucose metabolism can be detected early on in this disease spectrum. Significant microglial activation may be a factor in driving the disease process in PDD. Given this, agents that affect microglial activation could have an influence on disease progression.
Benzodiazepines are prescribed widely but their utility is limited by unwanted side effects, including abuse potential. The mechanisms underlying the abuse-related effects of benzodiazepines are not well understood, although 1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors have been proposed to have a critical role. Here, we examine the reinforcing effects of several compounds that vary with respect to intrinsic efficacy at 2, 3, and 5 subunit-containing GABAA receptors but lack efficacy at 1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors ('1-sparing compounds'): MRK-623 (functional selectivity for 2/3 subunit-containing receptors), TPA023B (functional selectivity for 2/3/5 subunit-containing receptors), and TP003 (functional selectivity for 3 subunit-containing receptors). The reinforcing effects of the 1-sparing compounds were compared with those of the non-selective benzodiazepine receptor partial agonist MRK-696, and non-selective benzodiazepine receptor full agonists, midazolam and lorazepam, in rhesus monkeys trained to self-administer midazolam or cocaine, under a progressive-ratio schedule of intravenous (i.v.) drug injection. The 1-sparing compounds were self-administered significantly above vehicle levels in monkeys maintained under a midazolam baseline, but not under a cocaine baseline over the dose ranges tested. Importantly, TP003 had significant reinforcing effects, albeit at lower levels of self-administration than non-selective benzodiazepine receptor agonists. Together, these results suggest that 1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors may have a role in the reinforcing effects of benzodiazepine-type compounds in monkeys with a history of stimulant self-administration, whereas 3 subunit-containing GABAA receptors may be important mediators of the reinforcing effects of benzodiazepine-type compounds in animals with a history of sedative-anxiolytic/benzodiazepine self-administration.
Neuroscientists have long observed that brain activity is naturally variable from moment-to-moment, but neuroimaging research has largely ignored the potential importance of this phenomenon. An emerging research focus on within-person brain signal variability is providing novel insights, and offering highly predictive, complementary, and even orthogonal views of brain function in relation to human lifespan development, cognitive performance, and various clinical conditions. As a result, brain signal variability is evolving as a bona fide signal of interest, and should no longer be dismissed as meaningless noise when mapping the human brain.
Unilateral neglect is a neurological condition responsible for many debilitating effects on everyday life, poor functional recovery, and decreased ability to benefit from treatment. Prism adaptation (PA) to a right lateral displacement of the visual field is classically known to directionally bias visuo-motor and sensory-motor correspondences. One longstanding issue about this visuo-motor plasticity is about its specificity to the exposure condition. In contrast to very poor transfer to unexposed effectors classically described in healthy subjects, therapeutic results obtained in neglect patients suggested that PA can generate unexpected &quot;expansion&quot;. Prism adaptation affects numerous levels of neglect symptomatology, suggesting that its effects somehow expand to unexposed sensory, motor and cognitive systems. The available body of evidence in support for this expansion raises important questions about the mechanisms involved in producing unexpected cognitive effects following a simple and moderate visuo-motor adaptation. We further develop here the idea that prism adaptation expansion to spatial cognition involves a cerebello-cortical network and review support for this model. Building on the basic, therapeutical and pathophysiological knowledge accumulated over the last 15 years, we also provide guidelines for the optimal use of prism adaptation in the clinic. Although further research and clinical trials are required to precisely define the ideal regime for routine applications, the current state of the art allows us to outline practical recommendations for therapeutical use of prisms.
One fundamental question concerning brain reward mechanisms is to determine how reward-related activity is influenced by the nature of rewards. Here, we review the neuroimaging literature and explicitly assess to what extent the representations of primary and secondary rewards overlap in the human brain. To achieve this goal, we performed an activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis of 87 studies (1452 subjects) comparing the brain responses to monetary, erotic and food reward outcomes. Those three rewards robustly engaged a common brain network including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, ventral striatum, amygdala, anterior insula and mediodorsal thalamus, although with some variations in the intensity and location of peak activity. Money-specific responses were further observed in the most anterior portion of the orbitofrontal cortex, supporting the idea that abstract secondary rewards are represented in evolutionary more recent brain regions. In contrast, food and erotic (i.e. primary) rewards were more strongly represented in the anterior insula, while erotic stimuli elicited particularly robust responses in the amygdala. Together, these results indicate that the computation of experienced reward value does not only recruit a core &quot;reward system&quot; but also reward type-dependent brain structures.
The concept of attentional priority plays an increasingly important role in theoretical interpretations of the neurophysiological mechanisms underlying attentional selection. A priority map is a feature-independent, spatiotopic representation of the environment that combines stimulus-driven information with goal-related signals. It emerges from the functional properties of parietal brain regions involved in spatial attention and saccade programming on the one hand, and reaching or grasping movements on the other hand. Here, we explore the value of this concept for the understanding of neuropsychological deficits of attention such as spatial extinction and neglect. We argue that these conditions reflect spatially graded, multisensory deficits affecting a processing level at which stimulus-driven and goal-driven signals interact. These attributes of neglect and extinction agree with the functional characteristics of attentional priority and suggest that components of both disorders can be understood as manifestations of damage or dysfunction affecting the parietal priority map.
Current neuroscience applies a bi-dimensional model to consciousness. Content and level of consciousness have been distinguished from each other in their underlying neuronal mechanisms. This though leaves open the role of the brain's intrinsic activity and its particular temporal and spatial structure in consciousness. I here review and investigate the spatial and temporal features of the brain's intrinsic activity in detail and postulate what I describe as spatiotemporal structure that implies a virtual (e.g., statistically based) spatiotemporal continuity. Such spatiotemporal continuity is supposed to structure and organize the neural processing of the incoming extrinsic stimuli and their potential association with consciousness. I therefore conclude that the current bi-dimensional view of consciousness focusing only on content and level may need to be complemented by a third dimension, the form, e.g., spatiotemporal structure, as provided by the intrinsic activity. In short, I here opt for tri-rather than bi-dimensional view of consciousness.

Hippocampal theta or rhythmic slow activity (RSA) occurring during exploratory behaviors and rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep is a characteristic and well-identifiable oscillatory rhythm in animals. In contrast, controversy surrounds the existence and electrophysiological correlates of this activity in humans. Some argue that the human hippocampal theta occurs in short and phasic bursts. On the contrary, our earlier studies provide evidence that REM-dependent mesiotemporal RSA is continuous like in animals but instead of the theta it falls in the delta frequency range. Here we used a virtual navigation task in 24 epilepsy patients implanted with foramen ovale electrodes. EEG was analyzed for 1-Hz wide frequency bins up to 10 Hz according to four conditions: resting, non-learning route-following, acquisition and recall. We found progressively increasing spectral power in frequency bins up the 4 Hz across these conditions. No spectral power increase relative to resting was revealed within the traditional theta band and above in any of the navigation conditions. Thus the affected frequency bins were below the theta band and were similar to those characterizing REM sleep in our previous studies providing further indication that it is delta rather than theta that should be regarded as a human analog of the animal RSA.
Blast-induced traumatic brain injury (TBI) and subsequent neurobehavioral deficits are major disabilities suffered by the military and civilian population worldwide. Rigorous scientific research is underway to understand the mechanism of blast TBI and thereby develop effective therapies for protection and treatment. By using an in vitro shock tube model of blast TBI with SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, we have demonstrated that blast exposure leads to neurobiological changes in an overpressure and time dependent manner. Paradoxically, repeated blast exposures resulted in less neuronal injury compared to single blast exposure and suggested a potential neuroprotective mechanism involving released cyclophilin A (CPA). In the present study, we demonstrate accumulation of CPA in the culture medium after repeated blast exposures supporting the notion of extracellular CPA mediated neuroprotection. Post-exposure treatment of the cells with purified recombinant CPA caused significant protection against blast-induced neuronal injury. Furthermore, repeated blast exposure was associated with phosphorylation of the proteins ERK1/2 and Bad suggesting a potential mechanism of neuroprotection by extracellular CPA and may aid in the development of targeted therapies for protection against blast-induced TBI.
Recent developments in the technology to breed and house laboratory rodents for medical research has produced individually ventilated cage (IVC) systems. These IVC systems produce a cage environment significantly different to conventional cages. As it is not known in detail whether housing mice in IVCs impacts on their baseline and drug-induced behaviours compared to mice of conventional filter-top cages a comprehensive multi-tiered phenotyping strategy was used to test the behavioural consequences of IVC housing in male and female C57BL/6JArc mice. IVC had anxiety-like effects in the elevated plus maze, which were more pronounced in female mice whereas cognition and locomotion of all test mice were not modified by IVC housing. Mice raised in IVC cage systems were socially more active than mice of filter-top systems. Furthermore, males raised in IVC exhibited an increased sensitivity to the locomotor-stimulating effects of acute MK-801 treatment compared to males in conventional cages. In summary, this is the first study revealing the longer-term effects of IVC housing on social behaviours and the locomotor response to an acute MK-801 challenge. In conclusion, researchers upgrading their holding facilities to IVC housing may encounter a shift in experimental outcomes (e.g. post pharmacological challenges) and the behavioural phenotype of test mice. Furthermore, differences between the housing conditions of breeding facilities and test facilities must carefully be considered. Finally, researchers should clarify in detail the type of housing test animals have been exposed to when publishing experimental animal research data.


The parapyramidal (ppy) region targets primarily the intermediolateral cell column and is probably involved in breathing and thermoregulation. In the present study, we tested whether ppy serotonergic neurons respond to activation of central and peripheral chemoreceptors. Bulbospinal ppy neurons (n=30) were recorded extracellularly along with the phrenic nerve activity in urethane/-chloralose-anesthetized, paralyzed, intact (n=7) or carotid body denervated (n=6) male Wistar rats. In intact animals, most of the ppy neurons were inhibited by hypoxia (n=14 of 19) (8% O2, 30s) (1.5  0.03 vs. control: 2.4  0.2 Hz) or hypercapnia (n=15 of 19) (10% CO2) (1.7  0.1 vs. control: 2.2  0.2 Hz), although some neurons were insensitive to hypoxia (n=3 of 19) or hypercapnia (n=4 of 19). Very few neurons (n=2 of 19) were activated after hypoxia, but not after hypercapnia. In carotid body denervated rats, all the 5HT-ppy neurons (n=11) were insensitive to hypercapnia (2.1  0.1 vs. control: 2.3  0.09 Hz). Biotinamide-labeled cells that were recovered after histochemistry were located in the ppy region. Most labeled cells (90%) showed strong tryptophan hydroxylase immunocytochemical reactivity, indicating that they were serotonergic. The present data reveal that peripheral chemoreceptors reduce the activity of the serotonergic premotor neurons located in the ppy region. It is plausible that the serotonergic neurons of the ppy region could conceivably regulate breathing automaticity and be involved in autonomic regulation.
Adverse early life experience is thought to increase an individual's susceptibility to mental health disorders, including anxiety and affective disorders, later in life. Our previous studies have shown that post-weaning social isolation of female rats during a critical period of development sensitizes an anxiety-related serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) system in adulthood. Therefore, we investigated how post-weaning social isolation, in combination with a challenge with the anxiogenic drug, N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG-7142; a partial inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine allosteric site on the GABAA receptor), affects home cage behavior and serotonergic gene expression in the DR of female rats using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Juvenile female rats were reared in isolation or groups of three for a 3-week period from weaning (postnatal day (PD) 21 to mid-adolescence (PD42)), after which all rats were group-reared for an additional 16 days until adulthood. Among vehicle-treated rats, isolation-reared rats had decreased rodent tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (tph2) mRNA expression in ventral and ventrolateral subdivisions of the DR, a pattern observed previously in a rat model of panic disorder. Isolation-reared rats, but not group-reared rats, responded to FG-7142 with increased duration of vigilance and arousal behaviors. In addition, FG-7142 decreased tph2 expression, measured 4h following treatment, in multiple subregions of the DR of group-reared rats but had no effect in isolation-reared rats. No treatment effects were observed on 5-HT1A receptor or serotonin transporter gene expression. These data suggest that adolescent social isolation alters tph2 expression in specific subregions of the DR and alters the effects of stress-related stimuli on behavior and serotonergic systems.
Glutamate is the major mediator of excitotoxic neuronal death following cerebral ischemia. Under severe ischemic conditions, glutamate transporters can functionally reverse to release glutamate, thereby inducing further neuronal injury. Hypothermia has been shown to protect neurons from brain ischemia. However, the mechanism(s) involved remain unclear. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism(s) mediating glutamate release during brain ischemia-reperfusion injury under hypothermic conditions. Neuron/astrocyte co-cultures were exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) at various temperatures for 2h, and cell viability was assayed 12h after reoxygenation. PI and MAP-2 staining demonstrated that hypothermia significantly decreased neuronal injury. Furthermore, [(3)H]-glutamate uptake assays showed that hypothermia protected rat primary cortical cultures against OGD reoxygenation-induced injury. Protein levels of the astrocytic glutamate transporter, GLT-1, which is primarily responsible for the clearance of extracellular glutamate, were also found to be reduced in a temperature-dependent manner. In contrast, expression of GLT-1 in astrocyte-enriched cultures was found to significantly increase following the addition of neuron-conditioned medium maintained at 37 C, and to a lesser extent with neuron-conditioned medium at 33 C. In conclusion, the neuroprotective effects of hypothermia against brain ischemia-reperfusion injury involve down-regulation of astrocytic GLT-1, which mediates the reverse transport of glutamate. Moreover, this process may be regulated by molecules secreted by stressed neurons.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity is thought to play an important role in several neurodegenerative diseases in the central nervous system (CNS). In this study, neuroprotection against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity was analyzed using acetylcholine (ACh), nicotine and the 7 specific nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7 nAChR) agonist, N-[(3R)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl]-4-chlorobenzamide hydrochloride (PNU-282987), in cultured adult rat retinal neurons. Adult Long Evans rat retinas were dissociated and retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) were isolated from all other retinal tissue using a two-step panning technique. Once isolated, RGCs were cultured under various pharmacological conditions to demonstrate excitotoxicity and neuroprotection against excitotoxicity. After 3 days, RGCs were immunostained with antibodies against the glycoprotein, Thy 1.1, counted and cell survival was assessed relative to control untreated conditions. 500 M glutamate induced excitotoxicity in large and small RGCs in an adult rat dissociated culture. After 3 days in culture with glutamate, the cell survival of large RGCs decreased by an average of 48.16% while the cell survival of small RGCs decreased by an average of 42.03%. Using specific glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists, we provide evidence that the excitotoxic response was mediated through -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainic acid (KA) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors through an apoptotic mechanism. However, the excitotoxic effect of glutamate on all RGCs was eliminated if cells were cultured for an hour with 10 M ACh, 100 M nicotine or 100 nM of the 7 nAChR agonist, PNU-282987, before the glutamate insult. Inhibition studies using 10nM methyllycaconitine (MLA) or -bungarotoxin (-Bgt) supported the hypothesis that neuroprotection against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity on rat RGCs was mediated through 7 nAChRs. In immunocytochemical studies, double-labeled experiments using antibodies against Thy 1.1 and 7 nAChR subunits demonstrated that both large and small RGCs contained 7 nAChR subunits. The data presented in this study support the hypothesis that ACh and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists provide neuroprotection against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity in adult rat RGCs through activation of 7 nAChR subunits. These studies lay the groundwork required for analyzing the effect of specific 7 nAChR agonists using in vivo models of excitotoxicity. Understanding the type of ACh receptors involved in neuroprotection in the rat retina could ultimately lead to therapeutic treatment for any CNS disease that involves excitotoxicity.
Because of their favorable action profiles in humans, both memantine and melatonin are particularly interesting candidates as neuroprotectants in acute ischemic stroke. Until now, the signaling mechanisms mediating memantine's neuroprotective actions remained essentially uninvestigated. In addition, we have combined memantine with melatonin, which is a well-known neuroprotective molecule. Herein, we examined the effects of memantine (20mg/kg, i.p.) administered alone or in combination with melatonin (4 mg/kg, i.p.) on the activation of signaling transduction pathways, IgG extravasation and ischemic injury in mice submitted to 90 min of intraluminal middle cerebral artery occlusion, followed by 24h of reperfusion. In these studies, both agents reduced ischemic injury and the density of DNA-fragmentation. Notably, melatonin/memantine combination reduced ischemic injury further as compared with memantine treatment, which was associated with reduced IgG extravasation, indicating vascular leakage in the brain. Animals receiving memantine exhibited elevated ERK-1/2 and decreased p21 and p38/MAPK activations, while it had no significant effect on phosphorylated Akt and SAPK/JNK1/2 in the ischemic brain. However, melatonin increased the activation of Akt and reduced the activations of ERK-1/2, p21, p38/MAPK and SAPK/JNK1/2 significantly. Synergistic effects of memantine and melatonin were observed in the inactivation of p21, p38/MAPK and SAPK/JNK1/2 pathways. Moreover, memantine reversed the effects of melatonin on the activation of ERK-1/2 pathway. Here, we provide evidence that free radical scavenger melatonin potentiates the effects of memantine on ischemic brain injury via inactivations of p21 and stress kinases p38/MAPK and SAPK/JNK1/2 pathways.
General anesthesia is occasionally associated with postoperative complications such as sleep disorder, drowsiness, or mood alterations. Hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh), the extracellular level of which increases during the dark (active) phase and decreases during the light (rest) phase in rats, is thought to be associated with locomotor activity and be crucial for learning and memory. Propofol, an intravenous anesthetic, is known to shift the circadian rhythms of physiological parameters including locomotor activity and body temperature in both rodents and humans, while the effects of volatile anesthetics on the circadian rhythm largely remain unclear. The present study examined the effects of isoflurane anesthesia on the diurnal changes in hippocampal ACh release and locomotor activity in rats. Rats were divided into three groups: a light-phase anesthesia group (LA group), a dark-phase anesthesia group (DA group), and a control group. They were exposed to a 12-h light/12-h dark environment and anesthetized with 1.4% isoflurane for 4h during the middle of the light phase (LA group) and dark phase (DA group). Simultaneous measurement of hippocampal ACh by microdialysis and locomotor activity were done for 60h under free-moving conditions. Hippocampal ACh release and locomotor activity showed a clear circadian rhythm. In the DA group, but not in the LA group, the diurnal variation in ACh release was significantly disturbed and a more than 2-h phase-advance in locomotor activity was observed. There was a significant correlation between hippocampal ACh release and locomotor activity, and isoflurane anesthesia disrupted it even after anesthesia was discontinued. This study revealed that the levels and circadian rhythms of hippocampal ACh release and locomotor activity were more sensitive to isoflurane anesthesia when it was administered during the active phase. Our findings suggest that anesthesia exerts differential effects on the regulation of circadian rhythms depending on the circadian phase.
N-Methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists mimic several symptoms of schizophrenia in healthy subjects, and are used in preclinical disease models. In the present study, the impact of pharmacologically and genetically induced NMDAR hypofunction was assessed in rats and mice, including the NMDAR hypomorphic (Grin1) mice, with respect to neuronal network oscillations. Field potentials were recorded from the ventro-medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus (CA1) in rats, as well as spontaneous and elicited hippocampal theta oscillations in response to brainstem stimulation in Grin1 and wild-type (WT) mice under anesthesia. Effects of the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor positive allosteric modulator LY451395 were tested in Grin1 mice and in WT mice following an MK-801 challenge. Recordings from the mPFC and CA1 in rats revealed regular delta and theta oscillations, respectively, which were disrupted by MK-801. In WT mice, MK-801 reduced both spontaneous and elicited hippocampal theta power. Age-matched Grin1 mice showed abnormal hippocampal field potentials, resembling activity seen after administration of MK-801 in WT mice, but also epileptiform discharges. Administration of MK-801 achieved high levels of NMDAR occupancy (84-98%) in both rats and mice, which is comparable to the approximately 90-95% reduction of NMDAR expression in the Grin1 mouse. Impaired elicited CA1 theta oscillation in WT mice following MK-801, or Grin1 mice was significantly improved by LY451395. These findings demonstrate similar, although not identical, changes in network activity following reduction in functioning NMDARs induced by acute pharmacological or genetic manipulations, indicating that these novel neurophysiological models could be used in evaluating drug candidates targeting glutamate neurotransmission.
Physical exercise is known to produce beneficial effects to the nervous system. In most cases, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in such effects. However, little is known on the role of BDNF in exercise-related effects on Parkinson's disease (PD). The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of intermittent treadmill exercise-induced behavioral and histological/neurochemical changes in a rat model of unilateral PD induced by striatal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), and the role of BDNF in the exercise effects. Adult male Wistar rats were divided into two main groups: (1) injection of K252a (a blocker of BDNF receptors), and (2) without BDNF receptor blockade. These groups were then subdivided into four groups: control (CLT), sedentary (SED, non-exercised with induction of PD), exercised 3/week during four weeks before and four weeks after the induction of PD (EXB+EXA), and exercised 3/week during four weeks after the induction of PD (EXA). One month after 6-OHDA injections, the animals were subjected to rotational behavioral test induced by apomorphine and the brains were collected for immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting assays, in which we measured BDNF and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and the striatum (caudate-putamen, CPu). Our results showed a significant reduction of rotational asymmetry induced by apomorphine in the exercised parkinsonian rats. BDNF decreased in the SNc of the SED group, and exercise was able to revert that effect. Exercised groups exhibited reduced damage to the dopaminergic system, detected as a decreased drop of TH levels in SNc and CPu. On the other hand, BDNF blockade was capable of substantially reducing TH expression postlesion, implying enhanced dopaminergic cell loss. Our data revealed that physical exercise is capable of reducing the damage induced by 6-OHDA, and that BDNF receptors are involved in that effect.
Neonatal cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is an important cause of neurological disorders. In the preterm children, HI causes preferentially white matter damage and late cognitive impairments. Rodent HI performed at postnatal day 3 (HIP3) provides valuable information on the brain response to injury in immature animals as related to sensory, motor and cognitive impairments observed in humans born prematurely. The present study aimed to observe the effects of brain lateralization and sexual dimorphism following HIP3 on behavior and histological damage assessed in adulthood. Male and female Wistar rats had their right or left common carotid artery occluded and exposed to 8% oxygen for 1.5h; control rats received sham surgery and exposure to 1.5h of room air in isolation of their dams. Sensory and cognitive parameters were assessed by the use of elevated plus maze, cylinder test and Morris water maze. After behavioral testing, hemisphere and hippocampus volumes were used to define brain damage extension; white matter damage was estimated through corpus callosum area ratio. No motor impairments were shown in HIP3 rats and anxiety-related changes were observed only in right injured animals. Females having left occlusion were more vulnerable to HIP3 injury since they presented spatial memory impairment and greater histological damage. These results show the modulation exerted by sex and brain lateralization following early HI at postnatal day 3.
The inferior colliculus (IC) integrates ascending auditory input from the lower brainstem and descending input from the auditory cortex. Understanding how IC cells integrate these inputs requires identification of their synaptic arrangements. We describe excitatory synapses in the dorsal cortex, central nucleus, and lateral cortex of the IC (ICd, ICc and IClc) in guinea pigs. We used electron microscopy (EM) and post-embedding anti-GABA immunogold histochemistry on aldehyde-fixed tissue from pigmented adult guinea pigs. Excitatory synapses were identified by round vesicles, asymmetric synaptic junctions, and gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunonegative (GABA-negative) presynaptic boutons. Excitatory synapses constitute 60% of the synapses in each IC subdivision. Three types can be distinguished by presynaptic profile area and number of mitochondrial profiles. Large excitatory (LE) boutons are more than 2 m(2) in area and usually contain five or more mitochondrial profiles. Small excitatory (SE) boutons are usually less than 0.7 m(2) in area and usually contain 0 or 1 mitochondria. Medium excitatory (ME) boutons are intermediate in size and usually contain 2 to 4 mitochondria. LE boutons are mostly confined to the ICc, while the other two types are present throughout the IC. Dendritic spines are the most common target of excitatory boutons in the IC dorsal cortex, whereas dendritic shafts are the most common target in other IC subdivisions. Finally, each bouton type terminates on both gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunopositive (GABA+) and GABA-negative (i.e., glutamatergic) targets, with terminations on GABA-negative profiles being much more frequent. The ultrastructural differences between the three types of boutons presumably reflect different origins and may indicate differences in postsynaptic effect. Despite such differences in origins, each of the bouton types contact both GABAergic and non-GABAergic IC cells, and could be expected to activate both excitatory and inhibitory IC circuits.
The kinematics of hand transport and grasp formation when reaching for and grasping cubes of different sizes were investigated in subjects with blepharospasm, subjects with torticollis and healthy subjects. Patients scaled peak grasp aperture accurately to object size, reflecting accurate sensorimotor integration of the intrinsic object characteristics. Likewise, the timing of peak grasp aperture in relation to the time of hand transport did not differ between patients and controls. In contrast, patients with blepharospasm and torticollis produced longer movement times and smaller peak velocities of hand transport. Increased movement times and slowed hand transport correlated significantly with symptom severity as assessed by the Unified Dystonia Rating Scale. The observation that the processing of peak grasp aperture was unaffected by blepharospasm or torticollis does not support the current concept of impaired sensorimotor integration. The slowing of hand transport appears to reflect a strategic response to compensate for insecurities in the execution of reaching movements to be found in focal dystonia of the face and neck.
Akinesia and rigidity are cardinal symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). Previous studies analysing event-related desynchronization during movement onset associated both symptoms with pathologically increased oscillations in the beta frequency range. By focusing on the movement onset only, these studies cannot, however, shed light onto the question how oscillatory activity is changed during continuous movements. To investigate this issue, we compared the power of the local field potentials (LFP) within and above the subthalamic nucleus (STN) during rest, an isometric hold condition of the forearm, and a fist flexion and extension task in 13 patients with idiopathic PD during implantation of deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes. During fist flexion and extension (relative to rest), significantly increased activity in the low beta (12-18 Hz) and gamma (30-48 Hz) frequency ranges was observed within the STN, while during hold (compared to rest) no significant difference was found. For the regions above the STN the power during fist movements (compared to rest) was significantly higher, i.e. in the range of 18-30 Hz, with no significant changes in the gamma frequency range. Beta activity is claimed to inhibit movement and thereby could render fist movements more exhausting. Therefore, the observed increase in beta activity in the STN during fist movements might result in bradykinesia as experienced by many patients. We hypothesise that in order to enable repetitive fist movement despite increased beta activity, &quot;prokinetic&quot; gamma activity may be increased as a compensatory mechanism.
In response to low ambient oxygen levels the western painted turtle brain undergoes a large depression in metabolic rate which includes a decrease in neuronal action potential frequency. This involves the arrest of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) and -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor (AMPAR) currents and paradoxically an increase in -aminobutyric acid receptor (GABAR) currents in turtle cortical neurons. In a search for other oxygen-sensitive channels we discovered a Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel (K(Ca)) that exhibited a decrease in open time in response to anoxia. Single-channel recordings of K(Ca) activity were obtained in cell-attached and excised inside-out patch configurations from neurons in cortical brain sheets bathed in either normoxic or anoxic artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). The channel has a slope conductance of 223pS, is activated in response to membrane depolarization, and is controlled in a reversible manner by free [Ca(2+)] at the intracellular membrane surface. In the excised patch configuration anoxia had no effect on K(Ca) channel open probability (P(open)); however, in cell-attached mode, there was a reversible fivefold reduction in P(open) (from 0.5  0.05 to 0.1  0.03) in response to 30-min anoxia. The inclusion of the potent protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerythrine prevented the anoxia-mediated decrease in P(open) while drip application of a phorbol ester PKC activator decreased P(open) during normoxia (from normoxic 0.4  0.05 to phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) 0.1  0.02). Anoxia results in a slight depolarization of turtle pyramidal neurons (8 mV) and an increase in cytosolic [Ca(2+)]; therefore, K(Ca) arrest is likely important to prevent Ca(2+) activation during anoxia and to reduce the energetic cost of maintaining ion gradients. We conclude that turtle pyramidal cell Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels are oxygen-sensitive channels regulated by cytosolic factors and are likely the reptilian analog of the mammalian large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (BK channels).
Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is often characterized pathologically by severe neuronal loss in the hippocampus. In this study we investigated concomitant appearance of the pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic mechanisms in injured neurons in epileptic human hippocampi. Postsurgical hippocampal specimens of randomly selected 25 patients with MTLE were studied with standard immunohistochemical techniques to detect the below markers of cell death pathways: truncated Bid - tBid, mitochondrial translocation of Bax (markers of pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein activation) and nuclear translocation of AIF (caspase-independent pro-apoptotic pathway). For cell survival pathways, we investigated the expression of c-IAP1, c-IAP2 and Hsp70 (heat shock protein). Immunopositive cells were counted in different regions of the hippocampus. We also verified IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) expression with Western blotting. The results were statistically compared with hippocampi from non-epileptic autopsy controls. In patient hippocampi, Bax and tBid immunoreactivity were significantly increased and Bax staining was consistent with mitochondrial translocation. AIF was not translocated to the nucleus. c-IAP1 and c-IAP2 were barely detectable in control hippocampi, whereas their expression was dramatically increased in the patients in all hippocampal subfields. Interestingly, these neurons were also positively co-labeled for tBid and translocated Bax. Hsp70 immunreactivity was significantly increased in all surviving neurons in patient hippocampi whereas degenerating neurons failed to express Hsp70. Our findings are consistent with both pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic mechanisms being active within the same hippocampal neurons of patients with MTLE, illustrating an ongoing struggle between cell death and survival mechanisms in neurons under stress.

We investigated adjustments of control to initial posture in squat jumping. Eleven male subjects jumped from three initial postures: preferred initial posture (PP), a posture in which the trunk was rotated 18 more backward (BP) and a posture in which it was rotated 15 more forward (FP) than in PP. Kinematics, ground reaction forces and electromyograms (EMG) were collected. EMG was rectified and smoothed to obtain smoothed rectified EMG (srEMG). Subjects showed adjustments in srEMG histories, most conspicuously a shift in srEMG-onset of rectus femoris (REC): from early in BP to late in FP. Jumps from the subjects' initial postures were simulated with a musculoskeletal model comprising four segments and six Hill-type muscles, which had muscle stimulation (STIM) over time as input. STIM of each muscle changed from initial to maximal at STIM-onset, and STIM-onsets were optimized using jump height as criterion. Optimal simulated jumps from BP, PP and FP were similar to jumps of the subjects. Optimal solutions primarily differed in STIM-onset of REC: from early in BP to late in FP. Because the subjects' adjustments in srEMG-onsets were similar to adjustments of the model's optimal STIM-onsets, it was concluded that the former were near-optimal. With the model we also showed that near-maximum jumps from BP, PP and FP could be achieved when STIM-onset of REC depended on initial hip joint angle and STIM-onsets of the other muscles were posture-independent. A control theory that relies on a mapping from initial posture to STIM-onsets seems a parsimonious alternative to theories relying on internal optimal control models.
The Cdh23(erl/erl) mice are a novel mouse model for DFNB12 and are characterized by progressive hearing loss. In this study, erythropoietin (EPO) was given to the Cdh23(erl/erl) mice by intraperitoneal injection every other day from P7 for 7 weeks. Phosphate-buffered saline-treated or untreated Cdh23(erl/erl) mice were used as controls. Auditory-evoked brainstem response (ABR) thresholds and distortion product oto-acoustic emission (DPOAE) were measured in the mouse groups at the age of 4, 6 and 8 weeks. The results show that EPO can significantly decrease the ABR thresholds in the Cdh23(erl/erl) mice as compared with those of the untreated mice at stimulus frequencies of click, 8-, 16- and 32-kHz at three time points. Meanwhile, DPOAE amplitudes in the EPO-treated Cdh23(erl/erl) mouse group were significantly higher than those of the untreated groups at f2 frequency of 15383 Hz at the three time points. Furthermore, the mean percentage of outer hair cell loss at middle through basal turns of cochleae was significantly lower in EPO-treated Cdh23(erl/erl) mice than in the untreated mice (P&lt;0.05). This is the first report that EPO acts as an otoprotectant in a DFNB12 mouse model with progressive hearing loss.
Athletes exhibit better anticipation abilities than novices. However, it is not known whether this difference is related to different visual perceptions between them and which neural elements are involved in producing this difference. Fifteen elite basketball players and 15 novices participated in an action anticipation task with basketball free throw. Accurate rate for anticipation and gaze behavior were analyzed. Functional brain activity was recorded using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We found that the accurate rate for anticipation was higher in athletes than that in novices. Athletes showed more stable gaze fixation than novices and the locus of fixation was reliable in athletes but not in novices. Athletes showed higher activity in inferior parietal lobule and inferior frontal gyrus than novices during action anticipation. We conclude that the processes for action anticipation in elite athletes and novices are different and this difference is caused by different visual perceptions between them.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protects hippocampal neurons from glutamate excitotoxicity as determined by analysis of chromatin condensation, through activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) signaling pathways. However, it is still unknown whether BDNF also prevents the degeneration of axons and dendrites, and the functional demise of synapses, which would be required to preserve neuronal activity. Herein, we have studied the time-dependent changes in several neurobiological markers, and the regulation of proteolytic mechanisms in cultured rat hippocampal neurons, through quantitative western blot and immunocytochemistry. Calpain activation peaked immediately after the neurodegenerative input, followed by a transient increase in ubiquitin-conjugated proteins and increased abundance of cleaved-caspase-3. Proteasome and calpain inhibition did not reproduce the protective effect of BDNF and caspase inhibition in preventing chromatin condensation. However, proteasome and calpain inhibition did protect the neuronal markers for dendrites (MAP-2), axons (Neurofilament-H) and the vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1-2), whereas caspase inhibition was unable to mimic the protective effect of BDNF on neurites and synaptic markers. BDNF partially prevented the downregulation of synaptic activity measured by the KCl-evoked glutamate release using a Frster (Fluorescence) resonance energy transfer (FRET) glutamate nanosensor. These results translate a time-dependent activation of proteases and spatial segregation of these mechanisms, where calpain activation is followed by proteasome deregulation, from neuronal processes to the soma, and finally by caspase activation in the cell body. Moreover, PI3-K and PLC small molecule inhibitors significantly blocked the protective action of BDNF, suggesting an activity-dependent mechanism of neuroprotection. Ultimately, we hypothesize that neuronal repair after a degenerative insult is initiated at the synaptic level.
Growing evidence has suggested that hydrogen sulfide (HS) acts as a novel neuro-modulator and neuroprotective agent; however, it remains to be investigated whether H2S has a direct effect on neural stem cells (NSCs). We report here that NSCs expressed cystathionine  synthase (CBS) and addition of exogenous H2S donor, L-cysteine, stimulated proliferation and increased the differentiation potential of NSCs to neurons and astroglia. Moreover, pre-treatment with aminooxyacetic acid, the inhibitor of CBS or knockdown of CBS in using siRNA, significantly attenuated the effects of L-cysteine on elevated HS levels and the cell proliferation; it also effectively suppressed L-cysteine-induced neurogenesis and astrocytogenesis. Further analysis revealed that L-cysteine-induced proliferation was associated with phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 and differentiation with altered expression of differentiation-related genes. Taken together, the present data suggest that L-cysteine can enhance proliferation and differentiation of NSCs via the CBS/H2S pathway, which may serve as a useful inference for elucidating its role in regulating the fate of NSCs in physiological and pathological settings.
In this paper, we investigated event-related potentials (ERPs) evoked by visual stimuli with different three-dimensional visual depths. Before the experiment, tests for binocular advantage and for sensitivity to three-dimensional depth were carried out, respectively. At the same time, it should be ensured that the distinguishing degree of different depths is big enough. After the qualified participants were selected, pictures with five different three-dimensional depths were presented to the participants who were asked to give a judgment of the depths. The behavioral results showed that under the five different depths, the participants had a very high accuracy of judgment. ERP results showed that in the time windows of 90-130 ms and 150-200 ms after the onset of visual target stimuli, P1 and N2 components appeared in the area from parietal to occipital regions. It was interesting that there existed a positive correlation between the amplitude of the N2 component and the absolute value of the depth. Meanwhile, time-frequency analysis results showed that, in the time window of 150-200 ms after the onset of visual target stimuli, a similar positive correlation between the time-frequency distribution and the absolute value of the depth was also found. Additionally, in the time window of 200-600 ms after the onset of visual target stimuli, the alpha waves evoked under the five different depths were almost the same, which reflected that the cognitive process of three-dimensional visual depth might be finished by 200 ms after the onset of visual target stimuli, when the brain is in a state of relaxation.
The present study aimed to investigate whether side differences in olfactory bulb (OB) volume correlate to respective differences in olfactory function. In a total of 164 healthy volunteers volumetric measures of the OBs were performed plus lateralized measurements of odor thresholds and odor discrimination. Side differences were defined as 10% difference between the left and right OB. In 39 cases volumes on the right side were larger than on the left side, whereas in 29 cases it was the other way around. Subjects with larger right-sided OB volumes were found to be more sensitive to odorous stimulation of the right as compared to the left nostril in terms of odor thresholds and odor detection; higher sensitivity of the left nostrils (decreased odor threshold) was observed in individuals with larger OB volumes on the left side. These data appear to suggest that OB volume may be partly dependent on lateralized influences on the olfactory system, reflecting its lateralized organization.
Hyperpolarisation-activated (Ih) currents are considered important for dendritic integration, synaptic transmission, setting membrane potential and rhythmic action potential (AP) discharge in neurons of the central nervous system. Hyperpolarisation-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels underlie these currents and are composed of homo- and hetero-tetramers of HCN channel subunits (HCN1-4), which confer distinct biophysical properties on the channel. Despite understanding the structure-function relationships of HCN channels with different subunit stoichiometry, our knowledge of their expression in defined neuronal populations remains limited. Recently, we have shown that HCN subunit expression is a feature of a specific population of dorsal horn interneurons that exhibit high-frequency AP discharge. Here we expand on this observation and use neuroanatomical markers to first identify well-characterised neuronal populations in the lumbar spinal cord and hippocampus and subsequently determine whether HCN4 expression correlates with high-frequency AP discharge in these populations. In the spinal cord, HCN4 is expressed in several putative inhibitory interneuron populations including parvalbumin (PV)-expressing islet cells (84.1%; SD: 2.87), in addition to all putative Renshaw cells and Ia inhibitory interneurons. Similarly, virtually all PV-expressing cells in the hippocampal CA1 subfield (93.5%; 3.40) and the dentate gyrus (90.9%; 6.38) also express HCN4. This HCN4 expression profile in inhibitory interneurons mirrors both the prevalence of Ih sub-threshold currents and high-frequency AP discharge. Our findings indicate that HCN4 subunits are expressed in several populations of spinal and hippocampal interneurons, which are known to express both Ih sub-threshold currents and exhibit high-frequency AP discharge. As HCN channel function plays a critical role in pain perception, learning and memory, and sleep as well as the pathogenesis of several neurological diseases, these findings provide important insights into the identity and neurochemical status of cells that could underlie such conditions.
Neurons in the primary visual cortex are often classified as either simple or complex based on the linearity (or otherwise) of their response to spatial luminance contrast. In practice, classification is typically based on Fourier analysis of a cell's response to an optimal drifting sine-wave grating. Simple cells are generally considered to be linear and produce responses modulated at the fundamental frequency of the stimulus grating. In contrast, complex cells exhibit significant nonlinearities that reduce the response at the fundamental frequency. Cells can therefore be easily and objectively classified based on the relative modulation of their responses - the ratio of the phase-sensitive response at the fundamental frequency of the stimulus (F) to the phase-invariant sustained response (F). Cells are classified as simple if F/F&gt;1 and complex if F/F&lt;1. This classification is broadly consistent with criteria based on the spatial organisation of cells' receptive fields and is accordingly presumed to reflect disparate functional roles of simple and complex cells in coding visual information. However, Fourier analysis of spiking responses is sensitive to the number of spikes available - F/F increases as the number of spikes is reduced, even for phase-invariant complex cells. Moreover, many complex cells encountered in the laboratory exhibit some phase sensitivity, evident as modulation of their responses at the fundamental frequency. There currently exists no objective quantitative means of assessing the significance or otherwise of these modulations. Here we derive a statistical basis for objectively assessing whether the modulation of neuronal responses is reliable, thereby adding a level of statistical certainty to measures of phase sensitivity. We apply our statistical analysis to neuronal responses to moving sine-wave gratings recorded from 367 cells in cat primary visual cortex. We find that approximately 60% of complex cells exhibit statistically significant (&lt;0.01) modulation of their responses to optimal moving gratings. These complex cells are phase sensitive and reliably encode spatial phase.
There is general consensus in the literature that a distributed network of temporal and frontal brain areas is involved in speech comprehension. However, how active versus passive tasks modulate the activation and the functional connectivity of the critical brain areas is not clearly understood. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify intelligibility and task-related effects in speech comprehension. Participants performed a semantic judgment task on normal and time-reversed sentences, or passively listened to the sentences without making an overt response. The subtraction analysis demonstrated that passive sentence comprehension mainly engaged brain areas in the left anterior and posterior superior temporal sulcus and middle temporal gyrus (aSTS/MTG and pSTS/MTG), whereas active sentence comprehension recruited bilateral frontal regions in addition to the aSTS/MTG and pSTS/MTG regions. Functional connectivity analysis revealed that during passive sentence comprehension, the left aSTS/MTG was functionally connected with the left Heschl's gyrus (HG) and bilateral superior temporal gyrus (STG) but no area was functionally connected with the left pSTS/MTG; during active sentence comprehension, however, both the left aSTS/MTG and pSTS/MTG were functionally connected with bilateral superior temporal and inferior frontal areas. While these results are consistent with the view that the ventral stream of the temporo-frontal network subserves semantic processing, our findings further indicate that both the activation and the functional connectivity of the temporal and frontal areas are modulated by task demands.


Sarcoidosis is a multiorgan granulomatous disease of unknown origin, which frequently involves the lung and the eyes. It is rare that sarcoidosis causes cervical lymphadenopathy and a chronic continuous salivary gland swelling. In the present study, we examined how to diagnose sarcoidosis in patients complaining of a cervical mass and its clinical presentation according to 8 cases which we experienced. We undertook biopsy of the cervical lymph nodes in 7 cases, and biopsy of the parotid gland in 1 case. In cases non-caseating epithelioid cell granuloma was proved, diagnosed as sarcoidosis histopathlogically. In 6 patients, the sarcoidal lesion was in other organs, whereas in 2 patients the sarcoidal lesion was confined in the head and neck. Bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy and an elevated level of angiotensin-converting enzyme which are typical in sarcoidosis were confirmed in only one of our patients. Therefore, the diagnostic value of these tests is low for the diagnosis of sarcoidosis in the patients whose chief complaint is a cervical mass. Because 4 out of 7 cases were positive for the tuberculin test, it is imperative to distinguish between sarcoidosis and cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis by combining the culture of acid-bacilli and TB-PCR with histopathological evaluation of the biopsy specimen. We experienced one patient in whom the sarcoidal lesion developed in the skin and the eyes 20 years after the onset of cervical lymphadenopathy. It is important to follow the patients carefully, even if we diagnose the disease as sarcoidosis confined in the head and neck.
The author reviewed the epidemiological and clinical aspects of Bickerstaff brainstem encephalitis (BBE) based on the data from the nationwide survey, which was planned in Japanese population between 2006 and 2009. Annual BBE onset was roughly estimated as 100 cases in Japan, which accounted for 43% of brainstem encephalitis, and corresponded to 6.8% of Guillain-Barr syndrome incidence. BBE consisted of typical and atypical cases, and typical BBE had the similar neurological and serological features to Fisher syndrome as well as with good recovery, whereas atypical BBE was characterized by delayed recovery, negative anti-GQ1b antibodies, and abnormal CSF and brain MRI findings with possible other pathogeneses.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is considered to be a demyelinating autoimmune disorder in the peripheral nervous system. Concerning cellular immune response, activity of IFN-gamma producing Th1 and IL-17 producing Th17 cells might be accelerated in patients with CIDP, while regulatory function of CD4+ CD25(high) Foxp3+ regulatory T cells might be diminished. Humoral immune responses against several myelin components such as myelin protein zero and gangliosides such as GM1 might be also induced in a part of patients with CIDP. Besides, growing body of evidences suggest that immune response against several molecules expressed in the noncompact myelin might be involved in the pathogenesis of CIDP.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-nerve barrier (BNB) restrict exchanges of soluble factors and cells between the blood and neural tissue, thus playing a crucial role in the maintenance of central (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS) homeostasis. In neuroinflammatory diseases, disruption of the BBB/BNB is the initial key step in the development of inflammatory lesions. BBB/BNB breakdown during inflammation is related to two main processes: (1) leakage between opposing endothelial cells and alteration of junctional components, and (2) leukocyte extravasation into the CNS or PNS. The control of inflammatory cells and humoral factors such as cytokines at the level of BBB/BNB can develop a novel therapeutic strategy toward the inflammatory/autoimmune nervous system disorders.
Exogeneous pathogen-associated molecular patterns and endogenous danger signals bind to pattern recognition receptors and activate innate immunity cells, leading to proinflammatory cytokine production and activation of acquired immue cells. These are important factors in the pathogenesis of autoimmune-mediated neuroimmunological disorders such as multiple sclerosis. Furthermore, recent advances in the study of innate immunity revealed that innate immunity is a major players in the pathogenesis of some neuroimmunological diseases such as Behet's disease and herpes simplex virus encephalitis.


Suboptimal oral care is well documented in the literature and is linked to increased nosocomial pneumonia rates and prolonged hospitalization, negatively affecting patients' quality of life (Terezakis et al. 2011). A standardized approach to oral care can change these adverse outcomes. This project used best practice guidelines and evidence in the literature to guide the development of oral care best practice within an acute care inpatient unit. Based on the work of the interprofessional Clinical Neurological Sciences (CNS) Continuous Quality Improvement (CQI) Council at London Health Sciences Centre - University Hospital (LHSC-UH), an oral care policy and bedside assessment tool were implemented in line with Stroke Best Practice Recommendations (Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada 2010). A validated, reliable and feasible oral health assessment tool (OHAT) was selected for implementation, and is now completed on every patient within 24 hours of admission to the CNS inpatient unit. Favourable outcomes to date include improved accessibility of oral health supplies, including regular and suction toothbrushes, toothpaste and bite blocks. Post-implementation audits indicate increased frequency and quality of oral care. This review provides a synopsis of how oral care best practice was implemented in an acute care neurology/neurosurgery setting.


The prevalence, associations, and natural history of pain in multiple sclerosis (MS) are poorly understood. The objective of this work was to study the prevalence of pain syndromes in MS both cross-sectionally, and longitudinally during the MS disease course. We systematically identified prospective studies detailing pain prevalence in definite MS. We used pooled prevalence estimates, explored heterogeneity using meta-regression, and analysed prevalence during the disease course using both estimates at disease milestones and longitudinal studies. Twenty-eight articles (7101 subjects) describing overall pain, or pain syndromes, met inclusion criteria. Pooled overall pain prevalence (17 studies, 5319 subjects) was 63% (95% confidence interval [CI] 55-70%). Marked heterogeneity in this estimate was not significantly explained by selected study design variables (use of outpatient sample, timeframe prior to study over which pain was assessed) or sample demographic variables (mean Expanded Disability Status Scale, mean disease duration, proportion of female sex, and proportion with progressive MS). We quantified prevalence of headache (43%; 95% CI 33-52%), neuropathic extremity pain (26%; 95% CI 7-53%), back pain (20%; 95% CI 13-28%), painful spasms (15%; 95% CI 8.5-23%), Lhermitte sign (16%; 95% CI 10-25%), and trigeminal neuralgia (3.8%; 95% CI 2-6%) in included studies. Prevalence of pain at MS disease milestones (prior to onset, at onset, and at relapse) and during longitudinal follow-up was poorly described. Pain is common in MS, as are specific pain syndromes. The clinical associations and natural history of pain in MS require clarification. Future study could be enhanced by standardised study design.



Types III and IV spinal muscular atrophy represent a diagnostic challenge due to the great variability in their presentation. We report a series of eight patients with type III spinal muscular atrophy who were followed for a long time for possible muscular dystrophy or myopathy, confirming its clinical heterogeneity and propensity to delayed diagnosis. Clinical examination revealed heterogeneous findings, where the diagnosis of type III spinal muscular atrophy was not immediately apparent in many patients as their clinical and laboratory abnormalities were consistent with muscular dystrophy or myopathy. The presence of dystrophic features such as hypertrophy of the calves, weakness of the limb girdle, high serum creatine kinase levels, and myopathic histopathology should not divert attention from the possibility of spinal muscular atrophy. It is strongly recommended to give variable presentations enough thought and to consider the autosomal recessive type III spinal muscular atrophy in the diagnostic evaluation.
Prothymosin alpha (ProT), a nuclear protein, plays multiple functions including cell survival. Most recently, we demonstrated that the active 30-amino acid peptide sequence/P30 (amino acids 49-78) in ProT retains its substantial activity in neuroprotection in vitro and in vivo as well as in the inhibition of cerebral blood vessel damages by the ischemic stress in retina and brain. But, it has remained to identify the minimum peptide sequence in ProT that retains neuroprotective activity. The present study using the experiments of alanine scanning suggested that any amino acid in 9-amino acid peptide sequence/P9 (amino acids 52-60) of P30 peptide is necessary for its survival activity of cultured rat cortical neurons against the ischemic stress. In the retinal ischemia-perfusion model, intravitreous injection of P9 24h after ischemia significantly inhibited the cellular and functional damages at day 7. On the other hand, 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining and electroretinogram assessment showed that systemic delivery with P9 1h after the cerebral ischemia (1h tMCAO) significantly blocks the ischemia-induced brain damages. In addition, systemic P9 delivery markedly inhibited the cerebral ischemia (tMCAO)-induced disruption of blood vessels in brain. Taken together, the present study provides a therapeutic importance of 9-amino acid peptide sequence against ischemic damages.
C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) is an abundant neuropeptide in the central nervous system, which exerts its physiological effects through natriuretic peptide receptor B (NPR-B). Recently, the CNP/NPR-B system has been recognized as an important regulator for the development of sensory axons. The dorsal root ganglion (DRG) contains neurons transmitting several kinds of spinal sensory stimuli to the central nervous system. In this study, we characterized NPR-B receptor expression in the rat DRG, using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Immunostaining revealed that NPR-B was expressed in neuronal cell bodies and processes of the DRG, with NPR-B immunoreactivity mainly prominent in small and medium-sized DRG neurons. Double-immunolabeling showed that NPR-B was expressed in calcitonin gene-related peptide- and isolectin B4-positive neurons. Furthermore, NPR-B expression was co-localized with calcitonin gene-related peptide in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Together, our data suggest that the natriuretic peptides may perform several biological actions on sensory neurons via their binding to NPR-B in the DRG.
Research has elucidated causal links between stress exposure and the development of anxiety disorders, but due to the limited use of female or sex-comparative animal models, little is known about the mechanisms underlying sex differences in those disorders. This is despite an overwhelming wealth of evidence from the clinical literature that the prevalence of anxiety disorders is about twice as high in women compared to men, in addition to gender differences in severity and treatment efficacy. We here review human gender differences in generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder and anxiety-relevant biological functions, discuss the limitations of classic conflict anxiety tests to measure naturally occurring sex differences in anxiety-like behaviors, describe sex-dependent manifestation of anxiety states after gestational, neonatal, or adolescent stressors, and present animal models of chronic anxiety states induced by acute or chronic stressors during adulthood. Potential mechanisms underlying sex differences in stress-related anxiety states include emerging evidence supporting the existence of two anatomically and functionally distinct serotonergic circuits that are related to the modulation of conflict anxiety and panic-like anxiety, respectively. We discuss how these serotonergic circuits may be controlled by reproductive steroid hormone-dependent modulation of crfr1 and crfr2 expression in the midbrain dorsal raphe nucleus and by estrous stage-dependent alterations of -aminobutyric acid (GABAergic) neurotransmission in the periaqueductal gray, ultimately leading to sex differences in emotional behavior.


Several lines of evidence suggest that the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) signaling pathway plays a role in behavioral abnormalities observed after administration of psychostimulants, such as methamphetamine (METH). This study was undertaken to examine whether the potent TrkB agonist, 7,8-dihydroxyflavone (7,8-DHF) could improve prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits in mice seen after a single dose of METH. Treatment with 7,8-DHF (3.0, 10 or 30 mg/kg) improved PPI deficits in mice associated with exposure to METH (3.0 mg/kg), in a dose dependent manner. Furthermore, co-administration of ANA-12 (0.5 mg/kg), a TrkB antagonist, significantly blocked the effects of 7,8-DHF (30 mg/kg) on METH-induced PPI deficits. In contrast, administration of 5,7-dihydroxyflavone (5,7-DHF: 30 mg/kg), an inactive TrkB ligand, did not affect METH-induced PPI deficits in mice. An in vivo microdialysis study in conscious mice showed that 7,8-DHF (30 mg/kg) significantly attenuated increased dopamine release in the striatum, after METH administration (3 mg/kg). This study suggests that 7,8-DHF can improve PPI deficits in these mice, through the inhibition of METH-induced dopamine release. Therefore, it is likely that TrkB agonists, such as 7,8-DHF, may constitute a novel class of therapeutic drugs for neuropsychiatric diseases such as METH-use disorder and schizophrenia.
Elevation of brain magnesium enhances synaptic plasticity and extinction of conditioned fear memories. This experiment examined the generalizability of this phenomenon by studying the effects of a novel magnesium compound, magnesium-L-threonate (MgT), on conditioned taste aversion (CTA) extinction and spontaneous recovery (SR). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained on a 23-hour water deprivation cycle and acquired a CTA following the taste of a CS [0.3% saccharin+16 mg/ml MgT (SAC+MgT)] paired with a US [81 mg/kg (i.p.) lithium chloride (LiCl)]. Following CTA acquisition, rats drank a water+MgT solution for up to 1 hour/day over the next 31 days. For 14 additional days, some animals continued water+MgT treatment, but others drank water only to allow MgT to be eliminated from the body. We then employed 2 different extinction paradigms: (1) CS-Only (CSO), in which SAC was presented, every-other day, or (2) Explicitly Unpaired (EU), in which both SAC and LiCl were presented, but on alternate days. EU extinction procedures have been shown to speed CTA extinction and reduce spontaneous recovery of the aversion. Throughout extinction, half of the rats in each group continued to drink MgT (now in SAC or supplemental water+MgT solution), whereas the other half drank SAC only/water only until SAC drinking reached 90% of baseline (asymptotic extinction). Rats receiving MgT just before/during extinction drank less SAC on the first day of extinction suggesting that they had retained a stronger CTA. MgT enhanced the rate of extinction. Furthermore, the MgT-treated rats showed a relatively modest SR of the CTA 30 days later - indicating that the extinction procedure was more effective for these animals. Our data suggest that long-term dietary MgT may enhance the consolidation/retention of a CTA, speed extinction, and inhibit SR of this learned aversion.
Despite decades of research on treatments for cocaine dependence, relapse rates following many behavioral and drug-based therapies remain high. This may be in part because cocaine-associated cues and contexts can invoke powerful drug cravings years after quitting. Recent studies suggest that drugs that promote cognitive function can enhance the formation of memories involving cocaine and other substances. One target of these drugs is facilitating histone acetylation to promote learning by increasing gene transcription that supports memory formation. Here, we investigate the effects of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor sodium butyrate (NaBut) on cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in C57BL/6 mice. After establishing a graded dose-response curve (2, 5, &amp; 20 mg/kg) for cocaine-induced CPP, we examined the effects of different doses of NaBut (0, 0.3, 0.6, &amp; 1.2 g/kg) on conditioning, extinction, and post-extinction reconditioning of CPP. A high dose of NaBut (1.2 g/kg) enhanced initial acquisition of cocaine CPP, but there were no effects of NaBut on reconditioning of extinguished CPP. Effects of NaBut on extinction were more complex, with a low-dose (0.3 g/kg) facilitating extinction and a high dose (1.2 g/kg) weakening extinction evident by preference at a retention test. These findings suggest that HDAC inhibition may have dose dependent effects on different components of cocaine CPP, with implications for (1) involvement of histone acetylation in context-drug learning, (2) interpretation of acute and chronic drug effects, and (3) the targeting of different types of learning in therapeutic application of HDAC inhibitors.
Several years ago, the &quot;neurochemical mobile&quot; was introduced as a visual tool for explaining the different balances between neurotransmitters in the brain and their role in mental disorders. Here we complement this concept with a non-linear computational systems model representing the direct and indirect interactions between neurotransmitters, as they have been described in the &quot;neurochemical interaction matrix.&quot; The model is constructed within the framework of biochemical systems theory, which facilitates the mapping of numerically ill-characterized systems into a mathematical and computational construct that permits a variety of analyses. Simulations show how short- and long-term perturbations in any of the neurotransmitters migrate through the entire system, thereby affecting the balances within the mobile. In cases of short-term alterations, transients are of particular interest, whereas long-term changes shed light on persistently altered, allostatic states, which in mental diseases and sleep disorders could be due to a combination of unfavorable factors, resulting from a specific genetic predisposition, epigenetic effects, disease, or the repeated use of drugs, such as opioids and amphetamines.


Biological information processing is often carried out by complex networks of interconnected dynamical units. A basic question about such networks is that of reliability: If the same signal is presented many times with the network in different initial states, will the system entrain to the signal in a repeatable way? Reliability is of particular interest in neuroscience, where large, complex networks of excitatory and inhibitory cells are ubiquitous. These networks are known to autonomously produce strongly chaotic dynamics-an obvious threat to reliability. Here, we show that such chaos persists in the presence of weak and strong stimuli, but that even in the presence of chaos, intermittent periods of highly reliable spiking often coexist with unreliable activity. We elucidate the local dynamical mechanisms involved in this intermittent reliability, and investigate the relationship between this phenomenon and certain time-dependent attractors arising from the dynamics. A conclusion is that chaotic dynamics do not have to be an obstacle to precise spike responses, a fact with implications for signal coding in large networks.


Carnitine palmitoyl-CoA transferase-1B is a mitochondrial enzyme in the fatty acid oxidation pathway. In a previous study, CPT1B was identified as differentially expressed in the hypothalamus of two lines of chickens established by long-term selection for high (HWS) or low (LWS) body weight. Mammals have three paralogs (CPT1a, b and c) while nonmammalian vertebrates only have two (CPT1A, B). CPT1A is expressed in liver and CPT1B in muscle. CPT1c is expressed in hypothalamus, where it regulates feeding and energy expenditure. We identified an intronic length polymorphism, fixed for different alleles in the two populations, and mapped the hitherto missing CPT1B locus in the chicken genome assembly, to the distal tip of chromosome 1p. Based on molecular phylogeny and gene synteny we suggest that chicken CPT1B is pro-orthologous of the mammalian CPT1c. Chicken CPT1B was differentially expressed in both muscle and hypothalamus but in opposite directions: higher levels in hypothalamus but lower levels in muscle in the HWS than in the LWS line. Using an advanced intercross population of the lines, we found CPT1B expression to be influenced by a cis-acting expression quantitative trait locus in muscle. The increased expression in hypothalamus and reduced expression in muscle is consistent with an increased food intake in the HWS line and at the same time reduced fatty acid oxidation in muscle yielding a net accumulation of energy intake and storage. The altered expression of CPT1B in hypothalamus and peripheral tissue is likely to be a mechanism contributing to the remarkable difference between lines.
Phosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins has emerged as a major regulatory mechanism for metabolic adaptation. cAMP signaling and PKA phosphorylation of mitochondrial proteins have just started to be investigated, and the presence of cAMP-generating enzymes and PKA inside mitochondria is still controversial. Here, we discuss the role of cAMP in regulating mitochondrial bioenergetics through protein phosphorylation and the evidence for soluble adenylyl cyclase as the source of cAMP inside mitochondria.
The hairs of the skin not only function to prevent heat loss but also have important sensory functions. Recent work has now established that each hair of the skin is innervated by one or more of three types of mechanoreceptor ending. Each of these three mechanoreceptor types possesses distinct molecular features and detects distinctive information about skin touch, which is relayed to specific brain locations in a somatotopic fashion.
Sex differences in spontaneous sleep amount are largely dependent on reproductive hormones; however, in mice some sex differences in sleep amount during the active phase are preserved after gonadectomy and may be driven by non-hormonal factors. In this study, we sought to determine whether or not these sex differences are driven by sex chromosome complement. Mice from the four core genotype (FCG) mouse model, whose sex chromosome complement (XY, XX) is independent of phenotype (male or female), were implanted with electroencephalographic (EEG) and electromyographic (EMG) electrodes for the recording of sleep-wake states and underwent a 24-hr baseline recording followed by six hours of forced wakefulness. During baseline conditions in mice whose gonads remained intact, males had more total sleep and non-rapid eye movement sleep than females during the active phase. Gonadectomized FCG mice exhibited no sex differences in rest-phase sleep amount; however, during the mid-active-phase (nighttime), XX males had more spontaneous non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep than XX females. The XY mice did not exhibit sex differences in sleep amount. Following forced wakefulness there was a change in the factors regulating sleep. XY females slept more during their mid-active phase siestas than XX females and had higher NREM slow wave activity, a measure of sleep propensity. These findings suggest that the process that regulates sleep propensity is sex-linked, and that sleep amount and sleep propensity are regulated differently in males and females following sleep loss.
Repair in multiple sclerosis involves remyelination, a process in which axons are provided with a new myelin sheath by new oligodendrocytes. Bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) are a family of growth factors that have been shown to influence the response of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) in vivo during demyelination and remyelination in the adult brain. We have previously shown that BMP4 infusion increases numbers of OPCs during cuprizone-induced demyelination, while infusion of Noggin, an endogenous antagonist of BMP4 increases numbers of mature oligodendrocytes and remyelinated axons following recovery. Additional studies have shown that insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) promotes the survival of OPCs during cuprizone-induced demyelination. Based on these data, we investigated whether myelin repair could be further enhanced by sequential infusion of these agents firstly, BMP4 to increase OPC numbers, followed by either Noggin or IGF-1 to increase the differentiation and survival of the newly generated OPCs. We identified that sequential delivery of BMP4 and IGF-1 during cuprizone challenge increased the number of mature oligodendrocytes and decreased astrocyte numbers following recovery compared with vehicle infused mice, but did not alter remyelination. However, sequential delivery of BMP4 and Noggin during cuprizone challenge did not alter numbers of oligodendrocytes or astrocytes in the corpus callosum compared with vehicle infused mice. Furthermore, electron microscopy analysis revealed no change in average myelin thickness in the corpus callosum between vehicle infused and BMP4-Noggin infused mice. Our results suggest that while single delivery of Noggin or IGF-1 increased the production of mature oligodendrocytes in vivo in the context of demyelination, only Noggin infusion promoted remyelination. Thus, sequential delivery of BMP4 and Noggin or IGF-1 does not further enhance myelin repair above what occurs with delivery of Noggin alone.
Social experiences can organize physiological, neural, and reproductive function, but there are few experimental preparations that allow one to study the effect individuals have in structuring their social environment. We examined the connections between mechanisms underlying individual behavior and social dynamics in flocks of brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater). We conducted targeted inactivations of the neural song control system in female subjects. Playback tests revealed that the lesions affected females' song preferences: lesioned females were no longer selective for high quality conspecific song. Instead, they reacted to all cowbird songs vigorously. When lesioned females were introduced into mixed-sex captive flocks, they were less likely to form strong pair-bonds, and they no longer showed preferences for dominant males. This in turn created a cascade of effects through the groups. Social network analyses showed that the introduction of the lesioned females created instabilities in the social structure: males in the groups changed their dominance status and their courtship patterns, and even the competitive behavior of other female group-mates was affected. These results reveal that inactivation of the song control system in female cowbirds not only affects individual behavior, but also exerts widespread effects on the stability of the entire social system.
Simultaneous recording of electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has shown a number of advantages that make this multimodal technique superior to fMRI alone. The feasibility of recording EEG at ultra-high static magnetic field up to 9.4 T was recently demonstrated and promises to be implemented soon in fMRI studies at ultra high magnetic fields. Recording visual evoked potentials are expected to be amongst the most simple for simultaneous EEG/fMRI at ultra-high magnetic field due to the easy assessment of the visual cortex. Auditory evoked P300 measurements are of interest since it is believed that they represent the earliest stage of cognitive processing. In this study, we investigate the feasibility of recording visual evoked potentials and auditory evoked P300 in a 9.4 T static magnetic field. For this purpose, EEG data were recorded from 26 healthy volunteers inside a 9.4 T MR scanner using a 32-channel MR compatible EEG system. Visual stimulation and auditory oddball paradigm were presented in order to elicit evoked related potentials (ERP). Recordings made outside the scanner were performed using the same stimuli and EEG system for comparison purposes. We were able to retrieve visual P100 and auditory P300 evoked potentials at 9.4 T static magnetic field after correction of the ballistocardiogram artefact using independent component analysis. The latencies of the ERPs recorded at 9.4 T were not different from those recorded at 0 T. The amplitudes of ERPs were higher at 9.4 T when compared to recordings at 0 T. Nevertheless, it seems that the increased amplitudes of the ERPs are due to the effect of the ultra-high field on the EEG recording system rather than alteration in the intrinsic processes that generate the electrophysiological responses.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) patients have both working memory (WM) and attention problems. Good attention skills are important for WM performance; individuals have higher WM capacity when being able to prevent storage of irrelevant information through efficient filtering. Since it is unknown how filtering ability is associated with WM performance in ADHD, this was investigated in the present study. A visuospatial working memory (VSWM) change detection task with distracting stimuli was administered to adolescents (12-16 years old) and adults (20-46 years old) with and without ADHD matched on education/IQ. Besides performance, contralateral delay activity (CDA) was measured; a neural correlate of the number of targets and distracters encoded and maintained in WM during the retention interval. Performance data showed similar WM-load, WM-distracter interference and developmental effects in ADHD and control groups. Adolescents' performance on the WM task deteriorated more than that of adults in the presence of distracters and with higher WM-load, irrespective of Diagnosis. The CDA data suggested that initially all groups encoded/maintained distracting information, but only adults were able to bounce this information from memory later in the retention interval, leading to better WM performance. The only effect of Diagnosis was a smaller CDA in adolescents and adults with ADHD than in age/IQ-matched controls when maintaining a low 1-item load, which was possibly related to an inability to keep attention focused at cued stimuli with low task demands. Overall, the development of filtering efficiency and VSWM storage capacity in adolescents with ADHD was not different from that in typically developing peers.
Studying cognition of domestic dogs has gone through a renaissance within the last decades. However, although the behavioral studies of dogs are beginning to be common in the field of animal cognition, the neural events underlying cognition remain unknown. Here, we employed a non-invasive electroencephalography, with adhesive electrodes attached to the top of the skin, to measure brain activity of from 8 domestic dogs (Canis familiaris) while they stayed still to observe photos of dog and human faces. Spontaneous oscillatory activity of the dogs, peaking in the sensors over the parieto-occipital cortex, was suppressed statistically significantly during visual task compared with resting activity at the frequency of 15-30 Hz. Moreover, a stimulus-induced low-frequency (~2-6 Hz) suppression locked to the stimulus onset was evident at the frontal sensors, possibly reflecting a motor rhythm guiding the exploratory eye movements. The results suggest task-related reactivity of the macroscopic oscillatory activity in the dog brain. To our knowledge, the study is the first to reveal non-invasively measured reactivity of brain electrophysiological oscillations in healthy dogs, and it has been based purely on positive operant conditional training, without the need for movement restriction or medication.
Nearly every surgery can elicit a rather therapy-resistant chronic postoperative pain. Preventive medicine is therefore anticipated with hopeful eyes, but requires a better understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the transition from acute to chronic pain. Spinal mechanisms of pain amplification are regarded as fundamental to pain chronification, but these mechanisms on their own are not at all likely to be sufficient. Indeed, not every surgical patient develops chronic postoperative pain. Progress in our neurobiological understanding of postoperative pain includes scientific discoveries of 'vulnerability factors', which substantially impact on the spinal cord, augmenting pain amplification mechanisms, perhaps to levels of no-return. In this review we elaborate on spinal pain amplification mechanisms in relation to pain chronification and the impact of vulnerability factors hereon. Moreover, these insights are incorporated within a clinical frame of treatment approaches currently used in surgical settings. As such, this review provides an integrated overview of mechanism-based treatment approaches in prevention of chronic postoperative pain.




Understanding thoughts with no perceptual basis is a complex problem, and the commentary by Franklin, Mrazek, Broadway, and Schooler (2013) highlighted some of the difficulties that can occur when theorizing about this topic. They argued that the suppression of external input during internal thought arises from the selection of internal information. However, once a process of competition has been resolved in favor of self-generated content, it is still necessary to explain the stability of that content over time. It is proposed that perceptual decoupling and the associated attenuation of external input make environmental information less likely to gain access to limited resources explaining how internal thoughts persist over time. Franklin and colleagues also claimed that perceptual decoupling is unnecessary for an internal train of thought because statements of necessity cannot be drawn from correlational evidence. However, experimentally induced internal trains of thought also compete with concurrent external information, and this mutual inhibition is easily explained by assuming perceptual decoupling is necessary for the integrity of a detailed internal train of thought. I argue that the fundamental advantage of the process-occurrence framework is to highlight that self-generated thought is an emergent property from a general-purpose cognitive architecture and that models such as these will deepen our understanding more effectively than those focused on describing specific mental states.
Cognition can unfold with little regard to the events taking place in the environment, and such self-generated mental activity poses a specific set of challenges for its scientific analysis in both cognitive science and neuroscience. One problem is that the spontaneous onset of self-generated mental activity makes it hard to distinguish the events that control the occurrence of the experience from those processes that ensure the continuity of an internal train of thought once initiated. This review demonstrates that a distinction between process and occurrence (a) provides theoretical clarity that has been absent from current discussions of self-generated mental activity, (b) affords conceptual leverage on seemingly disparate results associating the state with both domain-general processes and task error, and (c) draws attention to important questions for understanding unconstrained thought in contexts such as psychopathology and education. It is suggested that identifying the moment that self-generated mental events begin is a necessary next step in moving toward a testable account of why the mind has evolved to neglect the present in favor of ruminations on the past or imaginary musings of what may yet come to pass.


A number of accounts of human and animal behavior posit the operation of parallel and competing valuation systems in the control of choice behavior. In these accounts, a flexible but computationally expensive model-based reinforcement-learning system has been contrasted with a less flexible but more efficient model-free reinforcement-learning system. The factors governing which system controls behavior-and under what circumstances-are still unclear. Following the hypothesis that model-based reinforcement learning requires cognitive resources, we demonstrated that having human decision makers perform a demanding secondary task engenders increased reliance on a model-free reinforcement-learning strategy. Further, we showed that, across trials, people negotiate the trade-off between the two systems dynamically as a function of concurrent executive-function demands, and people's choice latencies reflect the computational expenses of the strategy they employ. These results demonstrate that competition between multiple learning systems can be controlled on a trial-by-trial basis by modulating the availability of cognitive resources.
Neurologically intact adults perseverate in immediate serial recall, intruding items from a previous trial into the current response. We applied the electroencephalogram/event-related-potential subsequent-memory paradigm to immediate serial recall to investigate the causes of these errors. In line with previous studies using this paradigm, results revealed that words that were correctly recalled elicited a greater frontal positivity during encoding when compared with words that were either perseverated over or not produced for some other reason. More surprisingly, differences were also found at encoding between the words perseverated into the subsequent response and words that were not perseverated. These findings support a theory stating that abnormalities in both how the current target and the previous trial are processed can contribute to perseveration errors. These results inform existing theories of immediate serial recall and theories of the control of irrelevant information.

Little is known about how steroid hormones contribute to the beneficial effect of incentives on cognitive control during adolescent development. In this study, 27 adolescents with Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH, mean age 15.6 years, 12 female), a disorder of cortisol deficiency and androgen excess, and 36 healthy participants (mean age 16.3 years, 18 female) completed a reward-based antisaccade task. In this mixed-saccade task, participants performed eye movements towards (prosaccades) or away (antisaccades) from a peripherally occuring stimulus. On incentive trials, monetary reward was provided for correct performance, while no such reward was provided on no-incentive trials. Consistent with the hypothesis, the results showed that healthy, but not CAH adolescents, significantly improved their inhibitory control (antisaccade accuracy) during incentive trials relative to no-incentive trials. These findings were not driven by severity of CAH (salt wasters vs. simple virilizers), individual hormone levels, sex, age-at-diagnosis, or medication type (dexamethasone vs. hydrocortisone). In addition, no significant differences between groups were found on orienting responses (prosaccades). Additional analyses revealed an impact of glucocorticoid (GC) dosage, such that higher GC dose predicted better antisaccade performance. However, this effect did not impact incentive processing. The data are discussed within the context of steroid hormone mediated effects on cognitive control and reward processing.



Relatively little is known about early irradiation effects on hippocampal function in wild-type mice. In this study, the effects of (56)Fe irradiation on hippocampal function were assessed starting 2 weeks after whole-body irradiation. Compared to sham irradiation, radiation impaired novel object recognition in female and male C57BL/6J wild-type mice. There were no effects of irradiation on contextual fear conditioning or spatial memory retention in the water maze. It is possible that oxidative damage might contribute to radiation-induced cognitive changes. Therefore, hippocampal and cortical levels of 3-nitrotyrosine (3NT) and lipid peroxidation, measures of oxidative damage were assessed. There were no effects of irradiation on these measures of oxidative damage. As (56)Fe irradiation can increase reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, which may contribute to the impairments in novel object recognition, the effects of the antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) on cognition following sham irradiation and irradiation were also assessed. ALA did not prevent radiation-induced impairments in novel object recognition and impaired spatial memory retention of sham-irradiated and irradiated mice in the probe trial after the first day of hidden platform training in the water maze. Thus, the novel object recognition test is particularly sensitive to detect early cognitive effects of (56)Fe irradiation through a mechanism unlikely involving ROS or oxidative damage.

Complete knowledge about the evolution of the carcinogenic process has to include cancer stem cells (CSCs), which are essential to understand tumor occurrence, recurrence, and also its reduction rate after radio- and/or chemotherapeutic treatments. Understanding CSCs physiology and metabolism may be crucial for the development of novel effective therapies. Therefore, being mitochondria an undeniable target for cancer therapy and a central hub in metabolism and cell and death decisions, it is essential to take this organelle into account and explore its actions and involvements in the context of CSCs physiology. In this review, we focus on recent patents and discoveries about mitochondrial bioenergetics and physiology of CSCs. A full understanding of the role of mitochondrial activity in CSCs and the creation of new strategies, methods and discoveries to support actual treatments with novel ones are of pivotal importance in order to ultimately eradicate cancer.
Executive functions are a set of high cognitive abilities that control and regulate other functions and behaviors and are crucial for successful adaptation. Deficits in executive functions are frequently described in developmental disorders, which are characterized by disadaptive behavior. However, executive functions are not widely examined in individuals with intellectual disability. The present study is aimed at evaluating the etiological specificity hypotheses pertaining to executive functions by comparing individuals with intellectual disability of different etiology, as Williams syndrome and Down syndrome, on different aspects of executive functions. To this aim a battery evaluating attention, short-term and working memory, planning, categorization, shifting and inhibition, was administered to 15 children, adolescents and adults with Williams syndrome, to 15 children, adolescents and adults with Down syndrome and to 16 mental-age-matched typically developing children. The two groups with intellectual disability showed impairment in a set of executive functions, as auditory sustained attention, visual selective attention, visual categorization and working memory, and preserved visual sustained attention, auditory selective attention and visual inhibition. However, a distinctive profile has been found between the two syndromic groups on other executive functions. While participants with Down syndrome were poor in shifting and verbal aspects of memory and inhibition, those with Williams syndrome were poor in planning. The specific weakness and straights on executive functions may support the etiological specificity hypothesis accounting for distinctive cognitive development syndrome-specific.
This systematic review aimed to establish the current knowledge about brain structure and executive function (EF) in children with cerebral palsy (CP). Five databases were searched (up till July 2012). Six articles met the inclusion criteria, all included structural brain imaging though no functional brain imaging. Study quality was assessed using the STROBE checklist. All articles scored between 58.7% and 70.5% for quality (100% is the maximum score). The included studies all reported poorer performance on EF tasks for children with CP compared to children without CP. For the selected EF measures non-significant effect sizes were found for the CP group compared to a semi-control group (children without cognitive deficits but not included in a control group). This could be due to the small sample sizes, group heterogeneity and lack of comparison of the CP group to typically developing children. The included studies did not consider specific brain areas associated with EF performance. To conclude, there is a paucity of brain imaging studies focused on EF in children with CP, especially of studies that include functional brain imaging. Outcomes of the present studies are difficult to compare as each study included different EF measures and cortical abnormality measures.

In spite of its soft drug reputation, severe cannabis abuse can produce a number of adverse chronic effects. Whereas the majority of consumers make a ((soft)) use of cannabis, there is a minority of problematic cannabis users. However, many of cannabis chronic effects are still controversial, especially regarding the causal nature of their relationship with cannabis use. There is a scientific consensus to claim that cannabis induces a state of dependence in a small proportion of users. Severe abuse of cannabis can also lead to cognitive impairments, especially on memory, although these effects usually improve after the cessation of cannabis use. The statistical link between cannabis use and the development of psychotic disorders is more worrying, although the causal nature of this relationship remains controversial. Finally, a chronic abuse of cannabis is reputed to induce an amotivational syndrome, mainly characterized by a state of apathy. Although the symptoms of the amotivational syndrome are in keeping with some clinical observations, it remains difficult to ascertain whether this clinical picture is causally produced by cannabis abuse.
Historically, psychological dependence to alcohol has been dissociated from physical dependence. Progress in neurosciences and genetics now question this dichotomy as complex neurobiological mechanisms and genetic factors seem to underlie craving, which is typically considered as the clinical manifestation of psychological dependence.
Several psychoactive drugs may induce addiction. Despite distinct pharmacological targets, all have the common property to stimulate the brain reward circuitry, which results in an increase of dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. The stimulation induced by drugs of abuse is much more important in intensity and duration than the stimulation induced by natural rewards. The positive reinforcement resulting from this stimulation promotes repeated drug intake, which induces cellular and molecular adaptations in the brain reward circuit and other regions associated with this circuit. Enduring changes are more particularly observed in regions involved in pleasure, motivation, memory, conditioning, executive functions, judgement and self-control. A tolerance to the reinforcing effects of natural rewards is observed in parallel to a hypersensitivity to the motivational effects of drugs and drug-associated stimuli. Behaviour focuses more and more exclusively on drug research and drug consumption. Drug privation can induce a negative emotional state, withdrawal signs and craving which are key elements of relapse
A new therapeutic era opened for multiple sclerosis (MS) with the appearance of molecules given p.o. and/or molecules with greater efficiency. Early diagnosis is critical, as the time and the choice of therapeutic intervention. The initiation of treatments must be personalized, including the risks associated with MS and those potentially related to the treatment chosen, answering the question &lt;Who, when and how to treat?&gt;. Monitoring tools that allow to objectively evaluate: I) MS activity and aggressiveness for each patient and 2) the safety of treatments and their risks of complications, must be further investigated.
This review describes some dysimmune neuromuscular disorders and their recent management: syndrome of peripheral nerve hyperexcitability (treatment of cramps, immunosuppressors); Guillain-Barr syndrome (new mechanisms and consensus treatment); chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (new indication for the use of pulse dexamethasone, new scores of activity); importance of subcutaneous immunoglobulin in multifocal motor neuropathy and of infusions of rituximab in myasthenia gravis; new entities in myositis and their treatment.
Coexistence of neuropathy and paraproteinemia (monoclonal gammopathy) is a common and complex problem seen in clinical practice and requires the distinction of specific syndromes. The clinical courses of these neuropathies are typically chronic and progressive. A precise distinction of the type of haematologic disorder associated (benign or malignant), investigation of other organs manifestations, and assessment of specific markers are mandatory. These steps are important to initiate an appropriate therapy that may include chemotherapy and/or immunosuppressive treatment targeting the neuropathy and the haematological dysfunction.
Anti-neuronal antibodies are implicated in various neurological syndromes that are sometimes associated with tumors. Depending on the antigenic target (nuclear, cytoplasmic or extracellular cell-surface or synaptic) the clinical presentation is different. In neurological syndromes associated with antibodies specific for intracellular antigens, the T-cell mediated immunological response predominates as pathogenic effector and the response to treatment is typically poor. In contrast, in syndromes related to antibodies against extracellular targets, the role of the antibodies is pathogenic and the neurological syndrome often responds better to immunomodulatory treatment, associated or not with an anti-tumoral treatment. We review the spectrum of anti-neuronal antibodies and their corresponding clinical and therapeutic characteristics.
This short review aims to give a focus on news in the migraine attack treatment and discusses the CGRP receptor antagonists (gepants), the 5-HT1F receptors agonists (ditans), the transcranial magnetic stimulation for the treatment of migraine attack with aura, innovative delivery systems for sumatriptan and the oral inhalation of dihydroergotamine.
Neuroethics is a field of bioethics on the ethical challenges of advances in neuroscience. Born in the early 2000s, neuroethics is considering a number of issues raised by the opportunities created by advances in knowledge and techniques in the field of neurology and psychiatry. In fact, what we learn about brain functions allows us to potentially influence our behavior and our actions, and questions human nature, freedom and individual responsibility, and even the place of morality in our society.
The exploration of the neural bases of consciousness (both conscious states and conscious mental contents) has progressed significantly over the last 15 years, in particular concerning the investigation of conscious access during perception. These advancements stem both from original neuropsychological studies, and from the rapid development of functional brain-imaging tools and methods. Only since recently these discoveries lead to medical applications aiming at improving the evaluation and follow-up of patients suffering from impairments of functional communication and/or of consciousness (comatose, vegetative, minimally conscious states, or paralyzed patients such as the &quot;locked in&quot; syndrome or similar conditions). By contributing to possible improvements of diagnosis and prognosis evaluations of these complex medical situations, these new tools open new perspectives associated with noteworthy ethical, social and philosophic implications.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a cardinal clinical triad that comprises resting tremor, akinesia and plastic hypertonia. The main lesion is a loss of midbbrain dopaminergic neurons but throughout the disease evolution, other neuronal systems will also degenerate. Starting from a typical clinical vignette, this review aims at illustrating how neurosciences helped to shape our knowledge of Parkinson's disease mechanisms at two complementary levels: first regarding the cellular dysfunctions leading to neuronal death and second regarding the neuronal networks involved in the occurrence of motor and non-motor symptoms. The paradigmatic example of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation that dramatically transformed the treatment of patients with advanced Parkinson disease illustrates why the dialog between fundamental and clinical neurosciences is crucial for therapeutic advances.





Schizophrenia research has identified deficits in neurocognition, social cognition, and sensory processing. Because a cohesive model of &quot;disturbed cognitive machinery&quot; is currently lacking, we built a conceptual model to integrate neurocognition, social cognition, and sensory processing. In a cross-sectional study, the cognitive performance of participants was measured. In accordance with the Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry, the participants were assigned to either the schizophrenia group or the non-schizophrenic psychosis group. Exclusion criteria included substance abuse, serious somatic/neurological illness, and perceptual handicap. The male/female ratio, educational level, and handedness did not differ significantly between the groups. The data were analyzed using structural equation modeling. Based upon the results of all possible pairwise models correlating neurocognition, social cognition, and sensory processing, three omnibus models were analyzed. A statistical analysis of a pairwise model-fit ((2), CFI, and RMSEA statistics) revealed poor interrelatedness between sensory processing and neurocognition in schizophrenia patients compared with healthy control participants. The omnibus model that predicted disintegration between sensory processing and neurocognition was statistically confirmed as superior for the schizophrenia group ((2)(53) of 56.62, p=0.341, RMSEA=0.04, CFI=0.95). In healthy participants, the model predicting maximal interrelatedness between sensory processing/neurocognition and neurocognition/social cognition gave the best fit ((2)(52) of 53.74, p=0.408, RMSEA=0.03, CFI=0.97). The performance of the patients with non-schizophrenic psychosis fell between the schizophrenia patients and control participants. These findings suggest increasing separation between sensory processing and neurocognition along the continuum from mental health to schizophrenia. Our results support a conceptual model that posits disintegration between sensory processing of social stimuli and neurocognitive processing.

Deficits in self monitoring are a core feature of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia, and may be the basis for disturbances of self and lack of insight, ultimately impacting social functioning. However, the functional and structural neural correlates of such deficits in self monitoring are not well understood. We investigated this issue using measurements of neurophysiological and structural brain indices, i.e., error-related and correct-response negativity (ERN &amp; CRN) of event-related potentials, and gray matter volume of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and tested whether the association between these indices is altered in patients with schizophrenia. Participants consisted of 18 male patients with chronic schizophrenia and 18 healthy male controls. The 2 groups did not differ in ERN amplitude. In contrast, schizophrenia patients showed significantly larger CRN amplitudes than did healthy subjects. Although the 2 groups did not significantly differ in gray matter volume of the ACC subregions, a significant negative correlation was found between ERN amplitudes at the frontocentral electrodes and absolute gray matter volumes of the left cognitive region of ACC only in healthy controls. These results suggest a disruption of function-structure coupling of the brain regions sub-serving self monitoring in schizophrenia.


Mouse models carrying Disc1 mutations may provide insights into how Disc1 genetic variations contribute to schizophrenia (SZ) susceptibility. Disc1 mutant mice show behavioral and cognitive disturbances reminiscent of SZ. To dissect the synaptic mechanisms underlying these phenotypes, we examined electrophysiological properties of cortical neurons from two mouse models, the first expressing a truncated mouse Disc1 (mDisc1) protein throughout the entire brain, and the second expressing a truncated human Disc1 (hDisc1) protein in forebrain regions. We obtained whole-cell patch clamp recordings to examine how altered expression of Disc1 protein changes excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmissions onto cortical pyramidal neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex in 4-7 month-old mDisc1 and hDisc1 mice. In both mDisc1 and hDisc1 mice, the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs was greater than in wild-type littermate controls. Male mice from both lines were more affected by the Disc1 mutation than were females, exhibiting increases in the ratio of excitatory to inhibitory events. Changes in spontaneous IPSCs were only observed in the mDisc1 model and were sex-specific, with diminished cortical GABAergic neurotransmission, a well-documented characteristic of SZ, occurring only in male mDisc1 mice. In contrast, female mDisc1 mice showed an increase in the frequency of small-amplitude sIPSCs. These findings indicate that truncations of Disc1 alter glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission both commonly and differently in the models and some of the effects are sex-specific, revealing how altered Disc1 expression may contribute to behavioral disruptions and cognitive deficits of SZ.
Behavioral genetic studies of humans have associated variation in the DTNBP1 gene with schizophrenia and its cognitive deficit phenotypes. The protein encoded by DTNBP1, dysbindin-1, is expressed in forebrain neurons where it interacts with proteins mediating vesicular trafficking and exocytosis. It has been shown that loss of dysbindin-1 results in a decrease in glutamate release in the prefrontal cortex; however the mechanisms underlying this decrease are not fully understood. In order to investigate this question, we evaluated dysbindin-1 null mutant mice, using electrophysiological recordings of prefrontal cortical neurons, imaging studies of vesicles, calcium dynamics and Western blot measures of synaptic proteins and Ca(2+) channels. Dysbindin-1 null mice showed a decrease in the ready releasable pool of synaptic vesicles, decreases in quantal size, decreases in the probability of release and deficits in the rate of endo- and exocytosis compared with wild-type controls. Moreover, the dysbindin-1 null mice show decreases in the [Ca(2+)]i,expression of L- and N-type Ca(2+)channels and several proteins involved in synaptic vesicle trafficking and priming. Our results provide new insights into the mechanisms of action of dysbindin-1.
Previous studies investigated fMRI-guided repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) as an alternative treatment for auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH). This tailor-made treatment focuses at directing the rTMS coil to the location where hallucinatory activation is maximal, as identified with fMRI scans of individual patients. For the effective use of such treatment it is important to determine whether brain activation during AVH can be reliably detected using fMRI. Thirty-three psychotic patients indicated the presence of AVH during two subsequent scans. Reproducibility was measured by calculating 1) the distance between local maxima of significantly activated clusters and 2) percentage overlap of activation patterns over the two scans. These measurements were obtained both in single subjects and on group-level in five regions of interest (ROIs). ROIs consisted of the areas that were most frequently activated during AVH. Scans were considered reproducible if the distance between local maxima was smaller than 2 cm, as rTMS-treatment may target an area of approximately 2-4 cm. The median distance between local maxima was smaller than 2 cm for all ROIs on single-subject level, as well as on group-level. In addition, on single-subject level median percentage overlap varied between 14 and 38% for the different ROIs. On group-level, this was substantially higher with percentages overlap varying between 34 and 98%. Based on these results, AVH-scans may be considered sufficiently reproducible to be suitable for fMRI-guided rTMS treatment.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) has been identified as a potential therapeutic target for schizophrenia, primarily due to its ability to indirectly modulate glutamatergic signalling through the NMDA receptor (NMDAR). Despite its potential, molecular studies characterising mGluR5 in schizophrenia are limited. We therefore aimed to determine if the mGluR5 binding site or protein levels were altered in schizophrenia or by current antipsychotics. Using in-situ radioligand binding and immunoblot, we measured [(3)H]MPEP binding to mGluR5 and mGluR5 protein density in the post-mortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC; BA46) of 37 schizophrenia and 37 matched control subjects. Subsequently, we measured [(3)H]MPEP binding in rat brains following typical (haloperidol) or atypical (olanzapine) antipsychotic treatment (n = 6/group). Subjects with schizophrenia showed no significant alteration in mGluR5 binding density or mGluR5 protein levels. Furthermore, mGluR5 binding in the rat cortex, thalamus, hippocampus and striatum was unaltered by short-, medium- and long-term antipsychotic treatment. Our data suggests that there are no alterations in mGluR5 in schizophrenia subjects. The lack of alteration in mGluR5 binding and protein in schizophrenia is advantageous because its ability to modulate the NMDAR is potentially unhindered, thereby supporting the development of novel antipsychotic agents that work through the mGluR5/NMDAR complex.
A small but significant relationship between schizophrenia and violence is well established, but not yet fully explained. Research has highlighted anger as an important factor in precipitating actual violence in general and psychiatric populations. However, anger has not been extensively studied as a risk factor for violence in people with schizophrenia and related psychoses. We evaluated published evidence on the relationship between anger and violence in patients with schizophrenia and related psychoses by means of a systematic review of the literature. A search of main online databases from inception till January 2012 was performed and supplemented with correspondence with authors and data available online. 11 studies which measured angry affect in patients with schizophrenia who had been violent were included in the review. 5 studies with a total of 510 individuals had anger data that were suitable to be pooled in a meta-analysis in form of standardised mean difference values comparing the anger scores of the non-violent groups with violent groups. All the studies included showed significantly higher scores for anger in the violent group compared with the non-violent group with the pooled result expressed as standardised mean difference of 0.74 95% CI (0.53, 0.94) and the Z value for overall effect=7.01. The studies not included in the meta-analysis which looked at 610 individuals, were analysed descriptively and all of them reported higher scores for anger for individuals with schizophrenia who acted violently. There is a consistency of significant association between angry affect and violent behaviour in the context of psychotic illness across various study designs, settings and populations. Theoretical support already exists for this relationship and this review lends further support to explore this relationship further.




Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by synaptic dysfunction and accumulation of amyloid-beta (A) peptide, which are responsible for the progressive loss of memory. The mechanisms involved in neuron dysfunction in AD remain poorly understood. Recent evidence implicates the participation of adaptive responses to stress within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in the disease process, via a pathway known as the unfolded protein response (UPR). Here, we review the findings suggesting a functional role of ER stress in the etiology of AD. Possible therapeutic strategies to mitigate ER stress in the context of AD are discussed.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) has updated the clinical practice guidelines on Dementia to provide doctors and patients in Singapore with evidence-based treatment for dementia. This article reproduces the introduction and executive summary (with recommendations from the guidelines) from the MOH clinical practice guidelines on Dementia, for the information of readers of the Singapore Medical Journal. Chapters and page numbers mentioned in the reproduced extract refer to the full text of the guidelines, which are available from the Ministry of Health website: http://www.moh.gov.sg/content/moh_web/healthprofessionalsportal/doctors/guidelines/cpg_medical/2013/cpgmed_dementia_revised.html. The recommendations should be used with reference to the full text of the guidelines. Following this article are multiple choice questions based on the full text of the guidelines.

English health policy has moved towards establishing specialist multi-disciplinary teams to care for patients suffering rare or particularly complex conditions. But the healthcare resource groups (HRGs), which form the basis of the prospective payment system for hospitals, do not explicitly account for specialist treatment. There is a risk, then, that hospitals in which specialist teams are based might be financially disadvantaged if patients requiring specialised care are more expensive to treat than others allocated to the same HRG. To assess this we estimate the additional costs associated with receipt of specialised care. We analyse costs for 12,154,599 patients treated in 163 English hospitals in fiscal year 2008/09 according to the type of specialised care received, if any. We account for the distributional features of patient cost data, and estimate ordinary least squares and generalised linear regression models with random effects to isolate what influence the hospital itself has on costs. We find that, for nineteen types of specialised care, patients do not have higher costs than others allocated to the same HRG. However, costs are higher if a patient has cancer, spinal, neurosciences, cystic fibrosis, children's, rheumatology, colorectal or orthopaedic specialised services. Hospitals might be paid a surcharge for providing these forms of specialised care. We also find substantial variation in the average cost of treatment across the hospital sector, due neither to the provision of specialised care nor to other characteristics of each hospital's patients.
The history of psychiatry is characterised by the confrontation of theoretical models, or dualism.The contrast between these trends has always added to the richness of this discipline, from Philippe Pinel to Henri Ey, and from Bndict-Augustin Morel to Valentin Magnan.Today, we are faced with an epistemological malaise which is the result of the domination of neurosciences. In order to protect against the temptation to allow the domination of one of the theoretical models, a return to dualism is recommended.
The effects of chronic stressors on glucocorticoid levels are well described in laboratory rodents, but far less is known about the effects of chronic stressors on wild animals or on dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) levels. DHEA can be produced by the adrenal cortex and has prominent antiglucocorticoid properties. Here, we examined wild songbirds to elucidate the relationship between chronic predator pressure and plasma DHEA and corticosterone levels. We measured circulating steroid levels at baseline and after acute restraint in the breeding and nonbreeding seasons. During the breeding season, males in low predator pressure (LPP) environments had higher baseline DHEA levels than males in high predator pressure (HPP) environments. Also, acute restraint decreased DHEA levels in LPP males only but increased corticosterone levels in HPP and LPP males similarly. During the nonbreeding season, DHEA and corticosterone levels were lower than during the breeding season, and acute restraint decreased DHEA levels in both HPP and LPP males. Unlike males, breeding females showed no effect of predator pressure on baseline DHEA or corticosterone levels. These data suggest that naturalistic chronic and acute stressors affect circulating DHEA and corticosterone levels in wild animals and highlight the importance of using multiple endpoints when studying the physiological effects of chronic stress.






Cariprazine is a dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptor partial agonist antipsychotic candidate, which binds with high affinity to dopamine D(3) and D(2) receptors (with 10-fold higher in vitro affinity to D(3) vs. D(2) receptors) and with moderate affinity to 5-HT(1A) receptors. The main objective of the present molecular imaging investigation was to evaluate the uptake and reversible binding of 11-C labeled cariprazine in the nonhuman primate brain, in relation to the known distributions of dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptors. We examined the brains of two cynomolgus monkeys at baseline condition as well as during a pharmacological blocking condition, using unlabeled cariprazine or raclopride as blockers before injection of [(11) C]cariprazine. Of the total injected radioactivity, 7% entered the brain and 3-4% remained in the brain after 90 min, indicating good blood brain barrier penetration and slow washout. It was possible to block cariprazine binding with unlabeled cariprazine and raclopride indicating that [(11) C]cariprazine binds to dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptors. Nondisplaceable binding potential (BPND) measurements, using a simplified reference tissue model and cerebellum as the reference region, yielded values of 1.5 and 0.3 in the striatum and thalamus, respectively. Striatum BPND values were reduced by 80 and 85% following pretreatment with 0.1 mg/kg IV injection of unlabeled cariprazine and 1 mg/kg IV injection of unlabeled raclopride, respectively. The data confirm that cariprazine, a novel antipsychotic drug candidate, enters the nonhuman primate brain readily and binds to dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptors. Furthermore, in PET imaging [(11) C]cariprazine can effectively visualize dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptors in the nonhuman primate brain.
In this Letter, we describe a short, 6-step enantioselective route to spiroaminal lactam model systems reminiscent of marineosins A and B has been developed starting from either (R)- or (S)-hydroxysuccinic acid, respectively, in ~9% overall yield. This route enables late stage incorporation of the pyrrole ring at C5 via nucleophilic displacement of an iminium triflate salt.
Alemtuzumab was first used in multiple sclerosis in 1991. It is a monoclonal antibody which is directed against CD52, a protein of unknown function on lymphocytes. Alemtuzumab causes a lymphopenia, following which homeostatic reconstitution leads to prolonged alteration of the immune repertoire. This reduces the risk of relapse and disability accumulation in multiple sclerosis; it is the only drug to show superiority over interferon -1a in disability outcomes in a monotherapy phase III trial. It should be used with a parallel risk management programme to identify the principal adverse effects of alemtuzumab, especially secondary autoimmunity months or years later, mainly against the thyroid but also immune thrombocytopenia. This review charts the development of alemtuzumab as a drug for multiple sclerosis and summarizes the latest clinical trial data.

Ergotism in humans and cattle are caused by several species of Claviceps that infect rye and other cereal grains. Symptoms in humans vary greatly and are generally classified as convulsive, gangrenous, or gastrointestinal (enteric). Cattle are particularly susceptible to both gangrenous and hyperthermic ergotism (also called summer syndrome). The prevalence of ergotism has decreased as knowledge of the fungus has increased, mainly through implementation of regulations and advances in milling procedures. However, outbreaks in humans have recently occurred in lower socioeconomic populations of Ethiopia (1977 and 2001) and India (1975) with devastating results. Prominent outbreaks in cattle have occurred in Australia (1987), the United States (1996), South Africa (1996-1997), and Brazil (1999) and, as opposed to human cases, they do not appear to be bound by economic development. This review provides a detailed summary of all major ergot epidemics since 1900 in both humans and cattle. Special attention is devoted to the ergotism symptoms and to the regulations surrounding the control of ergot in the food supply.
The purpose of this study was to characterize methylmercury (MeHg)-induced dopamine (DA) release from undifferentiated pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells and to examine the potential role for DA synthesis in this process. MeHg caused a significant increase in DA release that was both concentration- and time-dependent. DA release was significantly increased by 2M MeHg at 60min and by 5M MeHg at 30min; 1M MeHg was without effect. Because DA release induced by 5M MeHg was associated with a significant percentage of cell death at 60 and 120min, 2M MeHg was chosen for further characterization of release mechanisms. MeHg-induced DA release was attenuated but not abolished in the absence of extracellular calcium, whereas the vesicular content depleting drug reserpine (50nM) abolished release. Thus, MeHg-induced DA release requires vesicular exocytosis but not extracellular calcium. MeHg also increased intracellular DA and the rate of DA storage utilization, suggesting a role for DA synthesis in MeHg-induced DA release. The tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor -methyltyrosine (300M, 24h) completely abolished MeHg-induced DA release. MeHg significantly increased DA precursor accumulation in cells treated with 3-hydroxybenzylhydrazine (10M), revealing that MeHg increases tyrosine hydroxylase activity. Overall, these data demonstrate that MeHg facilitates DA synthesis, increases intracellular DA, and augments vesicular exocytosis.

The evolution of higher cognitive functions in humans is thought to be due, at least in part, to the molecular evolution of gene expression patterns specific to the human brain. In this article, we explore recent and past findings using comparative genomics in human and non-human primate brain to identify these novel human patterns. We suggest additional directions and lines of experimentation that should be taken to improve our understanding of these changes on the human lineage. Finally, we attempt to put into context these genomic changes with biological phenotypes and diseases in humans.
The circadian clock is a cellular timekeeping mechanism that helps organisms to organize their behaviour and physiology around daily alternations of days and nights. In humans, misalignment of an individual's internal clock with its environment is associated with adverse health consequences, including metabolic disorders and cancers. In current models of the eukaryotic circadian oscillator, transcription/translation feedback loops (TTFLs) are considered the prime mechanism sustaining intracellular rhythms. The discovery of many cytosolic loops has extended the TTFL model by embedding it in cellular physiology. Recently, however, several studies have revealed metabolic rhythms that are independent of transcription, questioning the TTFL model as the sole cellular timekeeping mechanism. Thus, the time has come to carefully reassess these models of the clockwork in a broad cellular context to integrate its genetic, cytosolic, and metabolic components.
Investigation of the hippocampus has historically focused on computations within the trisynaptic circuit. However, discovery of important anatomical and functional variability along its long axis has inspired recent proposals of long-axis functional specialization in both the animal and human literatures. Here, we review and evaluate these proposals. We suggest that various long-axis specializations arise out of differences between the anterior (aHPC) and posterior hippocampus (pHPC) in large-scale network connectivity, the organization of entorhinal grid cells, and subfield compositions that bias the aHPC and pHPC towards pattern completion and separation, respectively. The latter two differences give rise to a property, reflected in the expression of multiple other functional specializations, of coarse, global representations in anterior hippocampus and fine-grained, local representations in posterior hippocampus.
The dominant view of cerebellar function has been that it is exclusively concerned with motor control and coordination. Recent findings from neuroanatomical, behavioral, and imaging studies have profoundly changed this view. Neuroanatomical studies using virus transneuronal tracers have demonstrated that cerebellar output reaches vast areas of the neocortex, including regions of prefrontal and posterior parietal cortex. Furthermore, it has recently become clear that the cerebellum is reciprocally connected with the basal ganglia, which suggests that the two subcortical structures are part of a densely interconnected network. Taken together, these findings elucidate the neuroanatomical substrate for cerebellar involvement in non-motor functions mediated by the prefrontal and posterior parietal cortex, as well as in processes traditionally associated with the basal ganglia.
How the unique capacities of human cognition arose in evolution is a question of enduring interest. The difficulty of finding the best allometric and developmental frame for brain evolution and growth, however, leads researchers to routinely identify predictable features of the human brain as exceptional.
In recent years, multiple sclerosis (MS) research has progressed on several fronts, prompting numerous clinical trials, primarily for immunotherapeutics. Although several new therapies have been disappointing and some were revealed to have devastating side effects, others have shown benefits and all have generated valuable knowledge about the progression of MS, the key contributors to pathogenesis, and on natural surveillance mechanisms for brain infections. This makes now a useful time to take stock of recent advances in developing MS treatments and consider new approaches for adding information where the gaps are greatest - mainly in understanding the degenerative processes responsible for most of the long-term disability. Here, we summarize currently accepted therapeutic principles and the drugs in late stages of development, as well as spotlighting potential novel openings for future research.
Malignant gliomas are one of the most lethal cancers, and despite extensive research very little progress has been made in improving prognosis. Multimodality treatment combining surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy is the current gold standard, but effective treatment remains difficult due to the invasive nature and high recurrence of gliomas. Stem cell-based therapy using neural, mesenchymal, or hematopoietic stem cells may be an alternative approach because it is tumor selective and allows targeted therapy that spares healthy brain tissue. Stem cells can be used to establish a long-term antitumor response by stimulating the immune system and delivering prodrug, metabolizing genes, or oncolytic viruses. In this review, we discuss current trends and the latest developments in stem cell therapy against malignant gliomas from both the experimental laboratory and the clinic.
Resting-state networks (RSNs), which have become a main focus in neuroimaging research, can be best simulated by large-scale cortical models in which networks teeter on the edge of instability. In this state, the functional networks are in a low firing stable state while they are continuously pulled towards multiple other configurations. Small extrinsic perturbations can shape task-related network dynamics, whereas perturbations from intrinsic noise generate excursions reflecting the range of available functional networks. This is particularly advantageous for the efficiency and speed of network mobilization. Thus, the resting state reflects the dynamical capabilities of the brain, which emphasizes the vital interplay of time and space. In this article, we propose a new theoretical framework for RSNs that can serve as a fertile ground for empirical testing.
Cortical folding is a hallmark of many, but not all, mammalian brains. The degree of folding increases with brain size across mammals, but at different scales between orders and families. In this review we summarize recent studies that have shed light on cortical folding and discuss new models that arise from these data. Genetic analyses argue for an independent development of brain volume and gyrification, but more recent data on the cellular development of the cortex and its connectivity highlight the role of these processes in cortical folding (grey matter hypothesis). This, and the widely discussed tension hypothesis, further tested by analyzing the mechanical properties of maturing nerve fibers, synapses, and dendrites, can provide the basis for a future integrative view on cortical folding.
Within the first few days of life, humans are colonized by commensal intestinal microbiota. Here, we review recent findings showing that microbiota are important in normal healthy brain function. We also discuss the relation between stress and microbiota, and how alterations in microbiota influence stress-related behaviors. New studies show that bacteria, including commensal, probiotic, and pathogenic bacteria, in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract can activate neural pathways and central nervous system (CNS) signaling systems. Ongoing and future animal and clinical studies aimed at understanding the microbiota-gut-brain axis may provide novel approaches for prevention and treatment of mental illness, including anxiety and depression.
Antidepressant treatments enhance plasticity and increase neurogenesis in the adult brain, but it has been unclear how these effects influence mood. We propose that, like environmental enrichment and exercise, antidepressant treatments enhance adaptability by increasing structural variability within the nervous system at many levels, from proliferating precursors to immature synaptic contacts. Conversely, sensory deprivation and chronic stress reduce this structural variability. Activity-dependent competition within the mood-related circuits, guided by rehabilitation, then selects for the survival and stabilization of those structures that best represent the internal or external milieu. Increased variability together with competition-mediated selection facilitates normal function, such as pattern separation within the dentate gyrus and other mood-related circuits, thereby enhancing adaptability toward novel experiences.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious public health problem. Development of experimental models and vaccines are essential to elucidate physiopathological mechanisms and to control the disease. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent activator of vascular permeability and angiogenesis. VEGF seems to participate in breakdown of the blood brain-barrier (BBB) in tuberculous meningitis (TBM), contributing to worsening of disease. Therefore, the objective here was to extent the characterization of our previously described murine model of central nervous system TB (CNS-TB) by describing the VEGF participation in the CNS disease, and suggesting a vaccination plan in mice. Plasmid encoding DNA protein antigen DNA-hsp65 has been described as a protector against TB infection and was used here to test its effectiveness in the prevention of VEGF production and TB disease. Vaccinated mice and its controls were injected with Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) in cerebellum. Four weeks after BCG injection, mice were perfused and brains were paraffin-embedded for VEGF expression analysis. We observed VEGF immunohistochemical expression in TBM and granulomas in non-vaccinated mice. The DNA-hsp65 treatment blocked the expression of VEGF in mice TBM. Therefore, our murine model indicated the VEGF participation in the physiopathology of CNS-TB and the potential prevention of the DNA-hsp65 in the disease progression.
The elastic properties of human canine and supporting alveolar bone are measured by the distribution of localized speed of sound using scanning acoustic microscopy. Methods for the dynamic, non-destructive diagnostics of dental hard tissues can have a key role in the early detection of demineralization processes and carious lesions, and they are supposed to open the possibility of early dental restorations. The localized distribution of the ultrasound velocity in canine tooth and alveolar bone was obtained using scanning acoustic microscopy with a 5- and 30-MHz transducer. An acoustic material signature curve signifies the interference of the waves and quantitatively maps the localized speed of sound in alveolar bone and the canine tooth. Seven samples, consisting of alveolar jawbone and tooth sliced along the coronally apical axis, were investigated. The average speed of sound was determined along three independent cross sections at enamel, dentin and cortical bone. The average speed of sound in enamel, bone and dentin was SD 3460  193 m/s, 3232  113 m/s and 2928  106 m/s. The distribution of sound wave propagation reveals a decrease in sound speed from the peripheral parts within the enamel and dentin layers toward the proximal zones. These results prove the possibility of linking the elastic properties to different areas within the osseous and dental hard tissues and visualize them in an extremely high local resolution. The results serve as a basis for further study and substantiate the enormous potential of ultrasound based analysis in the field of dento-alveolar diagnosis.
Human rabies transmitted from wild animals is rarely reported in endemic countries like India, where nearly 95% deaths occur due to bites from rabid dogs. In this paper, we report an incidence of rabid fox bites in a village in southern part of India involving 18 individuals, including 4 children. All people had category III exposures, including bites on the face and neck. The attacking fox was killed by the forest department and buried immediately. The victims of the fox bite did not receive appropriate and adequate postexposure treatment. Thirteen days after the bite, one of the bite victims developed typical symptoms of furious rabies and died 2 days later in a local hospital. His brain tissue, obtained at autopsy, was strongly positive for rabies by fluorescent antibody technique (FAT) and virus isolation. Panic prevailed in the community and the rest of the 17 cases were referred to our institute for advice and further management. Only 35% of them had protective levels of rabies virus neutralizing antibodies (RVNA). All of the patients were administered with an 8-site intradermal regimen with purified chick embryo cell (PCEC) vaccine and were followed up regularly. All of them developed adequate titers (&gt;0.5IU/mL) of RVNA 7 days later. They were under regular follow-up and after nearly 2 years none have developed rabies. The partial Nucleoprotein (N) gene sequencing of the virus isolate from the patient who died of rabies had close homology with species I (prototype rabies) sequences available in GenBank and our own past isolates from dogs and humans, thus confirming that virus spillover from wildlife to domestic dogs continues to occur. This episode should prompt health authorities to focus more attention on training rural medical practitioners in state-of-the-art modern prophylactic measures.
Neuroscientific knowledge have enter to psychiatry in a new era, however, new technology for viewing images, brain function, psychopharmacology, non-invasive methodology requires an ethical approach, framed in the bioethical environment. The field of neuroethics has evolved to address many of the specific concerns and what neuroenhancement and neuroimaging provide us, is necessary to extend the scope of ethical things to consider the clinical implications for the psychiatric work.
The generation of neuronal diversity in the ventral spinal cord during development is a multistep process that occurs with precise and reproducible spatiotemporal order. The proper functioning of the central nervous system requires that this be carried out with extraordinary precision from the outset. Extrinsic influences such as the secreted Sonic hedgehog (SHH) protein provide positional cues that are read out genetically as specific patterns of gene expression in subsets of dividing progenitors, which is the first overt indication that they have begun to embark upon cell-type-specific differentiation programs. Cells generated from these segregated domains will ultimately share similar properties and functions. Recent work illustrates that SHH, which regulates target genes via the GLI transcription factors, directly controls a subset of progenitor fate determinant genes and that both derepression and activation play a role in shaping the differential response to this morphogen.

Transcripts of the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) gene reveal a number of different splice variants including ChAT of a peripheral type (pChAT). Immunohistochemical staining of the brain using an antibody against pChAT clearly revealed peripheral cholinergic neurons, but failed to detect cholinergic neurons in the central nervous system. In rodents, pChAT-immunoreactivity has been detected in cholinergic parasympathetic postganglionic and enteric ganglion neurons. In addition, pChAT has been observed in non-cholinergic neurons such as peripheral sensory neurons in the trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia. The common type of ChAT (cChAT) has been investigated in many parts of the brain and the spinal cord of non-human primates, but little information is available about the localization of pChAT in primate species. Here, we report the detection of pChAT immunoreactivity in trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons and its co-localization with Substance P (SP) and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the cynomolgus monkey, Macaca fascicularis. Neurons positive for pChAT were observed in a rather uniform pattern in approximately half of the trigeminal neurons throughout the TG. Most pChAT-positive neurons had small or medium-sized cell bodies. Double-immunofluorescence staining showed that 85.1% of SP-positive cells and 74.0% of CGRP-positive cells exhibited pChAT immunoreactivity. Most pChAT-positive cells were part of a larger population of neurons that co-expressed SP and/or CGRP.



It has been suggested that an auditory phantom percept is the result of multiple, parallel but overlapping networks. One of those networks encodes tinnitus loudness and is electrophysiologically separable from a nonspecific distress network. The present study investigates how these networks anatomically overlap, what networks are involved, and how and when these networks interact. Electroencephalography data of 317 tinnitus patients and 256 healthy subjects were analyzed, using independent component analysis. Results demonstrate that tinnitus is characterized by at least 2 major brain networks, each consisting of multiple independent components. One network reflects tinnitus distress, while another network reflects the loudness of the tinnitus. The component coherence analysis shows that the independent components that make up the distress and loudness networks communicate within their respective network at several discrete frequencies in parallel. The distress and loudness networks do not intercommunicate for patients without distress, but do when patients are distressed by their tinnitus. The obtained data demonstrate that the components that build up these 2 separable networks communicate at discrete frequencies within the network, and only between the distress and loudness networks in those patients in whom the symptoms are also clinically linked.
Molecular events involved in the homologous desensitization of histamine-mediated signal transduction system in glioma cells are not well understood. The aim of this study was designed to gain further insight into possible events in the process using the C6 glioma cells. Incubation of histamine caused increases in inositol phosphate (IP1) formation and intracellular free-calcium concentration [Ca2+]i in C6 glioma cells via the activation of a G-protein-coupled phospholipase C (PI-PLC). Histamine also caused an increase in extracellular release of arachidonic acid (AA) and formation of glycerophosphoinositol (GPI). These effects are likely to be mediated through the activation of receptor-coupled phospholipase A2 (PLA2). Pretreatment of C6 cells with histamine, from 0.1 microM to 1 mM concentrations, for 10 to 60 min significantly reduced the histamine-induced IP1 production, [Ca2+]i accumulation, AA release and GPI formation, despite repeated wash of the cells with buffer solution. Staurosporine (10 nM), a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, reversed almost completely IP1 production, or partially for [Ca2+]i, GPI formation and AA release of this homologous desensitization effect of histamine. Pretreatment of C6 cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), a PKC activator, at 0.1 nM to 0.1 microM for 2 to 15 min caused a reduction of histamine-induced IP1 formation and [Ca2+] accumulation, but enhanced histamine-induced AA release and GPI formation. Ten nM staurosporine completely reversed the effect of PMA on histamine-induced IP1 formation and partially on [Ca2+]i accumulation. However, staurosporine potentiated the effect of PMA on histamine-induced AA release and GPI formation, but the effect could be blocked by H7, a calcium-dependent PKC inhibitor. Our results indicate that activation of PKC by histamine in the signal transduction system is involved in the histamine-induced homologous desensitization event. Since PMA pretreatment could not mimic histamine-induced homologues desensitization event in AA release and GPI formation, it is likely due to the dual actions of this protein kinase activator: on calcium independently, and also on calcium dependent via influx of calcium ion through the plasma membrane. The calcium flux effect of PMA is related to the difference between PMA and histamine on the effects of AA release and GPI formation via activation on PLA2. The results of this study provided strong evidence that PKC is involved in this homologous desensitization caused by continuous histamine receptor activation.




Three-dimensional (3D) relationships between head muscles and cranial nerves innervating them are complicated. Existing sources present these relationships in illustrations, radiologic scans, or autopsy photographs, which are limited for learning and use. Developed electronic atlases are limited in content, quality, functionality, and/or presentation. We create a truly 3D interactive, stereotactic and high quality atlas, which provides spatial relationships among head muscles, glands and cranial nerves, and correlates them to surface and sectional neuroanatomy. The head muscles and glands were created from a 3T scan by contouring them and generating 3D models. They were named and structured according to Terminologia anatomica. The muscles were divided into: extra-ocular, facial, masticatory and other muscles, and glands into mouth and other glands. The muscles, glands (and also head) were placed in a stereotactic coordinate system. This content was integrated with cranial nerves and neuroanatomy created earlier. To explore this complex content, a scalable user interface was designed with 12 modules including central nervous system (cerebrum, cerebellum, brainstem, spinal cord), cranial nerves, muscles, glands, arterial system, venous system, tracts, deep gray nuclei, ventricles, white matter, visual system, head. Anatomy exploration operations include compositing/decompositing, individual/group selection, 3D view-index mapping, 3D labeling, highlighting, distance measuring, 3D brain cutting, and axial/coronal/sagittal triplanar display. To our best knowledge, this is the first truly 3D, stereotactic, interactive, fairly complete atlas of head muscles, and the first attempt to create a 3D stereotactic atlas of glands. Its use ranges from education of students and patients to research to potential clinical applications.

We recently found that S100A4, a member of the multifunctional S100 protein family, protects neurons in the injured brain and identified two sequence motifs in S100A4 mediating its neurotrophic effect. Synthetic peptides encompassing these motifs stimulated neuritogenesis and survival in vitro and mimicked the S100A4-induced neuroprotection in brain trauma. Here, we investigated a possible function of S100A4 and its mimetics in the pathologies of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). We found that S100A4 was expressed in the injured PNS and that its peptide mimetic (H3) affected the regeneration and survival of myelinated axons. H3 accelerated electrophysiological, behavioral and morphological recovery after sciatic nerve crush while transiently delaying regeneration after sciatic nerve transection and repair. On the basis of the finding that both S100A4 and H3 increased neurite branching in vitro, these effects were attributed to the modulatory effect of H3 on initial axonal sprouting. In contrast to the modest effect of H3 on the time course of regeneration, H3 had a long-term neuroprotective effect in the myelin protein P0 null mice, a model of dysmyelinating neuropathy (Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1 disease), where the peptide attenuated the deterioration of nerve conduction, demyelination and axonal loss. From these results, S100A4 mimetics emerge as a possible means to enhance axonal sprouting and survival, especially in the context of demyelinating neuropathies with secondary axonal loss, such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1 disease. Moreover, our data suggest that S100A4 is a neuroprotectant in PNS and that other S100 proteins, sharing high homology in the H3 motif, may have important functions in PNS pathologies.
Antidepressants represent the standard treatment for major depression. However, their efficacy is variable and incomplete. A growing number of studies suggest that the environment plays a major role in determining the efficacy of these drugs, specifically of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI). A recent hypothesis posits that the increase in serotonin levels induced by SSRI may not affect mood per se, but enhances neural plasticity and, consequently, renders the individual more susceptible to the influence of the environment. Thus, SSRI administration in a favorable environment would lead to a reduction of symptoms, while in a stressful environment might lead to a worse prognosis. To test this hypothesis, we treated C57BL/6 adult male mice with chronic fluoxetine while exposing them to either (i) an enriched environment, after exposure to a chronic stress period aimed at inducing a depression-like phenotype, or (ii) a stressful environment. Anhedonia, brain BDNF and circulating corticosterone levels, considered endophenotypes of depression, were investigated. Mice treated with fluoxetine in an enriched condition improved their depression-like phenotype compared to controls, displaying higher saccharin preference, higher brain BDNF levels and reduced corticosterone levels. By contrast, when chronic fluoxetine administration occurred in a stressful condition, mice showed a more distinct worsening of the depression-like profile, displaying a faster decrease of saccharin preference, lower brain BDNF levels and increased corticosterone levels. Our findings suggest that the effect of SSRI on depression-like phenotypes in mice is not determined by the drug per se but is induced by the drug and driven by the environment. These findings may be helpful to explain variable effects of SSRI found in clinical practice and to device strategies aimed at enhancing their efficacy by means of controlling environmental conditions.
In the vertebrate retina, the formation of neural circuits within discrete laminae is critical for the establishment of retinal visual function. Precise formation of retinal circuits requires the coordinated actions of adhesive and repulsive molecules, including repulsive transmembrane semaphorins (Sema6A, Sema5A, and Sema5B). These semaphorins signal through different Plexin A (PlexA) receptors, thereby regulating distinct aspects of retinal circuit assembly. Here, we investigate the physiological roles of three Class 6 transmembrane semaphorins (Sema6B, Sema6C, and Sema6D), previously identified as PlexA receptor ligands in non-retinal tissues, in mammalian retinal development. We performed expression analysis and also phenotypic analyses of mice that carry null mutations in each of genes encoding these proteins using a broad range of inner and outer retinal markers. We find that these Class 6 semaphorins are uniquely expressed throughout postnatal retinal development in specific domains and cell types of the developing retina. However, we do not observe defects in stereotypical lamina-specific neurite stratification of retinal neuron subtypes in Sema6B-/- or Sema6C-/-; Sema6D-/- retinas. These findings indicate these Class 6 transmembrane semaphorins are unlikely to serve as major PlexA receptor ligands for the assembly of murine retinal circuit laminar organization.

The marked anatomical and functional changes taking place in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) during adolescence set grounds for the high incidence of neuropsychiatric disorders with adolescent onset. Although circuit refinement through synapse pruning may constitute the anatomical basis for the cognitive differences reported between adolescents and adults, a physiological correlate of circuit refinement at the level of neuronal ensembles has not been demonstrated. We have recorded neuronal activity together with local field potentials in the medial PFC of juvenile and adult mice under anesthesia, which allowed studying local functional connectivity without behavioral or sensorial interference. Entrainment of pyramidal neurons and interneurons to gamma oscillations, but not to theta or beta oscillations, was reduced after adolescence. Interneurons were synchronized to gamma oscillations across a wider area of the PFC than pyramidal neurons, and the span of interneuron synchronization was shorter in adults than juvenile mice. Thus, transition from childhood to adulthood is characterized by reduction of the strength and span of neuronal synchronization specific to gamma oscillations in the mPFC. The more restricted and weak ongoing synchronization in adults may allow a more dynamic rearrangement of neuronal ensembles during behavior and promote parallel processing of information.
Accurate multidimensional localization of isolated fluorescent emitters is a time consuming process in single-molecule based super-resolution microscopy. We demonstrate a functional method for real-time reconstruction with automatic feedback control, without compromising the localization accuracy. Compatible with high frame rates of EM-CCD cameras, it relies on a wavelet segmentation algorithm, together with a mix of CPU/GPU implementation. A combination with Gaussian fitting allows direct access to 3D localization. Automatic feedback control ensures optimal molecule density throughout the acquisition process. With this method, we significantly improve the efficiency and feasibility of localization-based super-resolution microscopy.
The un-biased and reproducible interpretation of high-content gene sets from large-scale genomic experiments is crucial to the understanding of biological themes, validation of experimental data, and the eventual development of plans for future experimentation. To derive biomedically-relevant information from simple gene lists, a mathematical association to scientific language and meaningful words or sentences is crucial. Unfortunately, existing software for deriving meaningful and easily-appreciable scientific textual 'tokens' from large gene sets either rely on controlled vocabularies (Medical Subject Headings, Gene Ontology, BioCarta) or employ Boolean text searching and co-occurrence models that are incapable of detecting indirect links in the literature. As an improvement to existing web-based informatic tools, we have developed Textrous!, a web-based framework for the extraction of biomedical semantic meaning from a given input gene set of arbitrary length. Textrous! employs natural language processing techniques, including latent semantic indexing (LSI), sentence splitting, word tokenization, parts-of-speech tagging, and noun-phrase chunking, to mine MEDLINE abstracts, PubMed Central articles, articles from the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), and Mammalian Phenotype annotation obtained from Jackson Laboratories. Textrous! has the ability to generate meaningful output data with even very small input datasets, using two different text extraction methodologies (collective and individual) for the selecting, ranking, clustering, and visualization of English words obtained from the user data. Textrous!, therefore, is able to facilitate the output of quantitatively significant and easily appreciable semantic words and phrases linked to both individual gene and batch genomic data.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) underlie an autosomal-dominant form of Parkinson's disease (PD) that is clinically indistinguishable from idiopathic PD. The function of LRRK2 is not well understood, but it has become widely accepted that LRRK2 levels or its kinase activity, which is increased by the most commonly observed mutation (G2019S), regulate neurite growth. However, growth has not been measured; it is not known whether mean differences in length correspond to altered rates of growth or retraction, whether axons or dendrites are impacted differentially or whether effects observed are transient or sustained. To address these questions, we compared several developmental milestones in neurons cultured from mice expressing bacterial artificial chromosome transgenes encoding mouse wildtype-LRRK2 or mutant LRRK2-G2019S, Lrrk2 knockout mice and non-transgenic mice. Over the course of three weeks of development on laminin, the data show a sustained, negative effect of LRRK2-G2019S on dendritic growth and arborization, but counter to expectation, dendrites from Lrrk2 knockout mice do not elaborate more rapidly. In contrast, young neurons cultured on a slower growth substrate, poly-L-lysine, show significantly reduced axonal and dendritic motility in Lrrk2 transgenic neurons and significantly increased motility in Lrrk2 knockout neurons with no significant changes in length. Our findings support that LRRK2 can regulate patterns of axonal and dendritic growth, but they also show that effects vary depending on growth substrate and stage of development. Such predictable changes in motility can be exploited in LRRK2 bioassays and guide exploration of LRRK2 function in vivo.
There is growing evidence that mere exposure to drugs can induce long-term alterations in the neural systems that mediate reward processing, motivation, and behavioral control, potentially causing the pathological pursuit of drugs that characterizes the addicted state. The incentive sensitization theory proposes that drug exposure potentiates the influence of reward-paired cues on behavior. It has also been suggested that drug exposure biases action selection towards the automatic execution of habits and away from more deliberate goal-directed control. The current study investigated whether rats given repeated exposure to peripherally administered cocaine would show alterations in incentive motivation (assayed using the Pavlovian-to-instrumental transfer (PIT) paradigm) or habit formation (assayed using sensitivity to reward devaluation). After instrumental and Pavlovian training for food pellet rewards, rats were given 6 daily injections of cocaine (15 mg/kg, IP) or saline, followed by a 10-d period of rest. Consistent with the incentive sensitization theory, cocaine-treated rats showed stronger cue-evoked lever pressing than saline-treated rats during the PIT test. The same rats were then trained on a new instrumental action with a new food pellet reward before undergoing a reward devaluation testing. Although saline-treated rats exhibited sensitivity to reward devaluation, indicative of goal-directed performance, cocaine-treated rats were insensitive to this treatment, suggesting a reliance on habitual processes. These findings, when taken together, indicate that repeated exposure to cocaine can cause broad alterations in behavioral control, spanning both motivational and action selection processes, and could therefore help explain aberrations of decision-making that underlie drug addiction.
A growing body of behavioral studies has demonstrated that women's hemispheric specialization varies as a function of their menstrual cycle, with hemispheric specialization enhanced during their menstruation period. Our recent high-density electroencephalogram (EEG) study with lateralized emotional versus neutral words extended these behavioral results by showing that hemispheric specialization in men, but not in women under birth-control, depends upon specific EEG resting brain states at stimulus arrival, suggesting that hemispheric specialization may be pre-determined at the moment of the stimulus onset. To investigate whether EEG brain resting state for hemispheric specialization could vary as a function of the menstrual phase, we tested 12 right-handed healthy women over different phases of their menstrual cycle combining high-density EEG recordings and the same lateralized lexical decision paradigm with emotional versus neutral words. Results showed the presence of specific EEG resting brain states, associated with hemispheric specialization for emotional words, at the moment of the stimulus onset during the menstruation period only. These results suggest that the pre-stimulus EEG pattern influencing hemispheric specialization is modulated by the hormonal state.
The sense of hearing is remarkable for its auditory dynamic range, which spans more than 10(12) in acoustic intensity. The mechanisms that enable the cochlea to transduce high sound levels without damage are of key interest, particularly with regard to the broad impact of industrial, military, and recreational auditory overstimulation on hearing disability. We show that ATP-gated ion channels assembled from P2X2 receptor subunits in the cochlea are necessary for the development of temporary threshold shift (TTS), evident in auditory brainstem response recordings as sound levels rise. In mice null for the P2RX2 gene (encoding the P2X2 receptor subunit), sustained 85-dB noise failed to elicit the TTS that wild-type (WT) mice developed. ATP released from the tissues of the cochlear partition with elevation of sound levels likely activates the broadly distributed P2X2 receptors on epithelial cells lining the endolymphatic compartment. This purinergic signaling is supported by significantly greater noise-induced suppression of distortion product otoacoustic emissions derived from outer hair cell transduction and decreased suprathreshold auditory brainstem response input/output gain in WT mice compared with P2RX2-null mice. At higher sound levels (95 dB), additional processes dominated TTS, and P2RX2-null mice were more vulnerable than WT mice to permanent hearing loss due to hair cell synapse disruption. P2RX2-null mice lacked ATP-gated conductance across the cochlear partition, including loss of ATP-gated inward current in hair cells. These data indicate that a significant component of TTS represents P2X2 receptor-dependent purinergic hearing adaptation that underpins the upper physiological range of hearing.
Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) are recently discovered photoreceptors in the mammalian eye. These photoreceptors mediate primarily nonimage visual functions, such as pupillary light reflex and circadian photoentrainment, which are generally expected to respond to the absolute light intensity. The classical rod and cone photoreceptors, on the other hand, mediate image vision by signaling contrast, accomplished by adaptation to light. Experiments by others have indicated that the ipRGCs do, in fact, light-adapt. We found the same but, in addition, have now quantified this light adaptation for the M1 ipRGC subtype. Interestingly, in incremental-flash-on-background experiments, the ipRGC's receptor current showed a flash sensitivity that adapted in background light according to the Weber-Fechner relation, well known to describe the adaptation behavior of rods and cones. Part of this light adaptation by ipRGCs appeared to be triggered by a Ca(2+) influx, in that the flash response elicited in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+) showed a normal rising phase but a slower decay phase, resulting in longer time to peak and higher sensitivity. There is, additionally, a prominent Ca(2+)-independent component of light adaptation not typically seen in rods and cones or in invertebrate rhabdomeric photoreceptors.
Here we describe a strategy designed to identify RNAs that are actively transported to synapses during learning. Our approach is based on the characterization of RNA transport complexes carried by molecular motor kinesin. Using this strategy in Aplysia, we have identified 5,657 unique sequences consisting of both coding and noncoding RNAs from the CNS. Several of these RNAs have key roles in the maintenance of synaptic function and growth. One of these RNAs, myosin heavy chain, is critical in presynaptic sensory neurons for the establishment of long-term facilitation, but not for its persistence.
The neurobiological basis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has been theorized to reflect a dysfunction of cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuits, of which the caudate nucleus forms a critical component. However, structural imaging studies of the caudate in OCD are relatively scarce. To ascertain the clinical correlates of caudate volume in OCD, we report magnetic resonance imaging findings in a large sample of drug-nave OCD patients in comparison with group-matched healthy controls. In this study, caudate volume was measured in coronal magnetic resonance brain images (high resolution 1-mm slice thickness) of 49 DSM-IV OCD patients and compared with that of 39 matched healthy controls. The caudate volume was measured separately for the head and body of the caudate. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) did not reveal significant differences in caudate volume between OCD patients and controls (whole group), with age, sex and intracranial volume as covariates. However, on examining the sexual dimorphism in the volume differences, male patients compared to male controls had significantly larger right caudate volume. The volume of the left caudate body showed a significant negative correlation with the total severity score on the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) on partial correlation analysis. Our study failed to show significant differences in caudate volumes between OCD patients and controls. However, it demonstrated a robust relationship between volume of the left caudate body and the severity of OCD. Additionally, there was a sexual dimorphism in caudate volume in OCD.
Interactions between mood and cognition have drawn much attention in the fields of psychology and neuroscience. Recent neuroimaging studies have examined a neural basis of the mood-cognition interaction that which emphasize the role of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Although these studies have shown that natural mood variations among participants are correlated with PFC activity during cognitive tasks, they did not control for personality differences. Our aim in this study was to clarify the relationship between natural mood and PFC activity by partialling out the effects of personality. Forty healthy adults completed self-report questionnaires assessing natural mood (the Profile of Mood States) and personality (the NEO Five-Factor Inventory and the Behavioral Inhibition/Activation Systems scales). They performed verbal and spatial working memory (WM) tasks while their PFC activity was measured using optical topography, a non-invasive, low-constraint neuroimaging tool. Correlation analysis showed that the level of negative mood was inversely associated with PFC activity during the verbal WM task, which replicated our previous findings. Furthermore, the negative correlation between negative mood and PFC activity remained significant after controlling for participants' personality traits, suggesting that natural mood is an independent contributing factor of PFC activity during verbal WM tasks.
While studies have examined psychosocial stress in non-clinical psychosis (NCP), it is unclear if the elevated cortisol seen in schizophrenia also occurs in this group. Cortisol was sampled in High- and Low-NCP groups, and findings of elevated resting cortisol in the former suggest that hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-axis dysfunction underlies a psychosis continuum.
Claustrophobia, the well-known fear of being trapped in narrow/closed spaces, is often considered a conditioned response to traumatic experience. Surprisingly, we found that mutations affecting a single gene, encoding a stress-regulated neuronal protein, can cause claustrophobia. Gpm6a-deficient mice develop normally and lack obvious behavioral abnormalities. However, when mildly stressed by single-housing, these mice develop a striking claustrophobia-like phenotype, which is not inducible in wild-type controls, even by severe stress. The human GPM6A gene is located on chromosome 4q32-q34, a region linked to panic disorder. Sequence analysis of 115 claustrophobic and non-claustrophobic subjects identified nine variants in the noncoding region of the gene that are more frequent in affected individuals (P=0.028). One variant in the 3'untranslated region was linked to claustrophobia in two small pedigrees. This mutant mRNA is functional but cannot be silenced by neuronal miR124 derived itself from a stress-regulated transcript. We suggest that loosing dynamic regulation of neuronal GPM6A expression poses a genetic risk for claustrophobia.
Generating a balanced network of inhibitory and excitatory neurons during development requires precise transcriptional control. In the dorsal spinal cord, Ptf1a, a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription activator, maintains this delicate balance by inducing homeodomain (HD) transcription factors such as Pax2 to specify the inhibitory lineage while suppressing HD factors such as Tlx1/3 that specify the excitatory lineage. We uncover the mechanism by which Ptf1a represses excitatory cell fate in the inhibitory lineage. We identify Prdm13 as a direct target of Ptf1a and reveal that Prdm13 actively represses excitatory cell fate by binding to regulatory sequences near the Tlx1 and Tlx3 genes to silence their expression. Prdm13 acts through multiple mechanisms, including interactions with the bHLH factor Ascl1, to repress Ascl1 activation of Tlx3. Thus, Prdm13 is a key component of a highly coordinated transcriptional network that determines the balance of inhibitory versus excitatory neurons in the dorsal spinal cord.
By balancing the ratios of dopamine and norepinephrine, dopamine beta hydroxylase (DBH) plays an important role in brain reward circuit that is involved with behavioral effects of heroin addiction. DBH -1021C/T (rs1611115) is a functional variant with strong correlation with plasma DBH activity and several nerval and psychic disorders. In the present study, we have collected 333 male cases with heroin addiction and 200 male healthy controls to explore the role of -1021C/T in heroin addiction. There is no evidence of association between -1021C/T and heroin addiction on both genotype and allele levels (P&gt;0.05). In the injection subgroup of cases, -1021TT carriers have longer heroin addiction time (P&lt;0.001) and higher dosage of self-administered heroin (P=0.045) than carriers with -1021CC or -1021CT, suggesting that patients with TT genotype are likely to have more progressive style of heroin users with injection route. In conclusion, our results support -1021TT genotype may be implicated with a more progressive nature of heroin addiction, although DBH -1021C/T is unlikely to be involved in the risk of heroin addiction.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) as a major source of dopamine neurons projecting to cortical and limbic regions has a crucial role in reward and addiction. The current study assessed the role of D1 and D2 receptors within the dorsal hippocampus (CA1) in the expression of conditioned place preference (CPP) by intra-VTA morphine in the rats. In the present study, 160 adult male albino Wistar rats weighing 220-290g were bilaterally implanted by two cannulae into the CA1 and VTA. The CPP paradigm was done and animal displacement, conditioning score and locomotor activity were recorded. For blocking the dopamine D1/D2 receptors in the dorsal hippocampus, SCH23390 (0.02, 0.05, 0.2 and 0.5g per side) or sulpiride (0.25, 0.75, 1.5 and 3g per side) were microinjected into the CA1, just 5min before the CPP test on the post-conditioning day. All animals received intra-VTA morphine (1g per side) during 3-days conditioning phase. Our results showed that sulpiride (1.5 and 3g) but not SCH23390 in the dorsal hippocampus significantly decreased the expression of CPP induced by intra-VTA morphine (p&lt;0.001). Intra-CA1 administration of these antagonists alone, in all doses, could not induce CPP. We suggest that D2 receptors in the CA1 region of hippocampus have a key role in the expression of CPP induced by morphine at the level of the VTA and there is a relationship between dopaminergic D2 receptors and opioidergic systems in these areas in reward circuit.
Although abductor pollicis brevis (APB) and flexor pollicis longus (FPL) share a common peripheral nerve supply, these muscles subserve different functions and may be differently affected in neurodegenerative disease such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). As a consequence, differences in cortical excitability may potentially develop in relation to these functional differences. Cortical excitability was assessed using the threshold tracking transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) technique in 15 healthy controls with motor responses recorded over the APB and FPL using surface electrode recordings. Short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) was significantly reduced from the FPL compared to APB (SICIFPL 6.91.8%; SICIAPB 10.71.4%, P&lt;0.01). In addition, the FPL motor evoked potential amplitude (MEPFPL 14.72.3%; MEPAPB 21.73.9%; P&lt;0.01) and cortical silent period duration (CSPFPL 174.76.7ms; CSPAPB 205.43.9ms, P&lt;0.01) were significantly smaller. The findings in the present study indicate that cortical inhibition and corticomotoneuronal output is reduced when recording over the FPL. The differences in cortical excitability may develop as a consequence of varied function and could potentially explain the dissociated muscle atrophy evident in ALS.
Avoidance of the nicotine withdrawal syndrome as well as the positive subjective effects of nicotine is the major predisposing factor to motivate nicotine abuse. However, its underlying neurobehavioral mechanisms remain perplexing. In the present study, we investigated the influence of the neurosteroid allopregnanolone (ALLO; 0.5-2mg/kg) on the development of nicotine withdrawal in mice. Chronic nicotine injections (2mg/kg, four times daily, 10 days) followed by its withdrawal, elicited severe somatic signs, anxiety and marked reduction in locomotion. However, these withdrawal signs were not evident in animals pretreated with ALLO or progesterone (Day 8-10) daily before 1st injection of nicotine. This effect of neurosteroid on the nicotine withdrawal signs was reversed by indomethacin and finasteride the inhibitors of neurosteroid biosynthesis. On the contrary, single or repeated dose administration of ALLO or progesterone during nicotine withdrawal (Day 11) did not affect the expression of nicotine withdrawal signs. Thus, compounds that modulate endogenous neurosteroid ALLO are likely to have therapeutic potential for treating various aspects of nicotine dependence and withdrawal.
Increasing evidence suggests that immune mediated inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, whether genetic variants of genes coding for inflammatory cytokines influence the risk of cognitive impairment in PD is still unknown. In the present study, we examined whether interleukin-10 (IL-10, 1082G/A), interleukin-17A (IL-17A) rs8193036, rs2275913 and interferon- (IFN-) polymorphisms were associated with the risk of cognitive impairment in PD. The four gene polymorphisms were analyzed in 302 PD patients and results were compared to those obtained from 294 age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HC) enrolled from the Han Chinese population. PD patients were divided into two subgroups on the basis of mini mental state examination (MMSE) score: PD with cognitive impairment (MMSE scores&lt;26) and PD without cognitive impairment (MMSE scores26). There was no significant difference in the distributions of genotype or allele between PD and control groups in the total population. However, the distribution of the rs8193036 (CC genotype, C allele) in PD individuals with an MMSE score&lt;26 was significantly increased when compared to PD patients with an MMSE score26 (CC genotype: p=0.044; C allele: p=0.038). Also, there were significant differences in genotype and frequencies of the 1082G/A allele between PD cases with an MMSE score&lt;26 and controls (genotype p=0.021; allele p=0.024). Logistic regression analysis showed that the 1082G/A (AA) genotype decreased (Odds ratio=0.440, p=0.042), while the rs8193036 (CC) genotype increased the risk of cognitive impairment in PD (OR=1.838, p=0.048). Based on our study, polymorphisms in immune/inflammatory-related genes such as IL-17A rs8193036 and IL-10 1082G/A might be correlated with the risk of PD with cognitive impairment in the Han Chinese population.
Inhibition of return (IOR) is a widely studied phenomenon that is thought to affect attention, eye movements, or reaching movements, in order to promote orienting responses toward novel stimuli. Previous research in our laboratory demonstrated that the motor form of saccadic IOR can arise from late-stage response execution processes. In the present study, we were interested in whether the same is true of reaching responses. If IOR can emerge from processes operating at or around the time of response execution, then IOR should be observed even when participants have fully prepared their responses in advance of the movement initiation signal. Similar to the saccadic system, our results reveal that IOR can be implemented as a late-stage execution bias in the reaching control system.
Rodents with lesion of dopaminergic pathway when receiving repeated l-3,4-dihydroxiphenylalanine (l-DOPA) treatment develop abnormal involuntary movements called dyskinesia. We demonstrated that nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors mitigate l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in rodents. The aim of the present study was to verify if the in vivo preferential neuronal NOS (nNOS) inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) affect the expression of the transcription factor FosB/FosB in the lesioned striatum, an indicator of neuronal activity associated with dyskinesia. Male Wistar rats with unilateral microinjection (medial forebrain bundle) of either the neurotoxin 6-hydroxidopamine (6-OHDA; n=4-6/group) or saline (sham; n=6/group) were provided with l-DOPA (30mg/kg plus benserazide 7.5mg/kg/day, oral gavage), once a day during 22 days. 6-OHDA-lesioned animals developed abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) classified as axial, limb, orofacial and locomotive dyskinesia and presented FosB/FosB increase in the dopamine-depleted striatum. Administration of 7-NI (30mg/kg, i.p.), 30min prior to l-DOPA reduced the severity of AIMs (65% for axial, limb and orofacial and 74% for locomotive AIMs scores), without interfering with the rotarod performance. Simultaneously, 7-NI attenuated the expression of FosB/FosB in dopamine-depleted striatum (65% in medial and 54% in lateral striatum, bregma 0.48mm). FosB/FosB expression in lateral striatum was correlated with l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. The findings described here corroborate a new approach to the management of l-DOPA-therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) treatment.
We have reported that melatonin induces histone hyperacetylation in mouse neural stem cells, suggesting an epigenetic role for this pleiotropic hormone. To support such a role, it is necessary to demonstrate that melatonin produces similar effects in vivo. Histone acetylation, following chronic treatment with melatonin (4g/ml in drinking water for 17 days), was examined by western blotting in selected rat brain regions. Melatonin induced significant increases in histone H3 and histone H4 acetylation in the hippocampus. Histone H4 was also hyperacetylated in the striatum, but there were no significant changes in histone H3 acetylation in this brain region. No significant changes in the acetylation of either histone H3 or H4 were observed in the midbrain and cerebellum. An examination of kinase activation, which may be related to these changes, revealed that melatonin treatment increased the levels of phospho-ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) in the hippocampus and striatum, but phospho-Akt (protein kinase B) levels were unchanged. These findings suggest that chromatin remodeling and associated changes in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression underlie the multiple physiological effects of melatonin.
TRAIL and TRAIL Receptor genes have been implicated in Multiple Sclerosis pathology as well as in the response to IFN beta therapy. The objective of our study was to evaluate the association of these genes in relation to the age at disease onset (AAO) and to the clinical response upon IFN beta treatment in Spanish MS patients. We carried out a candidate gene study of TRAIL, TRAILR-1, TRAILR-2, TRAILR-3 and TRAILR-4 genes. A total of 54 SNPs were analysed in 509 MS patients under IFN beta treatment, and an additional cohort of 226 MS patients was used to validate the results. Associations of rs1047275 in TRAILR-2 and rs7011559 in TRAILR-4 genes with AAO under an additive model did not withstand Bonferroni correction. In contrast, patients with the TRAILR-1 rs20576-CC genotype showed a better clinical response to IFN beta therapy compared with patients carrying the A-allele (recessive model: p=8.8810(-4), pc=0.048, OR=0.30). This SNP resulted in a non synonymous substitution of Glutamic acid to Alanine in position 228 (E228A), a change previously associated with susceptibility to different cancer types and risk of metastases, suggesting a lack of functionality of TRAILR-1. In order to unravel how this amino acid change in TRAILR-1 would affect to death signal, we performed a molecular modelling with both alleles. Neither TRAIL binding sites in the receptor nor the expression levels of TRAILR-1 in peripheral blood mononuclear cell subsets (monocytes, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells) were modified, suggesting that this SNP may be altering the death signal by some other mechanism. These findings show a role for TRAILR-1 gene variations in the clinical outcome of IFN beta therapy that might have relevance as a biomarker to predict the response to IFN beta in MS.
Autapses are connections between a neuron and itself. These connections are morphologically similar to &quot;normal&quot; synapses between two different neurons, and thus were long thought to have similar properties of synaptic transmission. However, this has not been directly tested. Here, using a micro-island culture assay in which we can define the number of interconnected cells, we directly compared synaptic transmission in excitatory autapses and in two-neuron micronetworks consisting of two excitatory neurons, in which a neuron is connected to one other neuron and to itself. We discovered that autaptic synapses are optimized for maximal transmission, and exhibited enhanced EPSC amplitude, charge, and RRP size compared to interneuronal synapses. However, autapses are deficient in several aspects of synaptic plasticity. Short-term potentiation only became apparent when a neuron was connected to another neuron. This acquisition of plasticity only required reciprocal innervation with one other neuron; micronetworks consisting of just two interconnected neurons exhibited enhanced short-term plasticity in terms of paired pulse ratio (PPR) and release probability (Pr), compared to autapses. Interestingly, when a neuron was connected to another neuron, not only interneuronal synapses, but also the autaptic synapses on itself exhibited a trend toward enhanced short-term plasticity in terms of PPR and Pr. Thus neurons can distinguish whether they are connected via &quot;self&quot; or &quot;non-self&quot; synapses and have the ability to adjust their plasticity parameters when connected to other neurons.
Natural populations of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, segregate genetic variation that leads to cardiac disease phenotypes. One nearly isogenic line from a North Carolina peach orchard, WE70, is shown to harbor two genetically distinct heart phenotypes: elevated incidence of arrhythmias, and a dramatically constricted heart diameter in both diastole and systole, with resemblance to restrictive cardiomyopathy in humans. Assuming the source to be rare variants of large effect, we performed Bulked Segregant Analysis using genomic DNA hybridization to Affymetrix chips to detect single feature polymorphisms, but found that the mutant phenotypes are more likely to have a polygenic basis. Further mapping efforts revealed a complex architecture wherein the constricted cardiomyopathy phenotype was observed in individual whole chromosome substitution lines, implying that variants on both major autosomes are sufficient to produce the phenotype. A panel of 170 Recombinant Inbred Lines (RIL) was generated, and a small subset of mutant lines selected, but these each complemented both whole chromosome substitutions, implying a non-additive (epistatic) contribution to the &quot;disease&quot; phenotype. Low coverage whole genome sequencing was also used to attempt to map chromosomal regions contributing to both the cardiomyopathy and arrhythmia, but a polygenic architecture had to be again inferred to be most likely. These results show that an apparently simple rare phenotype can have a complex genetic basis that would be refractory to mapping by deep sequencing in pedigrees. We present this as a cautionary tale regarding assumptions related to attempts to map new disease mutations on the assumption that probands carry a single causal mutation.
Cross-modal processing depends strongly on the compatibility between different sensory inputs, the relative timing of their arrival to brain processing components, and on how attention is allocated. In this behavioral study, we employed a cross-modal audio-visual Stroop task in which we manipulated the within-trial stimulus-onset-asynchronies (SOAs) of the stimulus-component inputs, the grouping of the SOAs (blocked vs. random), the attended modality (auditory or visual), and the congruency of the Stroop color-word stimuli (congruent, incongruent, neutral) to assess how these factors interact within a multisensory context. One main result was that visual distractors produced larger incongruency effects on auditory targets than vice versa. Moreover, as revealed by both overall shorter response times (RTs) and relative shifts in the psychometric incongruency-effect functions, visual-information processing was faster and produced stronger and longer-lasting incongruency effects than did auditory. When attending to either modality, stimulus incongruency from the other modality interacted with SOA, yielding larger effects when the irrelevant distractor occurred prior to the attended target, but no interaction with SOA grouping. Finally, relative to neutral-stimuli, and across the wide range of the SOAs employed, congruency led to substantially more behavioral facilitation than did incongruency to interference, in contrast to findings that within-modality stimulus-compatibility effects tend to be more evenly split between facilitation and interference. In sum, the present findings reveal several key characteristics of how we process the stimulus compatibility of cross-modal sensory inputs, reflecting stimulus processing patterns that are critical for successfully navigating our complex multisensory world.
A series of nonplanar tetraphenylethene (TPE)-hexaphenylbenzene (HPB) adducts was designed and synthesized by Diels-Alder reaction of the acetylene precursors and tetraphenylcyclopentadienone. All of the adducts showed aggregation-induced emission features. The twisting amplitude and steric hindrance of the TPE and HPB units were found to play a crucial role in their fluorescence behaviors in the aggregated state.
As life expectancy lengthens, dementia is becoming a significant human condition in terms of its prevalence and cost to society worldwide. It is important in that context to understand the preventable and treatable causes of dementia. This article exposes the link between dementia and heart disease in all its forms, including coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, valvular disease, and heart failure. This article also explores the cardiovascular risk factors and emphasizes that several of them are preventable and treatable. In addition to medical therapies, the lifestyle changes that may be useful in retarding the onset of dementia are also summarized.
LINGO-1 is a functional component of the Nogo receptor 1  p75(NTR)  LINGO-1 and Nogo receptor 1  TAJ (TNFRSF19/TROY)LINGO-1 signaling complexes. It has recently been shown that LINGO-1 antagonists significantly improve neuronal survival after neural injury. However, the mechanism by which LINGO-1 signaling influences susceptibility to apoptosis remains unknown. In an effort to better understand how LINGO-1 regulates these signaling pathways, we used an established model of serum deprivation (SD) to induce neuronal apoptosis. We demonstrate that treatment either with a construct containing the intracellular domain of LINGO-1 or with Nogo66, a LINGO-1 receptor complex agonist, resulted in an enhanced rate of apoptosis in primary cultured cortical neurons under SD. Reducing the expression levels of the serine/threonine kinase WNK3 using shRNA or inhibiting its kinase activity had similar effects on the survival of serum-deprived neurons. Consistent with these observations, we found that LINGO-1 and WNK3 co-localized and co-precipitated in cultured cortical neurons and brain tissue. Significantly, this co-association was enhanced by Nogo66 treatment. Binding of WNK3 to the intracellular domain of LINGO-1 led to a reduction in WNK3 kinase activity, as did Nogo66 stimulation. Moreover, in vitro and in vivo evidence indicates that endogenous WNK3 suppresses SD-induced neuronal apoptosis in a kinase-dependent manner, as the expression of either a WNK3 RNAi construct or a kinase-dead N-terminal fragment of WNK3 led to increased apoptosis. Taken together, our results show that LINGO-1 potentiates neuronal apoptosis, likely by inhibiting WNK3 kinase activity.
The relation between large-scale brain structure and function is an outstanding open problem in neuroscience. We approach this problem by studying the dynamical regime under which realistic spatiotemporal patterns of brain activity emerge from the empirically derived network of human brain neuroanatomical connections. The results show that critical dynamics unfolding on the structural connectivity of the human brain allow the recovery of many key experimental findings obtained from functional magnetic resonance imaging, such as divergence of the correlation length, the anomalous scaling of correlation fluctuations, and the emergence of large-scale resting state networks.
1, 4-Dihydroxy-2-naphthoyl coenzyme A (DHNA-CoA) synthase is a typical crotonase fold enzyme with an implicated role of conformational changes in catalysis. We have identified these conformational changes by determining the structures of its Escherichia coli and Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 orthologues in complex with a product analog. The structural changes include the folding of an active-site loop into a -hairpin and significant reorientation of a helix at the carboxy terminus. Interestingly, a new interface is formed between the ordered loop and the reoriented helix, both of which also form additional interactions with the coenzyme A moiety of the ligand. Site-directed mutation of the amino acid residues involved in these ligand-induced interactions significantly diminishes the enzyme activity. These results suggest a catalytically essential induced-fit that is likely initiated by the enzyme-ligand interactions at the active site.

It is well-kown that sensory information influences the way we execute motor responses. However, less is known about if and how sensory and motor information are integrated in the subsequent process of response evaluation. We used a modified Simon Task to investigate how these streams of information are integrated in response evaluation processes, applying an in-depth neurophysiological analysis of event-related potentials (ERPs), time-frequency decomposition and sLORETA. The results show that response evaluation processes are differentially modulated by afferent proprioceptive information and efference copies. While the influence of proprioceptive information is mediated via oscillations in different frequency bands, efference copy based information about the motor execution is specifically mediated via oscillations in the theta frequency band. Stages of visual perception and attention were not modulated by the interaction of proprioception and motor efference copies. Brain areas modulated by the interactive effects of proprioceptive and efference copy based information included the middle frontal gyrus and the supplementary motor area (SMA), suggesting that these areas integrate sensory information for the purpose of response evaluation. The results show how motor response evaluation processes are modulated by information about both the execution and the location of a response.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease that causes progressive paralysis due to motor neuron death. Several lines of published evidence suggested that inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling might protect neurons from degeneration. To test this hypothesis in vivo, we treated the SOD1 transgenic mouse model of ALS with erlotinib, an EGFR inhibitor clinically approved for oncology indications. Although erlotinib failed to extend ALS mouse survival it did provide a modest but significant delay in the onset of multiple behavioral measures of disease progression. However, given the lack of protection of motor neuron synapses and the lack of survival extension, the small benefits observed after erlotinib treatment appear purely symptomatic, with no modification of disease course.
Conformity to local behavioral norms reflects the pervading role of culture in human life. Laboratory experiments have begun to suggest a role for conformity in animal social learning, but evidence from the wild remains circumstantial. Here, we show experimentally that wild vervet monkeys will abandon personal foraging preferences in favor of group norms new to them. Groups first learned to avoid the bitter-tasting alternative of two foods. Presentations of these options untreated months later revealed that all new infants nave to the foods adopted maternal preferences. Males who migrated between groups where the alternative food was eaten switched to the new local norm. Such powerful effects of social learning represent a more potent force than hitherto recognized in shaping group differences among wild animals.





Synapse formation is a complex process that involves the recruitment and assembly of a myriad of pre- and postsynaptic proteins. Despite being present at every synapse in the vertebrate CNS, little is known about the transport, recruitment, and stabilization of synapsin at nascent synapses during development. We examined the transport and recruitment of synapsin to nascent presynaptic terminals in vivo in the developing zebrafish spinal cord. Synapsin was transported in a transport packet independently of two other presynaptic organelles: synaptic vesicle (SV) protein transport vesicles (STVs) and Piccolo-containing active zone precursor transport vesicles (PTVs). During presynaptic assembly, recruitment of all three transport packets occurred in an ordered sequence: STVs preceded PTVs, which in turn preceded synapsin. Importantly, cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) specifically regulated the late recruitment of synapsin transport packets at synapses. These results point to additional layers of complexity in the established mechanisms of synaptogenesis.
Cerebellar granule cells (GCs) account for more than half of all neurons in the CNS of vertebrates. Theoretical work has suggested that the abundance of GCs is advantageous for sparse coding during memory formation. Here, we minimized the output of the majority of GCs by selectively eliminating their CaV2.1 (P/Q-type) Ca(2+) channels, which mediate the bulk of their neurotransmitter release. This resulted in reduced GC output to Purkinje cells (PCs) and stellate cells (SCs) as well as in impaired long-term plasticity at GC-PC synapses. As a consequence modulation amplitude and regularity of simple spike (SS) output were affected. Surprisingly, the overall motor performance was intact, whereas demanding motor learning and memory consolidation tasks were compromised. Our findings indicate that a minority of functionally intact GCs is sufficient for the maintenance of basic motor performance, whereas acquisition and stabilization of sophisticated memories require higher numbers of normal GCs controlling PC firing.
Neurotrophins control the development and adult plasticity of the vertebrate nervous system. Failure to identify invertebrate neurotrophin orthologs, however, has precluded studies in invertebrate models, limiting our understanding of fundamental aspects of neurotrophin biology and function. We identified a neurotrophin (ApNT) and Trk receptor (ApTrk) in the mollusk Aplysia and found that they play a central role in learning-related synaptic plasticity. Blocking ApTrk signaling impairs long-term facilitation, whereas augmenting ApNT expression enhances it and induces the growth of new synaptic varicosities at the monosynaptic connection between sensory and motor neurons of the gill-withdrawal reflex. Unlike vertebrate neurotrophins, ApNT has multiple coding exons and exerts distinct synaptic effects through differentially processed and secreted splice isoforms. Our findings demonstrate the existence of bona fide neurotrophin signaling in invertebrates and reveal a posttranscriptional mechanism that regulates neurotrophin processing and the release of proneurotrophins and mature neurotrophins that differentially modulate synaptic plasticity.
Cell signaling involves complex transduction mechanisms in which information released by nearby cells or extracellular cues are transmitted to the cell, regulating fundamental cellular activities. Understanding such mechanisms requires cell stimulation with precise control of low numbers of active molecules at high spatial and temporal resolution under physiological conditions. Optical manipulation techniques, such as optical tweezing, mechanical stress probing or nano-ablation, allow handling of probes and sub-cellular elements with nanometric and millisecond resolution. PicoNewton forces, such as those involved in cell motility or intracellular activity, can be measured with femtoNewton sensitivity while controlling the biochemical environment. Recent technical achievements in optical manipulation have new potentials, such as exploring the actions of individual molecules within living cells. Here, we review the progress in optical manipulation techniques for single-cell experiments, with a focus on force probing, cell mechanical stimulation and the local delivery of active molecules using optically manipulated micro-vectors and laser dissection.


Neuropeptide kisspeptin has been suggested to be an essential central regulator of reproduction in response to changes in serum gonadal steroid concentrations. However, in spite of wide kisspeptin receptor distribution in the brain, especially in the preoptic area and hypothalamus, the research focus has mostly been confined to the kisspeptin regulation on GnRH neurons. Here, by using medaka whose kisspeptin (kiss1) neurons have been clearly demonstrated to be regulated by sex steroids, we analyzed the anatomical distribution of kisspeptin receptors Gpr54-1 and Gpr54-2. Because the both receptors were shown to be activated by kisspeptins (Kiss1 and Kiss2), we analyzed the anatomical distribution of the both receptors by in situ hybridization. They were mainly expressed in the ventral telencephalon, preoptic area, and hypothalamus, which have been suggested to be involved in homeostatic functions including reproduction. First, we found gpr54-2 mRNA expression in nucleus preopticus pars magnocellularis and demonstrated that vasotocin and isotocin (Vasopressin and Oxytocin ortholog, respectively) neurons express gpr54-2 by dual in situ hybridization. Given that kisspeptin administration increases serum oxytocin and vasopressin concentration in mammals, the present finding are likely to be vertebrate-wide phenomenon, although direct regulation has not yet been demonstrated in mammals. We then analyzed co-expression of kisspeptin receptors in three types of GnRH neurons. It was clearly demonstrated that gpr54-expressing cells were located adjacent to GnRH1 neurons, although they were not GnRH1 neurons themselves. In contrast, there was no gpr54-expressing cell in the vicinities of neuromodulatory GnRH2 or GnRH3 neurons. From these results, we suggest that medaka kisspeptin neurons directly regulate some behavioral and neuroendocrine functions via vasotocin/isotocin neurons, whereas they do not regulate hypophysiotropic GnRH1 neurons at least in a direct manner. Thus, direct kisspeptin regulation of GnRH1 neurons proposed in mammals may not be the universal feature of vertebrate kisspeptin system in general.

The testis zinc finger protein (Tzfp), also known as Repressor of GATA, belongs to the BTB/POZ zinc finger family of transcription factors and is thought to play a role in spermatogenesis due to its remarkably high expression in testis. Despite many attempts to find the in vivo role of the protein, the molecular function is still largely unknown. Here, we address this issue using a novel mouse model with a disrupted Tzfp gene. Homozygous Tzfp null mice are born at reduced frequency but appear viable and fertile. Sertoli cells in testes lacking Tzfp display an increase in Androgen Receptor (AR) signaling, and several genes in the testis, including Gata1, Aie1 and Fanc, show increased expression. Our results indicate that Tzfp function as a transcriptional regulator and that loss of the protein leads to alterations in AR signaling and reduced number of apoptotic cells in the testicular tubules.
One of the goals in neuroscience is to obtain tractable laboratory cultures that closely recapitulate in vivo systems while still providing ease of use in the lab. Because neurons can exist in the body over a lifetime, long-term culture systems are necessary so as to closely mimic the physiological conditions under laboratory culture conditions. Ideally, such a neuronal organoid culture would contain multiple cell types, be highly differentiated, and have a high density of interconnected cells. However, before these types of cultures can be created, certain problems associated with long-term neuronal culturing must be addressed. We sought to develop a new protocol which may further prolong the duration and integrity of E18 rat hippocampal cultures. We have developed a protocol that allows for culturing of E18 hippocampal neurons at high densities for more than 120 days. These cultured hippocampal neurons are (i) well differentiated with high numbers of synapses, (ii) anchored securely to their substrate, (iii) have high levels of functional connectivity, and (iv) form dense multi-layered cellular networks. We propose that our culture methodology is likely to be effective for multiple neuronal subtypes-particularly those that can be grown in Neurobasal/B27 media. This methodology presents new avenues for long-term functional studies in neurons.
OBJECTIVES: Bipolar disorder is a severe mood disorder, which normally begins during adolescence or early adulthood and has a heritability of up to 80%. The largest genome-wide association analysis of bipolar disorder recently identified a new genome-wide associated variant in OZD4 (rs12576775). The aim of the present study was to further elucidate the role of this risk variant in the disease process using an imaging genetics approach. As increased amygdala and striatal responses during the processing of reward and emotion are characteristic for bipolar disorder patients, it was tested whether the risk variant has an influence on this endophenotype in healthy adolescents. METHODS: We examined the impact of the risk variant rs12576775 on functional magnetic resonance imaging data in an adolescent sample (N=485). Differential activation between carriers of the risk allele (G-allele) and homozygous A-allele carriers in the amygdala and the striatum during a modification of the monetary incentive delay task (examining reward) and a face task (examining emotion) was analyzed. RESULTS: Carriers of the risk allele showed an increased blood oxygen level-dependent response in the amygdala during reward sensitivity (p=0.05) and reward expectation (p&lt;0.05) but not during the face task. No significant group differences were found in the striatum during both reward and emotion processing. CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that the ODZ4 risk variant influences reward processing in the amygdala. Alterations in the processing of emotion may have different underlying mechanisms and need to be further examined.

SV2C is an isoform of the synaptic vesicle 2 protein family that exhibits a particular pattern of brain expression with enriched expression in several basal ganglia nuclei. In the present study, we have investigated SV2C implication in both normal and pathological basal ganglia functioning with a peculiar attention to dopamine neuron containing regions. In SV2C-/- mice, the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in midbrain dopaminergic neurons was largely and significantly increased and enkephalin mRNA expression was significantly decreased in the caudate-putamen and accumbens nucleus. The expression of SV2C was studied in two models of dopaminergic denervation (6-OHDA- and MPTP-induced lesions). In dopamine-depleted animals, SV2C mRNA expression was significant increased in the striatum. In order to further understand the role of SV2C, we performed behavioral experiments on SV2C-/- mice and on knock-down mice receiving an injection of adeno-associated virus expressing SV2C miRNA specifically in the ventral midbrain. These modifications of SV2C expression had little or no impact on behavior in open field and elevated plus maze. However, even if complete loss of SV2C had no impact on conditioned place preference induced by cocaine, the specific knock-down of SV2C expression in the dopaminergic neurons completely abolished the development of a CPP while the reaction to an acute drug injection remains similar in these mice compared to control mice. These results showed that SV2C, a poorly functionally characterized protein is strongly involved in normal operation of the basal ganglia network and could be also involved in system adaptation in basal ganglia pathological conditions.

We have synthesized a 7-diethylaminocoumarin (DEAC) derivative that allows wavelength-selective two-photon uncaging at 900 nm versus 720 nm. This new caging chromophore, called DEAC450, has an extended -electron moiety at the 3-position that shifts the absorption spectrum maximum of DEAC from 375 to 450 nm. Two-photon excitation at 900 nm was more than 60-fold greater than at 720 nm. Two-photon uncaging of DEAC450-Glu at 900 nm at spine heads on pyramidal neurons in acutely isolated brain slices generated postsynaptic responses that were similar to spontaneous postsynaptic excitatory miniature currents, whereas significantly higher energies at 720 nm evoked no currents. Since many nitroaromatic caged compounds are two-photon active at 720 nm, optically selective uncaging of DEAC450-caged biomolecules at 900 nm may allow facile two-color optical interrogation of bimodal signaling pathways in living tissue with high resolution for the first time.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a debilitating neurodevelopmental disorder thought to arise from disrupted synaptic communication in several key brain regions, including the amygdala, a central processing center for information with emotional and social relevance. Recent studies reveal defects in both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in mature amygdala circuits in Fmr1(-/y) mutants, the animal model of FXS. However, whether these defects are the result of altered synaptic development or simply faulty mature circuits remains unknown. Using a combination of electrophysiological and genetic approaches, we show the development of both presynaptic and postsynaptic components of inhibitory neurotransmission in the FXS amygdala is dynamically altered during critical stages of neural circuit formation. Surprisingly, we observe that there is a homeostatic correction of defective inhibition, which, despite transiently restoring inhibitory synaptic efficacy to levels at or beyond those of control, ultimately fails to be maintained. Using inhibitory interneuron-specific conditional knock-out and rescue mice, we further reveal that fragile X mental retardation protein function in amygdala inhibitory microcircuits can be segregated into distinct presynaptic and postsynaptic components. Collectively, these studies reveal a previously unrecognized complexity of disrupted neuronal development in FXS and therefore have direct implications for establishing novel temporal and region-specific targeted therapies to ameliorate core amygdala-based behavioral symptoms.
