The process of degeneration and dendritic reorganization of cholinergic neurons was investigated in the rat basal forebrain under the conditions of chronic neurotoxic injury induced by long-term consumption of ethanol. After 28 weeks of ethanol treatment (20% v/v), both the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive basal forebrain neurons and levels of biochemical measures of cholinergic neurons, such as the activity of choline acetyltransferase and the synthesis and content of acetylcholine, were decreased by about 60-80%. The number of cholinergic neurons showing a positive hybridization signal to choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA was decreased to a similar extent. On the contrary, the reduction in the number of neurons immunoreactive for nerve growth factor receptor p75, which in control brains is highly co-localized with the expression of choline acetyltransferase, was much less pronounced and reached only 20-30%. The loss of choline acetyltransferase expression was associated with a cellular hypertrophy. Neurons which had survived the neurotoxic damage, furthermore, showed a remodelling of the dendritic organization which was quantitatively investigated after Golgi impregnation. This process of dendritic reorganization was mainly characterized by an increase in number and length of terminal dendritic segments. The results indicate that under the conditions of the present paradigm of chronic neurodegeneration, a certain number of cholinergic neurons persists in a form where they lost their ability to express detectable amounts of choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA and the enzyme protein. Persisting neurons, however, show both expression of nerve growth factor receptor p75 and signs of perikaryal and dendritic growth. It might, therefore, be hypothesized that chronic degeneration of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons triggers reactive attempts of repair which involve the action of trophic factors such as nerve growth factor.
Basal forebrain tissue fragments taken from embryonic day 15 were separated into primary astrocytes and primary neurons in culture and grafted to rats with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid lesions to the nucleus basalis and medial septal regions. The two cell types were compared in two experimental paradigms for their behavioural, biochemical and histochemical effects; standard transplants of whole basal forebrain and sham transplants served as positive and negative controls, respectively. Each transplant cell type was characterised by in vitro immunocytochemistry to assess content and purity. Memory deficits produced by the lesions in a spatial win-stay T-maze task (Experiment 1) and a spatial plus associative radial maze task (Experiment 2) were significantly improved by the astrocyte, but not by the neuronal, primary cell transplants. The astrocyte graft groups performed as well as standard cholinergic rich basal forebrain groups, reaching control levels on both tasks, while the neuronal transplant groups were not significantly different to lesioned (sham transplanted) rats. There was no recovery in choline acetyltransferase activity in brain regions containing astrocyte grafts whereas activity in the neuronal graft regions was increased (often to control levels), similar to recovery produced by basal forebrain grafts. Grafts in all groups survived, transplanted neurons displaying similar morphology and placement in the host brain to unseparated basal forebrain grafts, while astrocytes showed evidence of migration. The cultured astrocytes were estimated to be &gt; 95% pure, showing positive staining for all astrocyte markers and an absence of staining for neuronal markers. The results indicate that the restoration of cognitive function following fetal grafting is not dependent upon a restoration of cholinergic neuronal activity but is more likely mediated via diffuse graft-host communication, with trophic secretion a probable factor. This study emphasizes the usefulness of astrocytes in the repair of central nervous system injury and has implications for therapeutic potential.
A1 adenosine receptors efficiently modulate the excitatory synaptic transmission in hippocampus. Here we report that in addition to previously known modulatory action on the synaptic efficacy, A1 adenosine receptors are also capable of regulating the relative contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component of the excitatory postsynaptic current in CA3-CA1 excitatory synapses, in the rat. When applied externally, a selective A1 adenosine receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine, increases not only the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic current but also the relative contribution of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component of postsynaptic current recorded by in situ voltage clamp. This effect develops only at increased external Ca2+ concentration and also depends on the external Ca2+/Mg2+ ratio. The increased ratio of N-methyl-D-aspartate/non-N-methyl-D-aspartate components of excitatory postsynaptic current remains at a new level after the removal of 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine, even though the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic current returns close to control value. These results indicate the existence of a mechanism that preferentially enhances the N-methyl-D-aspartate component of excitatory postsynaptic current when the A1 adenosine receptors are blocked and imprints the newly acquired ratio of corresponding excitatory postsynaptic current components.
The neuropeptide phenotype of adult sympathetic neurons changes dramatically after postganglionic nerve transection. Studies, thus far, have been done on the superior cervical ganglion; however, one limitation of this preparation is that it is necessary to transect the postganglionic axons quite close to the ganglion. In the present study, we examined the effects of axonal damage on galanin-like immunoreactivity in the middle and inferior cervical ganglion complex. With these ganglia, it is possible to transect postganglionic axons at a considerable distance from their cell bodies and, therefore, to examine the extent to which local tissue damage, rather than specific axonal transection, is required for these changes in neuropeptide phenotype to occur. The anatomy of this system also allowed us to determine the extent to which the changes in galanin expression are restricted to those neurons that have been axotomized. The axons of a small population of the neurons in the middle and inferior cervical ganglia complex project into the cervical sympathetic trunk. Within two days after this trunk was transected, there was an increase in the level of galanin-like immunoreactivity in the complex and in the number of immunostained principal neurons. These neurons were concentrated primarily in the most rostral part of the complex. An increase in galanin-like immunoreactivity also occurred in response to the systemic administration of the sympathetic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine. In that case, many more neurons were affected than after transection of the cervical sympathetic trunk, and the neurons were distributed evenly throughout the ganglion complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have analysed by northern blotting and by in situ hybridization the expression patterns of eight different genes during the second half of mouse embryonic development and in adult mouse brain: we compared the messenger RNA levels of amyloid precursor protein and of the two amyloid precursor protein-like proteins 1 and 2 and we have analysed expression of apolipoprotein E and of its main receptor in brain, the alpha-2-macroglobulin/low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein and three other ligands: the proteinase inhibitor alpha-2-macroglobulin, the modifying enzyme lipoprotein lipase and the 44,000 molecular weight heparin binding protein, a ligand of unknown function. During embryogenesis the temporal expression pattern differs considerably for the three members of the amyloid precursor proteins. Total embryo messenger RNA levels of amyloid precursor protein and amyloid precursor protein-like protein 2 increased progressively, while amyloid precursor protein-like protein 1 messenger RNA showed a burst of synthesis between days 10 and 13 post-coitum. Significantly, expression of the alpha-2-macroglobulin/low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein and of its associated protein, the 44,000 molecular weight heparin binding protein, exhibited their most important increase very similar to that of amyloid precursor protein-like protein 1, between days 10 and 13 post-coitum. Apolipoprotein E, lipoprotein lipase and alpha-2-macroglobulin messenger RNA levels in total embryos increased progressively, beginning most pronounced at days 13, 15 and 17, respectively. In mouse embryos, in situ hybridization established amyloid precursor protein, amyloid precursor protein-like protein 2 and alpha-2-macroglobulin/low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein messenger RNA to be expressed in most organs, with the notable exception of the liver, while expression of the other studied proteins was much more restricted. Among adult mouse tissues, the genes investigated were expressed very prominently in brain, except for lipoprotein lipase and for the complete absence of alpha-2-macroglobulin messenger RNA. In adult mouse brain, the cortex and hippocampus exhibited strong signals for most genes analysed. Exceptions are lipoprotein lipase and apolipoprotein E messenger RNAs, and the absent alpha-2-macroglobulin messenger RNA. Several interesting features, similarities as well as differences, between brain tissue sections hybridized with probes for amyloid precursor protein, amyloid precursor protein-like proteins 1 and 2 and between alpha-2-macroglobulin/low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein and heparin binding protein-44 were observed and are described. The results are further discussed in view of the known or anticipated physiological functions of the proteins examined and of their possible role in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease.
Microprobes bearing immobilized antibodies to the C-terminus of substance P were used to measure release of this neuropeptide in the spinal cord of the anaesthetized spinal cat in response to peripheral nerve stimulation. Release of substance P was just detectable in laminae I, II with 150 stimuli (0.5 Hz, 5 min) and was near maximal with 300 stimuli. Using two periods of stimulation of 10 min separated by 15 min, greater levels of substance P were detected during the second period. Fifteen to 25 min after two periods of peripheral nerve stimulation levels of substance P detected by microprobes were still elevated above those present prior to stimulation. Stimulation with bursts of three impulses when delivering a fixed number of stimuli resulted in detection of increased levels of substance P at sites adjacent to the areas of maximal release. The results suggest that maximal release of substance P from the central terminals of primary afferent fibres occurs with relatively few impulses and at low frequencies in agreement with what is known of release from the peripheral terminals of these fibres.
Activation of the dorsal midbrain has a powerful anticonvulsant effect in the maximal electroshock model of epilepsy. The suppression of tonic seizures can be obtained most reliably from an area centred on the intercollicular nucleus overlapping into the deep layers of the superior colliculus and adjacent mesencephalic reticular formation. As part of a series of investigations to identify neural mechanisms responsible for mediating the anticonvulsant properties of the dorsal midbrain, the present study provides an anatomical description of the efferent projections of this region. Small amounts of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (10-30 nl of a 1% solution) were injected into the intercollicular nucleus and surrounding tissue. The resulting anterograde transport of the tracer was plotted on a set of standard atlas sections. Four major output pathways were identified: (i) an ipsilateral descending projection which had terminations in the microcellular tegmental nucleus, lateral and ventral pontine reticular nucleus pars oralis, ventrolateral tegmental nucleus, ventral and caudal pontine reticular nucleus pars caudalis, raphe magnus nucleus and the gigantocellular nucleus; (ii) a contralateral descending projection which for the most part targeted the same brainstem structures but with weaker terminal labelling; (iii) a projection to the contralateral dorsal midbrain with comparatively weak terminal label in the contralateral superior colliculus, intercollicular nucleus, periaqueductal gray, mesencephalic reticular formation and cuneiform area; (iv) ipsilateral ascending pathway with terminations in the red nucleus, zona incerta, peripeduncular area, parafascicular nucleus, lateral hypothalamus, parts of the pretectum and caudal thalamus. At a general level the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone shares its major output projections and efferent targets with at least one of its near neighbours, including the superior colliculus, periaqueductal gray, the cuneiform nucleus and pedunculopontine nucleus. The possibility that anticonvulsant properties of the intercollicular area can simply be attributed to a unique set of efferent projections is therefore not supported by the anatomy.
The ratings of subjective experiences of the self &quot;leaving&quot; or of being detached from the body were obtained (over a 3-yr. period) for a total of 128 men and women who had been exposed only once to an experimental setting which enhances the awareness of cognitive processes. As hypothesized, the individuals who exhibited the greatest proportion of complex partial epileptic-like signs also reported the most intense experiences of detachment from the body; however, these occurred primarily when the geomagnetic activity on the day of the experiment exceeded about 15 nT but was less than about 45 nT. Geomagnetic activity for the day after or the three days before the experiment was not associated with these experiences. The effect was equivalent to a correlation coefficient (eta) of .38.
Electrical stimulation at a locomotor site can prime (i.e., shorten the latency to initiate) stepping elicited by subsequent stimulation of the same or a different site. We tested for the priming effect in representative sites along the medial forebrain bundle, and determined if its magnitude showed regional differences. Rats (n = 20) were anesthetized with Nembutal and held in a stereotaxic apparatus over a wheel. Stepping was detected by accelerometers attached to the hindlimbs. Priming and test trains of stimulation (0.5-ms cathodal pulses, 50 Hz, 25-75 microA, 7-9-s train duration) separated by 20 s were delivered every 90 s. When the priming and test stimulations were applied to the same site, the priming effects were similar along the entire extent of the medial forebrain bundle. When the priming and test sites were different, the priming effect depended on their relative positions. Anterior stimulation primed posterior sites at magnitude comparable to those produced by stimulating the same posterior site. Posterior stimulation primed anterior sites at a level half of that produced by stimulation of the same anterior site. This pattern was found for priming and test sites that were ipsilateral and contralateral. Priming is a general and robust phenomenon with properties that may be useful for studying locomotor initiation pathways.

Recent observations in the behavioral and neurosciences have raised questions about the ubiquity of the oedipus complex as well as about its significance for psychological development. The authors argue that the construct Freud called the oedipus complex in males is best examined in its component parts. One component--the incestuous wish--does not occur in all individuals. Another component--the boy's urge to engage competitively with other male figures, including the father--does appear to be biologically based in testosterone's effect on the brain and to be manifested in childhood rough and tumble play behavior. It is proposed that reexamination of the oedipus complex in light of recent findings about the brain and behavior is indicated and that play, in particular, can usefully be considered as a separate developmental line.
In exploratory animal models of anxiety, such as the elevated plus maze, the anxiogenic- and anxiolytic-like effects of drugs may be confounded by changes in locomotor activity. In the present experiments, the sensitivity of several measures of anxiety and locomotor activity in the elevated plus maze were assessed. Both chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride (CDP, 7.5 mg/kg) and d-amphetamine sulphate (AMP, 0.75, 1.5 mg/kg) increased the percent time on the open arms and doses of 7.5 mg/kg and 1.5 mg/kg CDP and AMP, respectively, increased the number of entries into the open arms. The increase in these measures might suggest that both compounds induced an anxiolytic-like effect. Although FG 7142 (30.0 mg/kg) did not decrease the number of entries to the open arms, it did decrease the time on the open arms, which might suggest that it had anxiogenic-like effects. Similarly, buspirone reduced both the number of entries into the open arms and the time spent on the open arms. However, all the compounds significantly affected locomotor activity. CDP (3.0 and 7.5 mg/kg) increased the total number of arm entries, the distance travelled on the open arms and the mean speed of the animals on the open, and in the closed arms. Moreover, the distance travelled by the animals in the closed arms was increased by 1.0 mg/kg CDP, a dose that had no measurable effects on the indices of anxiety.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Interactions at the behavioral level between dopamine (DA) and opioid receptors in the mammalian brain have been amply demonstrated. Considering the pivotal role for DA receptors in the pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease (PD), these interactions might be clinically relevant. Therefore, in the present study the effects of the opioid antagonist naltrexone and agonist morphine on D1 and D2 receptor induced stimulation of motor behavior in the unilateral MPTP monkey model (n = 5) of PD were investigated. The results show that both naltrexone and morphine [0.1-1.0 mg/kg; intramuscular injection (IM)] inhibited D2 receptor stimulated contralateral rotational behavior and hand use induced by administration of quinpirole (LY 171555; 0.01 mg/kg, IM) in a dose-related way. However, no effects of these opioid drugs were observed on D1 receptor stimulated contralateral rotational behavior and hand use induced by administration of SKF 81297 (0.3 mg/kg, IM). Interestingly, the action of the alleged preferential mu-receptor antagonist naltrexone was mimicked by the selective delta-opioid antagonist naltrindole (0.5 mg/kg, IM). From this study it is concluded that in a non-human primate model of PD, alteration of opioid tonus leads to modulation of D2 receptor but not D1 receptor controlled motor behavior. The possible underlying mechanisms and clinical relevance of these findings are discussed.
The effect of morphine tolerance and withdrawal on prodynorphin peptides was studied in relevant brain areas and in the pituitary gland of male Sprague-Dawley rats, and compared with effects on the proenkephalin-derived peptide Met-enkephalin. After 8 days of morphine injections (twice daily), dynorphin A and B levels increased in the nucleus accumbens and dynorphin A levels increased also in the striatum. Morphine treatment increased striatal Met-enkephalin. Leu-enkephalinArg6 levels were reduced in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Morphine-treated rats had very low Leu-enkephalinArg6 levels in the hippocampus as compared to saline control rats. Comparison of the relative amounts of dynorphin peptides and the shorter prodynorphin-derived peptides, Leu-enkephalinArg6 and Leu-enkephalin, revealed a relative increase in dynorphin peptides versus shorter fragments in the nucleus accumbens, VTA and hippocampus. Morphine-tolerant rats had lower levels of dynorphin A in both lobes of the pituitary gland, whereas hypothalamic dynorphin levels were unaffected by morphine. Leu-enkephalinArg6 levels were reduced in the hypothalamus, but not changed in the pituitary gland. Naloxone-precipitated withdrawal accentuated the increase in dynorphin A and B levels in the accumbens and dynorphin A levels in the striatum, while inducing an increase in enkephalin levels in the accumbens and Met-enkephalin in the VTA. In the hippocampus, Leu-enkephalinArg6 levels remained low in the withdrawal state. The low dynorphin levels in the anterior part of the pituitary gland were reversed by naloxone, whereas the low dynorphin A levels in the neurointermediate lobe were 0ven lower in the withdrawal state.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) offers a powerful experimental tool for mapping activated cortical regions in man. Thereby, the paramagnetic deoxyhemoglobin in the red blood cells acts as an endogenous susceptibility contrast agent, which allows the noninvasive detection of stimulus-induced transient changes in regional cerebral blood flow and volume. Fifteen normal subjects were examined on a conventional 1.5-T MR system to visualize cortical activation during the performance of high-level cognitive tasks. A computer-controlled videoprojector was employed to present psychometrically optimized activation paradigms. Reaction times and error rates of the volunteers were acquired online during stimulus presentation. The time course of cortical activation was measured in a series of strongly T2*-weighted gradient-echo images from three or four adjacent slices. For anatomical correlation, picture elements showing a stimulus-related significant signal increase were color-coded and superimposed on T1-weighted spin-echo images. Analysis of the fMRI data revealed a subtle (range 2-5%), but statistically significant (P &lt; 0.05) increase in signal intensity during the periods of induced cortical activation. Judgment of semantic relatedness of word pairs, for example, activated selectively cortical areas in left frontal and left temporal brain regions. The strength of cortex activation in the semantic task decreased significantly in the course of stimulus presentation and was paralleled by a decrease in the corresponding reaction times. With its move into the area of cognitive neuroscience, fMRI calls both for the careful design of activation schemes and for the acquisition of behavioral data. For example, brain regions involved in language processing could only be identified clearly when psychometrically matched activation paradigms were employed. The reaction time data correlated well with selective learning and thus helped to facilitate interpretation of the fMRI data sets.
To clarify the effects of levodopa administration on MPTP-induced alterations in neuropeptides, we examined the effects of repeated levodopa injections (200 mg/kg i.p.) for 2 weeks starting 4 weeks after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treatment (30 mg/kg i.p. twice/day for 5 days) on cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8), substance P (SP) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) concentrations at 6 weeks after the MPTP treatment. In the striatum, CCK-8 significantly but slightly decreased in the MPTP-treated mice, coinciding with the MPTP-induced marked reduction of dopamine (DA). This considerable reduction of striatal CCK-8 may result from the selectivity of MPTP since the mesolimbic DA neurons coexisting with CCK-8 are intact with the MPTP treatment. Furthermore, this MPTP-induced decrease in CCK-8 persisted with repeated levodopa administration; therefore, the ineffectiveness of the levodopa treatment may have been be due to the degeneration of the nigrostriatal DA neurons. SP and TRH contents showed little or no change with levodopa treatment in the MPTP-treated mouse brain. The CCK-8 level decreased in the thalamus+midbrain, hippocampus and hindbrain of the MPTP+levodopa-treated group, although there were no changes in the MPTP-treated controls. These results suggest that DAergic neurons, except those in the nigrostriatum, strongly interact with the CCK neurons in these brain regions.







This article describes a rationale and strategy for the design of low molecular weight, non-peptide ligands (peptoids), using the chemical structure of mammalian neuropeptides as a starting point. These peptoids may act as either agonists or antagonists at neuropeptide receptors. As they are non-peptides, they can serve as robust tools to help establish the role of the peptides in models of physiological and pathophysiological processes and indeed they may emerge as therapeutic agents in their own right. The strategy is exemplified by the first rational design of 'peptoid' ligands for cholecystokinin (CCK) and tachykinin receptors.
Over the past decade, a remarkable number and diversity of molecular motors have been described in eukaryotic cells. In addition to the identification of novel forms of myosin and dynein, the kinesins have been defined as an entirely new family of molecular motors. There may be as many as 30 different genes in a single organism encoding members of the kinesin superfamily. Why is such diversity in molecular motors needed? The biochemical and functional diversity of the originally defined form of kinesin provides some insights into the roles of molecular motors in cellular dynamics.
Recently, studies in the usually disparate fields of human genetics and developmental neurobiology have converged to reveal that some types of human mental retardation and brain malformations are due to mutations that affect the neural cell adhesion molecule L1. L1 has a very complex biology, interacting with a variety of ligands, and functioning in migration of neurons and growth of axons. Over the past few years, it has also become clear that L1 is able to influence intracellular second messengers. The identification of a number of different mutations in L1, some of which alter the extracellular portion of the molecule, and others that change only the cytoplasmic tail, confirm that L1 is a crucial player in normal brain development. The information gained from genetic analysis of human L1 is giving new insights into how L1 functions in the formation of major axon pathways, but it also raises unanticipated questions about how L1 participates in the development of cortical and ventricular systems.
A cloned virus of murine coronavirus JHMV, cl-2, was shown to be highly neurovirulent for rats in comparison with other JHMV variants. We have isolated cl-2-derived variant viruses resistant to neutralization by monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) specific for the spike (S) protein of cl-2. The variants MM6 and MM13, selected by the MAbs specific for the JHMV S protein, were revealed to have a point mutation located within the N-terminal 100 amino acids (aa) of the S1 protein. The variants MM56, MM85, and MM78, selected by MAbs specific for the larger S protein of JHMV, were shown to have a deletion composed of about 150 aa located in the middle of the S1 subunit (MM56 and MM85) or one amino acid deletion, aspartic acid at number 543 from the N-terminus of the S1 (MM78). These five MAb-resistant variants were not different from cl-2 in growth pattern on cultured DBT cells. MM6 and MM13 were shown to be highly neurovirulent for 4-week-old Lewis rats, growing to high titers in the brain and causing as high an incidence of neurological disease and death as the parental cl-2. In contrast, MM56 and MM85 were nonneurovirulent for rats. They did not cause any central nervous system disorders nor did they multiply in the rat brains. MM78 showed intermediate neurovirulence as well as intermediate growth potential in the rat brain. However, there was no apparent difference in neurovirulence between the parental and the MAb-resistant variants for mice; all of these viruses showed high neurovirulence for mice. These results suggest that the domain composed of about 150 aa in the middle of the S1 is critical for high neurovirulence of JHMV for rats. Furthermore, it is suggested that the neurovirulence of cl-2 for mice is controlled by a different viral factor.
Protein kinase CKII (formerly casein kinase II) can be isolated as a heterotetramer, containing two catalytic (alpha or alpha') and two regulatory (beta) subunits. We have characterized the forms of CKII in HeLa cells using antibodies specific for the alpha or alpha' subunits. Following metabolic labeling with [35S]methionine, whole cell soluble extracts were analyzed by immunoprecipitation and gel electrophoresis. Both alpha and alpha' coprecipitate with beta and with each other. However, when extracts are depleted of alpha, a pool of CKII containing only alpha' and beta is identified. Similarly, depletion of alpha' revealed a pool exclusively of alpha and beta. Therefore, we propose that there are three distinct isoforms of CKII within HeLa cells with different catalytic subunit stoichiometries (alpha 2 beta 2, alpha alpha' beta 2, and alpha' 2 beta 2). With our immunodepletion procedure we have characterized the isoforms by activity analysis, turnover of pulse-labeled subunits, and by localization in subcellular fractions obtained from labeled cells. We have also analyzed complex formation between the catalytic and regulatory subunits by examining the differences in the rate of signal incorporation into subunits in immunoprecipitates obtained from continuously labeled and pulse-labeled cells. We have found that the alpha 2 beta 2 and alpha alpha' beta 2 isoforms assemble relatively slowly (12-16 h), whereas complex formation of the alpha' 2 beta 2 isoform occurs more rapidly (2-4 h). Analysis of isoform complex formation in subcellular fractions from pulse-labeled cells revealed that the majority of nuclear CKII is assembled in the nucleus from free catalytic and regulatory subunit polypeptides.
We provide here a detailed characterization of two isoforms of the protein kinase inhibitor (PKI) protein of cAMP-dependent protein kinase that have dramatically different inhibition constants. Murine PKI beta 1 possesses a 32-fold higher Ki than murine PKI alpha as determined by Henderson analysis. This finding led to the investigation of C subunit.PKI interactions involving nonconserved regions in the carboxyl and amino termini of murine PKI alpha and PKI beta 1. Chimeric cDNAs coding for amino acid sequences from both PKI isoforms were constructed and expressed in bacteria. Surprisingly, exchanging the carboxyl-terminal two-thirds of PKI alpha and PKI beta 1 has relatively little effect on the inhibition constants of the two isoforms. Similarly, introducing amino acid residues corresponding to a beta-turn region of PKI alpha into PKI beta 1 fails to lower PKI beta 1 inhibition constants. However, introducing the amino-terminal alpha-helical region of PKI alpha into PKI beta 1 reduces the Ki and IC50 of PKI beta 1 to values identical with full length PKI alpha. Site-directed mutagenesis of specific residues within this region implicates the presence of a tyrosine at position 7 in PKI alpha as a major contributor to its enhanced inhibitory potency. The results of this study suggest that variations in C subunit.PKI interactions within an amino-terminal alpha-helix provide a major mechanism for altering the inhibitory properties of PKI isoforms.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype was determined by polymerase chain reaction amplification and restriction digestion of DNA extracted from brain tissues of 26 patients with clinically diagnosed and pathologically verified lobar atrophy (LA) and from blood of a further 22 patients with clinical LA. Brain tissue from 50 patients with pathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD) was also examined. As has been previously reported, the ApoE E4 allele frequency was significantly increased in AD. However, no change in the frequency of ApoE alleles was found in two of the clinical and pathological forms of LA (dementia of frontal type and dementia of frontal type with motor neurone disease) although the ApoE E4 allele frequency was elevated in cases of non-fluent progressive aphasia in accordance with the presence of coincidental Alzheimer-type pathological changes.
What is the role of the cerebellum in motor coordination? Such coordination depends upon the integrity of the inferior olive, a major cerebellar afferent, as its lesion produces ataxic and dysmetric movement abnormalities. Using multiple-microelectrode recordings, we report here that there are domains of Purkinje cell activity that are generated by olivary input during skilled tongue movements in rats. Such activity domains are highly rhythmic and time-locked to movement. Patterns of synchronous olivocerebellar activity are geometrically complex and can change during a sequence of movements. The results support the view that the inferior olive organizes movement in time, by entraining motor-neuronal firing through rhythmic activation of the cerebellum, and in space, by synchronously activating cell ensembles that allow the use of individual muscles. Dynamic repatterning of olivocerebellar synchrony may allow different combinations of muscles to be used for movements intended to have varying spatial structures.
In Alzheimer disease, a combination of genetic predisposition and environmental factors may contribute to changes in beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression, beta-amyloid peptide deposition, and neuronal loss. Factors such as head injury or acute infection that trigger inflammatory processes may play a crucial role in development of the disease. In the present in vivo study, we showed that, in mouse brain, peripheral stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced a transient increase in the inflammatory cytokine mRNAs (interleukin 1 beta and interleukin 6), followed by changes in expression of APP isoforms in the cerebellum but not in the cerebral cortex. These changes consisted of a decrease in the APP-695 and an increase in the Kunitz protease inhibitor-bearing isoforms (KPI-APP). In the cerebellum of the staggerer mouse mutant, where a severe loss of Purkinje and granule cells occurs, basal mRNA levels of these interleukins were elevated and an increase in the KPI-APP/APP-695 ratio compared to wild-type mice was observed. These abnormalities were further accentuated by LPS stimulation. This study shows that acute and chronic inflammatory processes play an important role in changes in APP expression possibly associated with neurodegeneration.
We used positron emission tomography to investigate word generation in subjects whose first language was English but who were also proficient in French. These subjects performed three types of lexical search: rhyme generation based on phonological cues, synonym generation requiring a semantic search, and translation involving access to a semantic representation in the other language. Two control tasks required word repetition in each language. We investigated whether phonological and semantic word-generation activate similar regions and whether the same neural substrates subserve the second language as subserve the first. A series of cerebral blood flow increases, corresponding to Brodmann's areas 47, 46, 45, and 8, were observed in the left frontal cortex when the baseline repetition task was subtracted from each of the respective generation tasks. The results suggest that common neural substrates are involved in within- and across-language searches and that the left inferior frontal region is activated irrespective of whether the search is guided by phonological or semantic cues.
We studied the effects of a high-affinity gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-benzodiazepine-receptor agonist (lorazepam) and an antagonist (flumazenil) in humans, using H2(15)O positron-emission tomography. Administration of lorazepam to healthy volunteers caused time- and dose-dependent reductions in regional cerebral blood flow and self-reported alterations in behavioral/mood parameters. Flumazenil administration reversed these changes. These observations indicated that benzodiazepine-induced effects on regional cerebral blood flow and mood/behavior are mediated at some level through GABA-benzodiazepine receptors, although the specific mechanism remains unclear. The approach described here provides a method for quantifying GABA-benzodiazepine-receptor-mediated neurotransmission in the living human brain and may be useful for studying the role of these receptors in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders.
When a housefly, Musca domestica, is subject to cold exposure (0 degrees C for 24 hr), a number of obvious changes are seen in the first optic neuropil, or lamina, beneath the compound eye. In particular, the number of afferent photoreceptor synapses declines by about 30%. This loss is dramatically restored after warm recovery at 23 degrees C for 24 hr. Synapses disappear at an average rate of 2-3/hr during cold exposure and reappear at a maximal rate of more than 20/hr during the first 2 hr of warm recovery. Thereafter their number temporarily overshoots control values, to increase at 6 hr of warm recovery to 60% above their cold-exposed minimum. The number subsequently returns more or less to normal. These changes demonstrate the lability of synaptic sites under these conditions, with individual sites forming and disappearing rapidly. The changes also interrupt the close correlation between synaptic number and the surface area of the receptor terminal, a correlation that normally conserves synaptic spacing density. The density is preserved during cold exposure but increases during warm recovery at a time when the addition of newly formed synapses exceeds the slower increase in receptor terminal size.
The retina is derived from a pseudostratified germinal zone in which the relative position of a progenitor cell is believed to determine the position of the progeny aligned in the radial axis. Such a developmental mechanism would ensure that radial arrays of cells which comprise functional units in the mature central nervous system are also clonally related. The present study has tested this hypothesis by using X chromosome-inactivation transgenic mosaic mice. We report that the retina shows a conspicuous distinction for clonally related neuroblasts of different laminar and functional fates: the rod photoreceptor, Mller, and bipolar cells are aligned in the radial axis, whereas the cone photoreceptor, horizontal, amacrine, and ganglion cells are tangentially displaced with respect to them. These results indicate that the dispersion of cell classes across the retinal surface is differentially constrained. Some classes of retinal neuroblast exhibit a significant tangential, as well as radial, component in their dispersion from the germinal zone, whereas others disperse only in the radial dimension. Consequently, the majority of radial columns within the mature retina must be derived from multiple progenitors. Because the cone photoreceptor, horizontal, amacrine, and ganglion cells establish nonrandom matrices in their cellular distributions within the respective retinal layers, tangential dispersion may be the means by which these matrices are constructed.

Radioligand-binding studies were performed to ascertain the actions of noribogaine, a suspected metabolite of ibogaine, on opioid receptors. Consistent with previous results, ibogaine showed highest affinity for kappa opioid receptors (Ki = 3.77 +/- 0.81 microM), less affinity for mu receptors (Ki = 11.04 +/- 0.66 microM) and no affinity for delta receptors (Ki &gt; 100 microM). Noribogaine showed a higher affinity than ibogaine for all of the opioid receptors: kappa Ki = 0.96 +/- 0.08 microM, mu Ki = 2.66 +/- 0.62 microM and delta Ki = 24.72 +/- 2.26 microM. These data suggest that noribogaine is active in vivo and that it may contribute to ibogaine's pharmacological effects.
Taurine is an inhibitory amino acid that hyperpolarizes magnocellular neurosecretory neurons. To determine which cell types in the rat supraoptic nucleus contain taurine, we used a monoclonal antibody raised against a taurine conjugate. Preembedding immunocytochemistry was carried out at the light and electron microscopic levels using diaminobenzidine and gold-substituted silver-intensified peroxidase as markers. We report the presence of taurine in all cellular compartments of the supraoptic nucleus, except axons, with variable labeling intensities among the different compartments. Few cell bodies of magnocellular neurons were immunoreactive, but many distal dendrites and some proximal ones showed weak-to-moderate levels of immunoreactivity. Strong immunoreactivity was found over glial cell bodies and their processes, in particular in the ventral glial lamina of the supraoptic nucleus. Large astrocytic processes labeled with the taurine antibody included the endfeet participating in the glial limitans around capillaries and at the ventral surface of the hypothalamus. Other types of immunoreactive astrocytic profiles were found scattered within the neuropil where these processes participated in different interactions with the neuronal elements of the supraoptic nucleus. Immunoreactive glial expansions, sometimes even the main process of the glial cell, engulfed axonal boutons. Other labeled glial processes were found between two magnocellular perikarya or closely apposed to the membrane of axonal boutons contacting the neuronal cell bodies. The frequent finding of closely apposed glial and dendritic elements bearing different levels of taurine-like immunoreactivity suggests that exchange of taurine between those two compartments may occur. We propose that taurine could be released from supraoptic glia by a small decrease in osmolarity or by receptor-mediated mechanisms during conditions of low hormonal (vasopressin and/or oxytocin) needs. Such released taurine could then act on presynaptic or postsynaptic sites, or both, to exert its neuromodulatory actions.
Several EEG studies have reported an early component of the visual evoked potential. However, it is controversial whether this component is cortical or subcortical. Our study has aimed to clarify this problem using MEG and EEG in nine normal volunteers. A total of 4000 stimuli were presented to the monocular visual hemifield through a light-proof stimulating goggle and the visual evoked magnetic field and visual evoked potential was measured above the occipital lobe. The early component was observed in three of the nine subjects. The latency ranged from 40 to 45 ms in MEG and from 39 to 47 ms in EEG. The result of dipole localization analysis showed that its origin was cortical, and specifically, the striate cortex.
Our previous work using Na+ channel activators such tityustoxin (TsTX), indicated that local increases in Na+ modulate glutamate release from synaptosomes. We have now investigated the role of the Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (PKC) in mediating this effect. TsTX and KCl stimulate 'fast' glutamate release to the same extent but TsTX is more effective than KCl in enhancing the 'slow' phase of release. KCl greatly stimulates PKC translocation. However, TsTX inhibits basal and phorbol ester-induced translocation while the Na(+)-ionophore, gramicidin D, has no effect. Taken together, these data suggest TsTX mediated localized Na+ entry inhibits PKC translocation and that this effect may be associated with recruitment of vesicles to the readily releasable pool.
Recent studies of schizophrenia have implicated deficits in processes related to working memory, but the cognitive features of these deficits have been incompletely characterized. We used a modified Brown-Peterson paradigm to compare working memory in patients with schizophrenia and in normal control subjects. Distractor conditions differed in processing demand, increasing in complexity from no distractor to counting backwards (serial threes). We found significant effects of group, of distractor condition, and of a group x distractor condition interaction. The significant interaction was the result of a more rapid decline in the performance of schizophrenic patients with concurrent articulation. In addition, the schizophrenic group also made significantly more intrusion errors. The study suggests that schizophrenic patients exhibit dysfunction of the verbal working memory system due to a diminution in its overall processing resources.
Extract made from hippocampus of rat pups exposed prenatally to an ethanol-supplemented diet was found to contain more neurotrophic activity at postnatal day 21 than that from animals exposed to control diets, when quantified in a dorsal root ganglion bioassay. This apparent upregulation was specific to hippocampal extract (cerebellar and forebrain/midbrain extracts were also assessed), and to this age (P1, P7, P14 and P60 extracts were also tested). It was suggested that this upregulation may be indicative of, or secondary to, trauma resulting from fetal ethanol exposure. It is speculated that such departures from the normal developmental timetable could contribute to anomalies seen in the fetal alcohol syndrome.

While spreading depression has been shown to be a powerful stimulus in upregulating glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA expression, the specific physiological signal underlying the upregulation is unknown. During spreading depression, extracellular ionic concentrations are altered markedly. The present study evaluates the role of these changes in extracellular ionic concentrations as potential signals influencing GFAP mRNA expression. Gel foam pledgets saturated with artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) solutions in which [Na+], [Ca2+], [K+] and [H+] were altered one at a time to match concentrations seen in spreading depression were applied to exposed parietal cortex for one hour. Dot and in situ hybridization techniques were used to evaluate GFAP mRNA levels. We found that CSF containing 60 mM KCl produced a dramatic upregulation of GFAP mRNA levels throughout the cerebral cortex of the ipsilateral hemisphere without causing detectable tissue damage. The pattern and time course of the change were similar to those following application of 3 M KCl. Alteration of other ionic species did not affect GFAP mRNA levels. However, the upregulation of GFAP mRNA was not likely due directly to the increased [K+], but rather to the spreading depression that the elevated [K+] induced. This was demonstrated by the finding that the upregulation in GFAP mRNA induced by the potassium exposure was totally blocked by prior administration of MK-801, an NMDA antagonist that blocks spreading depression. These results demonstrate that an upregulation in GFAP mRNA can occur in the absence of degeneration debris and that the initiating events can be related to physiological changes, but that changes in extracellular ionic concentrations are not the likely molecular signals underlying the upregulation.
The putative involvement of the dopaminergic innervation of the medial part of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in short-term memory functioning was investigated by evaluating the effects of local infusions of dopaminergic drugs into the ventral part of the medial PFC of rats in an operant delayed-matching-to-position (DMTP) task. Two separate groups of rats were tested after bilateral microinfusion of several doses of either the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (APO) or the dopamine receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (FLU) into the ventromedial PFC. In addition, all animals were tested after infusion of several doses of the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (SCO) and the dopamine DI receptor antagonist SCH-23390 (SCH). The drugs tested affected DMTP performance differentially. APO had no effect on response accuracy, although it dose-dependently affected nose poke activity and response latencies. FLU and SCH both induced a dose-dependent, but delay-independent deterioration of response accuracy that was paralleled by increases in response latencies and decreases in nose poke frequencies, causing some animals to stop responding after infusion of the highest doses of both drugs. In contrast, SCO infusions into the ventromedial PFC induced a dose- and delay-dependent deterioration of response accuracy, that was accompanied by an increase in response latencies only. Taken together, these results provide additional support for the involvement of cholinergic, rather than dopaminergic mechanisms in short-term memory supported by the medial PFC of the rat, and they are not in favor of a functional dissociation between the dorsomedial PFC and the ventromedial PFC in the role.

This study demonstrates that the fetal optic nerve contains a conspicuous population of transient retinopetal axons. Implants of the carbocyanine dye, DiI, were made into the retina or diencephalon of fetal ferrets to label the retinopetal axons retrogradely or anterogradely, respectively, and sections were immunostained for beta-tubulin to label the early differentiating axons in the optic nerve. Dye implants into the optic nerve head, but not the retinal periphery, retrogradely labeled somata in the ventrolateral diencephalon, provided the implants were made before embryonic day (E) 30. When dye implants were made into the ventrolateral diencephalon, these same retinopetal axons were anterogradely labeled, coursing through the optic nerve but never invading the retina. The axons course as 2-5 fascicles from their cells of origin and turn laterally to enter the optic nerve where it joins the future hypothalamus. The retinopetal cells can be retrogradely labeled as early as E20, before optic axons have left the retina. The optic nerve and fiber layer are immunoreactive for beta-tubulin on E24 and thereafter, whereas on E20 and E22, they are immunonegative. Yet at these early embryonic ages, immunopositive fascicles of axons course from the diencephalon into the optic stalk, confirming the precocious nature of the retinopetal projection. Implants of dye made into the future optic nerve head at these very early stages also retrogradely label retinopetal cells in the future chiasmatic region. These cells are distributed primarily on the side ipsilateral to the midline, but a few can be found contralateral to it. Both these, as well as the retinopetal axons arising from the ventrolateral diencephalon, may serve a transient guidance function for later developing optic axons.
The early progress of myelination was studied, by means of myelin basic protein (MBP) immunohistochemistry and luxol-fast-blue (LFB) staining, in the spinal cord, spinal nerve roots and brainstem of 66 fetuses and neonates. The degree of myelination was classified from 1 (slight) to 4 (mature). MBP immunoreactivity exhibited slight LFB positivity. Myelination first occurred in the medial longitudinal fasciculus at 20 weeks of age, reaching degree 4 at 34 weeks, but began at 23-24 weeks in the other sites. Myelination of spinal nerve roots progressed with gestation and attained degree 4 at 35-36 weeks. The cuneate fasciculus also reached degree 4 at 34-36 weeks, but corticospinal tracts and solitary tracts, which exhibited long myelinating phases, were slow and incomplete at 40 weeks. This normal development of MBP and LFB myelination can be used for the assessment of delayed myelination in fetal and neonatal diseases.
Neonatal rat cortical astrocytes in primary culture synthesize and secrete nerve growth factor (NGF) in response to cytokines, growth factors, and activators of protein kinases. To further implicate a protein phosphorylation mechanism in the regulation of NGF expression, astrocytes were treated with okadaic acid and calyculin A, inhibitors of phosphoprotein phosphatases 1 and 2A. Okadaic acid dramatically increased both NGF mRNA content (50-fold) and NGF secretion (100-fold) in astrocytes, while calyculin A, which has a spectrum of phosphatase inhibitory activity different from okadaic acid, failed to augment NGF expression. The increased mRNA accumulation was due mainly to an increase (4-fold) in the half-life of the NGF mRNA following 9 or 24 h of treatment. Nuclear run-on assays indicated that okadaic acid also activated NGF gene transcription, which was preceded by an induction of c-fos and c-jun gene transcription. The induction of NGF expression by okadaic acid appeared independent from protein kinase C activity because down-regulating protein kinase C activity failed to decrease the okadaic acid stimulation. In contrast, interleukin-1 beta acted synergistically with okadaic acid to stimulate NGF secretion. The results indicate that okadaic acid profoundly stimulates NGF expression in astrocytes mainly by enhancing NGF mRNA stability and suggest important roles for phosphoprotein phosphatases in regulating NGF production.
The 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzyl ester of N-acetyl-L-tryptophan 1 (L-732,138) has been identified previously as a potent and selective substance P receptor antagonist. A series of analogs which introduced a 6-membered heterocyclic ring into the backbone of this structure were prepared for evaluation as bioisosteric replacements of the ester linkage of 1. The 2,5-dioxopiperazine 2 had very weak receptor affinity, but 2-oxopiperazine 5 exhibited modest activity. Examination of the conformations accessible to the substituents on these templates led to exploration of the corresponding 5-membered heterocyclic rings. This study culminated in the identification of oxazolidinedione 14 as a suitable ester mimic in terms of the retention of good NK1 binding affinity.
The 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzyl ester of N-acetyl-L-tryptophan (3), which was derived from the screening lead N-ethyl-L-tryptophan benzyl ester, has been used as a starting point to identify high-affinity substance P receptor antagonists with improved in vivo activity. Altering the ester moiety to an amide or ether led to a substantial loss in binding affinity, but conversion to a ketone provided compounds with affinity comparable to the equivalent esters. A homochiral synthesis of the key intermediate amino ketone 15 was developed which allows its preparation on a large scale. From this intermediate a range of amine-containing acylamino derivatives were prepared with affinity optimized in the morpholinylbutyramide 161 which has an IC50 of 0.17 nM at the human NK1 receptor. In addition to improving affinity, the amino group also provided aqueous solubility for a number of these derivatives. When tested in vivo the quinuclidine derivative L-737,488 (16i) was found to be an orally active (ID50 = 1.8 mg/kg) inhibitor of substance P-induced dermal extravasation in the guinea pig.
The effects of mercury vapour on the production of nerve growth factor during development have been examined. Pregnant rats were exposed to two different concentrations of mercury vapour during either embryonic days E6-E11 (early) or E13-E18 (late) in pregnancy, increasing the postnatal concentration of mercury in the brain from 1 ng/g tissue to 4 ng/g tissue (low-dose group) or 11 ng/g (high-dose group). The effect of this exposure in offspring was determined by looking at the NGF concentration at postnatal days 21 and 60 and comparing these levels to age-matched controls from sham-treated mothers. Changes in the expression of mRNA encoding NGF, the low- and high-affinity receptors for NGF (p75 and p140 trk, respectively) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were also determined. When rats were exposed to high levels of mercury vapour during early embryonic development there was a significant (62%) increase in hippocampal NGF levels at P21 accompanied by a 50% decrease of NGF in the basal forebrain. The expression of NGF mRNA was found to be unaltered in the dentate gyrus. The expression of p75 mRNA was significantly decreased to 39% of control levels in the diagonal band of Broca (DB) and to approximately 50% in the medial septal nucleus (MS) whereas no alterations in the level of trk mRNA expression were detectable in the basal forebrain. ChAT mRNA was slightly decreased in the DB and MS, significantly in the striatum. These findings suggest that low levels of prenatal mercury vapour exposure can alter the levels of the NGF and its receptors, indicating neuronal damage and disturbed trophic regulations during development.
In Parkinsonian patients, previously subjected to neuronal grafting therapy, the survival and functional status of dopaminergic grafts might be impaired by the concurrent pharmacotherapy with L-DOPA and/or dopamine (DA) D-2 receptor agonists. To test this hypothesis in vitro, we studied the effects of chronic DA D-2 receptor activation on the functional capacity of cultured fetal rat mesencephalic DA neurons, using the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and the intracellular dopamine content as neurochemical parameters. In cellular extracts prepared from our cultures, TH activity (as determined by the release of 3H2O from 3H-[3,5] tyrosine) appeared to be tetrahydrobiopterin-, Fe2+, and temperature sensitive, while in intact cells, the catalytic activity of TH could be induced by K(+)-evoked depolarization in a Ca(2+)-dependent way. In contrast, no acute DA D-2 receptor mediated inhibitory effects could be demonstrated in intact cells, either when tested under basal or depolarizing conditions. Nevertheless, after chronic exposure to DA D-2 receptor agonists for 14 days clear differences were observed in the functional status of cultured fetal dopaminergic neurons. Thus, whereas the overall survival and basal TH activity of cultured fetal dopaminergic neurons remained virtually unaltered, the depolarization induced activation of TH was enhanced in agonist-treated cultures. Moreover, after long-term treatment for 14 or 21 consecutive days, the intracellular DA content of agonist treated cultures appeared to be higher, as compared to untreated controls. It is concluded that chronic activation of DA D-2 receptors may induce adaptive alterations in the functional activity of cultured fetal dopaminergic neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pregnant Long-Evans rats were maintained on three diets: a liquid diet in which ethanol accounted for 35-39% of the total calories, a similar diet with the isocaloric substitution of sucrose for ethanol, and a lab chow control diet. At gestation day 18, the fetuses were taken and cultures of septal and hippocampal neurons prepared. Neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth were compared in cultures from the three diet groups, using the following media supplements: ethanol (1.2, 1.8 or 2.4 g/dl), neurotrophic factors (nerve growth factor [NGF] with the septal cultures, basic fibroblast growth factor [bFGF] with the hippocampal cultures), or ethanol plus neurotrophic factors. Both the septal and hippocampal neurons responded to ethanol in a dose-dependent manner. The neurons from both populations from fetuses which had been exposed prenatally to ethanol, however, tolerated considerably higher ethanol concentrations before decreases in survival or outgrowth were seen. These ethanol-exposed neuronal populations were also less responsive to neurotrophic factors: in hippocampal cultures, process outgrowth was significantly enhanced by bFGF in control but not ethanol-derived cultures, and in septal and hippocampal cultures, the neurotrophic factors significantly ameliorated ethanol neurotoxicity in control cultures, but not in those from the ethanol-exposed fetuses. The possible relevance of these observations to the fetal alcohol syndrome is discussed.
This study defined the ability of a large sample of heterogeneous pesticides and neurotoxins to interact with the [3H]tyramine-labelled vesicular transporter of dopamine in rat striatum. Botanical (with rotenone as the most potent), and organochlorine (Kepone) insecticides, as well as fungicides (Zineb), as a whole, consistently inhibited [3H]tyramine binding, with Ki values ranging from 5 nM to 10 microM. ATP/Mg(2+)-dependent [3H]tyramine uptake to purified striatal synaptic vesicles was also inhibited by rotenone. Organophosphate and carbamate insecticides, and miscellaneous herbicides poorly antagonized [3H]tyramine binding, yielding Ki values exceeding 10 microM. Several, though not all, of the best recognized central neurotoxins tested were major binding antagonists. Their rank order of potency was 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) &gt; trimethyltin &gt; or = 6-hydroxydopamine &gt; N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) &gt; 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), with Ki values ranging from 35 nM to 3 microM. Overall, the potent interaction of selected pesticides and chemicals with the vesicular transporter for dopamine, although, by itself, not synonymous with neurotoxicity, would argue for a likely impairment of transmitter homeostasis, or the putative formation of neurodegenerative toxin pools.
Neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) often store more than one neurotransmitter, but as yet the functional significance of this type of coexistence is poorly understood. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) modulates calcium-dependent K+ channels (KCa) responsible for the postspike afterhyperpolarization in different regions of the CNS. In lamprey, 5-HT neurons control apamine-sensitive KCa channels in spinal locomotor network interneurons, thereby in addition regulating the duration of locomotor bursts. We report here that these spinal 5-HT neurons also contain dopamine. Like 5-HT, dopamine causes a reduction of the afterhyperpolarization, but in this case it is due to a reduction of calcium entry during the action potential, which results in a reduced activation of KCa. 5-HT and dopamine are both released from these midline neurons, and both reduce the afterhyperpolarization through two distinctly different, but complementary cellular mechanisms. The net effect of dopamine (10-100 microM) on the locomotor network is similar to that of 5-HT, and the effects of dopamine and 5-HT are additive at the network level.
The present experiments determined the effects of selective dopamine receptor antagonists on the initiation and expression of sensitization to the locomotor-stimulating effects of morphine in rats. Although both the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzaz epine hydrochloride (SCH 23390, 0.25 mg/kg) and the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride (0.1 mg/kg) suppressed the ability of morphine (10 mg/kg) to elicit sensitized locomotor activity during the course of a 12 day treatment schedule, subsequent tests with morphine alone revealed significant sensitization. Sensitization in the SCH 23390 + morphine group could not be attributed to dopamine D1 receptor supersensitivity caused by repeated SCH 23390 administration because electrophysiological recordings indicated that nucleus accumbens neurons in SCH 23390-treated rats were not more sensitive to the inhibitory effects of either dopamine or a dopamine D1 receptor-selective agonist. Thus, dopamine receptor stimulation may be involved in expression, but not development, of morphine sensitization.
We previously demonstrated that in vivo estradiol treatment markedly attenuates alpha 2-adrenoceptor function and coupling to G-proteins in the hypothalamus of female rats. Ligand binding studies indicated that 48 h exposure to estradiol decreases the number of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in the agonist high affinity state. In the present studies, when [3H]RX821002 was used to label brain alpha 2-adrenoceptors, the density of binding sites significantly increased in the hypothalamus and preoptic area 48 h after estrogen treatment. Moreover, the thermodynamics of ligand binding to alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in membranes of female rat hypothalamus were modified by the same estradiol treatments that reduce alpha 2-adrenoceptor function. In hypothalamic membranes from ovariectomized control rats, antagonist (RX821002)-receptor binding was primarily entropy-driven while agonist (oxymetazoline) binding had a higher enthalpy component. In membranes from estradiol-exposed animals, the entropic contribution to both agonist and antagonist bindings was markedly increased, and the enthalpy component was reduced. Since the thermodynamic characteristics of ligand-receptor binding are strongly correlated with efficacy in activating signal transduction [36], these data raise the intriguing possibility that steroids regulate transmembrane signaling by stabilization of a receptor conformation with reduced intrinsic efficacy.
PLC activity was stimulated either by 1-100 microM of GTP or by 100-3,000 microM Ca2+ in lysed synaptosomal membranes of the guinea pig cerebellum. The kappa-opioid receptor agonist selectively inhibited the PLC activity stimulated by 100 microM GTP, but not by 100-3,000 microM Ca2+. Pretreatment of membranes with PTX abolished such a kappa-agonist-induced inhibition of PLC activity. The reconstitution of Gi1, but not of Go purified from porcine brains with PTX-treated membranes showed a complete recovery of the kappa-agonist-inhibition of PLC activity. These findings suggest that a novel subtype kappa-receptor mediates inhibition of PLC through inhibiting the intrinsic activity of PTX-substrate G-proteins.
Since lithium inhibits IMPase and modulates phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) cell signalling at therapeutically relevant concentrations (0.5-1.0 mM), IMPase has attracted attention as a putative molecular target for lithium in the treatment of manic depression. IMPase is a homodimer, with each subunit organised in an alpha beta alpha beta alpha arrangement of alpha-helices and beta-sheets, and this type of structure seems crucial to the two-metal catalysed mechanism in which an activated water molecule serves as a nucleophile. Lithium appears to inhibit the enzyme following substrate hydrolysis by occupying the second metal binding site before the phosphate group can dissociate from its interaction with the site 1 metal. The understanding of IMPase structure and the mechanism of substrate hydrolysis and lithium inhibition should be useful in the development of novel inhibitors which may prove clinically useful in the treatment of manic depression.
The distribution of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-like immunoreactivity in the brain of a myxinoid, the Pacific hagfish (Eptatretus stouti), was investigated via immunohistochemistry, including the use of six different antisera. In the diencephalon, immunoreactive cell bodies were found in two systems: the infundibular hypothalamus, a neuromodulatory nucleus with diffuse projections of varicose fibers to most areas of the brain, and a primarily preoptic system of putatively hypophysiotropic neurons that projects to the neurohypophysis. Some potential neurovascular and CSF contacts were also identified. These findings are consistent with those of similar studies in other craniates and suggest that a preoptic hypophysiotropic system may be present in all craniates. We therefore tentatively accept the homology of this system in hagfish and vertebrates. The homology of the distributed hypothalamic system is more dubious. It may be homologous to a caudal GnRH system of modulatory neurons found in many vertebrates. Antiserum PBL-49 displays a differential affinity for the two systems, indicating that the two systems differ in the amount or identity of the immunoreactive substance. We suggest that the two systems have distinct functions in hagfish. The primitive function of GnRH-like molecules in craniates may have thus been both neuromodulatory and hypophysiotropic. These findings also indicate that the brain-pituitary axis of hagfish is more similar to that of vertebrates than has been previously suggested.
Octopamine, a biogenic amine analogous to norepinephrine, plays an important role in the orchestration and modulation of invertebrate behavior. In the leech, the behavioral actions of octopamine have been demonstrated; however, identification of octopaminergic neurons had not been determined by using immunohistochemical techniques. Thus, we used an antibody highly specific to octopamine to examine the distribution of octopamine-immunoreactive neurons in the segmental ganglia of American and European medicinal leeches (Macrobdella decora and Hirudo medicinalis). One pair of octopamine-immunoreactive neurons was located in the dorsolateral ganglionic region of anterior ganglia 1-6 and posterior ganglia 15-21. No corresponding octopamine-immunoreactive neurons were found in midbody ganglia 7-14. Using Neutral Red staining in combination with intracellular Neurobiotin injections and octopamine immunostaining, we determined the identity of the dorsolateral octopamine-immunoreactive cells. The dorsolateral octopamine-immunoreactive neuron (the DLO) was not cell 21, the only previously reported Neutral Red staining neuron in the dorsolateral position. We also determined that the Leydig neuron was not octopamine immunoreactive in either of the two medicinal leech species. Octopamine immunostaining in the sex ganglia revealed hundreds of immunoreactive neurons in sexually mature leeches. Such neurons were not observed in juvenile leeches. The developmental time course of octopamine immunoreactivity in the dorsolateral octopamine-immunoreactive neurons was also investigated by staining embryonic Hirudo medicinalis. Octopamine expression occurred relatively late as compared with the detectable onset of serotonin expression. Octopamine expression in the dorsolateral octopamine-immunoreactive cells was not detectable at early to mid-embryonic stages, and must commence during late embryonic to early juvenile stages. The identification of octopamine-immunoreactive cells now sets the stage for further investigations into the functional role of octopamine in leech behavior and the development of behavior.
Immunohistochemistry was used to survey the distribution of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the synthesizing enzyme for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), throughout the visual system of the frog Rana pipiens. GAD-like immunoreactivity (GAD-LI) was assessed in the retina, in primary retinorecipient targets, and in thalamic nuclear groups postsynaptic to primary retinal terminal zones. Within the retina, the inner plexiform layer displayed intense GAD-LI, but immunoreactivity was absent in the ganglion cell layer (GCL). Putative amacrine, bipolar, and horizontal cell somata were also labeled. Centrally, GAD-LI was observed in all primary visual nuclei. Dense, GAD-like immunoreactive punctate structures (puncta), presumably terminals, were observed in the pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, posterior thalamic neuropil, and uncinate neuropil. GAD-like immunoreactive puncta were noted in several laminae of the optic tectum, with the highest concentrations located within the 9th and 8th laminae. Moderate numbers of GAD-like immunoreactive puncta were found in the mesencephalic nucleus of the basal optic root, and two thalamic neuropils--corpus geniculatum and neuropil of Bellonci. The ventrolateral area, posterocentral nucleus, and posterolateral nucleus all contained sparse amounts of GAD-LI. These observations suggest that GABA plays an important physiological role in all central visual areas of Rana pipiens.
Vagal motor neurons in the rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN) are known to receive direct synaptic input from enkephalin-containing terminals. We examined 1) whether the vagal motor neurons within the nucleus ambiguus (NA) also received monosynaptic input from enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals and 2), if so, whether their ultrastructural relations differed from those in the DMN. In both regions, terminals containing Leu5-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (LE-LI) were examined in relation to motor neurons identified by retrograde transport of wheat germ-agglutinated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) applied to the cut end of the cervical vagus nerve in single sections of the medulla oblongata of adult rats. By light microscopy, the most significant overlap between varicose processes with LE-LI and WGA-HRP-containing neurons was seen in the rostral compact portion of the NA and the DMN at the level of the obex. Thus, only these regions were examined by electron microscopy. The most distinguishing ultrastructural feature of WGA-HRP-labeled neurons in the NA compared to the DMN was their higher incidence of nonsynaptic appositions with other neurons. In both the NA and the DMN, terminals with LE-LI formed primarily symmetric synapses on smaller (presumably distal) dendrites; many of these dendrites, as well as most target perikarya, contained WGA-HRP. Additionally, in the compact portion of the NA compared to the DMN 1) multiple LE-labeled terminals more frequently contacted single perikarya or dendrites and 2) single terminals with LE-LI more commonly showed two contacts or active zones and contained more abundant LE-immunoreactive large (80-100 nm) dense-core vesicles (dcvs). In contrast to small (40-50 nm), clear vesicles, which were usually aggregated near active zones, the immunoreactive dcvs were usually located near glial processes distal to these zones. These results indicate that enkephalin immunoreactivity is intensely localized to dcvs within terminals that may have direct inhibitory (symmetric synapses) actions on vagal motor neurons in both the compact portion of the NA and the DMN. Moreover, because numbers of dcvs and active zones have been equated with synaptic strength, our findings suggest enhanced potencies of enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals in the compact portion of the NA. Our findings support a prominent role for enkephalin in the coordinated activity of esophageal motor neurons located in the compact portion of the NA.



Peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) is a copper, ascorbate, and molecular oxygen dependent enzyme that plays a key role in the biosynthesis of many peptides. Using site-directed mutagenesis, the catalytic core of PHM was found not to extend beyond Asp359. Shorter PHM proteins were eliminated intracellularly, suggesting that they failed to fold correctly. A set of mutant PHM proteins whose design was based on the structural and mechanistic similarities of PHM and dopamine beta-monooxygenase (D beta M) was characterized. Mutation of Tyr79, the residue equivalent to a p-cresol target in D beta M, to Phe79 altered the kinetic parameters of PHM. Disruption of either His-rich cluster contained within the PHM/D beta M homology domain eliminated activity, while deletion of a third His-rich cluster unique to PHM failed to affect activity; the catalytically inactive mutant PHM proteins still bound to a peptidylglycine substrate affinity resin. EPR and EXAFS studies of oxidized PHM indicate that the active site contains type 2 copper in a tetragonal environment; the copper is coordinated to two to three His and one to two additional O/N ligands, probably solvent, again supporting the structural homology of PHM and D beta M. Mutation of the Met residues common to PHM and D beta M to Ile identified Met314 as critical for catalytic activity.
We studied neuronal alterations in the Lewy body variant of Alzheimer's disease (LBV) with a monoclonal antibody (SMI32) against non-phosphorylated neurofilament proteins, and compared them with the alterations found in pure Alzheimer's disease (AD). A characteristic granular and fragmented appearance of SMI32-immunolabeled pyramidal neurons in layers 3 and 5 of the neocortex occurred in 78% of the LBV cases and was not found in the pure AD cases. Lewy bodies (LBs) in pyramidal neurons in layers 5 and 6 immunoreacted with SMI32 in 44% of the LBV cases. These alterations may be associated with the cognitive deficits found in LBV and are suggestive of an underlying, widespread pathology that includes both disruption of the neurofilamentous cytoskeleton and formation of LBs.
The presence of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) receptors in rat retinal membranes was investigated by using [125I-Tyro]-ovine CRH ([125I]oCRH) as radioligand. The receptor binding was rapid, reversible, saturable and specific. The [125I]oCRH binding was completely displaced by different CRH-related peptides with a rank order of potency similar to that displayed in stimulating rat retinal adenylyl cyclase activity. Two populations of binding sites were detected: one with high affinity (Kd = 1.7 nM) and the other with low-affinity (Kd = 130 nM). The GTP analogue guanosine 5'-O-(3'-thiotriphosphate) reduced the high-affinity binding and increased the relative proportion of sites with low-affinity. Incubation of rat retinal membranes with the RM/1 antibody, which recognizes the carboxyl-terminus of the alpha subunit of the G protein Gs, prevented the CRH stimulation of adenylyl cyclase. In immunoblots, the RM/1 antibody recognized an immunoreactive protein band of 45 kDa and a protein with a similar electrophoretic mobility was ADP-ribosylated by cholera toxin. These data provide evidence for the presence of specific CRH receptors in rat retina and contribute to define the CRH signalling system in this tissue.
Both nerve growth factor (NGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) have been proposed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. This study describes a comparative, dose-response analysis of recombinant human (rh)NGF and rhbFGF in a rat unilateral fimbria-fornix model of acute cholinergic neuronal degeneration. Doses for rhNGF were 0.6, 6, 60, 600 and 1,800 ng/rat/day and for rhbFGF were 600, 1,800, 3,000 and 6,000 ng/rat/day, delivered for 4 weeks. The number of surviving septal cholinergic neurons was evaluated using ChAT immunohistochemistry. In control animals, the number of ChAT-positive neurons remaining on the lesioned side was between 22 and 18% compared to the non-lesioned side. Infusion with either neurotrophic factor increased the number of ChAT-positive neurons on the lesioned side in a dose-dependent manner. The maximal response to rhbFGF peaked at 3,000 ng/rat/day with a cell savings of 47%. However, there was evidence of neuropathological changes associated with rhbFGF. In contrast, rhNGF produced a maximal response with an infusion of 600 ng rhNGF/rat/day and a cell savings of 70% and no evidence of neuropathology, indicating that rhNGF was better tolerated and more efficacious than rhbFGF.
Neurons in the striatum that project to the substantia nigra contain the opioid peptide dynorphin. Stimulation of D1 dopamine receptors results in increased expression of mRNA encoding dynorphin as well as expression of immediate-early genes such as c-fos in these neurons. Levels of dynorphin vary in different regions of the normal rat striatum, being highest in ventral and medial striatum. In a prior study, we have shown that both regional and temporal patterns of c-fos induction following treatment with the indirect dopamine receptor agonist cocaine are inversely related to those of dynorphin expression. These results suggested that dynorphin is involved in regulating the responsiveness of these neurons to dopamine input. In the present experiments, we examined such a potential role for dynorphin by analyzing the influence of the dynorphin (kappa opioid receptor) agonist spiradoline on immediate-early gene induction by cocaine, and we determined that this immediate-early gene response is mediated by D1 dopamine receptors located in the striatum. As a marker of neuron activation, expression of c-fos and zif 268 immediate-early genes was assessed with quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. Results showed that 1) intrastriatal infusion of the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH-23390 (2.5-250 pmol) resulted in a dose-dependent blockade of immediate-early gene induction by cocaine (30 mg/kg); 2 systemic administration of the kappa opioid receptor agonist spiradoline (0.5-10.0 mg/kg) decreased cocaine-induced expression of c-fos and zif 268 mRNAs in striatum in a dose-dependent manner; 3) intrastriatal infusion of spiradoline (1-50 nmol) also suppressed immediate-early gene induction by cocaine, demonstrating that kappa opioid receptors located in the striatum mediate such an effect; and 4) systemic and intrastriatal administration of spiradoline also affected immediate-early gene expression in cortex. These results demonstrate that, in striatum, immediate-early gene induction by cocaine is a D1 dopamine receptor-mediated process that is inhibited by activation of kappa opioid receptors. Therefore, these findings suggest that the striatal dynorphin opioid system acts directly and/or indirectly to inhibit dopamine input to striatonigral neurons through kappa opioid receptor-mediated processes in the striatum.
A mechanism by which voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channel (VSCC) activation triggers c-fos transcription has been characterized. Ca2+ influx through VSCCs stimulates phosphorylation of the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) on serine 133 leading to an increase in the formation of transcription complexes that can elongate through a transcription pause site within the c-fos gene. Ca(2+)-stimulated CREB serine 133 phosphorylation is mediated by a Ca(2+)-activated kinase and is not dependent on the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). While necessary for c-fos transcriptional induction following VSCC opening, CREB serine 133 phosphorylation is not sufficient for transcriptional activation. A second, PKA-dependent event is required. Following induction, c-fos transcription is rapidly down-regulated. Dephosphorylation of CREB serine 133 parallels and likely mediates the transcriptional shut-off event. These results suggest that the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of CREB controls its ability to regulate transcription in membrane-depolarized cells and that multiple pathways contribute to Ca(2+)-activated gene expression.
There is a significant difference between the Lewis and Fischer 344 rats regarding their propensity to self-administer drugs of abuse. This study compares the number and the firing pattern of spontaneously active dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) in these two strains of rats. This was accomplished using the technique of in vivo extracellular recording. The number of spontaneously active DA neurons in the SNC and VTA of the Lewis rat were significantly lower compared to that of the F344 rats. Furthermore, a greater percentage of SNC and VTA DA neurons in the Lewis rats exhibited a burst firing pattern compared to F344 rats. These findings indicate that F344 and Lewis rats possess differences in mesolimbic DA neuronal activity and this may be a factor in explaining the different propensities between the two strains to self-administer drugs.
Prion gene sequence is thought to affect the phenotypic expression of prion disease and the E2 variant of apolipoprotein E (Apo E) can be neuroprotective in dementia. We determined codon 129 of the prion gene and the Apo E variants in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) using PCR and restriction digest. We found a significant correlation between valine at codon 129 of the prion protein gene and the presence of plaque in CJD and a later age of onset in CJD cases possessing the Apo E2 allele. This study provides further evidence that sequence variations in the prion gene can modify disease pathology and the neuroprotection afforded by Apo E2 is not confined to Alzheimer's disease.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disease with an extremely wide range of manifestations. As yet, the individual course of NF1 cannot be predicted, and it is uncertain to what extent the disorder is associated with increased mortality. In order to gain insights into these aspects, we have conducted a 12-year follow-up study of 70 adult NF1 patients in the city of Gteborg, Sweden, whereby life expectancy, mortality, causes of death and the prognostic value of clinical findings were investigated. Clinical examinations were made, and all available records, including medical files, death certificates, and autopsy reports were scrutinized. The survival in the NF1 cohort was compared to that in the general Swedish population. Twenty-two deaths occurred in the NF1 group, whereas 5.1 deaths were expected in the general Swedish population (p = &lt; 0.001). The mean age at death was 61.6 years. Malignancy was found in 12 (55%) of the deceased (soft tissue sarcomas in 3, and carcinomas in 9). Severe complications related to NF1 were seen in 27%. Hypertension was significantly associated with increased mortality, as 10 out of 12 (83%) patients with hypertension died during the observation period. NF1 was associated with increased mortality due to malignancy and NF1-related complications.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder affecting motor neurons. Although most cases of ALS are sporadic, approximately 10% are inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. Mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase gene (SOD 1) are responsible for a fraction of familial ALS (FALS). Screening our FALS kindreds by SSCP, we have identified mutations in 15 families, of which 9 have not been previously reported. Two of the new mutations alter amino acids that have never been implicated in FALS. One of them affects a highly conserved amino acid involved in dimer contact, and the other one affects the active-site loop of the enzyme. These two mutations reduce significantly SOD 1 enzyme activity in lymphoblasts. Our results suggest that SOD 1 mutations are responsible for &gt; or = 13% of FALS cases.


The effects of the non-competitive NMDA antagonist dizocilpine in tests of cognitive function have been compared with its effects on motor function in rats. Severe motor impairments were observed at doses above 0.1 mg/kg. Dizocilpine (0.075 mg/kg) had no effect on the acquisition of a spatial discrimination task in a Y-maze, but disrupted reversal learning. Both the acquisition and reversal of a visual discrimination task were impaired following dizocilpine (0.075 mg/kg). Dizocilpine (0.04 mg/kg) also disrupted performance of a fivechoice visual reaction time task. It is clear that dizocilpine can impair cognitive function at doses which do not induce pronounced motor dysfunction. The impairment induced by dizocilpine includes a disruption of spatial discrimination learning and a deficit in tasks with sustained attentional demands.
Adult rats exposed acutely to trimethyltin (TMT) manifest a number of behavioral alterations, in conjunction with neuronal degeneration in the limbic system. In the present study, changes in(3)H-TCP binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and(3)H-kainic acid (KA) binding to kainate receptors were studied by autoradiographic methods following TMT exposure (8 mg/kg, i.p.) in adult Sprague Dawley rats. No significant alterations were found at 4 hours after exposure. An extensive loss of(3)H-TCP and(3)H-KA binding was seen in the hilar region of the CA3 field at 2 and 12 weeks after TMT exposure. Also, the(3)H-TCP binding was decreased in piriform cortex and in striatum. Thus, TMT exposure leads to a major and regional selective loss of NMDA and kainate receptors in the limbic system, alterations that may be involved in the neuropathology and behavioral sequelae of TMT toxicity.

The chronological relationship regarding deposition of amyloid beta protein (A beta) species, A beta 40 and A beta 42(43), was investigated in 16 brains from Down syndrome patients aged 31 to 64 years. The frontal cortex was probed with two end-specific monoclonals that recognize A beta 40 or A beta 42(43). All senile plaques detected with an authentic beta monoclonal were also A beta 42(43) positive, but only a varying proportion was A beta 40 positive. In young (&lt; or = 50 years old) brains there were many A beta 42(43)-positive, A beta 40-negative diffuse plaques, but only few A beta 40-positive senile plaques (mean, 6.3% of total number of senile plaques). The 2 youngest Down syndrome brains showed only diffuse plaques that were all A beta 42(43) positive but A beta 40 negative. Old (&gt; 50 years old) brains contained many mature senile plaques with amyloid cores in addition to diffuse and immature plaques and the proportion of A beta 40-positive senile plaques was increased (mean, 42% of total). Cerebral amyloid angiopathy was more abundant in old Down syndrome brains and was positive for both A beta 40 and A beta 42(43). In cerebral amyloid angiopathy, A beta 40 predominated over A beta 42(43) in both staining intensity and number of positive vessels. These results indicate that (1) the A beta species initially deposited in the brain as senile plaques is A beta 42(43) and A beta 40 only appears a decade later, and (2) in cerebral amyloid angiopathy A beta 40 appears as early as A beta 42(43).


The distribution of somatostatin immunoreactivity was determined throughout the hypothalamus of the sheep and comparisons were made with the known distribution of somatostatin immunoreactivity in the rat. Immunopositive perikarya were present in the sheep periventricular region from as far rostral as the supraoptic recess of the third ventricle to the posterior optic chiasm. In the basal hypothalamus, a thick shell of immunopositive neurons surrounded the ventromedial nucleus (VMH), and there were also neurons in the caudal arcuate nucleus. Somatostatin immunoreactive fibres were concentrated in the dorsal VMH and arcuate nucleus as well as in the median eminence. The distribution in sheep was similar to that in rats, but immunoreactive neurons around sheep VMH were distinctive, a characteristic that might relate to differences in growth hormone physiology in this species.
Pergolide, along with bromocriptine and lisuride, is one of the most active dopamine receptor agonists. To determine whether or not pergolide protects against dopaminergic neuronal damage, via its activity on monoamine metabolism, we studied the effects of pergolide pretreatment on changes in monomaines and their metabolites in the mouse striatum after intracerebroventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine with pretreatment of desipramine. After intracerebroventricular administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (40 micrograms) in mice, the levels of dopamine and its metabolites (DOPAC, HVA) in the striatum rapidly decreased to 49%, 29% and 68%, respectively, of the naive controls at week 1 but then gradually recovered to control levels at weeks 2 and 4. Repeated pretreatment with pergolide (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) for 7 days before administration of 6-hydroxydopamine, almost completely protected against reduction in striatal dopamine and its metabolites 1 week after injection of 6-hydroxydopamine. Therefore, pergolide could normalize the decreased dopamine synthesis or storage, and has a neuroprotective effect against dopaminergic dysfunction induced by the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine. Although we found that pergolide did not show radical scavenging activity in an in vitro system that generated hydroxyl radicals, it has been reported in vivo that pergolide treatment may induce Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase in the rat striatum. Considering these findings, pergolide may well be protective to dopaminergic neurons, largely because of its effects on presynaptic autoreceptors and on its induction of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase. Further research on the neuroprotective effects of pergolide in Parkinson disease models, by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine, is needed to clarify its mechanism of action on dopaminergic indices.
Tongue movements in three female Macaca fascicularis, with radio-opaque markers in the tongue, teeth and hyoid, feeding on apple, banana and monkey chow, were recorded using lateral projection cineradiography (+/- 100 f.p.s.) with synchronized frontal view cinephotography (50 f.p.s.). Marker positions were digitized and the resultant Cartesian coordinates manipulated: (a) to establish the gape time profile; (b) anteroposterior and dorsoventral movements of tongue and hyoid markers relative to an upper occlusal/palatal reference plane; and (c) expansion and contraction of tongue segments in selected sections of complete sequences. The relative timing of tongue and jaw movement events was established using interval analysis. In simple transport cycles (semisolid food), all parts of the tongue moved in synchrony, travelling forwards and expanding during early opening, and backwards and contracting during late opening and closing. In contrast, in simple chewing cycles with a power stroke (SC phase): (a) the tongue markers reached their most backward position before or at the beginning of the SC phase, travelling forwards until the teeth approached intercuspation, then paused until after the teeth had reached centric occlusion; (b) the markers moved asynchronously, so that the relation between each marker and jaw movement changed; (c) expansion and contraction was largely confined to the middle tongue segment. In complex chewing cycles, jaw movement in opening was linked to the behaviour of the anterior tongue segment: reversal from forward to backward movement of the anterior tongue marker occurred within 30 ms of the rate change at the SO (slow open)-FO (fast open) transition: the greater the amplitude of forward movement, the longer the SO phase/Hyoid (tongue base) movement occurred throughout masticatory sequences. A backward drift of the hyoid and posterior part of the tongue occurred in cycles preceding swallows. Linkages between tongue and jaw movements in feeding in macaques are more complex than those reported for non-primate mammals, as they change between successive jaw cycles. The changes observed during sequences, and between different foods, suggest that the effector systems involved are continuously modulated, and the jaw-movement profile during opening may be dependent on the pattern of tongue movement.
The dynamical changes of blood flow velocity of the intracranial vertebral arteries (VA's) and proximal basilar artery (BA) provoked by rotation of the head in normal volunteers were measured using pulsed-wave transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD). In another group both VA's were examined simultaneously with 2-channel TCD. Blood flow velocities diminished compared to the neutral position in all vessels, independently of the side. Total obstruction of the flow was not observed. Our findings reveal a definitive decrease of blood flow velocity at the vertebrobasilar artery system provoked by rotation of the head in normal humans. This physiological phenomenon is suggested to have an impact on the cerebral blood flow in patients with impaired autoregulation of the cerebral vessels, low volume flow reserve in the contralateral VA or insufficient collateral channels because of normal anatomical variation, especially those patients under general anesthesia or comatose.
Over the past two decades, several prospective, randomized clinical trials have shown that thrombolytic therapy of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) decreases morbidity and mortality. The generally positive results have been tempered by a small, but clinically significant risk of potentially lethal intracerebral haemorrhage. Given that the pathogenesis of thrombotic stroke is similar to AMI, interest has recently turned to the use of the same drugs to &quot;cure&quot; stroke. The purpose of this paper is to develop a comprehensive position regarding neuroscience nursing roles concerning this new therapy. The importance of proactive public educational programmes and rapid and accurate patient identification derive directly from the pathogenesis of thrombotic stroke, and the pharmacology of the thrombolytic agents. Guidelines for drug preparation and administration and patient monitoring during treatment are developed from tested cardiovascular models.
Due to the advent of antibiotics, mycotic aneurysms, also known as infective aneurysms, now represent only 2.5-5% of all aneurysms. The existing research on this topic is old and scarce. It is highly probably that a neuroscience nurse will care for this type of patient at some point during his/her career. The patient with a mycotic aneurysm is usually critically ill. A 46% mortality has been noted and is related to the multiple problems of these types of patients. Currently, if and when to surgically intervene is controversial. The case of &quot;Mr. C.&quot;, a patient at the Montreal Neurological Hospital who developed a mycotic aneurysm secondary to subacute bacterial endocarditis, will be presented. His course in hospital, the medical management and treatment as well as the nursing care and educational needs will be described.
The superior colliculus (SC) is thought to be the decision center for reactions to novel and/or moving stimuli in the peripheral visual field. Serotonin 1B (5-HT1B) receptors were previously demonstrated to be located on collicular axon terminals of retinal ganglion cells and their activation might depress afferent inputs from the retina. The effects of intra-collicular injections of 5-HT1 drugs on distractibility were studied in hooded rats trained to run toward illuminated targets for a food reward in a 2-choice runway. 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetraline (8-OH-DPAT), a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, RU 24969, a mixed 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B agonist, serotonin-O-carboxymethylglycyltyrosinamide (S-CM-GTNH2), a mixed 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptor agonist and saline (control) were alternately injected. Following the S-CM-GTNH2 treatment alone, animals exhibited an erratic running style, involving side-to-side movements of the head, without change in the overall accuracy of their locomotor trajectories, but with substantial decrease in their running speed. When distracting peripheral lights were introduced at the mid-points of the animals' run, in the weaker distracting condition (unilateral distractor) only, distraction indexes were found lower following the S-CM-GTNH2 treatment than following the other drug or saline treatments. It is concluded that serotonin, via 5-HT1B-1D receptors, may induce an elevation of the visual distractibility threshold by modulating directly the transmission of the primary visual signal.
Recent evidence suggests that cigarette smoking has a heritability index around 53%. While related research on underlying mechanisms also supports the idea that genetic factors contribute to nicotine dependence--as well as to cofactors such as substance use and mood disorders--the nature of the behavioral traits and biological capacity for reinforcement that constitutes vulnerability to nicotine dependence is not well understood. The present review explores the problem of why some people become highly nicotine dependent, others develop a pattern of occasional use, and still others avoid the drug entirely despite extensive exposure and widespread experimentation with tobacco in the population. Recent research--both infrahuman and human--suggests that vulnerability to nicotine dependence is related to high initial sensitivity to nicotine and that the development of tolerance is more rapid and self-administration more extensive in such individuals. Relevant findings from neuroscience and biobehavioral research are reviewed in order to identify variables and methodologies that might improve the reliability and validity of behavioral and molecular genetic studies on cigarette smoking. The integration of research in these areas may lead to new insights in the understanding of nicotine dependence as well as to improved techniques for prevention and treatment.
As neurodegenerative disorders are better characterized, the importance of genetic and environmental interactions is becoming more evident. Among the neurodegenerative disorders, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are both characterized by large losses of nicotinic binding sites in brain. In addition, losses in nicotinic receptors occur during normal aging. Chronic administration of nicotine in man or experimental animals increases the number of nicotinic receptors in brain. Nicotine has been shown to possess some neuroprotective properties for both cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons. These neuroprotective properties, when better understood, may provide important information on normal aging and neurodegenerative disorder related neuronal cell death. Understanding the functional aspects of neuronal nicotinic receptor subtypes may lead to successful therapeutic treatments or disease preventative strategies for neurodegenerative disorders.
This review provides a synopsis of the physiologic role of central angiotensin III (AIII), the biologically active degradative product of angiotensin II, in dipsogenesis. The integrity of the central noradrenergic system is essential to the elicitation of polydipsia by AIII. It is conceivable that synaptically released norepinephrine may act on the alpha 1-adrenoceptors to potentiate the drinking response to the heptapeptide. This release, however, may be subjected to a tonic inhibition by the alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Chronic intracerebroventricular administration of AIII fails to produce sustained drinking behavior in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Behavioral and electrophysiologic observations suggest that this is because of the development of early desensitization of at least the angiotensin receptors at the subfornical organ, a major target site for AIII-induced dipsogenesis. This process is exacerbated by a suggested dysfunction of the central degradative enzyme for AIII in this strain of rat. Recent results suggest that it is likely that neurons in the caudal hypoglossal nucleus may serve as the final common pathway for AIII-induced drinking response. Furthermore, an excitatory link between the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis in the medulla oblongata and caudal hypoglossal nucleus may form part of the descending neural pathways that mediate the dipsogenesis elicited by AIII. It is evident that AIII in the brain participates actively in at least the initiation and consummatory phases of water homeostasis. Thus, apart from directly acting on the central machinery for circulatory control, AIII may also influence cardiovascular functions by affecting cardiac output via regulation of fluid volume.
To gain insight into the secondary structure of the ion conduction pathway of a voltage-gated K+ channel, we used sulfhydryl-specific reagents of different diameters to probe amino acid side-chain accessibilities in the pore of the channel after cysteine-substitution mutagenesis. We identified five positions at which modified amino acid side chains are accessible from the aqueous lumen of the external channel vestibule. Covalent coupling of the 2-trimethylammonium-thioethyl group to cysteine thiols leads to position-dependent current reduction, suggesting a gradual narrowing of the pore. The fact that the modified side chains of two adjacent amino acids are reactive is not compatible with the ion conduction pathway forming a regular beta-pleated sheet at these positions. The smaller thiol reagent Cd2+ reacts with modified side chains that are also accessible to the larger (2-trimethylammoniumethyl)methanethiosulfate (MTSET) [corrected]. Our results imply that the outer vestibule of a potassium-selective ion channel narrows over a short distance of three amino acids near a position where a regular beta-structure is unlikely.

1. We evaluated the effects of the i.c.v. administration of different K+ channel blockers (gliquidone, 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium) and an opener of K+ channels (cromakalim) on the antinociception induced by several mu-opioid receptor agonists in a tail flick test in mice. 2. The s.c. administration of all agonists of mu-opioid receptors tested (morphine, 1-16 mg kg-1; metadone, 1-6 mg kg-1; buprenorphine, 0.04-0.64 mg kg-1; fentanyl, 0.02-0.32 mg kg-1 and levorphanol, 0.2-3.2 mg kg-1) elicited a dose-dependent antinociceptive effect. 3. The ATP-sensitive K+ channel blocker, gliquidone (0.06-16 micrograms per mouse, i.c.v.) antagonized the antinociception induced by buprenorphine, morphine and metadone. In contrast, gliquidone (0.25-160 micrograms per mouse) did not modify the antinociceptive effects of fentanyl and levorphanol. 4. Cromakalim (4-64 micrograms per mouse, i.c.v.), an opener of ATP-sensitive K+ channels, enhanced the antinociception produced by buprenorphine, morphine, and methadone, and did not significantly modify the antinociceptive effects of fentanyl and levorphanol. 5. The i.c.v. administration of the K+ channel blockers tetraethylammonium (10 micrograms per mouse) or 4-aminopyridine (25 ng per mouse) did not significantly modify the antinociception induced by any mu-opioid receptor agonist tested. 6. These results suggest that the opening of ATP-sensitive K+ channels is involved in the antinociceptive effect of morphine, buprenorphine and methadone, but not in that of fentanyl or levorphanol. Consequently, we suggest that at least two subgroups can be distinguished among mu-opioid receptor agonists, each inducing antinociception through different effector mechanisms.
1. The effects of chronic in vitro administration of amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, on 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor-mediated adenylyl cyclase activity was studied in the neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cell line, NG 108-15. 2. Treatment of NG 108-15 cells with 8 microM amitriptyline for 3 days increased forskolin-stimulated (0.1 microM) adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic AMP) accumulation. Addition of 5-HT (0.1-100 microM) increased forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in amitriptyline-treated cells in a concentration-dependent manner. However, 5-HT did not affect forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in untreated cells. 3. The 5-HT4 receptor agonist, 5-methoxytryptamine, significantly enhanced forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in amitriptyline-treated cells. In contrast, amitriptyline treatment failed to modify 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamine) tetralin-induced inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation. 4. Pretreatment of cells with pertussis toxin did not affect the 5-HT-induced enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation. 5. The 5-HT-induced enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation in amitriptyline-treated cells was attenuated by the 5-HT4 receptor antagonists, GR 113808 and ICS 205-930, with relatively low potency. However, spiperone, SCH 23390, and pindolol were completely ineffective against this 5-HT-induced enhancement. 6. Chronic treatment with amitriptyline did not modify the cyclic AMP production stimulated by prostaglandin E1 or cholera toxin. This treatment also had no effect on GTP gamma S-, NaF-, and Mn(2+)-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in isolated cell membranes. 7. Chronic treatment with the 5-HT receptor antagonists, pindolol or ICS 205-930, did not inhibit the 5-HT-induced enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation.8. Chronic treatment with other antidepressant drugs, imipramine, mianserin or paroxetine, elicited the 5-HT-induced enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation.9. Taken together, these results suggest that chronic amitriptyline treatment of NG 108-15 cells causes 5-HT to enhance forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation by enhancing 5-HT receptor-mediated stimulation of adenylyl cyclase and not by reducing 5-HT-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. The 5-HT-induced enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation in amitriptyline-treated cells may result from changes at the level of the 5-HT receptor rather than at the level of G, proteins or adenylyl cyclase. It is unlikely that this enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation is caused by long-term antagonism of the 5-HT receptor by amitriptyline.
The editing status of mRNA at the Q/R site of the glutamate receptor subtypes -A, -B, -5 and -6 modulates channel conductivity and ion selectivity of glutamate operated ion channels [4,15,26,30]. In order to investigate whether a modification of this editing process may be involved in kindling epileptogenesis, the percentage of edited variant was determined in the hippocampus of kindled rats and compared to the percentage in control animals. In the latter, GluR-A mRNA was detected only in the unedited form (with detection threshold for edited form &lt; 0.7%), whereas GluR-B was completely edited (&gt; 99%). For percentages were not significantly changed in Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway kindled animals that were sacrificed 24 h after the last generalized seizure. It is concluded that the increased sensitivity for the induction of seizures characteristic for Schaffer collateral kindled animals is not related to a less selective or less efficient mRNA editing process of the different glutamate receptor subunits in the hippocampus.

We evaluated anti-S100 beta expression in the chick (Gallus domesticus) inner ear and determined that: 1) the monomer anti-S100 beta is expressed differentially in the vestibular and auditory perikarya; 2) expression of S100 beta in the afferent nerve terminals is time-related to synapse and myelin formation; 3) the expression of the dimer anti-S100 alpha alpha beta beta and monomer anti-S100 beta overlaps in most inner ear cell types. Most S100 alpha alpha beta beta positive cells express S100 beta, but S100 beta positive cells do not always express S100 alpha alpha beta beta. 4) the expression of S100 beta is diffused over the perikaryal cytoplasm and nuclei of the acoustic ganglia but is concentrated over the nuclei of the vestibular perikarya. 6) S100 beta is expressed in secretory cells, and it is co-localized with GABA in sensory cells. 7) Color thresholding objective quantitation indicates that the amount of S100 beta was higher (mean 22, SD +/- 4) at E19 than at E9 (mean 34, SD +/- 3) in afferent axons. 8) Moreover, S100 beta was unchanged between E11-E19 in the perikaryal cytoplasm, but did change over the nuclei. At E9, 74%, and at E21, 5% of vestibular perikarya were positive. The data suggest that S100 beta may be physically associated with neuronal and ionic controlling cells of the vertebrate inner ear, where it could provide a dual ionic and neurotrophic modulatory function.
We have characterized the development of synaptic responses from neurons of rat parietal cortex. Whole-cell recording was used in slice preparations in vitro. Neurons were stained with biocytin to allow their identification, and the sample included pyramidal neurons and Cajal-Retzius cells. Dye-coupling of 3-12 cells was frequently observed from the day of birth (P0) to P3. On average, when recorded with Cs(+)-filled electrodes, the input resistances of neonatal cells were large (mean = 1.1 G omega) and resting membrane potentials were relatively depolarized (mean = -45 mV) when compared to mature neocortical neurons. The application of an NMDA receptor antagonist usually hyperpolarized cells by 5-10 mV and increased their input resistance (mean increase = 83%), suggesting that immature neurons are tonically activated by excitatory amino acids (EAA) in our preparation. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) or currents (EPSCs) could be obtained from animals as young as P0 by brief stimulation of the subplate. Synaptic responses at these early ages had long durations, often lasting over hundreds of milliseconds, they reversed polarity around 0 mV, and they were blocked by tetrodotoxin and EAA antagonists. Pharmacology and current-voltage relationships demonstrated the presence of both NMDA receptor- and non-NMDA receptor-dependent components in most EPSPs. Unlike synaptic responses of mature neurons, neonatal synaptic responses were composed largely of NMDA receptor-dependent components. We did not observe inhibitory synaptic inputs before P6. In some neurons, single shocks to the subplate region initiated spontaneous EPSPs that lasted &gt; 1 min. This study clearly demonstrates functional synapses in the neocortex of rats on the day of birth. Large NMDA receptor-mediated EPSPs with long duration could have a major influence on the development of cortical circuits in the neonate.
The purpose of this study was to identify the functional cortical fields involved in reaching for targets in extrapersonal space, and to identify the specific fields representing visual target information in long-term memory. Ten healthy subjects were asked to learn the positions of seven circular targets that were repeatedly projected on a screen. The regional cerebral blood flow was measured with positron emission tomography during a rest state, at an early learning stage, at a later learning stage, and finally at 30 min after the course of learning had been completed. Mean rCBF change images for each task minus rest were calculated and fields of significant rCBF changes were identified. In all three task states, cortical fields were consistently activated in the left motor and premotor areas, the posterior part of the superior parietal lobule, and the right angular gyrus. When learning of the target positions had been achieved, additional fields appeared bilaterally in the posterior part of the superior parietal lobule, the right superior occipital gyrus, the left motor and premotor areas, the medial aspect of the superior frontal gyrus, the postcentral gyrus, the superior part of the cuneus, the inferior part of the angular gyrus, and the anterior part of the insula. The results indicate that there are at least two different types of functional fields in the posterior part of the superior parietal lobule; one is active during reaching for the targets when guided by internal representations of target positions; the other likely represents the storage sites of visual target information that is addressed in long-term memory.
This article reviews neurologic, endocrinologic, and neuropsychological developments that affect our understanding of the adolescent patient. Neuroimaging and neuroradiologic techniques have assisted in identifying brain-behavior relationships and how different neuropsychological patterns result in different ways of thinking. Psychoneuroendocrinologic studies have shown that sex differences in maturation and hormonal effects on behavior need taking into account. At adolescence, the individual with a cleft or craniofacial condition may be at risk for adjustment problems due to earlier developmental events, which may affect language, behavior, and self-esteem.
This paper reviews the changes of adolescence that affect neuroendocrine and neurophysiologic functions. Normal variability in onset and progression of pubertal stages is discussed. The effects of hypothalamic and pituitary maturation and resulting changes in circulating hormone levels at the onset of secondary sexual characteristics are reviewed. Several theories and research data regarding the causes of the onset of puberty are identified. Abnormal symptoms of pubertal development are reviewed, and suggestions made for the Cleft Palate-Craniofacial team to monitor these symptoms.
Prospective memory involves remembering an intention to do something as well as remembering the content of the task. It also shares common features with executive skills that are argued to be mediated by the frontal lobes. This paper describes performance on tests of prospective memory by a subject with bilateral frontal lobe infarcts and good retrospective memory but who displayed impairments of planning, initiation and inhibition of ongoing behaviour. The results lend some support to the suggestion that separate neuroanatomical pathways underly retrospective and prospective memory. They also indicate dissociable features within prospective memory that may reflect differences in utilisation of attentional resources and inhibitory control mechanisms.
Twenty patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 34 with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT) and 12 with vascular dementia (VAD) were carefully investigated. The diagnoses were made according to the DSM-III-R criteria and for AD/SDAT also according to the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. The data set consisted of 29 descriptor variables obtained at the examination, and the data were fitted to a partial least squares model using dummy variables for the response variables (i.e. clinical diagnoses). The distribution of the scores over the descriptor variable space revealed adequate classification regarding all three diagnoses, with some overlap between SDAT and AD and between VAD and SDAT. The study demonstrates a clear difference in symptomatology between AD and SDAT with no influence of age per se or the severity of dementia.
Nitric oxide is a novel intercellular messenger whose role in neuronal development is not yet known. As a first step toward elucidating its developmental function, we examined the pattern of NADPH diaphorase histochemical staining, an indicator of the presence of nitric oxide synthase, in the rat spinal cord at pre and postnatal ages. Some types of neurons expressed diaphorase activity transiently during development. For example, a subset of somatic motor neurons, located in the ventrolateral corner of a few caudal segments of the cervical spinal cord, were diaphorase-positive beginning on E15, but gradually became diaphorase-negative by birth. In contrast, other spinal neurons expressed diaphorase activity continuously from development into adulthood. Preganglionic autonomic motor neurons became diaphorase-positive early in their development, as they were migrating toward their adult positions. Other spinal neurons, such as those in superficial dorsal horn, first expressed diaphorase relatively late in their development, after reaching their final location. The transient expression in some cell types, as well as the early expression in others, suggest that nitric oxide may have an important role(s) during development, which may differ from its functions in the adult nervous system.
It is known that myogenic cells in limb buds are derived from somites. In order to examine the potential of the limb primordium (presumptive limb somatopleure) to induce myogenic cell migration, we transplanted chick presumptive limb somatopleure to the flank region of an embryo, a region that does not normally contribute myogenic cells to the limb. Somitic cell migration was examined using a vital labeling technique. When the presumptive limb somatopleure was transplanted and was in contact with the host flank somite, somitic-cell migration toward the graft was observed. The labeled somitic cells within the graft were identified as myogenic cells in two ways: first, we found that N-cadherin-expressing cells appeared in the graft. Second, after 3 further days of incubation, the somitic cells formed dorsal and ventral masses and expressed sarcomeric myosin heavy chain within the graft. Cell migration occurred only when the somite was in contact with the medial region of the presumptive limb somatopleure. When the somite was not in contact with the limb somatopleure, or when the somite was in contact with the lateral region of the limb somatopleure, migration did not occur. These observations indicate that the potential to induce myogenic cell migration is restricted to the medial region of the presumptive limb somatopleure and that tissue contact is required.
Trunk neural crest cells segregate from the neuroepithelium and enter a 'migration staging area' lateral to the embryonic neural tube. After some crest cells in the migration staging area have begun to migrate on a medial pathway, a subpopulation of crest-derived cells remaining in the migration staging area expresses mRNAs for the receptor tyrosine kinase, c-kit, and tyrosinase-related protein-2, both of which are characteristic of melanocyte precursors. These putative melanocyte precursors are subsequently observed on the lateral crest migration pathway between the dermatome and overlying epithelium, and then dispersed in nascent dermal mesenchyme. Melanocyte precursors transiently require the c-kit ligand, Steel factor for survival. Although Steel factor mRNA is transiently expressed in the dorsal dermatome before the onset of trunk neural crest cell dispersal on the lateral pathway, it is no longer produced by dermatomal cells when melanocyte precursors have dispersed in the dermal mesenchyme. To assess the role of Steel factor in migration of melanocyte precursors on the lateral pathway, we analyzed melanocyte precursor dispersal and fate on the lateral pathway of two different Sl mutants, Sl, a null allele, and Sld, which lacks cell surface-associated Steel factor but produces a soluble form. No melanocyte precursors were detected in the dermatome of embryos homozygous for the Sl allele or in W mutants that lack functional c-kit. In contrast, in embryos homozygous for the Sld allele, melanocyte precursors appeared on the lateral pathway, but subsequently disappear from the dermis. These results suggest that soluble Steel factor is required for melanocyte precursor dispersal on the lateral pathway, or for their initial survival in the migration staging area. In contrast, membrane-bound Steel factor appears to promote melanocyte precursor survival in the dermis.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) to environmental sounds were recorded from 15 young control subjects in an auditory recognition memory task. Subjects listened to a continuous string of binaurally presented sounds, 20% of which were presented once and 80% were repeated. Of the repeated sounds, some repeated immediately after the initial presentation (2 sec; short delay repetition) while others repeated after 2-6 intervening sounds (4-12 sec; long delay repetition). Subjects were instructed to indicate whether they had heard the sounds before by pressing a &quot;yes&quot; or &quot;no&quot; button. The initial stimulus presentation and long delay repetition stimuli generated both an N4 component and a prolonged latency P3 component while the short delay repetition stimuli elicited no N4 component and an earlier latency P3 component. Subjects' responses were faster and more accurate for short delay repetition. All stimuli generated a sustained frontal negative component (SFN). These data indicate that auditory recognition memory for environmental sounds may involve two processes. The P3 generated by both short and long delay repetition stimuli may index activation of a neocortical template matching system. The N4 generated by initial stimulus presentations and long delay repetition is proposed to measure additional activation of limbic memory systems at long retention intervals.
Long term incubation of pituitary tumor GH3 cultures with epidermal growth factor (EGF) induces reciprocal changes in PRL and GH production. However, it is not known whether EGF alters the cellular composition of these cultures. Another unanswered question is whether chronic treatment with EGF stimulates PRL secretion from nonneoplastic pituitary cells. In this study, GH3 cells and pituitary cells from neonatal (10-day-old) rats were cultured for 6 and 2 days, respectively, in the absence or presence of 5 nM EGF. Cells containing PRL and/or GH were then enumerated using light microscopic immunocytochemistry. In addition, neonatal pituitary cells were subjected to reverse hemolytic plaque assays for PRL. EGF treatment drastically increased the proportion of classical lactotropes (cells that secrete only PRL) in the GH3 cultures, from about 0.5% to 8% of all cells, without modifying the percentage of GH-positive cells. A similar action of EGF was observed in the primary cultures. Moreover, EGF enhanced by 240% the amount of PRL secreted from the neonatal lactotrope population during 1-h incubations under basal conditions. This effect was mediated by a selective increase in the relative number of PRL secretors forming large plaques. The results suggest that EGF promotes the differentiation of classical lactotropes in both GH3 cultures and pituitary cultures from neonatal rats, and that these cells are characterized by a high basal rate of PRL secretion.
Evidence has shown that epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) are present in the anterior pituitary as well as the hypothalamus, and that EGF can influence the function of pituitary cells, particularly corticotropes in vivo and in vitro. However, little is known about their exact functional roles and how they are regulated in these two areas. The present study was designed to determine if EGF and TGF alpha messenger RNA (mRNA) are expressed in the rat anterior pituitary and hypothalamus and how stress conditions such as cold, ether, or restraint affect their local expression. A sensitive mRNA detection method, the ribonuclease protection assay, detected both EGF and TGF alpha mRNA in the rat anterior pituitary and hypothalamus. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) further showed the presence of EGF and TGF alpha mRNA in these two areas and several other rat tissues (submandibular gland, liver, kidney, lung cerebral cortex, and testis). No TGF alpha mRNA was found in the kidney, however. EGF mRNA was up-regulated in the anterior pituitary after 30 min acute cold stress (CS) and restrainer-restraint stress (RS) but not 30 min after ether stress (2 min, ES), novelty stress (NS), or tape-restraint stress (TS). Further analysis showed that EGF mRNA expression decreased after 1 h CS (1C) and then increased after 3 h CS (3C). In contrast, TGF alpha mRNA in the anterior pituitary and hypothalamus and hypothalamic EGF mRNA did not show significant changes in response to either acute stresses (CS, ES, RS, TS, NS) or longer CS (1C, 3C). Our results suggest that 1) EGF, is up-regulated after some stresses; 2) increased pituitary EGF mRNA in response to stresses varies with the type of stress; and 3) pituitary TGF alpha and hypothalamic EGF and TGF alpha may be not involved in the stress response.
The relation between cerebrospinal fluid pressure (pcsf ) and arterial blood pressure (pa ) was studied in pigs and in rabbits before and after an ischemia-induced impairment of the cerebral autoregulation, in order to predict the effect of changes of pa on the pcsf . Before the ischemic brain episode no clear correlation between pa and pcsf was found. A close dependence emerged after the ischemic episode, and after each change in pa the pcsf assumed immediately a new stationary level. The results suggest that intracranial pressure is at any moment a fraction of arterial blood pressure quantitatively determined by the coordinated action of cerebrovascular resistance, i.e. arteriolar resistance Ra , regulated by vasomotor tonus, and venous resistance Rv , which is mechanically passive in the same manner as a Starling resistor device. The relation is given by pcsf = pa [1 + (Ra /pv )](-1) . Induced changes in pa have different effects on pcsf . However, this effect may be predicted to some extent because the relation between pcsf and pa may be represented mathematically as a rectangular hyperbola. This observation may be of relevance in neurological intensive care. Changes in arterial blood pressure are known to influence intracranial pressure in patients with deranged intracranial dynamics, as in the case of severe head injury. In clinical practice, both raising systemic arterial blood pressure in order to preserve cerebral perfusion pressure and induced arterial hypotension to reduce hydrostatic capillary pressure with consequent reduction of brain edema have been used in the management of patients with severe brain injury. While theoretical models of biological systems often have a limited value in practice because of inability to measure the relevant parameters from clinical data, the ratio of cerebrovascular resistances may be calculated at the bedside.
Using monoiodinated peptide YY (PYY) and galanin as radioligands, and neuropeptide Y (NPY) fragments, the distribution of NPY binding sites and its subtypes Y1 and Y2, and of galanin binding sites, was investigated in rat and monkey lumbar (L) 4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord before and after a unilateral sciatic nerve cut, ligation or crush. Receptor autoradiography revealed that [125I]PYY bound to some DRG neurons and a few nerve fibres in normal rat DRG, and most of these neurons were small. NPY binding sites were observed in laminae I-IV and X of the rat dorsal horn and in the lateral spinal nucleus, with the highest density in laminae I-II. [125I]PYY binding was most strongly attenuated by NPY13-36, a Y2 agonist, and partially inhibited by [Leu31,Pro34]NPY, a Y1 agonist, in both rat DRG and the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. These findings suggest that Y2 receptors are the main NPY receptors in rat DRG and dorsal horn, but also that Y1 receptors exist. After sciatic nerve cut, PYY binding markedly increased in nerve fibres and neurons in DRG, especially in large neuron profiles, and in laminae III-IV of the dorsal horn, as well as in nerve fibres in dorsal roots and the sciatic nerve. Incubation with NPY13-36 completely abolished PYY binding, which was also reduced by [Leu31,Pro34] NPY. However, the increase in PYY binding seen in laminae I-IV of the ipsilateral dorsal horn after axotomy was not observed after coincubation with [Leu31,Pro34] NPY. NPY binding sites were seen in a few neurons in monkey DRG and in laminae I-II, X and IX of the monkey spinal cord. The intensity of PYY binding in laminae I-II of the dorsal horn was decreased after axotomy. Galanin receptor binding sites were not observed in rat DRG, but were observed in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord, mainly in laminae I-II. Axotomy had no effect on galanin binding in rat DRG and dorsal horn. However, galanin receptor binding was observed in many neurons in monkey L4 and L5 DRG and in laminae I-IV and X of monkey L4 and L5 spinal cord, with the highest intensity in laminae I-II. No marked effect of axotomy was observed on the distribution and intensity of galanin binding in monkey DRG or spinal cord.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Effects of the antipsychotics risperidone and clozapine on 5-HT2 and D2-dopamine receptor binding were examined using [3H]N-methylspiperone ([3H]NMSP) and in vitro receptor autoradiography on human whole hemisphere cryosections. The 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin and the D2-dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride were used as references. [3H]NMSP binding was observed in caudate nucleus, putamen, and cerebral cortex indicating binding to D2-dopamine and 5-HT2 receptors. Risperidone and clozapine counteracted the binding to both receptor types. This was in contrast to raclopride, which selectively blocked the D2-dopamine receptors in the basal ganglia, and ketanserin, which selectively blocked the 5-HT2 receptors in the cerebral cortex. Risperidone (100 nM and 10 microM) blocked up to 90% of [3H]NMSP binding to both receptor types, whereas the blocking capacity of clozapine (10 microM) was lower (approximately 60%). The lack of total blockade of D2-dopamine receptors is in line with results obtained in with [11C]raclopride and positron emission tomography studies of clozapine treated human subjects. However, autoradiographic studies of clozapine competition of [3H]raclopride binding show total displacement of the binding at high clozapine concentrations, thus contradicting the PET results with [11C]raclopride, as well as the autoradiographic results obtained with [3H]NMSP. In conclusion it can be stated that pharmacological concentrations of the two drugs clozapine and risperidone block a large proportion of D2-dopamine receptors and 5-HT2 receptors in the human brain. Moreover, the study shows the usefulness of human whole hemisphere autoradiography for the study of interaction of drugs with different central neurotransmitter receptors.
RNase protection assay and in situ hybridization were used to analyze the temporal and cellular changes in nerve growth factor (NGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) mRNA content evoked by the lipophilic beta-adrenergic receptor agonist clenbuterol in adult rat brain. Clenbuterol elicited a threefold increase in NGF mRNA expression which was limited to the cerebral cortex. This increase was maximal at 5 h, still evident by 10 h, and declined to control levels by 24 h. By 10 h NGF protein was also increased. Elevated NGF mRNA hybridization following clenbuterol was localized in the superficial cortical layers II and III in large Nissl-pale cells, suggesting that NGF mRNA induction occurs in neurons. In the same animals, clenbuterol induced a twofold increase in the levels of bFGF mRNA in cerebral cortex and hippocampus. This increase was localized primarily in glial cells as demonstrated by bFGF mRNA hybridization over all cortical regions and by labeling of the stratum lacunosum moleculare of the hippocampus. Our results suggest that enhanced noradrenergic tone regulates expression of these two trophic factors by different synaptic mechanisms and suggest that neurotransmitter(s) can coordinate trophic influences on different cell populations.
The irreversible mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NPA) is a specific inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase. We performed stereotaxic unilateral injections of 3-NPA into the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway in rats in order to examine its specific effects on the dopamine system. The 3-NPA-treated rats displayed unidirectional apomorphineinduced rotations, suggesting that 3-NPA selectively damages dopaminergic neurons when injected into the nigrostriatal pathway. In situ hybridization 7 weeks postinjection indicated a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA to 30% of the noninjected side in the substantia nigra pars compacta (P &lt; 0.05) and decreased to 62% of the noninjected side in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) (nonsignificant) of 3-NPA-lesioned rats. The number of TH mRNA positive cells showed statistically significant decreases in substantia nigra and VTA (P &lt; 0.001) within the lesioned side. In contrast, expression of mRNAs encoding choline acetyltransferase, p75 low-affinity NGF receptor, neurotrophin tyrosine kinase receptors Trk and TrkB, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor showed neuronal sparing in several other regions of the brain. The results suggest that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system might be selectively vulnerable to 3-NPA and demonstrate that it is possible to employ 3-NPA in a model of partial lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system resembling early stages of Parkinson's disease.
Electron spin resonance (ESR) spectra of iron-metal complexes formed by the reaction between nitric oxide (NO) and hemoglobin (Hb), referred to as nitrosylhemoglobin (HB-NO), were observed in rat blood treated in vitro and in vivo with nitroglycerin (GTN) at 77K. The same types of spectra were also detected in rats treated with sodium nitrite (NaNO2). Two types of Hb-NO, which were identified by ESR parameters of g values and superhyperfine coupling constants (shfcc), were the 6- and 5-coordinated complexes. These two types of Hb-NO were generated in a dose-dependent manner in the blood after intraperitoneal administration of 1.5-6 mg of GTN. At the higher dose of GTN (6 mg), the 6-coordinated complex was the major species generated initially, but within 10 min, the 5-coordinated complex increased time-dependently. Quantitative analysis of Hb-NO revealed that when GTN 0.3 mg and 0.6 mg was administered sublingually in rats, the concentration of Hb-NO observed in rat blood was 30% higher than the estimated concentration of GTN. The methemoglobin and peroxide complex of hemoglobin were observed in the blood incubated with GTN at 37 degrees C. These results suggest that the function of GTN was related to oxidative stress with the generation of Hb-NO. Therefore, monitoring of Hb-NO levels may be useful as an indicator of the function of various vasodilators.
Cognitive deficits are present in a substantial number of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients, particularly in those with the chronic-progressive type of the disorder. We assessed cognitive decline and its relationship with T2-weighted images on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We submitted a group of 26 patients with progressive MS to both MRI and a battery of neuropsychological tests. Cognitive impairment did not correlate with duration of illness or severity of neurological disability, but rather with the presence of extensive periventricular demyelination on MRI, evaluated as area of confluent lesions. These results suggest that cognitive deficits in MS represent a symptom of disease and not a parallel occurrence.


The present study examined the relationships between spatial learning and circulating levels of plasma estradiol and testosterone in adult male and female meadow vole, Microtus pennsylvanicus. Meadow voles are induced ovulators and most females that are housed with females or in isolation are in constant diestrus, whereas most females that are housed with males are in constant behavioral estrus. In this study sexually mature, adult male and female meadow voles housed with either females (constant diestrus) or males (constant behavioral estrus) were required to learn the spatial position of a hidden, submerged platform in the Morris water maze. Individual voles were tested using two blocks of four trials twice a day for 3 days for a total of six blocks. Task retention was examined with a probe trial 1 day after the last acquisition trial. Females were divided into two groups based on the median level of plasma estradiol [High Estradiol (15.79 +/- 1.20 pg/ml) and Low Estradiol (6.22 +/- 2.79 pg/ml) Females]. Males were similarly divided on the basis of median plasma testosterone levels [High (2.53 +/- 0.96 ng/ml) and Low Testosterone (0.45 +/- 0.08 ng/ml) Males]. High Estradiol females exhibited significantly longer latencies to reach the hidden platform, indicating poorer acquisition, than did either males (P = 0.025) or Low Estradiol females (for Blocks, 2, 3, 4, and 6, P = 0.037). Male superiority in spatial learning performance was evident only when High Estradiol females were compared to males. There were no significant performance differences between High and Low Testosterone males. There were also no group differences in retention, with all voles displaying significant retention of the spatial task. There was, however, a significant correlation between plasma estradiol levels in females and retention, with higher estradiol levels being associated with poorer retention. These results suggest that levels of estradiol in adult female meadow voles are significantly related to spatial learning, with low levels of estradiol being associated with better spatial learning. There was no evidence that levels of testosterone were related to spatial performance in adult male meadow voles. The results suggest that estradiol may have activational effects on spatial learning in the adult meadow vole and that sex differences in spatial learning are evident only when High Estradiol females are compared to adult males.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a late-onset autosomal dominant muscular dystrophy which presents typically after the age of 50 with progressive eyelid drooping and an increasing difficulty in swallowing. Though OPMD has a world-wide incidence, it is more common in the French Canadian population. We have identified a homogeneous group of families and studied 166 polymorphic markers as part of a genome search before establishing linkage to chromosome 14. We determined that the OPMD locus maps to a less than 5 cM region of chromosome 14q11.2-q13. The maximum two-point lod score in three French Canadian families of 14.73 (theta = 0.03) was obtained for an intronic cardiac beta myosin heavy chain gene (MYH7) marker. The regional localization for the OPMD locus raises the intriguing possibility that either the cardiac alpha or beta myosin heavy chain genes may play a role in this disease.
Morphine and related opiates are often administered to relieve post-operative and chronic pain following transplantation surgery. Opiates have been shown to suppress a variety of immune parameters in both animal models and man. In the present study, we investigated whether morphine affects allogeneic immune responses by injecting C57BL/6 mice in the footpad with allogeneic spleen cells and examining changes in the draining popliteal lymph node (PLN). Morphine (administered as subcutaneous implants) had profound inhibitory effects on the development of alloreactivity manifested as a suppression of: (1) lymph node hyperplasia, (2) mixed lymphocyte reactivity (MLR) in PLN cells and (3) the number of CD4+ and Thy 1.2 lymphoid subsets. These inhibitory effects of morphine were abolished or dramatically reduced by co-administration of the opiate antagonist, naltrexone, indicating that suppression of allo-sensitization was opiate receptor mediated. In toto, these findings demonstrate that morphine administration interferes with the development of allogeneic immune response in mouse lymph node through an opiate receptor mediated mechanism.
The predictive properties of EEG segments were analyzed. The sample included alpha, delta as well as spike and wave EEG activity recordings. Most of these segments are better described with non-linear autoregressive models, and a non-linear forecasting algorithm is routinely required. In terms of their predictive properties, segments can be divided into unpredictable, predictable and very predictable, these three groups being similarly represented among the alpha activity EEG segments. In EEG segments with alpha activity, poor predictability is associated with poor organization of the rhythmic pattern. Concerning dynamic properties, it was found that cyclic skeletons were highly represented among the very predictable segments, which reflect a contribution of the deterministic component of the autoregressive model to the predictability of the segments. Notable contributions of the noise component may explain the properties of unpredictable segments. These results point to a great diversity of predictive patterns among EEG recordings. Other factors besides the existence of chaotic dynamics must be regarded.
Sex differences in brain hemispheric structure and function have been reported, and sex-related differences in hemispheric interregional correlations were reported in a prior analysis of resting PET glucose metabolic (rCMRglc) data. To explore further the effect of sex on patterns of hemispheric brain functional interactions, we applied a multiple regression/discriminant analysis to resting rCMRglc PET data from young normal men and women to test two hypotheses: (1) women have stronger between-hemisphere functional interactions; (2) men have stronger within-hemisphere functional interactions. Two separate discriminant functions based on these hypotheses distinguished men and women: the first reflected rCMRglc interdependencies between hemispheres and correctly classified all women and 94% of the men; the second reflected rCMRglc interdependencies within the left hemisphere and correctly classified 82% of the women and 88% of the men. Because the discriminant functions successfully distinguished men and women, these results provide support for both hypotheses.
Recent neurophysiological studies have revealed the patterns of neuronal activity during the acquisition of goal-directed behaviors, both in single cells, and in large populations of neurons. We propose a model which helps three sets of experimental results in the monkey to be understood: (1) activity of single cells vary greatly and only population activities are causally related to behavior. The model shows how a population of stochastic neurons, whose behaviors vary widely, can learn a skilled conditioned movement with only local activity-dependent synaptic changes. (2) typical changes in neuronal activity occur when the rules governing the behavior are changed, i.e. when the relationship between cues and actions to reach a goal changes over time. There are two types of neuronal patterns during changes in reward contingency: a monotonic increasing pattern and a non-monotonic pattern which follows the change in the way the reward is obtained. Units in the model display these two types of change, which correspond to synaptic modifications related to the encoding of the behavioral significance of sensory and motor events. (3) These two patterns of neuronal activity define two populations whose anatomical distributions in the frontal lobe overlap with a gradient organized in the rostro-caudal direction. The model consists of two artificial neural networks, defined by the same set of equations, but which differ in the values of two parameters (P and Q). P defines the adaptive properties of processing units and Q describes the coding of information. The model suggests that a balance in the relative strengths of these parameters distributed along a rostro-caudal gradient can explain the distribution of neuronal types in the frontal lobe of the monkey.

Prolonged head-down bed rest (HDBR) provides a model for examining responses to chronic weightlessness in humans. Eight healthy volunteers underwent HDBR for 2 wk. Antecubital venous blood was sampled for plasma levels of catechols [norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine, dopamine, dihydroxyphenylalanine, dihydroxyphenylglycol, and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid] after supine rest on a control (C) day and after 4 h and 7 and 14 days of HDBR. Urine was collected after 2 h of supine rest during day C, 2 h before HDBR, and during the intervals 1-4, 4-24, 144-168 (day 7), and 312-336 h (day 14) of HDBR. All subjects had decreased plasma and blood volumes (mean 16%), atriopeptin levels (31%), and peripheral venous pressure (26%) after HDBR. NE excretion on day 14 of HDBR was decreased by 35% from that on day C, without further trends as HDBR continued, whereas plasma levels were only variably and nonsignificantly decreased. Excretion rates of dihydroxyphenylglycol and dihydroxyphenylalanine decreased slightly during HDBR; excretion rates of epinephrine, dopamine, and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and plasma levels of catechols were unchanged. The results suggest that HDBR produces sustained inhibition of sympathoneural release, turnover, and synthesis of NE without affecting adrenomedullary secretion or renal dopamine production. Concurrent hypovolemia probably interferes with detection of sympathoinhibition by plasma levels of NE and other catechols in this setting. Sympathoinhibition, despite decreased blood volume, may help to explain orthostatic intolerance in astronauts returning from spaceflights.
With use of iron histochemistry and immunohistochemistry, regional changes in the appearance of iron, ferritin, transferrin, glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes, and activated microglia were examined from 1 to 24 weeks after transient forebrain ischemia (four-vessel occlusion model) in rat brain. Expression of the C3bi receptor and the major histocompatibility complex class II antigen was used to identify microglia. Neuronal death was confirmed by hematoxylin-eosin staining only in pyramidal cells of the hippocampal CA1 region, which is known as the area most vulnerable to ischemia. Perls' reaction with 3,3'-diaminobenzidine intensification revealed iron deposits in the CA1 region after week 4, which gradually increased and formed clusters by week 24. Iron also deposited in layers III-V of the parietal cortex after week 8 and gradually built up as granular deposits in the cytoplasm of pyramidal cells in frontocortical layer V. An increasing astroglial reaction and the appearance of ferritin-immunopositive microglia paralleled the iron accumulation in the hippocampal CA1 region, indicating that iron deposition was probably produced in the process of gliosis. Neither neuronal death nor atrophy was found in the cerebral cortex. Nevertheless, an astroglial and ferritin-immunopositive microglial reaction became evident at week 8 in the parietal cortex. On the other hand, the granular iron deposition in the pyramidal neurons of frontocortical layer V was not accompanied by any glial reaction in the chronic stage of ischemia. Three different types of iron deposition in the chronic phase after transient forebrain ischemia were shown in this study. In view of the neuronal damage caused by iron-catalyzed free radical formation, the late-onset iron deposition may be relevant to the pathogenesis of the chronic brain dysfunction seen at a late stage after cerebral ischemia.
3R-(+)-cis-4-Methyl-HA966 (L-687,414) is a novel and selective, low intrinsic activity, partial agonist at the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Thus, while it acts primarily to block NMDA receptor function in the presence of glycine, it fails to produce a complete block of NMDA receptor activation. In this study, we have investigated its neuroprotective effects in a rat model of focal ischaemia, involving permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery. L-687,414 was administered as a bolus dose of 17.6 mg/kg i.v. straight after the occlusion or as a bolus dose + infusion for 4 h. The doses of L-687,414 used for the infusion studies were 7 mg/kg i.v. + 7 mg/kg/h, 14 mg/kg + 14 mg/kg/h, or 30 mg/kg + 30 mg/kg/h. The 17.6-mg/kg dose gave an estimated peak plasma level of 24 micrograms/ml, which decayed with a t1/2 of 56 min. The three infusion dosing regimens gave mean plasma levels over the 4 h of 11, 25 and 61 micrograms/ml plasma, respectively. The 17.6-mg/kg dose of L-687,414 gave no significant protection against the volume of hemispheric, cortical, or caudate damage when compared with the control group of animals. The lowest infusion dosing regimen of L-687,414 which gave a plasma level of 11 micrograms/ml over the 4 h was also ineffective against the volume of infarction measured in the different brain regions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Plasma cortisol and serum 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethyl glycol (MHPG) were determined before and after 5-6 weeks of neuroleptic treatment in patients with schizophrenia. Following drug treatment both plasma cortisol and serum MHPG levels in patients decreased and plasma cortisol levels were also lower than in unmedicated healthy controls. Indications of a relationship between the reduction of cortisol and MHPG levels were found. The data show that neuroleptic drug treatment inhibits cortisol secretion. It is speculated that this inhibition could be related to reduced noradrenergic activity.

The origins of the neonatal neurological examination are described with their common basis attributable to evolutionary theory, the classical neurosciences, clinical neurology, and developmental psychology. It is shown that not only have the techniques of the bedside examination changed over the past half century but the purpose of the examination has also evolved; initially the examination was used to assess maturation of the developing infant, now it is used to determine whether cerebral pathology may be present and whether examination abnormalities are helpful in outcome assessment. The development of several of the current neonatal neuroogical examinations are reviewed and their cllinical and scientific basis examined.
Neural tube defects (NTD) are among the most common and disabling birth defects. The aetiology of NTD is unknown and their genetics are complex. The majority of NTD cases are sporadic, isolated, nonsyndromic, and generally considered to be multifactorial in origin. Recently, PAX3 (formerly HuP2, the human homologue of mouse Pax-3), on chromosome 2q35-37, was suggested as a candidate gene for NTD because mutations of Pax-3 cause the mouse mutant Splotch (Sp), an animal model for human NTD. Mutations in PAX3 were also identified in patients with Waardenburg syndrome type 1 (WS1). At least eight patients with both WS1 and NTD have been described suggesting pleiotropy or a contiguous gene syndrome. Seventeen US families and 14 Dutch families with more than one affected person with NTD were collected and 194 people (50 affected) from both data sets were genotyped using the PAX3 polymorphic marker. The data were analysed using affecteds only linkage analysis. The lod scores were -7.30 (US), -3.74 (Dutch), and -11.04 (combined) at theta = 0.0, under the assumption of the autosomal dominant model. For the recessive model, the lod scores were -3.30 (US), -1.46 (Dutch), and -4.76 (combined) at theta = 0.0. Linkage between PAX3 and familial NTD was excluded to 9.9 cM on either side of the gene for the dominant model and to 3.63 cM on either side of the gene for the recessive model in the families studied. No evidence of heterogeneity was detected using the HOMOG program. Our data indicate that PAX3 is not a major gene for NTD.
The majority of neuronal mRNAs are confined to cell bodies, but a few mRNAs are present at high levels in dendrites. Here we report an initial analysis of the relationship between afferent innervation and the distribution of mRNA within dendritic fields. In situ hybridization techniques were used to compare the subcellular distribution of dendritic mRNAs in principal neurons of the hippocampal formation in vivo. The mRNA encoding the alpha subunit of calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CAMII kinase) was present at high levels throughout the layers that contain the dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells and dentate granule cells. In contrast, the mRNA encoding the high molecular weight microtubule-associated protein MAP2 had a more limited distribution. In the dentate gyrus, labeling for MAP2 was present in a discrete band in the lamina containing proximal dendrites and decreased to low levels in laminae containing distal dendrites. This laminar pattern resembles the distinct terminations of the commissural/associational projection (high MAP2 labeling) and the entorhinal projection (lower MAP2 labeling) upon dendrites of granule cells. To determine if the differential distribution of dendritic mRNAs was regulated by either the presence or activity of afferents, we evaluated mRNA distribution in the dentate molecular layer following (1) removal of the entorhinal input by lesions of the entorhinal cortex or (2) prolonged delivery of potentiating stimulation to entorhinal afferents. Denervation led to modest decreases in the levels of mRNAs for both CAMII and MAP2 but did not lead to detectable alterations in mRNA distribution. Also, prolonged stimulation did not lead to detectable alterations in MAP2 or CAMII mRNA distribution although such stimulation clearly elevated the expression of mRNA for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP).
A form of long-term potentiation (LTP) is induced at the mossy fiber (MF) synapse in the hippocampus by high-frequency presynaptic stimulation (HFS). It is generally accepted that induction of this form of LTP (MF LTP) does not depend on postsynaptic Ca2+ current gated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, but it has remained controversial whether induction depends on postsynaptic depolarization and voltage-gated entry of Ca2+. There are also contradictory data on the time course of both LTP and post-tetanic potentiation (PTP), a shorter duration form of potentiation observed at MF synapses immediately following HFS. It has been proposed that some of these differences in results may have arisen because of difficulties in isolating monosynaptic responses to MF input. In the present study, whole cell recording was used to observe excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) elicited in CA3 pyramidal cells by input from MFs. Postsynaptic cells were dialyzed with 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) and F- to inhibit postsynaptic mechanisms that required Ca2+, cells were under voltage clamp during HFS, and conditions were selected to minimize the likelihood of polysynaptic contamination. Under these conditions, HFS nevertheless induced robust LTP (mean magnitude, 62%). The possibility that EPSCs were contaminated by polysynaptic components was investigated by exposing the slices to a suppressing medium (one that partially blocked neurotransmission). EPSC waveforms did not change shape during suppression, indicating that contamination was absent. The LTP observed always was accompanied by prominent PTP that lasted through the first 5 to 15 min following HFS (mean decay time constant, 3.2 min). Induction of this LTP was not cooperative; there was no relationship between the size of responses and the magnitude of the LTP induced. LTP magnitude also was unrelated to the extent to which postsynaptic cells depolarized during HFS. These results show that high rates of presynaptic MF activity elicit robust LTP whether or not there is accompanying postsynaptic depolarization or increase in the concentration of postsynaptic Ca2+. High-frequency MF activity also results in a PTP that is unusually large and long.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, is regulated by phosphorylation. Activation of histaminergic H1 receptors on cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells stimulated a rapid increase in TOH phosphorylation (within 5 s) that was sustained for at least 5 min. The initial increase in TOH phosphorylation (up to 1 min) was essentially unchanged by the removal of extracellular Ca2+. In contrast, the H1-mediated response was abolished by preloading the cells with BAPTA acetoxymethyl ester (50 microM) and significantly reduced by prior exposure to caffeine (10 mM for 10 min) to deplete intracellular Ca2+. Tryptic-phosphopeptide analysis by HPLC revealed that the H1 response in the presence or absence of extracellular Ca2+ resulted in a major increase in the phosphorylation of Ser19 with smaller increases in that of Ser40 and Ser31. In contrast, although a brief stimulation with nicotine (30 microM for 60 s) also resulted in a major increase in Ser19 phosphorylation, this response was abolished in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. These data indicate that the mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ plays a crucial role in supporting H1-mediated TOH phosphorylation and may thus have a potentially important role in regulating catecholamine synthesis.
Earlier studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity could be modulated by inhibitors and inducer of cytochrome P450 (P450) in an in vitro model consisting of sagittal slices of mouse brain. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the role of P450 on MPTP toxicity, it was undertaken to study the effect of the modulators of P450 on the toxicity of the metabolite of MPTP, namely, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+). Incubation of mouse brain slices with various concentrations of MPP+ (1-100 microM) resulted in dose-dependent inhibition of mitochondrial enzyme NADH-dehydrogenase (NADH-DH) and leakage of the cytosolic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase from the slice into the medium. MPP(+)-induced toxicity was abolished by pretreatment of the slices with inhibitors of monoamine oxidase (MAO; pargyline and deprenyl) or inhibitors of P450 (piperonyl butoxide or SKF-525A) or dopamine uptake blocker (GBR-12909), as measured by the activity of NADH-DH in slices and leakage of lactate dehydrogenase from the slice into the medium. Slices prepared from mice pretreated with phenobarbital (an inducer of P450) potentiated the toxic effects of MPP+. Pretreatment of slices with MAO-inhibitor, P450 inhibitors, or dopamine uptake blocker attenuated the uptake of MPP+ into the slices. In contrast, MPP+ uptake was significantly increased in slices prepared from phenobarbital-pretreated mice. Thus, both MAO and P450 inhibitors abolish the toxicity of MPP+ in the sagittal slices of mouse brain by altering the uptake of the toxin into the slices.
B-50 (GAP-43) is a presynaptic protein kinase C (PKC) substrate implicated in the molecular mechanism of noradrenaline release. To evaluate the importance of the PKC phosphorylation site and calmodulin-binding domain of B-50 in the regulation of neurotransmitter release, we introduced two monoclonal antibodies to B-50 into streptolysin O-permeated synaptosomes isolated from rat cerebral cortex. NM2 antibodies directed to the N-terminal residues 39-43 of rat B-50 dose-dependently inhibited Ca(2+)-induced radiolabeled and endogenous noradrenaline release from permeated synaptosomes. NM6 C-terminal-directed (residues 132-213) anti-B-50 antibodies were without effect in the same dose range. NM2 inhibited PKC-mediated B-50 phosphorylation at Ser41 in synaptosomal plasma membranes and permeated synaptosomes, inhibited 32P-B-50 dephosphorylation by endogenous synaptosomal phosphatases, and inhibited the binding of calmodulin to synaptosomal B-50 in the absence of Ca2+. Similar concentrations of NM6 did not affect B-50 phosphorylation or dephosphorylation or B-50/calmodulin binding. We conclude that the N-terminal residues 39-43 of the rat B-50 protein play an important role in the process of Ca(2+)-induced noradrenaline release, presumably by serving as a local calmodulin store that is regulated in a Ca(2+)- and phosphorylation-dependent fashion.
The influence of suramin, a suggested purino-receptor antagonist, on the evoked synaptic potentials recorded from hippocampal slices was evaluated. The suramin induced a nondecremental, concentration-dependent amplification of the slope of excitatory postsynaptic potential and magnitude of the population spike (long-term potentiation, LTP). The effect of suramin was completely abolished by adenylimidodiphosphate, a non-hydrolyzable analogue of ATP, and markedly reduced by NMDA-receptor antagonists DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and MK-801. These results indicate that, in addition to acting as an antagonist of P2 receptors, suramin is also able to facilitate hippocampal potentials in a way that involves mechanisms participating in induction of LTP.
Two children with an unusual gait disorder, one combined with acquired aphasia, in association with focal epilepsy are reported. Both children also showed paroxysmal &quot;dystonic&quot; phenomena, and a clear therapeutic response to corticosteroids. This newly described condition widens the range of discrete, recoverable defects of cerebral function that are associated with epilepsy in the developing nervous system and suggests that the site of action is at a functionally combined bilateral motor/sensory level of the cerebral cortex.

1. Semicircular-canal afferents in the squirrel monkey were characterized by their resting discharge, discharge regularity, sensitivity to galvanic currents delivered to the ear (beta *), the gain (g2Hz), and phase lead (phi 2Hz) of their response to 2-Hz sinusoidal head rotations, and their antidromic conduction velocity. Discharge regularity was measured by a normalized coefficient of variation (CV*); the higher the CV*, the more irregular the discharge. g2Hz and phi 2Hz were expressed relative to angular head velocity. 2. These physiological measures were used in an attempt to discern the discharge properties of the three morphological classes of afferents innervating the crista. Presumed bouton (B) fibers were identified as slowly conducting afferents. Presumed calyx (C) fibers were recognized by their irregular discharge and low rotational gains. The remaining fibers were considered to be dimorphic (D) units. Single letters (B, C, and D) are used to emphasize that the classification is based on circumstantial evidence and may be wrong for individual fibers. Of the 125 identified fibers, 13 (10%) were B units, 36 (29%) were C units, and 76 (61%) were D units. 3. B units were regularly discharging D units ranged from regularly to irregularly discharging. C units were the most irregularly discharging afferents encountered. The mean resting discharge for the entire sample was 74 spikes/s. Resting rates were similar for regularly discharging B and D units and higher than those for irregularly discharging C and D units. 4. Except for their lower conduction velocities, the discharge properties of B units are indistinguishable from those of regularly discharging D units. Many of the discharge properties of B and D units vary with discharge regularity. There is a strong, positive relation when beta *, g2Hz, or phi 2Hz is plotted against CV*. For beta * or phi 2Hz, C units conform to the relation for B and D units. In contrast, values of g2Hz for C units are three to four times lower than predicted from the relation for the other two classes. 5. Internal (axon) diameters (dp) of peripheral vestibular-nerve fibers were estimated from central antidromic conduction velocities. Thick fibers (dp &gt; or = 49 microns) were irregularly discharging, mostly C units. Medium-sized fibers (dp = 1.5-4 microns) included regular, intermediate, and irregular D units, as well as C units. Thin fibers (dp &lt; or = 1.5 microns) were defined as B units.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The numbers of type I and type II hair cells were estimated by dissector techniques applied to semithin, stained sections of the horizontal, superior, and posterior cristae in the squirrel monkey and the chinchilla. 2. The crista in each species was divided into concentrically arranged central, intermediate, and peripheral zones of equal areas. The three zones can be distinguished by the sizes of individual hair cells and calyx endings, by the density of hair cells, and by the relative frequency of calyx endings innervating single or multiple type I hair cells. 3. In the monkey crista, type I hair cells outnumber type II hair cells by a ratio of almost 3:1. The ratio decreases from 4-5:1 in the central and intermediate zones to under 2:1 in the peripheral zone. For the chinchilla, the ratio is near 1:1 for the entire crista and decreases only slightly between the central and peripheral zones. 4. Nerve fibers supplying the cristae in the squirrel monkey were labeled by extracellular injections of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the vestibular nerve. Peripheral terminations of individual fibers were reconstructed and related to the zones of the cristae they innervated and to the sizes of their parent axons. Results were similar for the horizontal, superior, and posterior cristae. 5. Axons seldom bifurcate below the neuroepithelium. Most fibers begin branching shortly after crossing the basement membrane. Their terminal arbors are compact, usually extending no more than 50-100 microns from the parent exon. A small number of long intraepithelial fibers enter the intermediate and peripheral zones of the cristae near its base, then run unbranched for long distances through the neuroepithelium to reach the central zone. 6. There are three classes of afferent fibers innervating the monkey crista. Calyx fibers terminate exclusively on type I hair cells, and bouton fibers end only on type II hair cells. Dimorphic fibers provide a mixed innervation, including calyx endings to type I hair cells and bouton endings to type II hair cells. Long intraepithelial fibers are calyx and dimorphic units, whose terminal fields are similar to those of other fibers. The central zone is innervated by calyx and dimorphic fibers; the peripheral zone, by bouton and dimorphic fibers; and the intermediate zone, by all three kinds of fibers. Internal (axon) diameters are largest for calyx fibers and smallest for bouton fibers. Of the entire sample of 286 labeled fibers, 52% were dimorphic units, 40% were calyx units, and 8% were bouton units.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We have studied the statistical properties of excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs) measured at small numbers of synaptic contacts between pairs of hippocampal neurons maintained in dissociated cell culture. Synaptic transmission at few synapses was enabled by microperfusion of a small region of the postsynaptic cell with Ca-containing solution, while blocking transmission at all other synaptic boutons by bathing them in low-Ca solution. Frequency histograms of the amplitudes of EPSCs recorded in this way showed no clear quantization. Numbers of active synapses, estimated immunohistochemically with the use of light microscopy, ranged from 4 to 14 in different experiments. 2. Miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs), originating in the same small population of synapses as produced the evoked EPSCs, were elicited by microperfusion of bath solution made hypertonic by the addition of sucrose. These &quot;sucrose-evoked&quot; mEPSCs appeared to be identical to &quot;spontaneous&quot; mEPSCs in every respect except control over their frequency and site of origin. Sucrose-evoked mEPSCs originating in few synapses still exhibited a broad amplitude distribution. Thus, if mEPSCs constitute the postsynaptic response to a single quantum of neurotransmitter (the &quot;quantal amplitude&quot;), their broad amplitude distribution would tend to obliterate evidence of quantization in evoked EPSC amplitudes, even if evoked release was, indeed, quantal. 3. This idea, which is a corollary of the Katz model of quantal transmission, was tested quantitatively by assuming 1) neurotransmitter release obeys uniform binomial statistics, and 2) the quantal amplitude has a distribution given by the observed distribution of sucrose-evoked mEPSCs. The expected distribution, calculated on the basis of these two assumptions, was fitted to the observed distribution of evoked EPSC amplitudes by varying two free parameters, the binomial parameters N and p. In five cells out of six that were fully analyzed, the Poisson limit of the binomial model (N large, p small) provided a very good fit to the data. This and other evidence suggests that the release probability at a single presynaptic terminal is low. In two out of the six cells, the binomial model, with N constrained to the histochemically determined bouton count, yielded acceptable fits; for the remaining cells the constrained binomial model could be rejected. 4. It is concluded that the Katz model of quantized release of neurotransmitter gives an adequate description of excitatory synaptic transmission in hippocampal cultures, when one assumes the broad distribution of mEPSC amplitudes reflects the distribution of the postsynaptic effect of a single quantum of transmitter.
1. The auditory midbrain in Eptesicus contains delay-tuned neurons that encode target range. Most delay-tuned neurons respond poorly to tones or individual frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps and require combinations of FM sweeps. They are combination sensitive and delay tuned. The index of facilitation (IF), a coefficient measuring combination sensitivity for individual delay-tuned neurons, ranged from 0.14 to 1.0, with an average of 0.64 +/- 0.24 (mean +/- SD). Of the 33 facilitated responses from 29 neurons, 23 (70%) exhibited IFs &gt; 0.5, which corresponds to a facilitated response 3 times greater than the sum of the responses to individual pulse and echoes. Thus the responses of midbrain delay-tuned neurons are highly combination sensitive. 2. The response of midbrain delay-tuned neurons is phasic, with an average of 0.7 +/- 0.4 action potentials elicited per optimal pulse-echo pair. Thus midbrain delay-tuned neurons in Eptesicus act as probability encoders. 3. The distribution of best echo delays (BDs) of midbrain delay-tuned neurons ranged from 8 to 30 ms. As an ensemble, midbrain delay-tuned neurons encode target ranges of 138-516 cm. There is a basic correspondence between the physiologically determined span of midbrain BDs between 8 and 30 ms and the behaviorally determined borders of the approach (8- to 17-ms echo delay) and search stages (17- to 30-ms echo delay) of the insect pursuit sequence. Midbrain delay-tuned neurons can be separated into two subpopulations on the basis of the difference in distributions of the echo best amplitude (EBA) tuning at BD. The BDs of one subpopulation correspond to the span of search stage echo delays, and the BDs of the other subpopulation correspond to the span of approach stage echo delays. 4. EBAs of neurons in each subpopulation are tailored to the specific perceptual requirements of the corresponding behavioral stage. EBAs of midbrain neurons tuned to echo delays between 17 and 30 ms (N = 12) correspond to the search stage and are suited to the requirements of target detection. EBAs of midbrain neurons tuned to echo delays between 17 and 30 ms (N = 21) correspond to the approach stage and are suited to the requirements of target size discrimination. 5. The best FM sweeps for the pulse (PFM) and echo (EFM) were determined for each midbrain neuron. PFMs appear to cluster at frequencies corresponding to the three harmonic peaks in the emitted pulse power spectra.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The tap withdrawal reflex in Caenorhabditis elegans demonstrates various forms of nonassociative learning. A first step in determining the cellular mechanisms of this learning is to identify the neuronal circuitry that underlies this reflex. Studies by Chalfie et al. (1985) have defined the touch-circuit that mediates the response to a stimulus related to tap--a light touch. We used the touch circuit as a starting point in the identification of the tap withdrawal circuitry. Here we report the effects of lesions of identified neurons on the tap withdrawal reflex. Ablations of the sensory neurons and interneurons of the touch circuit produce effects on the tap withdrawal response that generally confirm and expand upon the roles of these cells in mechanosensory integration as proposed by Chalfie et al. (1985). However, no role for the LUA interneurons could be identified in the production of the tap withdrawal response. Furthermore, the effects of ablating some neurons outside the touch circuit suggest roles for two of these cells in the integration of the tap withdrawal response. Ablation of either the midline neuron DVA or the PVD neurons resulted in a decrease in both the frequency and magnitude of reversals that were elicited by tap. Additionally, the ablation of either cell decreased the magnitude of accelerations produced by animals in response to tap.
In female rats, the onset of reproductive behavior depends on the sequential presence of estradiol followed by progesterone. Although treatment with high doses of estradiol has been shown to increase immunostaining for the Fos protein, an immediate early gene product that is expressed upon cellular activation, another report conflicts with this finding. However, the previous reports agree that subsequent treatment with progesterone has no apparent effect on Fos expression. In order to resolve this discrepancy and investigate possible effects of progesterone, we used Fos immunocytochemistry combined with computer-aided image analysis. In experiment one, we found that treatment with 5 micrograms of estradiol increased Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) within a section of the medial preoptic area and the dorsal medial hypothalamus. Subsequent treatment with 500 micrograms of progesterone 1 hr before perfusion increased the intensity of the immunostaining within the medial preoptic area and the dorsal medial hypothalamus, although it had no significant effect on Fos-IR cell number. In experiment 2, a lower concentration of Fos antiserum was used in order to diminish the immunostaining sensitivity to a level in which no increase of Fos-IR cell number was observed after treatment with estradiol. Under these immunocytochemical conditions, subsequent treatment with progesterone increased the number of Fos-IR cells in the medial preoptic area, the dorsal medial hypothalamus and the steroid receptor-rich area lateral to the ventromedial hypothalamus. Thus, treatment with behaviorally effective doses of both estradiol and progesterone induces Fos expression in localized regions of female rat brain.
The neurochemical identities of afferents to the midline thalamus were investigated in chloral hydrate-anesthetized adult Sprague-Dawley rats. The retrograde tracers, FluoroGold or cholera toxin B subunit, were centered on the paraventricular thalamic nucleus (n.Pvt), a periventricular member of the diffuse thalamocortical projection system that is reciprocally linked with visceral areas of cerebral cortex and implicated in food intake and addictive behavior. Tissues were processed with antisera raised against 5-HT, the catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase or the cholinergic anabolic enzyme, ChAT. Serotonergic afferents principally derive from dorsal and median constituents of the mesopontine raph. Previously unrecognized sources of catecholaminergic afferents were detected. Adrenergic afferents were traced to neurons in the C1 and C3 areas of rostral medullary reticular formation and periventricular gray, respectively, and the C2 area corresponding to the dorsal general viscerosensory field of nucleus tractus solitarii. Noradrenergic afferents arise principally from neurons in the locus ceruleus and A5 area. Dopaminergic projections to the n.Pvt derive from the A14, A13 and A11 cell groups in diencephalon. Afferents presumed to generate nitric oxide (NO) as a diffusible membrane-permeant transcellular signal were detected by processing retrogradely labeled tissues histochemically for NADPH-diaphorase, a molecule associated with nitric oxide synthase. NO in the n.Pvt is generated predominantly by noncholinergic neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area and mesopontine tegmentum. In striking contrast, extensive interactions were predicted between NO and ACh in the central medial and other loci in the nondiscriminative thalamus. We conclude that the n.Pvt is a site of interaction of NO and monoaminergic afferents derived from nuclei implicated in sensory gating, regulation of electrocortical neural activity and behavior. Taken collectively, our data predict that the labile transcellular messenger NO may enable structurally differentiated subnuclei of the diffuse thalamocortical projection system to act in concert as a functionally unified unit.
Schwann cells polarize their surface membranes into several biochemically and ultrastructurally discrete regions of the myelin internode. To form these membrane domains, Schwann cells must sort, transport, and target membrane proteins appropriately. In this study, microtubule disassembly, confocal microscopy, and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry were used to investigate mechanisms involved in targeting P0 protein (P0), the myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), and laminin to different plasma membrane domains in myelinating Schwann cells from 35-d-old rat sciatic nerve. After microtubule disassembly by colchicine, all three proteins accumulated in Schwann cell perinuclear cytoplasm, indicating that microtubules are necessary for their transport. The distributions of Golgi membranes, endoplasmic reticulum, and intermediate filaments were also altered by colchicine treatment. Electron microscopic immunocytochemical studies indicated that P0 and MAG are sorted into separate carrier vesicles as they exit the trans-Golgi network. Following microtubule disassembly, P0-rich carrier vesicles fused and formed myelin-like membrane whorls, whereas MAG-rich carrier vesicles fused and formed mesaxon-like membrane whorls. Microtubule disassembly did not result in mistargeting of either P0 or MAG to surface membranes. These results indicate that following sorting in the trans-Golgi network, certain carrier vesicles are transported along the myelin internode on microtubules; however, microtubules do not appear to target these vesicles selectively to specific sites. The targeting of P0-, MAG-, and laminin-rich carrier vesicles to specific sites most likely occurs by ligand receptor binding mechanisms that permit fusion of carrier vesicles only with the appropriate target membrane.
Monoclonal antibody BM88 identifies a neuron-specific antigen (BM88 antigen) present in the central and peripheral nervous system of the pig (Patsavoudi et al.: Neuroscience 30:463-478, 1989; J Neurochem 56:782-788, 1991). We have previously shown that the antigen is also expressed by cultured neurons derived from newborn rat brain. In the present study we have used the monoclonal antibody BM88 and a specific polyclonal antibody in order to identify the nature of the cross-reactive antigen in rat brain and to investigate its expression and cellular localization in the developing and adult rat nervous system. Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry revealed that the rat BM88 antigen displays very similar biochemical properties with its porcine homologue. It is a neuron-specific integral membrane protein, apparently not glycosylated, consisting of two 23 kD polypeptide chains. Immunoperoxidase staining demonstrated that the BM88 antigen is widely distributed in the brain of 19-day-old rat embryos. At this stage, immunoreactivity was particularly prominent in differentiated cellular areas and developing fiber tracts of the embryonic rat brain, but was also present in the neuroepithelium. A similar wide distribution of the BM88 antigen was observed in the adult rat brain. Here, immunoreactivity was detected in the neuropil and neuronal perikarya. Immunocytochemical analysis of the expression of the BM88 antigen during postnatal development of the cerebellar cortex showed that this molecule is particularly concentrated in the Purkinje cells between postnatal days 10 to 15; their somata and developing dendrites were distinctly immunopositive during this period. An age-dependent increase in the expression of the BM88 antigen both in brain and in the cerebellum was noted. Electron microscopy confirmed the presence of the BM88 reaction product within the perikarya, axons and dendrites of labeled neurons in the adult brain. The BM88 reaction product was preferentially associated with the limiting membrane of mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum and small electron-lucent vesicles, but was also present in the plasma membrane, especially at the level of synaptic densities. Our results show that the BM88 antigen participates in an activity common to all or most neurons, and demonstrate that the expression of this antigen is elevated upon neuronal differentiation and maturation.
The human polyomavirus, JCV, is the etiologic agent of the fatal central nervous system demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy occurs most frequently in patients with underlying immunosuppressive disorders and is the direct result of virus multiplication in oligodendrocytes, the myelin producing cell in the central nervous system. In this report we test the ability of cellular activation signals to modulate expression of the JCV genome in either transfected or infected human fetal glial cells. In addition, we analyze the binding of nuclear proteins isolated from untreated and cytokine treated human fetal glial cells to transcription factor binding sites in the JCV regulatory region. In contrast to the effects of cellular activation on the expression of the HIV-1 promoter in these cells, none of the cellular activators tested increased expression of JCV. The cytokine, TNF-alpha, increased binding of NF kappa B (p50/p65) to a JC NF kappa B site but did not modulate the binding of nuclear proteins to the overlapping NF-1/AP1 region of the JCV enhancer. When taken together these results suggest that the response of JCV to cellular activation signals may be fundamentally different from the response of HIV-1 to these signals in human fetal glial cells and that the JC NF kappa B site may not be required for JCV gene expression or multiplication in vivo.
Epibatidine has been reported to be a potent, nonopioid analgesic. In this study we further characterized its receptor interactions and its analgesic properties. Radioligand binding assays demonstrated that epibatidine has high affinity for nicotinic receptors (Ki = 0.12 nM) but low affinity for opioid and other receptors (Ki &gt; 3.0 microM). In vitro functional assays demonstrated that the compound is a potent agonist at both neuronal and neuromuscular nicotinic receptors. Epibatidine depolarized rat isolated vagus nerve with an EC50 of 33.1 nM and contracted guinea pig ileum with an EC50 of 6.1 nM. Epibatidine contracted frog rectus abdominis muscle with an EC50 of 18.2 nM. In vivo, epibatidine demonstrated short-lived analgesic actions. Epibatidine (10 and 30 micrograms/kg), at 5 but not 20 min after dosing, increased the threshold for vocalization evoked by foot shock. Epibatidine, at 5 and 20 but not 60 min after dosing, also increased the latency to a nociceptive response in a hot-plate assay. Both (+)- and (-)-enantiomers of epibatidine were active in these assays. The action of epibatidine in the hot-plate test was reversed by the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine but not by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. In contrast to morphine, epibatidine failed to increase locomotor activity. These findings demonstrate that epibatidine is a potent agonist at both neuronal and neuromuscular nicotinic receptors. These findings also demonstrate a short-lived, naloxone-insensitive, analgesic action for both the (+)- and (-)-enantiomers of epibatidine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Fatigue-associated electromyographic (EMG) reactions of intrinsic hand muscles were studied during maintained isometric voluntary contractions of normal subjects. Most measurements concerned actions of the first dorsal interosseus (FDI). In a smaller number of subjects, complementary measurements were obtained for adductor pollicis (AP). 2. Measurements were made of isometric force (thumb adduction, index finger abduction and flexion) and of surface EMG amplitudes (AP and FDI) after rectification and smoothing (rsEMG). 3. In the analysis of fatigue, the subjects were required to maintain a steady isometric force (index finger abduction or thumb adduction) of half their maximum voluntary contraction (1/2MVC test) for as long as possible. Average endurance times were 88 +/- 19 s (mean +/- S.D.) for FDI and 119 +/- 29 s for AP (Student's t test, P &lt; 0.02). 4. Pronounced differences in fatigue-associated EMG behaviour were observed between AP and FDI. In AP the reaction was as expected: a rise of EMG during maintained force (mean rsEMG at end of fatigue test/mean rsEMG at start of test (rsEMG-FI): 181 +/- 64%). In FDI this reaction was seen in half of the recorded cases, the remainder displaying bidirectional changes or a more or less marked decrease of EMG during the endurance task (mean for all cases together: rsEMG-FI, 103 +/- 15%; difference between AP vs. FDI significant, P &lt; 0.01). 5. The unexpected EMG variability of the FDI reactions was further analysed with multiple bipolar recordings of surface EMG. For all the four thoroughly studied subjects, recordings were obtained which showed simultaneously occurring EMG changes in opposite directions (decrease and increase) at different sites of FDI while force was kept constant at 50% of the maximum voluntary contraction (MVC). 6. Further observations on FDI showed that EMGs simultaneously obtained from different recording sites could show dramatic differences in their responses depending on 'synergistic context' (e.g. in relation to changes in index finger extension force during maintained abduction at 50% MVC). Evidence for 'task switching' (shift in rsEMG distribution, shift in hand muscle synergy) was frequently observed during the performance of the 1/2MVC test. 7. The results indicate that FDI is not handled in a topographically homogeneous manner during the execution of an isometric constant force endurance test. Furthermore, the results suggest that this seemingly simple motor performance can be executed in several alternative manners associated with the activation of different muscle synergies and with different distributions of activity within the FDI.
Lumbar puncture at the L4-5 level was performed on 12 healthy male and 12 healthy female volunteers. Confirming previous results, we found pronounced gradients in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-HIAA and HVA (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and homovanillic acid). We also found a gradient in 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylglycol (HMPG), but only in the male volunteers. We also found that tapping-time was significantly longer in females than in males. One reason for this discrepancy may be that an estimate of the spinal distance was greater in males, which might indicate that a hydrodynamic factor plays a role. On taking tapping-time into consideration, the 5-HIAA and HMPG concentrations were significantly higher in males than in females.
The avoidance behavior of rats in a typical step-through passive avoidance task was evaluated by using two types of time measurements that differed from traditional step-through latency (STL). The total stay-time in the light box (TL) was calculated as an index of the dark box avoidance throughout the retention trial, counting the time before and after the first step-through. The total stay-time in the far area of the light box (TF) was calculated as an index of the tendency to keep away from the dark box. TL, TF and the STL increased with electrical shock intensity at acquisition trials and gradually decreased through an extinction procedure. The discrepancy between our new measures and the STL was observed when the effects of a new drug, RS-8359, which was reported to ameliorate ischemic brain damage, were examined in ischemic animals. TL, TF and STL decreased in rats receiving brain ischemia, and we found that after treatment with RS-8359, TL and TF increased, but no effect was observed on STL. The discrepancy observed suggests that a short STL does not necessarily imply a loss of avoidance behaviour. Passive avoidance tests can be more revealing about a drug's effects when stay-time measures are used.
We assessed the 5-HT3-receptor antagonist effects of 4,5,6,7-1H-benzimidazole compounds which are derivatives of YM060, a potent and selective 5-HT3-receptor antagonist, in isolated guinea pig colon. YM114 (KAE-393), YM-26103-2, YM-26308-2 (3 x 10(-9) to 3 x 10(-8) M) produced concentration-dependent shifts to the right of the dose-response curves for both 5-HT and 2-methyl-5-HT (2-Me-5-HT). YM114 (pA2 = 9.08 against 5-HT, pA2 = 8.88 against 2-Me-5-HT), YM-26103-2 (pA2 = 8.27 against 5-HT, pA2 = 8.19 against 2-Me-5-HT), and YM-26308-2 (pA2 = 8.58 against 5-HT, pA2 = 8.4 against 2-Me-5-HT) showed similar pA2 values irrespective of the agonist used, suggesting that they have 5-HT3-receptor blocking activity irrespective of the N-position at the aromatic ring. Since these compounds have an asymmetric center, their enantiomers exist. The S-isomers were one to three orders of magnitude less potent than the respective R-isomer compounds, indicating that the stereochemical configuration of 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazoles is an important determinant of their affinity for 5-HT3 receptors. These results suggest that the highly potent 5-HT3 receptor antagonism and high selectivity for 5-HT3 receptors of 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole derivatives are conserved irrespective of the position of the nitrogen atom in the aromatic ring and that 5-HT3 receptors favor the R-isometric conformation of these compounds.
In this report, a review is made of the mechanism behind the functional MRI (fMRI) signals and the advances made in many different areas of fMRI. Such areas include understanding and compensating for artifacts specific to fMRI, postprocessing of fMRI images, the application of fMRI to areas of interest in neuroscience, some interesting new glimpses on the frontiers of studying hemodynamics and metabolic responses, and the effect to combine fMRI results with magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG).



Chronic alcoholism results in brain damage and dysfunction leading to a constellation of neuropsychiatric symptoms including cognitive dysfunction, the Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome, alcoholic cerebellar degeneration and alcoholic dementia. That these clinically-defined entities result from independent pathophysiologic mechanisms is unlikely. Alcohol and its metabolite acetaldehyde are directly neurotoxic. Alcoholics are thiamine deficient as a result of poor diet, gastrointestinal disorders and liver disease. In addition, both alcohol and acetaldehyde have direct toxic effects on thiamine-related enzymes in liver and brain. Alcoholics frequently develop severe liver disease and liver disease per se results in altered thiamine homeostasis, in cognitive dysfunction and in neuropathologic damage to astrocytes. The latter may result in the loss of neuron-astrocytic trafficking of neuroactive amino acids and thiamine esters, essential to CNS function. The present review article proposes mechanisms whereby the effects of alcohol, thiamine deficiency and liver disease combine synergistically to contribute to the phenomena of cognitive dysfunction and &quot;alcoholic brain damage&quot;.
Iron can induce a peroxidative degradation of the membrane polyunsaturated fatty acids by the well-known Fenton reaction. Chelated iron can also form a complex with oxygen, called perferryl ion, which is able to induce lipoperoxidation without a detectable production of hydroxyl radicals. The antioxidant properties of a titrated and standardized extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves (EGb 761) against iron-dependent peroxidative degradation of the membrane polyunsaturated fatty acids were studied. Rat liver microsomes were exposed to a mixture of NADPH, ADP and FeCl3 hypothesized to produce iron-oxygen complexes. The results of the analysis of the microsomal polyunsaturated fatty acids by gas chromatography show that the susceptibility to peroxidation of the different polyunsaturated fatty acids increases with their unsaturation level, and that EGb 761 protects these membrane polyunsaturated fatty acids regardless of their susceptibility to peroxidation. This protective effect is correlated with the decrease in the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances concentration, but the calculation of the antioxidant potency of EGb 761 as an IC50 value using results of the thiobarbituric acid reaction leads to an underestimated evaluation when the reaction is carried out in the presence of iron ions.

Intracranial aneurysms are rare in children, accounting for merely 0.5-4.6% of all aneurysms. Several characteristics distinguish them from aneurysms in adults: male predominance; higher incidence of unusual location, such as peripheral or posterior circulation; and a greater number of large and giant aneurysms. These unique features can be attributed to the higher incidence of traumatic, infectious, developmental, and congenital lesions. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is not the exclusive mode of presentation; neuro-compressive signs and symptoms are also frequently seen. The treatment of intracranial aneurysms in pediatrics is dictated by their unusual pathology and liability to rehemorrhage. Although direct clipping has been the standard surgical technique, certain obsolete or innovative procedures should also be considered, such as entrapment, proximal occlusion, and endovascular embolisation, or even, in some cases, the non-invasive treatment of &quot;watch and wait&quot; for a spontaneous thrombosis. Six representative cases from King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre are reviewed. They reflect the diversity of the problem and the multi-disciplinary approach to the treatment.
We examined the influence of the molecular structure of four novel adamantane derivatives on their ability to block the channels of nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The structure of the drugs is Ad-CH2-N+H2-(CH2)5-R, where Ad is adamantane and R was varied from ammonium (IEM-1754) to tert-butyldimethylammonium (IEM-1857) radical. The compounds induced double-exponential decays of postsynaptic currents in frog muscles and flickering of NMDA-activated channels, suggesting that each drug acts as a fast open-channel blocker at both types of receptors. The equilibrium dissociation constants (Kd) of the drugs for ACh-activated channels at -80 mV were similar, whereas the Kd values for NMDA-activated channels at -80 mV were 2-10 times lower. Several observations suggested that occupation of either type of channel by these compounds inhibited channel closure; the time constant (tau) of the slow component of the decay of postsynaptic currents in the presence of each compound was greater than the control tau, the IC50 of IEM-1754 for inhibition of NMDA-activated whole-cell currents was &gt; 20 times larger than its Kd for the open channel, and a transient increase in NMDA-activated whole-cell currents was observed after washout of IEM-1754. Thus, these drugs appear to act on nicotinic ACh and NMDA receptors via similar mechanisms, although the voltage dependence of block suggested that the drugs bind at a more superficial site in the ACh-activated channel. All compounds also potently prevented NMDA-induced convulsions in mice. The ED50 of IEM-1754 was 4 times lower than the ED50 of MK-801.
The vast diversity in spectral sensitivities in the vision of many organisms is mediated mostly (although not entirely) through variation in the photosensitive visual pigments (opsins) of the eye. Specifically, shifts in absorption maxima of visual pigments are thought to be a result of interactions within the binding pocket of the opsin, between amino acid side chains and the retinal chromophore, However, it has proven difficult to identify specific amino acid residues important in determining wavelength absorption maxima, especially for some of the short wavelength (blue) opsins. In this paper, a comparative phylogenetic approach was applied to opsin protein sequence data to identify residues important in opsin wavelength regulation. In essence, this approach consisted of interpreting evolutionary history as a series of experiments in which natural selection has repeatedly favored amino acid replacements of certain residues to shift the opsin absorption spectra to either shorter or longer wavelengths. Opsin protein sequences were obtained from GenBank, aligned, and used to reconstruct a phylogenetic tree. Amino acid replacements were traced along the branches of this opsin tree, focusing only on residues likely to reside within the chromophore-binding pocket. A number of functionally convergent, nonconservative amino acid replacements in independently evolved opsins with similar shifts in spectral properties were identified. In short, reconstruction of the phylogeny of the opsin molecule allowed us to track amino acid substitutions in specific sites within the opsin and to target those particular substitutions that are repeatedly associated with marked changes in peak absorbance, shifting the spectral sensitivity of the opsin toward shorter or longer wavelengths. Based on these results, we propose a model for blue shifts of opsin absorption spectra. Amino acid replacements of four polar and charged residues near the protonated Schiff base (SBH+) end of the chromophore are proposed to result in blue shifts of the opsin absorption spectra. This model may explain some of the diversity of blue opsins apparent in both vertebrates and invertebrates.
Telomerase activity was analysed in 100 neuroblastoma cases. Although telomerase activity was not detected in normal adrenal tissues or benign ganglioneuromas, almost all neuroblastomas (94%) did express it, suggesting an important role for telomerase in neuroblastoma development. Neuroblastomas with high telomerase activity had other genetic changes (for example, N-myc amplification) and an unfavourable prognosis, whereas tumours with low telomerase activity were devoid of such genetic alterations and were associated with a favourable prognosis. Three neuroblastomas lacking telomerase activity regressed (stage IVS). Thus telomerase expression may be required as a critical step in the multigenetic process of tumorigenesis, and two different pathways may exist for the development of neuroblastoma.

Lithium is well established as a treatment of manic-depressive illness. As for the mechanism of action of lithium, it is proposed that lithium has effects on intracellular calcium ion (Ca2+) movement. But there are few reports in which the effects of lithium on intracellular Ca2+ movement are observed in the mammalian brain. We therefore examined the effects of lithium on intracellular Ca2+ changes in the rat hippocampal slices with a Ca2+ sensitive dye fura-2, and analyzed by means of a fluorescence microscope, a video-camera and photometrical devices. From the results of treatment with various noradrenergic agonists or antagonists, noradrenaline (NA)-induced intracellular Ca2+ change appears to be mainly mediated by alpha 1-adrenoceptors (AR) rather than alpha 2- or beta-AR. Furthermore, they are considered to be mediated by both alpha 1A-AR and alpha 1B-AR, and to be partly dependent on extracellular Ca2+. Lithium decreased NA-induced intracellular Ca2+ mobilization by attenuation of T1/2 rather than a change in the peak value, and antagonized ouabain-induced intracellular Ca2+ increase. Lithium may therefore suppress intracellular Ca2+ movement by enhancing the extrusion of intracellular Ca2+.
Structural characteristics of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) derived from axonally transported proteoglycans (PGs) were compared in 21 days regenerating and intact goldfish optic tracts. Twenty one days following unilateral optic nerve crushes, fish received intraocular injections of 35SO4. Eight hours post injection, tracts were removed and the 35SO4-labeled GAGs, chondroitin sulfate (CS) and heparan sulfate (HS), isolated. The HS from regenerating optic tracts had a DEAE elution profile indicative of decreased charge density, while heparitinase treatment of HS followed by Sephadex G50 analysis of the resulting fragments showed a change in the elution pattern, suggesting reduced overall sulfation. HPLC analysis of HS disaccharides revealed a difference in the sulfation pattern of regenerating tract HS, characterized by the reduced presence of tri-sulfated disaccharides. Other structural features, such as the sizes of CS and HS, and the sulfation of CS, showed no changes during regeneration. These results indicate that changes in the structure of axonally transported HS accompany regeneration of goldfish optic axons.
This paper develops the use of the landscape parametric profile as a descriptive and interpretative method of analyzing metabolic activity data obtained by neuroimaging techniques such as 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. The method is suggested as an initial survey-type approach that can be used to map regional activity throughout the coronal planes of a rat brain and to compare relative differences in the patterns of activity between different brains. Images are acquired using preexisting image analysis software and then transformed to landscape parametric profiles derived from each matrix array. The image profile analysis tasks are done using commercially available software for matrix computations such as MATLAB. An effective way of interpreting activity differences between brains is presented by plotting the results from a randomized blocks ANOVA significance test combined with the average profiles of different subjects within the same experimental group. The method greatly reduces the computational burden associated with image averaging and statistical comparison of brains from different subjects while preserving the richness in topographic metabolic information. One significant advantage of the method is that it results in figures that are readily depicted and interpretable in black and white.
Interleukin-1 is a macrophage-derived cytokine, which can also be synthesized in other cell types. It has been shown to exert several activities in the nervous and endocrine system, including a potent activating effect on the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. High levels of interleukin-1 have previously been found in the adrenal gland. The effect of bacterial lipopolysaccharides (2.0 mg/kg) on interleukin-1 beta mRNA was studied in the rat adrenal gland by in situ hybridization histochemistry using a synthetic oligonucleotide probe. A transient induction was observed, with the strongest hybridization signal seen after 1.5 h and subsequent decrease to near basal levels at 3 h. Similarly, the effect of lipopolysaccharides on preproenkephalin A mRNA expression in the adrenal gland was analyzed. Preproenkephalin A is a precursor for methionine-enkephalin, a neuropeptide known to be produced in the chromaffin cells, and also known to affect immunological functions. A low level of preproenkephalin A mRNA was seen in the adrenal medulla in animals injected with saline and 0.5 h after lipopolysaccharide administration. A small, but distinct increase in hybridization signal appeared at 1.5 h and a marked increased was observed at 3 h after administration of lipopolysaccharides. In addition to the different kinetics of expression after LPS administration, the two mRNA species showed a somewhat different morphological distribution in that IL-1 beta mRNA could be seen in both adrenal medulla and cortex, whereas preproenkephalin A expression was confined to the adrenal medulla.
Quality of life has emerged as an important health care outcome for patients with chronic illnesses requiring long-term therapy. Disease-specific quality-of-life instruments have been developed as outcome measures for several chronic diseases, and the number of studies that have used quality of life as an outcome measure has increased dramatically in the past 10 years. Quality-of-life measures have not been widely applied in epilepsy, however. Because seizure severity is an important measure of quality of life, seizure severity scales that quantify seizure severity in the evaluation of medical and surgical treatments of epilepsy have been developed for use in clinical trials. The development of a health-related quality-of-life model for epilepsy, including previously validated scales, and its application to the assessment of treatment effects in a clinical trial are described.
The 50-kd dystrophin-associated glycoprotein (50DAG or adhalin) in the skeletal muscle has been shown to be deficient in patients with severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy prevalent in North Africa. To elucidate the frequency of patients having the 50DAG deficiency in a muscular dystrophy population in Japan, we immunocytochemically examined 50DAG, 43DAG, dystrophin, and utrophin. A total of 243 patients with muscular dystrophy, among 1,035 diagnostic muscle biopsies during the past 2.5 years, were analyzed. We identified five unrelated patients (three females and two males who have no family history) with 50DAG deficiency in the sarcolemma. Thus, 2.1% (5/243) of our muscular dystrophy patient population had 50DAG deficiency.
We sent a behavioral neurology fellowship questionnaire to each of the training directors of 160 neurology residency programs throughout the world, seeking information about programs offering advanced training in behavioral neurology (or similar fellowships in cognitive neurology, neurobehavior, or cognitive neuroscience). Response rate was 100%. Thirty-four respondents reported active fellowship programs in behavioral neurology, and 28 additional respondents indicated that a behavioral neurology fellowship was planned. Nine of the 34 programs (26.5%) defined themselves as exclusively or predominantly concerned with dementia and age-related neurobehavioral disorders. Directors of the 34 active fellowship programs estimated that their combined programs had graduated 199 fellows and were currently training fifty. Most fellowships concentrated on outpatient clinical training, with teaching required by 78.1% and research required by 81.8%. Specialty certification for behavioral neurology was favored by over 75% of behavioral neurology fellowship training directors but by only 30% of training directors in residency programs without behavioral neurology fellowships. Behavioral neurology training programs have grown dramatically in response to an increased recognition of the academic interest in and the clinical needs for these services.
The main pathologic hallmark of Parkinson's disease is a degeneration of the dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra, pars compacta and--to a lesser extent--in the ventral tegmental area. Striatal dopamine concentrations are significantly reduced before clinical symptoms become apparent. Recent neuroanatomic and function studies have revealed that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic projection is only one of the neuronal elements integrated into extensive basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits that are intimately involved in the regulation of motor activity. The possibilities for therapeutic intervention at the level of the different dopamine receptor subtypes and their effect on the regulation of motor behavior will be briefly reviewed. Dopamine precursors are considered to provide the best symptomatic treatment, whereas dopamine agonists, although less effective, might be important in slowing the progression of the disease. Our results with pergolide as monotherapy and in combination therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease also are discussed.
We are analyzing features of the K+ channel subunit proteins that are critical for function and regulation of these proteins. Our studies show biochemically that subunit proteins from the Shaker and Shaw subfamilies fail to assemble into a heteromultimer. The basis for this incompatibility is the sequences contained within the T1 assembly domain. For a subunit protein to heteromultimerize with a Shaker subunit protein, two regions within the T1 domain, A and B, must be of the Shaker subtype. Finally, we show that the incompatibility of a Shaw A region for assembly with a Shaker protein depends upon the composition of a 30 amino acid conserved sequence in the A region.
Alternative splicing of the Shaker (Sh) locus of Drosophila generates several transcripts with divergent 5' and 3' domains that produce kinetically distinct K+ currents in Xenopus oocytes. Although suggestive that alternative splicing may be involved in generating K+ channel diversity, clear tissue-specific differences in the distribution of particular Sh gene products have not been demonstrated. Using lacZ as a reporter gene for accurate splicing of variable Sh3' domains, we observe differences in beta-galactosidase expression patterns in transgenic animals that indicate both temporal and spatial regulation of 3' splice choice. The differences in 3'splice choice can account for variation in recovery kinetics of Sh-encoded K+ currents recorded in adult flies. The results indicate that tissue-specific expression of functionally distinct Sh K+ channels is regulated, in part, at the level of pre-mRNA splicing and implicate sequences in or around the 3' splice sites in regulating the choice of 3' domain.
The mammalian rod synapse transmits a binary signal (one photon or none) using tonic, rapid exocytosis. We constructed a quantitative, physical model of the synapse. Presynaptically, a single, linear active zone provides docking sites for approximately 130 vesicles, and a &quot;ribbon&quot; anchored to the active zone provides a depot for approximately 640 vesicles. Postsynaptically, 4 processes invaginate the terminal: 2 (known to have low affinity glutamate receptors) lie near the active zone (16 nm), and 2 (known to have high affinity glutamate receptors) lie at a distance (130-640 nm). The presynaptic structure seems designed to minimize fluctuations in tonic rate owing to empty docking sites, whereas the postsynaptic geometry may permit 1 vesicle to evoke an all-or-none response at all 4 postsynaptic processes.
We have identified, by affinity chromatography, a binding protein for the snake venom toxin taipoxin. The sequence of this 47 kDa protein is unique, is characteristic of a secreted protein, and has homology to the acute phase proteins serum amyloid P protein and C-reactive protein of the pentraxin family. We have named this protein neuronal pentraxin (NP), as Northern analysis and in situ hybridization demonstrate high message levels in neurons of cerebellum, hippocampus, and cerebral cortex. Because NP may be released synaptically and has homology to immune proteins potentially involved in uptake of lipidic, toxic, or other antigenic material, we suggest that NP may be involved in a general uptake of synaptic macromolecules.
We previously reported the late onset reduction of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (LORMAR) which begins 7 days after a 5-min period of experimentally induced forebrain ischemia in the gerbil hippocampus. This study demonstrated that post-ischemic administration of cyclosporin A (CsA) reduced LORMAR 10 days after 5 min of forebrain ischemia in the gerbil hippocampus, suggesting that immunosuppression by CsA may reduce damage to the cholinergic system after ischemia. Microglia positive for HLA-DR class II antigen which presented in the hippocampal CA1 area, the region most vulnerable to ischemia, were also reduced by CsA. CsA may suppress microglial activation especially with regard to the antigen-presenting function, and LORMAR may be attenuated by this modulation of microglial function.
The postnatal development of direct thalamocortical projections from the zona incerta of the ventral thalamus to the whisker representation area of the rat primary somatosensory cortex was investigated. Cytoarchitectonic analysis based on Nissl staining, cytochrome oxidase histochemistry and immunohistochemistry for glutamic acid decarboxylase, GABA, parvalbumin and calbindin D28K revealed that the zona incerta can be clearly distinguished from surrounding diencephalic structures from the day of birth. Moreover, four distinct anatomical subdivisions of this nucleus were identified: the rostral, dorsal, ventral and caudal. Of these, the ventral subdivision is by far the most conspicuous, containing the highest density of neurons, and the highest levels of cytochrome oxidase, glutamate decarboxylase, GABA, parvalbumin and calbindin D28K. In contrast, the dorsal, rostral and caudal subdivisions contain fewer cells, lower levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase and GABA and very few parvalbumin-positive and calbindin-positive neurons. Small injections of rhodamine coated microspheres or Fluoro-gold in the primary somatosensory cortex of animals at different stages of development revealed the existence of retrogradely labeled neurons in the rostral and dorsal subdivisions of the zona incerta from postnatal day 1. At this age, retrogradely labeled cells were also found in the ventral lateral, ventral posterior medial, posterior medial, centrolateral, ventral medial and magnocellular subdivision of the medial geniculate nuclei of the dorsal thalamus. The density of the incertocortical projection reaches its maximum between the first and second postnatal weeks, decreasing subsequently, until an adult pattern of labeling is achieved. Tracer injections combined with immunohistochemistry revealed that the majority of the incertocortical projection derives from GABAergic neurons, implying a potentially inhibitory role for the incertocortical projection. These results demonstrate that the rat trigeminal system contains parallel thalamocortical pathways of opposite polarity, emerging from both the dorsal (glutamatergic, excitatory) and ventral (GABAergic, inhibitory) thalamus since the day of birth. As such, these findings suggest that, contrary to the classical notion, not only the dorsal but also the ventral thalamus may play a special role in both cortical maturation and function.
The chromaffin cells of the adult rat adrenal medulla are essentially growth arrested in situ, but can proliferate in vitro, suggesting the existence of growth inhibitory factors in the adrenal gland. We have investigated whether pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide 38 (PACAP38) could be involved in the growth arrest of adrenal chromaffin cells. In adult rat adrenal gland, PACAP38 was detected by radioimmunoassay and high-performance liquid chromatography and its concentration in the medulla was estimated as 24 nmol/kg wet tissue. Immunohistochemistry of the neonatal and adult rat adrenal medulla showed PACAP38 immunoreactivity in a widely distributed network of delicate nerve fibers surrounding the chromaffin cells. In a primary culture system, PACAP38 inhibited growth factor-stimulated DNA synthesis by 90% in neonatal and adult rat chromaffin cells with half-maximal inhibition at 4 and 0.5 nM, respectively, as demonstrated by bromodeoxyuridine pulse-labeling and immunocytochemical staining of cell nuclei. In comparison, corticosterone inhibited neonatal and adult chromaffin cell proliferation by 70% and 95%, respectively, with half-maximal effect at 100 nM. In neonatal chromaffin cells, 100 nM PACAP38 and 1 microM corticosterone added together abolished proliferation completely (99.8% inhibition). Finally, PACAP38 increased cell survival but showed little neurite-promoting activity in the chromaffin cells. Our data suggest that neurally derived PACAP38, in conjunction with glucocorticoids, may override growth factor mitogenic signals, leading to the postmitotic state of chromaffin cells in the adult adrenal medulla.
The tau mutation shortens the free-running circadian period of the activity rhythm of the Syrian hamster from around 24 h in the wild-type, to 20 h in the homozygous mutant. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of light pulses on the activity rhythms and expression of c-fos in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of wild-type and mutant hamsters. This would make it possible to determine the relative durations of subjective day and night, and thereby characterize further the effect of the mutation upon the circadian cycle. Presentation of light pulses (15 min) to animals kept in dim red light for seven to 10 days induced phase-dependent shifts in the onset of activity. During subjective day (inactive phase) there was no effect of light upon the activity rhythm of either normal or mutant animals. Early in subjective night (i.e. after the start of the active phase), light pulses induced phase delays of approximately one circadian hour in both phenotypes. However, later in subjective night light pulses induced phase advances in activity rhythms. The magnitude of the advance phase shifts differed considerably between the two phenotypes, with the wild-types typically showing shifts of about one circadian hour, while the mutants showed much larger advances of up to 12 circadian hours. In both strains, advances were observed following light at circadian time 22 but not after light at circadian time 24. The relative duration of subjective night was therefore comparable in the mutants and wild-types i.e. around 11 circadian hours. In order to examine the light-induced expression of the immediate early gene c-fos at different circadian phases, animals received a second light pulse (15 min) or a control &quot;dark pulse&quot; at the same circadian time as they had received the first, but seven to 10 circadian days later. They were perfused 1 h after the start of the pulse and brains processed for the immunocytochemical detection of Fos, the protein product of c-fos. Animals receiving dark pulses showed minimal Fos immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, regardless of the circadian time of presentation of the stimulus. During subjective day (circadian times 4-11), light induced very little Fos immunoreactivity. In contrast, light presented during subjective night (after circadian time 12) induced a dense pattern of Fos immunoreactivity in the ventrolateral, retino-recipient region of the suprachiasmatic nucleus of both wild-type and mutant animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We placed pellets of horseradish peroxidase in the superior colliculus of four macaque monkeys and retrogradely labelled the retinal ganglion cells of both eyes. The ratio of labelled cells in the contralateral nasal retina and the ipsilateral temporal retina was no different from the ratio found after implants in the optic nerve, which label the entire afferent pathway. Our finding therefore invalidates the proposal that prominent differences in the properties of &quot;blindsight&quot; in monocular nasal and temporal visual fields arise from differences in the projection from the nasal and temporal retina to the midbrain. We also measured the size of the soma and dendritic field of the labelled ganglion cells (mostly gamma cells) and compared them with those of alpha and beta cells that project to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Soma size was very close to that of beta cells at all eccentricities but was much smaller than that of alpha cells. Dendritic field size was significantly larger than that of beta cells but was smaller than that of alpha cells. The number of primary dendrites was counted for cells labelled from the midbrain and in samples of alpha and beta cells labelled from the optic nerve. At eccentricities of 3-7 mm there was a consistent and prominent difference between beta and gamma cells. The results show that at intermediate eccentricities even ganglion cells whose distal dendrites are too poorly labelled to reveal their morphological class can never the less be categorized as alpha, beta or gamma by using a combination of soma size and number of primary dendrites. This is particularly useful when attempting to classify retinal ganglion cells following microinjections into selected target nuclei of optic axons.
The cellular localization of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate glutamate receptor, GluR3, was identified using antibodies that recognize the N-terminus of the predicted polypeptide sequence of GluR3. Regional immunoblot analysis of monkey brain homogenates identified a protein of approximately 102,000 mol. wt that was enriched in hypothalamus. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated that GluR3 was enriched within the hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory nuclei and axons of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial tract in rat and monkey. GluR3 immunoreactivity co-localized to oxytocin-containing, but not vasopressin-containing, neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus and accessory magnocellular nuclei. Ultrastructurally, GluR3 immunoreactivity was enriched throughout cytoplasm of the somatodendritic compartment and was associated with postsynaptic and presynaptic structures. GluR3 immunoreactivity was frequently observed to be clustered at the plasma membrane of the somatodendritic compartment, consistent with the predicted localization of a membrane-bound ion channel. Additionally, GluR3-immunoreactive axon terminals in synaptic contact with unlabeled dendrites within the retrochiasmatic area and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis were observed, providing morphological evidence for a presynaptic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor. By immunoblot analysis and immunocytochemistry using antibodies directed against a specific alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate receptor in rat and monkey brain, our findings suggest a highly selective hypothalamic distribution of the GluR3 subunit that may have functional significance in the glutamatergic regulation of oxytocinergic neurons.
The neuropeptide somatostatin is the major physiological inhibitor of growth hormone secretion. With the aim of identifying the receptor subtypes through which this neuropeptide may be exerting its neuroendocrine actions in the brain, we have examined by in situ hybridization the distribution of the messenger RNA for SSTR1 and SSTR2 isoforms in the hypothalamus of adult male and female rats. Both receptor subtypes were highly expressed in the medial preoptic area, suprachiasmatic nucleus and arcuate nucleus. High SSTR1, but low SSTR2, expression was evident in the para- and periventricular nuclei as well as in the ventral premammillary nucleus. Conversely, moderate to high SSTR2, but low SSTR1, messenger RNA levels were detected in the anterior hypothalamic nucleus, ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei and medial tuberal nucleus. Taken together, these distributional patterns conform to those of somatostatin binding sites as visualized by in vitro autoradiography, suggesting that an important proportion of SSTR1 and SSTR2 receptors in the hypothalamus are associated with the perikarya and dendrites of intrinsic neurons. The distribution of SSTR1-expressing cells within the periventricular, paraventricular and suprachiasmatic nuclei was similar to that of neurons previously reported to contain and/or express somatostatin in the brain suggesting that some of the SSTR1 receptors may correspond to autoreceptors. Within the arcuate nucleus, the distribution of SSTR1 and SSTR2 messenger RNA-expressing cells was comparable to that of neurons previously found to selectively bind somatostatin-14 within this area. Given that over one third of these cells also contain and express growth hormone-releasing factor, the present findings suggest that both of these receptor subtypes are involved in the central regulation of growth hormone-releasing factor secretion by somatostatin. Taken together, the present results suggest that SSTR1 and SSTR2 somatostatin receptor messenger RNAs are heavily expressed in those neurons containing somatostatin and/or growth hormone-releasing factor and thereby imply a role for both SSTR1 and SSTR2 somatostatin receptor subtypes in neuroendocrine regulation of growth hormone secretion in both sexes of this species.
Spontaneous and stress-evoked discharge of locus coeruleus neurons were characterized in rats with a history of stress. Rats exposed to one or five daily 30-min sessions of footshock were anesthetized with halothane and surgically prepared for locus coeruleus single-unit recording immediately following the last session. Locus coeruleus spontaneous discharge rate and discharge evoked by sciatic nerve stimulation were comparable between acutely and repeatedly stressed rats and controls. In contrast, locus coeruleus activation produced by intracerebroventricular administration of corticotropin-releasing factor (3 micrograms) or by hypotensive challenge (which requires endogenous corticotropin-releasing factor release in the locus coeruleus) was greatly attenuated in acutely stressed rats. The corticotropin-releasing factor dose-response curve was shifted to the right in acutely stressed rats compared with controls. In repeatedly stressed rats, the effects of 3 micrograms corticotropin-releasing factor on locus coeruleus discharge were similarly diminished. Although the maximum effect produced by corticotropin-releasing factor was decreased in these rats, the dose-response curve was shifted to the left, indicative of sensitization. Hypotensive challenge, which was ineffective in acutely stressed rats, increased locus coeruleus discharge of repeatedly stressed rats by a similar magnitude as in matched controls. The return of locus coeruleus responsiveness to hypotension in repeatedly stressed rats may be related to the sensitization to corticotropin-releasing factor. Finally, the protocol of repeated stress did not alter the affinity or density of corticotropin-releasing factor receptors in either the frontal cortex or brainstem. Taken together, the results suggest that a history of stress alters corticotropin-releasing factor neurotransmission in the locus coeruleus at the postsynaptic level. However, these effects are not reflected by corticotropin-releasing factor binding kinetics in brainstem. Stress-induced changes in corticotropin-releasing factor neurotransmitter function in the locus coeruleus may play a role in certain symptoms of stress-related psychiatric disorders.
We have investigated the mechanism of nitric oxide-induced damage in glial cells. Genomic DNA isolated from astrocytes and microglia, treated for 18 h with varying concentrations of a nitric oxide donor, was analysed by electrophoresis. No DNA damage was evident. Oligodendrocytes, treated with 2 mM nitric oxide for 3-48 h, showed single stranded breaks at 48 h but no laddering of nucleosomic fragments of DNA. When analysed by electron microscopy, ultrastructural changes in oligodendrocytes treated with 1 mM nitric oxide for 24 h showed intact nuclei but alterations in membranes and organelles characteristic of necrosis, including disrupted mitochondria with dissolution of their christae. Astrocytes, a glial cell type that we have previously shown to be much less sensitive to nitric oxide-induced damage, did not show ultrastructural changes. DNA analysis by flow cytometry of glial cells treated with nitric oxide supported the apparent necrotic-type death in oligodendrocytes. Double staining of oligodendrocytes, using Hoechst 33342 and propidium iodide for the simultaneous assessment of both apoptotic and necrotic cells, demonstrated that, while the proportion of dead cells increased with time and increasing concentrations of nitric oxide, the death was due to necrosis and not apoptosis. In this study, we demonstrate that direct exposure to soluble nitric oxide, produced in vitro from a nitric oxide donor chemical, ultimately kills oligodendrocytes by necrosis. Microglia and astrocytes maintain DNA and organelle integrity when exposed to exogenous nitric oxide.
The inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 acts as an endogenous pyrogen in organisms affected by infectious diseases and has been shown to influence the activity of the central nervous system. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we have examined the cellular source of interleukin-1 beta in rat brain after peripheral stimulation with the bacterial lipopolysaccharide, a potent inducer of interleukin-1. Whereas no interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA could be detected in brains in unstimulated rats, lipopolysaccharide induced a transient, high and widespread expression of interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA in the entire brain. The highest levels of interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA were observed 6-8 h after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide. Using a combination of non-radioactive in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry with the microglial-specific antibody OX-42, interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA-positive cells could be identified as microglia. We conclude that brain microglial cells are the major source of interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA after peripheral administration of lipopolysaccharide.
Platelet factor 4, which has a potent affinity for heparin, has been shown to inhibit the binding of basic fibroblast growth factor to the cell surface receptor and to counteract the biological activities of basic fibroblast growth factor in certain peripheral tissues. In the present in vitro [125I]basic fibroblast growth factor binding experiments, platelet factor 4 consistently inhibited the binding of iodinated basic fibroblast growth factor to cell membranes of the gerbil hippocampus. To investigate the in vivo function of endogenous basic fibroblast growth factor and/or basic fibroblast growth factor receptor possibly activated in the ischemic gerbil brain, we infused platelet factor 4 continuously into the left lateral ventricle with an osmotic minipump. When platelet factor 4 infusion was started within three days after a 3-min ischemic insult, it significantly enhanced ischemia-induced learning disability and ischemic neuronal loss in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, as demonstrated by the results of the step-down passive avoidance task and by subsequent histological examinations. Infusion of platelet factor 4 into the cerebral ventricle of intact gerbils did not affect learning ability or CA1 neuron number. Basic fibroblast growth factor-neutralizing antibody, when infused continuously in the cerebral ventricle, also exhibited a neurotoxic effect in ischemic but not intact gerbils. Basic fibroblast growth factor co-infused with heparin, but not basic fibroblast growth factor alone, rescued a significant number of ischemic neurons which were destined to degenerate without the infusion of heparinized basic fibroblast growth factor, and it prevented ischemia-induced learning disability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rats, receiving an intrathecal pretreatment of oligodeoxynucleotide complementary to c-fos mRNA (antisense), showed no increases in Fos protein or preprodynorphin messenger RNA in the outer laminae of the lumbar spinal cord when challenged 4 h later with a 50 microliters intraplantar injection of 5% formalin. Animals pretreated with saline or sense oligodeoxynucleotide showed marked increases in Fos protein (2 h after formalin challenge) and preprodynorphin mRNA (20 h after formalin challenge) in the lumbar region of the cord ipsilateral to the side of the injection. The behavioural consequences of antisense pretreatment were an increase in the formalin-induced licking/biting responses during the tonic, but not the acute phase. These observations could be interpreted as representing a sequence of events beginning with the formalin-induced increase in the transcription factor Fos, which in turn increases the synthesis of preprodynorphin messenger RNA resulting in the production of the dynorphin opioid peptides which then exert a modulatory antinociceptive action.
Norepinephrine and GABA inhibit omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive (N-type) calcium current in embryonic sensory neurons by separate pathways. We have investigated the mechanisms that limit the modulation of N current by varying the level of activation for a single pathway or simultaneously activating multiple pathways. Calcium currents were measured with tight-seal, whole-cell recording methods. Simultaneous application of the two transmitters at saturating concentrations produced a larger inhibition of the current than either transmitter by itself, but the maximal inhibition was not linearly additive. Maximal, direct activation of GTP-binding proteins by intracellular application of guanosine 5'-(3-O-thio)-triphosphate (GTP gamma S) resulted in a similar limit to the inhibition; furthermore, GTP gamma S did not enhance the maximal inhibition produced by co-application of transmitters. Interventions downstream in the modulatory pathway (e.g. direct activation of protein kinase C or inhibition of protein phosphatases) were also unable to alter the maximal limit for inhibition. These results suggest that transmitter-mediated inhibition is not limited by receptor number, levels of G-protein or protein kinase C activation, or degree of phosphorylation; rather, the extent of inhibition may be limited by the structural properties of the N channels themselves.
Immunolesions of the cholinergic basal forebrain were produced in rats using various intraventricular doses of the immunotoxin 192 immunoglobulin G-saporin: 0.34, 1.34, 2.0, 2.7 and 4.0 micrograms/rat. A battery of behavioral tests, chosen on the basis of reported sensitivity to conventional medial septal or nucleus basalis lesions, was administered. Dose-dependent impairments were found in acquisition, spatial acuity and working memory in the water maze. Dose-dependent hyperactivity in the open field and in swimming speed was observed. The highest dose group (4.0 micrograms) exhibited motoric disturbances which were particularly apparent in swimming and in clinging to an inclined screen. Response and habituation to acoustic startle were diminished in the three higher dose groups. Histological results from acetylcholinesterase and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor staining showed that the lesion was selective for cholinergic neurons bearing p75 nerve growth factor receptors in the basal forebrain nuclei. However, some Purkinje cells in the superficial layers of the cerebellum were also destroyed at the higher doses of immunotoxin. The activity of choline acetyltransferase, used as a marker of cholinergic deafferentation in regions innervated by the basal forebrain nuclei, was decreased with increasing doses to a plateau level of about 90% (average depletion) for the two highest dose groups. These two groups were the only ones to exhibit consistent and severe behavioral impairments on all behavioral tests performed. Thus, for a relatively selective cholinergic basal forebrain lesion, almost a 90% reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity is needed to produce substantial behavioral deficits. It appears that either a considerable safety factor exists or robust compensatory mechanisms can ameliorate behavioral deficits from a major, but incomplete loss of cholinergic basal forebrain innervation.
Six human fetuses of gestational ages 16-28 weeks were employed. The immunocytochemical avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method combined with the silver Bodian technique was used to evaluate the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase neurons and afferent and efferent fibres in the cerebellum during development. Our results illustrated that by 16-18 weeks, immunoreactivity of the Purkinje cells and the granule cells was evident. By 23 weeks, the positive Purkinje cells were tightly packed together and the perinuclear granules began to extend into the processes. The positive cells next to Purkinje cells were the basket cells and stellate cells. By 26-28 weeks, all positive cells increased in number and size. Mossy and climbing fibres appeared early in development (16-18 weeks of gestation) and were seen synapsing with the positive granule cells. At the same time, some parallel fibres were observed. At later stages, the tyrosine hydroxylase- and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive Purkinje cells were surrounded by abundant climbing fibres, while parallel fibres were also evident in the molecular layer. In the deep cerebellar nuclei, positive tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase neurons were present by 16-18 weeks of development. Those in the dentate nucleus were more polymorphic but smaller in size. Some afferent fibres were also spotted around 16-18 weeks of gestation and their numbers increased later. Positive efferent fibres were present by 26 weeks. All these observations point to an early presence of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase components in cerebellar development.
Film autoradiography was used to study the distribution of D1- and D2-dopaminergic receptors in the prefrontal association, somatosensory, primary motor and visual regions in the developing cerebral cortex of macaque monkeys. D1 receptors were labeled with [125I]SCH23982, while D2 sites were visualized with [125I]epidepride. D1- and D2-dopaminergic sites are already present in all cortical areas at embryonic day 73, the earliest age observed in this study. In contrast to the adult cortex, where D1 and D2 receptors have different distributions, during development there are substantial similarities in the laminar patterns of these sites. In particular, both D1 and D2 receptors tend to concentrate in the marginal zone and layer V of the developing cortical plate. The autoradiograms also show a high density of D1-dopaminergic sites in the transient ventricular and subventricular zones, where cortical neurons are generated. Although there is a significant rearrangement of the early laminar patterns, the adult distribution of both dopaminergic receptors in most cortical areas is achieved prenatally, soon after all cortical neurons assume their final positions. An early presence in the cerebral wall, a high density in the proliferative zones and fast maturation of the laminar distribution suggests that dopaminergic receptors may be involved in the regulation of cortical development.
We studied the distribution of preproenkephalin messenger RNA in the monkey forebrain, using a free-floating method for in situ hybridization histochemistry. Autoradiographs reveal a high level of specific hybridization to preproenkephalin messenger RNA in the monkey striatum and forebrain regions. In the monkey striatum, the distribution of preproenkephalin messenger RNA is heterogeneous. There is variation in the general labeling pattern between regions of the striatum. For example, a particularly densely labeled area of preproenkephalin messenger RNA is observed in the ventral part of the caudal putamen. In addition, at the macroscopic level, there are patches of specific hybridization intermingled with areas containing less specific labeling. This forms a mosaic-like pattern. At the microscopic level, densely labeled individual cells are found among those with little or no specific labeling. Adjacent sections, processed for in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, show some correlation between the perikarya containing preproenkephalin messenger RNA and enkephalin-positive fibers in the striatum. Specific hybridization to preproenkephalin messenger RNA is evident throughout the cortical mantle, primarily concentrated in layers 2 and 3. Particularly high levels of preproenkephalin messenger RNA are found in specific limbic-associated cortices, including the piriform allocortex, the agranular area of the orbitofrontal cortex, the agranular insular cortex and the caudal field of the entorhinal cortex. Specific labeling is also present in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus and in the amygdaloid complex. This study reveals heterogeneous distribution of dense preproenkephalin messenger RNA in the basal ganglia and high levels of preproenkephalin messenger RNA in specific limbic-associated regions of the monkey telencephalon.
In Huntington's disease striatal neurons undergo marked changes in dendritic morphology and coincidently exhibit an increase in immunoreactive calbindin D28k (calbindin), a cytosolic calcium-binding protein which is highly abundant in these neurons. Previous studies in the rat striatum have shown that excitotoxic injury, which is linked to a rise in intracellular Ca2+, mimics many of the neurochemical and neuropathological characteristics of Huntington's disease. We speculated, therefore, that the apparent increase in calbindin labeling in Huntington's disease spiny neurons may signal the response to an excitotoxic process. To investigate this possibility, we compared the cellular features of calbindin immunoreactivity in grade 1-4 Huntington's disease cases with those seen in rat striatal neurons in vivo and in vitro following treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist, quinolinic acid. In human post mortem control cases calbindin immunoreactivity was seen primarily in the somata and proximal dendrites of striatal neurons. In the Huntington's disease cases, calbindin labeling was markedly increased throughout the second and third order dendrites and in spines, and this change was more prevalent in advanced cases (grades 3-4). In the rat brain, two weeks after intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid (6-20 ng), surviving medium-spiny neurons in the transition zone around the lesion core exhibited a marked increase in calbindin immunoreactivity similar to that seen in Huntington's disease spiny neurons. In more peripheral areas away from the lesion and on the contralateral unlesioned side, calbindin immunostaining was confirmed to somata and proximal dendrites. In situ hybridization histochemistry with an 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probe showed no change or a decrease in calbindin mRNA levels in neurons within the transition zone, suggesting that the observed increase in calbindin staining was not the result of increased transcription. In 12 day old postnatal striatal cultures, 2-6 h exposures to quinolinic acid (0.5 mM) significantly increased the length of neurites exhibiting calbindin immunoreactivity when compared to untreated controls. This effect was blocked by the selective NMDA receptor blocker (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5), indicating that an NMDA receptor-mediated mechanism contributed to the change in staining pattern. Results in rats suggest that the subcellular redistribution of calbindin immunoreactivity observed in Huntington's disease spiny neurons may be related to an NMDA receptor-induced excitotoxic process. An increased availability of calbindin protein at dendrites and spines may reflect a greater demand for Ca2+ buffering precipitated by an abnormal rise in in intracellular Ca2+.
The repeated administration of amphetamine in rats produces behavioral sensitization which is characterized either by a progressive enhancement of the locomotor activity induced by the drug or by an enduring behavioral hypersensitivity to the drug after the cessation of the treatment. Some authors have suggested that the action of amphetamine at the level of the nucleus accumbens is responsible for the expression of behavioral sensitization, whereas the action of amphetamine at the level of the dopamine cell bodies in the ventral tegmental area induces some changes responsible for the initiation of the phenomenon. The present study fully tested this hypothesis. In two separate experiments, the effects of different doses of amphetamine repeatedly administered in the ventral tegmental area or in the nucleus accumbens were tested on the later behavioral reactivity to the administration of amphetamine in the nucleus accumbens. Independent groups of rats received five repeated administrations (one injection every other day) of different doses of amphetamine either in the ventral tegmental area (0, 1, 2.5, 5 micrograms/0.5 microliters per side) or in the nucleus accumbens (0, 1, 3, 10 micrograms/l microliters per side). Two days following the last intracerebral amphetamine injection, each group received a phosphate buffer solution challenge directly into the nucleus accumbens followed two days later by an amphetamine challenge (1 microgram/l microliters per side) in the nucleus accumbens and two days later by a peripheral challenge with amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). Locomotor responses were recorded following each injection. Results showed that injections of amphetamine into the nucleus accumbens induced a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity which remained identical with the repetition of the injections. No difference between the different intra-accumbens pretreated groups was observed following the diverse phosphate-buffered saline solution and amphetamine challenges. In contrast, intra-ventral tegmental area administration of amphetamine did not produce any modification of locomotor activity. However, whereas no difference between the differently pretreated groups was observed following phosphate-buffered saline administration into the nucleus accumbens, a potentiation of the locomotor response to a challenge dose of amphetamine into the nucleus accumbens was observed which was dependent on the dose of amphetamine pretreatment into the ventral tegmental area. Similar potentiation was observed following peripheral challenge with amphetamine. Finally, cross-sensitization was observed when a challenge dose of cocaine (10 micrograms/1 microliter per side) was injected into the nucleus accumbens, as well as when a peripheral challenge dose of morphine (2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered to the ventral tegmental area-pretreated groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Rats were trained to depress a lever and wait for the onset of a light stimulus, occurring after four equiprobable and variable intervals. At the stimulus onset, they had to release the lever within a reaction time limit for food reinforcement. This paradigm required time estimation of the various intervals and high attentional load for correct performance. Following activation of the dopaminergic transmission after systemic injection of d-amphetamine (0.6 and 0.8 mg/kg) or intrastriatal injection of dopamine (2.5 microgram/microliters), the rat's performance was impaired. Compared with control animals, the performance deficits were expressed as an increased number of premature lever releases before the conditional stimulus onset (&quot;premature responses&quot;) and decreased reaction times. Indeed, the reaction times distribution was shifted to the left towards shortened reaction times. Although the number of premature responses was increased, the time estimation of the four different equiprobable intervals was not disturbed after stimulation of dopaminergic activity. A delay-dependent shortening of reaction times as a result of the conditional probability of the stimulus occurrence (i.e. reaction times are shorter as the duration of the delay increases) was found in control and drug sessions, indicating that the animals were still able to prepare their motor response (lever release) even after overstimulation of the dopaminergic transmission. In contrast, blocking dopamine receptors with the selective D2 antagonist raclopride was found to induce opposite effects on the reaction time performance. The number of delayed responses (i.e. occurring with a latency &gt; 600 ms) was found to be significantly enhanced. Furthermore, the reaction times distribution showed a shift of the values to the right revealing a general tendency to lengthened reaction times. These results indicate that a &quot;critical level&quot; of dopamine activity (neither too low nor too high) in the striatum is necessary for a correct execution of the movement in a conditioned motor task with temporal constraint. Moreover, while delayed responses might reflect a motor impairment, anticipatory responses might reflect a &quot;motor facilitation&quot; revealed by a higher level of motor readiness, without disturbing time estimation nor attentional processes.
We used extracellular recordings to examine the central pathway whereby electrical stimulation of abdominal vagal afferents elevates arterial pressure in the rabbit. Bulbospinal neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla were identified by antidromic activation from the dorsolateral funiculus of the thoracic spinal cord. Their barosensitivity was assessed by their response to intravenous phenylephrine and by their cardiac cycle-related rhythmicity. We used peristimulus histogram procedures to assess the effect of electrical stimulation of abdominal vagal afferents on the discharge rate of these neurons. Electrical stimulation (one to three pulses) activated 98 of 123 neurons tested (80%), had no effect on 22 neurons (18%) and inhibited the remaining three neurons. Latency to peak excitation was 228 +/- 3 ms, indicating that the conduction velocity of the vagal afferents was about 0.6 m/s, in the unmyelinated fibre range. Lower oesophageal distension with a balloon excited 22 of 48 neurons (46%), inhibited 12 neurons (25%) and had no effect on the remaining 14 cells (29%). Vagally induced excitation was reduced by aortic depressor nerve stimulation in nine of 13 neurons. Lightly touching the animal's back and legs had no effect on 56 of 60 neurons. Nociceptive stimuli failed to affect 47 of 60 neurons tested. No excitation was seen with electrical stimulation of the sciatic or central ear nerves. Our study identifies a robust excitatory input from the abdominal vagus to bulbospinal barosensitive neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Relevant physiological stimuli include lower oesophageal distension. The pathways may be relevant to cardiovascular changes which accompany upper gastrointestinal function.
To examine brain patterns of metabolic and functional activity, the distribution of cytochrome oxidase, a mitochondrial enzyme marker for neuronal functional activity, was mapped throughout the rat brain. Mapping was done qualitatively by enzyme histochemistry of brain sections cut in three planes (coronal, sagittal and horizontal), and quantitatively by optical densitometry of stained sections and by biochemical assays of brain tissue homogenates. Activity of the enzyme was distributed in characteristic patterns and amounts that differed among various neural pathways, brain nuclei, cerebral cortical areas and layers, and neuron types. Gray matter essentially always had higher enzyme activity than did white matter, by a factor of eight- to 12-fold. Among different neural pathways, cytochrome oxidase activity was relatively high in special sensory, somatosensory and motor systems, and was relatively low in associative, limbic, autonomic and visceral regulatory systems (though exceptional areas were present). Among 11 different neuron types, nearly a two-fold range of histochemical staining intensities was observed, with the darkest staining in neurons of the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. The observed patterns of cytochrome oxidase activity were mostly similar to the patterns of 2-deoxyglucose uptake seen previously [Schwartz W. J. and Sharp F. R. (1978) J. comp. Neurol. 177, 335-360; Sokoloff L. et al. (1977) J. Neurochem. 28, 897-916] in conscious, &quot;resting&quot; animals, though some differences were found. For example, whereas 2-deoxyglucose uptake was about three-fold higher in gray matter than in white matter [Sokoloff L. et al. (1977) J. Neurochem. 28, 897-916], cytochrome oxidase activity was about eight- to 12-fold higher. This and other discrepancies probably reflect basic technical differences between these two methods. Compared to 2-deoxyglucose, cytochrome oxidase is more specific for oxidative rather than glycolytic metabolism, and more reflective of overall neuronal functional activity occurring over longer time periods lasting hours to weeks, rather than minutes. The anatomical resolution of cytochrome oxidase histochemistry is also finer than that of 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography, extending to the electron microscopic level. The metabolic map of cytochrome oxidase activity reveals patterns of normal brain function, and may be useful as a baseline for comparison in studies of brain disease, development, ageing and plasticity.
We investigated the effects of intracerebroventricular injection of angiotensin II on neuronal immediate early gene-encoded protein synthesis in the brain of conscious rats. The expression of seven immediate early gene-encoded transcription factors (c-Fos, FosB, c-Jun, JunB, JunD, Krox-20 (Egr-2) and Krox-24 (NGFI-A, Egr-1, Zif/268) was assessed simultaneously. Angiotensin II (1, 10, 100 ng) induced a dose-dependent expression of c-Fos and Krox-24 in the subfornical organ, the median preoptic area and in the paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus, regions known to be involved in the central osmoregulatory and neuroendocrine actions of angiotensin II. FosB expression was induced four hours after icv injection of the highest dose of angiotensin II in the median preoptic area and paraventricular nucleus, c-Jun expression was restricted to the median preoptic area, subfornical organ and paraventricular nucleus, and JunB was only induced in the median preoptic area and subfornical organ. In these above mentioned regions, JunD exhibited a high basal staining, which was not visibly altered by angiotensin II. Krox-20 was not induced by angiotensin II. Intracerebroventricular injections of isotonic saline did not induce immediate early gene expression in any of the above brain areas. The angiotensin II-AT1 receptor antagonist, losartan, applied intracerebroventricular five minutes prior to angiotensin II, prevented the angiotensin II-induced immediate early gene protein expression. Losartan alone had no effects on immediate early gene expression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It was previously reported that following striatal dopamine depletion or pharmacological blockade of dopamine neurotransmission, neurotensin immunoreactivity is elicited in at least two distinct subpopulations of striatal neurons (Neuroscience Vol. 46, pp. 335-350, 1992). Recently it was shown that Fos immunoreactivity, interpreted as an indicator of enhanced neuronal activity, is appreciably co-localized in only one of the subpopulations of neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons observed following blockade of the dopamine D2 receptor (Neuroscience Vol. 57, pp. 649-660, 1993). In the present study, similar methods were used to determine the degree of co-localization of Fos and neurotensin immunoreactivity in striatal neurons in response to the dopamine-depleting effects of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions and reserpine administration. It was observed that following these treatments, a subpopulation of neurons at the small end of the medium size range exhibited light neurotensin immunoreactivity and frequent co-localization with Fos immunoreactivity. This population was predominant after reserpine administration in the dorsolateral quadrant of the striatum. Another subpopulation comprised larger neurons that exhibited intense neurotensin immunoreactivity in perikarya and proximal processes that was rarely co-localized with Fos immunoreactivity. This type of neuron was observed following all the drug treatments but was present almost to the exclusion of the smaller type of cells three days following ventral midbrain 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, being mainly located in the dorsomedial and ventrolateral portions of the striatum. The present data support the results of the preceding studies in being consistent with the existence of two subpopulations of striatal neurons that accumulate neurotensin following dopamine depletion. The possibility is considered that one subpopulation accumulates neurotensin in response to co-ordinate increases in neuronal activity and neurotensin synthesis, and the other as a result of decreased release.
The present study was undertaken to determine whether dyskinesia, resulting from injection of the GABA antagonist bicuculline into the external globus pallidus of intact monkeys, is induced by hyperactivity of local external pallidal neurons and ensuing hypoactivity of neurons in the internal globus pallidus, at the output of the basal ganglia. Accordingly, 86% of responding external pallidal neurons increased and 56% of internal pallidal neurons decreased their activity, either exclusively or within biphasic responses. Whereas 29% of external pallidal neurons decreased and as much as 85% of internal pallidal neurons increased their activity. The latter unpredicted responses may be explained by diffusion of bicuculline from the external to the internal pallidum and by lateral monosynaptic inhibition within the external and its mirror image in the internal pallidum. With respect to individual injection sites, the hypoactive neurons in the internal pallidum tended to be grouped together and surrounded by hyperactive or unresponsive neurons. The changes occurred before and persisted during dyskinesia, suggesting that they were required to induce and maintain the dyskinesia. There were also changes in firing patterns, comprising long periods of silence, especially in external pallidal neurons close to the injection site. The periods of silence did not appear to result from depolarization block but rather from activation of receptors of inhibitory neurotransmission other than type A GABA. Dyskinesia therefore does not appear to result exclusively from a simple imbalance of activity between the pallidal segments, with hyperactivity in the external and hypoactivity in the internal segment, but also from imbalances within each pallidal segment, possibly with a center-surround organization.
The levels of expression of messenger RNAs of the 695 and 751 amino acid isoforms of the beta-amyloid protein precursor in the brains of three-year-old and 17-year-old cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) were visualized and quantified by in situ hybridization histochemistry using 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probes. The analysis was carried out on coronal brain sections taken through the hippocampus and thalamus at the level of the geniculate nuclei. High densities of beta-amyloid protein precursor695 and beta-amyloid protein precursor751 messenger RNAs were found in the medial aspects of the mediodorsal, centromedian and parafascicular nuclei of the 17-year-old monkeys. The messenger RNA levels of the 695 and 751 isoforms were about two- and seven-fold, respectively, those found in the same nuclei of the three-year-old animals. The levels of these messenger RNA transcripts in the 17-year-old monkeys were not significantly different from those in the three-year-old animals in other brain areas e.g. the temporal cortex, entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. No Alzheimer's disease-like neuropathology in terms of diffuse or senile beta-amyloid plaques, dystrophic neurites or neurofibrillary tangles were detectable by specific innumohistochemical procedures in the above thalamic nuclei of the 17-year-old animals. In addition no reactive gliosis was seen in the thalamus of these monkeys.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A variety of metabotropic excitatory amino acid receptors are present in the thalamus. We have investigated the possibility that some of these receptors may have presynaptic effects on GABAergic inhibitory transmission in the thalamus. Inhibitory responses in ventrobasal thalamic neurons of urethane-anaesthetized rats were evoked by either air-jet stimuli to the vibrissae or by electrical stimulation of the somatosensory cortex. Both intracellular and extracellular recording methods were used to reveal inhibitory responses, either as inhibitory postsynaptic potentials or inhibition of excitatory responses in a condition-test paradigm. The metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4) and (2S,3S,4S)-alpha-(carboxycyclopropyl)-glycine (CCG1), applied in the vicinity of the recording site by iontophoresis, were found to reduce the amplitudes of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (to 76% and 63% of control amplitudes, respectively) and inhibitions revealed by the condition-test paradigm (to 33% and 28% of control inhibitions, respectively). As the inhibitory responses arise from the neurons of the nucleus reticularis thalami, some distance away from the site of recording and iontophoretic drug application, it is likely that the reduction of inhibition seen with L-AP4 and CCG1 is due to an action of these agonists on the terminals or axons of these inhibitory neurons. The novel antagonists of L-AP4 and CCG1, alpha-methyl-L-AP4 and alpha-methyl-CCG1, were found to block the disinhibitory actions of the agonists in a differential manner when applied iontophoretically. This suggests that there may be at least two types of receptor mediating the disinhibitory effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The adenosine-producing ecto-enzyme 5'-nucleotidase has recently been assigned to malleable axon terminals in both the developing and regenerating adult nervous system, but is otherwise only glia-bound. Using a cytochemical lead method, we now show that 5'-nucleotidase activity is localized predominantly at glomerular and mitral synapses within the main olfactory bulb of normal, adult rats. As these terminals are prone to synaptic turnover even at maturity, the present findings favour the view that this enzyme constitutes a marker molecule for plastic synapses. It is suggested that functions of 5'-nucleotidase in purinergic neuromodulation and cell adhesion are unique to the olfactory bulb, and implied in synaptic arrangements and information processing.
The mechanism of action of tetanus toxin was characterized in the electromotor system of Torpedo marmorata either at peripheral and central nervous system. The consecutive steps of the intoxication pathway were observed: (i) [125I]tetanus toxin specifically bound to neuronal plasma membranes isolated both from electric organ and electric lobe of Torpedo, exhibiting one and two binding sites respectively; (ii) [125I]tetanus toxin was internalized into nerve terminals and retrogradely transported to the electric lobe after its injection in the electric organ; (iii) finally, intracellular effect of tetanus toxin was studied either at electric organ and electric lobe membrane fractions. In both preparations tetanus toxin cleaved synaptobrevin, as detected by immunoblotting methods. In conclusion, our findings exhibit the presence of two different populations of acceptors for tetanus toxin in central and peripheral nervous system and show that synaptobrevin cleavage may account for intracellular toxicity in Torpedo.
Although transected central nervous system axons fail to regrow after injuries in adult mammals, they send sprouts into the scar tissue that forms at the lesion. We have investigated the relation between scar cells, laminin-like immunoreactivity and cut spinal axons in two previously characterized spinal cord lesion types. Labeling with antisera to glial fibrillary acidic protein and laminin demonstrated that the scar tissue formed after lesions in the rat and cat dorsal and ventral funiculi showed prominent gliosis and strong laminin-like immunoreactivity four days to one year postlesion. Axonal sprouts in the scar, visualized with antibodies to neurofilament (RT97) or by tracing using fluorescein-conjugated dextran, were ensheathed by a thin layer of strongly laminin-immunoreactive tissue. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that axons in the scar were ensheathed predominantly by astrocytes, and that the surface of the cells outlining the axons in the scar showed strong laminin-like immunoreactivity. Adhesive and neurite orienting properties in the scar tissue were assessed in an in vitro system where PC12 cells were cultured on spinal cord slices from dorsal funiculus-lesioned rats. Very few cells adhered to the spinal cord section except for the part where the scar tissue had formed, where numerous cells were attached. The PC12 cells that had adhered to the scar tissue were mainly seen in parts of the scar that showed laminin-like immunoreactivity and their neurites predominantly followed tissue showing laminin-like immunoreactivity. The close association between axonal sprouts and laminin-like immunoreactivity indicates a role for laminin in axonal growth and/or guidance in the injured spinal cord.
The involvement of the sympathetic postganglionic neuron in secondary hyperalgesia was evaluated using a model of secondary hyperalgesia induced by a small intradermal injection of capsaicin in the rat, a procedure known to produce mechanical hyperalgesia/allodynia in humans. Capsaicin injection into the glabrous skin of the hind paw led to increased sensitivity to mechanical stimulation with von Frey filaments at the injection site (i.e. primary hyperalgesia) as well as in an area of the hind paw remote from the site of injection (i.e. secondary hyperalgesia). Surgical removal of the sympathetic postganglionic neurons innervating the hind paw plantar skin before the capsaicin injection prevented secondary hyperalgesia. However, decentralization of the sympathetic postganglionic neurons subserving the hind paw did not effect secondary hyperalgesia. Phentolamine, an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist, as well as prazosin, an alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, given systemically, both blocked the development of secondary hyperalgesia. Yohimbine, an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, was without effect. Prazosin also blocked the development of secondary hyperalgesia when given intradermally at the site of capsaicin injection. Activation of C-fibres with capsaicin induces secondary hyperalgesia, which is sympathetic postganglionic neuron-dependent. This sensory-sympathetic interaction is, however, independent of preganglionic sympathetic outflow and seems to be mediated by an alpha 1-adrenergic mechanism. Sensory-sympathetic interaction appears to take place in the area of capsaicin-induced C-fibre nociceptor activation.
Physiological studies were conducted to examine the effects of noxious stimulation of one hindpaw or one forepaw on the latency of the withdrawal reflex in the tail-flick test in lightly anesthetized spinally intact or transected rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with an intraperitoneal injection of a mixture of Na-pentobarbital (20 mg/kg) and chloral hydrate (120 mg/kg). After baseline readings were taken in the tail-flick test, the effects of various noxious stimuli applied to remote body regions were assessed. The noxious stimuli included unilateral or bilateral hindpaw or unilateral forepaw thermal (immersion in water at 55 degrees C for 90 s), unilateral or bilateral chemical (subcutaneous hindpaw injection of 50 microliters of 5% formalin) and unilateral or bilateral mechanical (pinch with clamp exerting a force of 14.75 or 27 N) stimulation. Bilateral chemical and thermal, and unilateral thermal stimulation induced an antinociceptive response, consisting of an increase in tail-flick latency, peaking at 30 s after stimulation. Recovery to baseline levels occurred over the next 3-6 min. The antinociceptive effect of noxious thermal stimulation was attenuated or absent in chronically spinalized animals (T6/7) following hindpaw or forepaw immersion, respectively. Noxious mechanical stimulation had no effect on tail-flick latency. The data provide evidence that a noxious thermal or chemical stimulus produces a heterosegmental antinociceptive effect which is mediated in part via a supraspinal mechanism and in part via a local spinal mechanism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Induction of heat shock/stress proteins is a key feature of a universal mechanism of cellular defence to injury known as the &quot;stress response&quot;. The present study investigated whether heat shock protein expression correlates with the extent of neuronal injury inflicted by increasingly intense seizure activity. Limbic epilepsy was elicited by injecting intraperitoneally 8, 10 or 12 mg/kg kainic acid in adult Sprague-Dawley rats, resulting in graded degrees of seizure intensity and duration that closely correlated with the respective dose. Stress protein expression was investigated by immunocytochemistry and western blot analysis of microdissected brain areas with specific antibodies directed against representative members of three major classes of stress proteins, i.e. heat shock protein 72, heat shock protein 90 and heat shock protein 27, respectively. Heat shock protein 72 was absent in the brains of control animals, but markedly induced after limbic seizures in neurons of the limbic system, cortex, striatum and thalamus, with peak levels at 24 h. An increasing degree of seizure intensity caused a graded increase of heat shock protein 72 levels with a sequence reflecting the rank order of kainic acid susceptible hippocampal subpopulations. In contrast to heat shock protein 72, heat shock protein 90 was markedly expressed and equally abundant in all brain areas of untreated control animals and at any time point investigated following limbic seizures. Heat shock protein 27 was not detected in the brain of untreated animals nor following epilepsy. The present investigations demonstrate that the induction threshold of heat shock protein 72 in specific neuronal subpopulations clearly correlates with seizure intensity and duration. In addition, our experiments also define a narrow range of heat shock protein 72 expression with an upper limit beyond which heat shock protein 72 synthesis sharply declines. These findings reflect the risk of hippocampal neurons to undergo limbic seizure induced neuronal degeneration. It remains to be determined whether heat shock protein 72 expression is only a valuable marker for reversible neuronal injury or actually confers a neuroprotective effect.
The anterior pretectal nucleus has recently been implicated in the descending modulation of nociception. Electrical stimulation of the nucleus was found to reduce the nociceptive responses of deep dorsal horn neurons and to inhibit spinally integrated withdrawal reflexes. It is believed that at least part of the descending inhibitory effects of the anterior pretectal nucleus are mediated by reticulospinal cells of the ventrolateral medulla. The purpose of the present study was to trace the direct medullary projections of the anterior pretectal nucleus, to describe their topographical organization and to reveal the chemical nature of some of their putative target cells. The connections were studied using anterograde tract-tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Direct projections from the anterior pretectal nucleus to the ipsilateral rostral ventral medulla were found in all cases. A dense innervation of the dorsal inferior olive, the gigantocellular reticular nucleus pars ventralis and pars alpha and the ventral pontine reticular nucleus was found from all aspects of the anterior pretectal nucleus. Descending labelled terminals were also observed in the gigantocellular reticular nucleus proper and, laterally, in the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus and in the region of the A5 noradrenergic cell group. A relatively lower density of labelled terminals was noted in the medullary raphe nuclei and in the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus. Following tract-tracer injections into five distinct subregions of the anterior pretectal nucleus, the topographical organization of the projection was examined and the relatively highest density and most widespread projection was found to originate from the caudoventral part of the anterior pretectal nucleus. A combined tract-tracing and immunolabelling study revealed that some of the descending, labelled terminals were in close proximity of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dendrites in the C1 and A5 cell groups. Some labelled fibres were also noted among the serotonin-immunoreactive cells in the lateral extension of the B3 cell population. The existence of direct projections to the ventral medulla and pons correlates well with physiological data which showed that the descending, antinociceptive effects of the anterior pretectal nucleus are relayed via the rostral ventrolateral medulla. The data are also in keeping with pharmacological studies that suggested the role of catecholaminergic cells in the mediation of these descending effects. It is proposed that the rostral ventral medullary projections provide a path through which antinociceptive effects of the anterior pretectal nucleus are mediated to the spinal cord.
We report that norepinephrine markedly increases excitability of neonatal rat optic nerves. To investigate the mechanisms of the norepinephrine-induced excitability increase, we studied isolated optic nerves from 42 neonatal (&lt; three days old) and five adult (&gt; three months old) Long-Evan's hooded rats. Norepinephrine (10(-6), 10(-5) and 10(-4) M) rapidly and reversibly increased the amplitude (mean +/- S.D.: 3.5 +/- 1.7%, 12.1 +/- 2.8% and 35.6 +/- 8.4%) of compound action potentials elicited by submaximal stimulation of neonatal optic nerves. The beta-1 adrenoceptor antagonist atenolol (10(-5) M) blocked the norepinephrine-induced increase in excitability but the alpha antagonist phentolamine (10(-5) M) did not. The beta agonist isoproterenol (10(-5) and 10(-4) M) increased response amplitudes (8.7 +/- 4.1% and 25.8 +/- 4.6%) but the alpha-1 agonist methoxamine and alpha-2 agonist clonidine did not. The beta antagonist propranolol blocked the isoproterenol effect. Replacing Ca2+ with Mg2+ or adding 0.8 mM of Cd2+ reversibly blocked the norepinephrine effects. Extracellular K+ concentrations did not change in optic nerves during norepinephrine application. Blockade of K+ channels with apamin (10(-6) M) or tetraethylammonium (10(-3) M) did not prevent the excitatory effects of norepinephrine. Adult rat optic nerves were insensitive to both norepinephrine (10(-4) M) and isoproterenol (10(-4) M). Our results indicate that norepinephrine increases neonatal optic axonal excitability through Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms. The data suggest that the adrenoceptors are situated on the axons, that the excitability changes are not due to changes in extracellular K+ concentration or K+ channels sensitive to apamin or tetraethylammonium. The sensitivity of rat optic nerves to norepinephrine declined with age. Axonal adrenoceptors may play a role in optic axonal development and injury.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that carotid sinus nerve fibers mediate a so-called &quot;efferent&quot; inhibition of carotid body chemoreceptors. However, the mechanism(s) underlying this phenomenon are not understood. Recently, it has been shown that an extensive plexus of nitric oxide synthase-containing carotid sinus nerve fibers innervate the carotid body, and that many fine, beaded fibers can be seen in close proximity to small blood vessels as well as lobules of parenchymal cells. The present study examined the effects of centrifugal neural activity in the carotid sinus nerve on the accumulation of [3H]citrulline synthesized from [3H]arginine in the cat carotid body, and the possible involvement of nitric oxide in mediating &quot;efferent&quot; chemoreceptor inhibition. Electrical stimulation of carotid sinus nerve C-fibers evoked an increase in [3H]citrulline accumulation in the carotid body, which was Ca(2+)-dependent and blocked by L-NG-nitroarginine methylester (0.1 mM), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. Using a vascularly perfused in vitro carotid body preparation, chemoreceptor activity was recorded from thin nerve filaments split-off from the main trunk of the carotid sinus nerve. Electrical stimulation of the main nerve trunk at C-fiber intensities inhibited steady-state chemoreceptor discharge, and this effect was blocked by L-NG-nitroarginine methylester. However, when the organ preparation was switched to the superfuse-only mode, carotid sinus nerve stimulation failed to alter the steady-state discharge, but under these conditions, prolonged nerve stimulation (&gt; 5 min) did attenuate the chemoreceptor response to hypoxia, an effect which was likewise blocked by L-NG-nitroarginine methylester. The present data, together with previous anatomical findings that nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity is present in both sensory and autonomic ganglion cells innervating the carotid body, suggest that two neural mechanisms may be involved in the inhibitory neural regulation of carotid chemoreceptors. One mechanism appears to involve nitric oxide release from intralobular sensory C-fibers, which lie in close proximity to the chemoreceptor type I cells. The other mechanism involves release of nitric oxide from perivascular terminals of autonomic microganglia neurons, which control carotid body blood flow.
Brief transmural stimuli, which selectively excited cholinergic fibres, initiated contractions and excitatory junction potentials in preparations of longitudinal muscle isolated from the guinea-pig ileum: these responses were associated with an increase in the internal concentration of calcium ions. When muscle voltage-dependent calcium channels were blocked using the organic calcium antagonist nifedipine, brief stimuli continued to initiate contractions, evoke excitatory junction potentials and cause an increase in the intracellular calcium concentration. Ionophoretically applied acetylcholine caused depolarizations which resembled the excitatory junction potentials evoked by cholinergic nerve stimulation. Both responses had slow time courses and were abolished by muscarinic receptor antagonists. However, the depolarizations produced by ionophoretically applied acetylcholine, unlike those produced by nerve stimulation, were frequently interrupted by transient hyperpolarizations. The transient hyperpolarizations were abolished by barium ions or charybdotoxin. High concentrations of the calcium antagonists nicardipine, verapamil or diltiazem had a tendency to preferentially abolish the excitatory junction potential. When the effects of the cholinesterase inhibitor, eserine, on excitatory junction potentials were examined, it became apparent that when the destruction of acetylcholine was prevented it initiated an additional conductance change to that initiated by acetylcholine in untreated tissues. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that neuronally released acetylcholine and applied acetylcholine might activate different subsets of muscarinic receptors on longitudinal ileal smooth muscle.
Neuropeptide FF (FMRFamide-like peptide, morphine-modulating peptide) is an octapeptide isolated from the bovine brain. There is evidence that neuropeptide FF participates in the modulation of nociceptive mechanisms. Neuropeptide FF acts through its own receptors which are distinct from the opiate receptors. In the rat brain neuropeptide FF is found in two major cell populations. We have studied the efferent connections of the hypothalamic neuropeptide FF-containing cell group, which is located in the medial hypothalamus between the dorsomedial, ventromedial and periventricular hypothalamic nuclei. By using an anterograde tracing method (Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) combined with double-staining immunohistochemistry we characterized the connections of this cell group with the limbic system, certain hypothalamic nuclei, periaqueductal gray and with the solitary tract nucleus. In the limbic system, the major targets were the lateral septal nucleus, bed nucleus of stria terminalis and certain subnuclei in the amygdala. These connections suggest that neuropeptide FF may act, in addition to its well-characterized action in the sensory system, in limbic functions. Efferent connections to the periaqueductal gray suggest that neuropeptide FF may modulate the opiate mediated analgesia at this site. Good correlation between our results and receptor autoradiography support the idea that the terminal areas which our results show are target areas of the neuropeptide FF-containing system.
The aim of this study was to examine the afferents to the rat locus coeruleus by means of retrograde and anterograde tracing experiments using cholera-toxin B subunit and phaseolus leucoagglutinin. To obtain reliable injections of cholera-toxin B in the locus coeruleus, electrophysiological recordings were made through glass micropipettes containing the tracer and the noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus were identified by their characteristic discharge properties. After iontophoretic injections of cholera-toxin B into the nuclear core of the locus coeruleus, we observed a substantial number of retrogradely labeled cells in the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus and the dorsomedial rostral medulla (ventromedial prepositus hypoglossi and dorsal paragigantocellular nuclei) as previously described. We also saw a substantial number of retrogradely labeled neurons in (1) the preoptic area dorsal to the supraoptic nucleus, (2) areas of the posterior hypothalamus, (3) the Klliker-Fuse nucleus, (4) mesencephalic reticular formation. Fewer labeled cells were also observed in other regions including the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, dorsal raphe nucleus, median raphe nucleus, dorsal part of the periaqueductal gray, the area of the noradrenergic A5 group, the lateral parabrachial nucleus and the caudoventrolateral reticular nucleus. No or only occasional cells were found in the cortex, the central nucleus of the amygdala, the lateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the vestibular nuclei, the nucleus of the solitary tract or the spinal cord, structures which were previously reported as inputs to the locus coeruleus. Control injections of cholera-toxin B were made in areas surrounding the locus coeruleus, including (1) Barrington's nucleus, (2) the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, (3) a previously undefined area immediately rostral to the locus coeruleus and medial to the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus that we named the peri-mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, and (4) the medial vestibular nucleus lateral to the caudal tip of the locus coeruleus. These injections yielded patterns of retrograde labeling that differed from one another and also from that obtained with cholera-toxin B injection sites in the locus coeruleus. These results indicate that the area surrounding the locus coeruleus is divided into individual nuclei with distinct afferents. These results were confirmed and extended with anterograde transport of cholera-toxin B or phaseolus leucoagglutinin. Injections of these tracers in the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus, preoptic area dorsal to the supraoptic nucleus, the ventrolateral part of the periaqueductal gray, the Klliker-Fuse nucleus yielded a substantial to large number of labeled fibers in the nuclear core of the locus coeruleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
GABAA-receptor heterogeneity is based on a multiplicity of subunits (alpha 1-6, beta 1-4, gamma 1-4, delta, rho 1-2) encoded by distinct genes. Flexibility in GABAergic signal transduction and allosteric modulation is expected to arise from the differential assembly of subunits into receptor subtypes. The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential diversity of receptor subtypes expressed by defined neuron populations, as identified by their neurotransmitter phenotype. To this end we have determined immunohistochemically the subunit repertoire of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in the basal forebrain of rat and marmoset monkey, focusing on the medial septum-diagonal band complex. Co-localization of the GABAA-receptor subunits alpha 1, alpha 3, beta 2, beta 3, and gamma 2 with markers of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons (choline acetyltransferase and parvalbumin, respectively) was assessed by double- and triple immunofluorescence staining. The results reveal that cholinergic neurons in the rat basal forebrain are typically characterized by the subunit combination alpha 3/beta 3/gamma 2, whereas most of the parvalbumin-positive GABAergic neurons express either the subunit combination alpha 1/beta 2/gamma 2 or the combination alpha 1/alpha 3/beta 2/gamma 2. A similar pattern was observed in marmoset monkey, with GABAA-receptors containing the alpha 1-subunit being associated with parvalbumin-positive cells, but never with cholinergic neurons. Thus, the expression of distinct subunit repertoires by cholinergic and GABAergic neurons points to a functional specialization which is conserved across species. These subunit combinations are likely to correspond to different receptor subtypes, and may reflect the engagement of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in distinct neuronal circuits in the basal forebrain.
Increased levels of dopamine have been associated with schizophrenia and mania; conversely, decreased levels of dopamine are associated with depression. Since the main mechanism for the termination of dopamine's pharmacological action is by re-uptake into the presynaptic cell, the speed of dopamine transport dramatically influences the concentration of dopamine present in the synaptic cleft, which in turn could determine brain disorders. Our preliminary studies have found that ATP can stimulate dopamine transport in rat synaptosomal preparation. We have also observed this ATP-regulated moiety of the dopamine uptake system when tested in PC12 cells. The large magnitude of ATP stimulation suggests that this dopamine uptake pathway may be important in the etiology and treatment of brain disorders. In order to test the relevance of ATP-stimulated dopamine uptake, we tested the effect of lithium salts on this system. Lithium chloride, one of the first drugs used in the treatment of mania, has become one of the most important agents utilized for the treatment of manic-depression and many schizoeffective disorders. Unfortunately, despite all efforts that have been made to explain lithium's mode of action, a clear cut biochemical mechanism has not been defined. We have found that lithium chloride, at therapeutic levels, is able to stimulate the ATP-regulated component of the dopamine uptake system by 49%. The further enhancement of dopamine re-uptake by lithium ions is consistent with its therapeutic effect. It is suggested that any substance that facilitates dopamine re-uptake could be of great importance in defining a useful treatment for mania and schizophrenia, as well as depression.
Nitric oxide synthase in lumbar dorsal root ganglia of neonatal rat was studied by reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase and in situ hybridization histochemistry. Induction of nitric oxide synthase in neonatal capsaicin-treated rats after sciatic axotomy was compared with the axotomy-induced nitric oxide synthase increase observed in vehicle-treated littermates. In neonatal capsaicin-treated animals, the number of neurons constitutively labeled by reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase was greatly reduced as compared to vehicle-treated littermates. Nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA was not readily identified constitutively in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Seven days after sciatic transection the induction of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase and nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA found in the vehicle-treated group was not observed in the capsaicin group. The presence of nitric oxide synthase in dorsal root ganglion neurons thus does not appear to protect against Ca(2+)-mediated capsaicin-induced cytotoxicity. However, since some nitric oxide synthase dorsal root ganglion neurons persist after the capsaicin neurotoxicity, nitric oxide synthase expression must occur in a neurochemically diverse subpopulation of small (&lt; 1000 microns2) neurons. The capsaicin sensitivity of most nitric oxide synthase dorsal root ganglion neurons indicates that they have unmyelinated axons and are likely to be involved in nociception.
Presence and localization of the prostacyclin receptor in the rat brain and spinal cord were examined by in vitro autoradiography using [3H]iloprost, a highly specific and stable agonist for this receptor. Density of specific binding sites for iloprost was generally high in four regions of the lower brain stem, that is, the medial and commissural subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarius, the area postrema, superficial layers of the spinal trigeminal nucleus caudalis and dorsal horn. Moderate density was found in the thalamus, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum and dorsal cochlear nucleus. The distribution pattern was distinct from those of other prostanoid binding sites previously studied except that prostaglandin E2 binding sites were also abundant in the nucleus tractus solitarius, spinal trigeminal nucleus caudalis and dorsal horn. Even in these regions, binding sites for iloprost had several features clearly different from those for prostaglandin E2. First, within the medial and commissural subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarius, iloprost binding sites were distributed preferentially in the dorsal part, while those for prostaglandin E2 were located more ventrolaterally. Second, on postnatal day 0, iloprost binding sites have already been expressed in large amounts in the nucleus tractus solitarius, spinal trigeminal nucleus caudalis and dorsal horn of rats, while prostaglandin E2 binding sites are negligible at this stage. Thirdly, the binding of 10 nM [3H]iloprost in these three regions was almost completely displaced by 10 microM unlabelled iloprost but only slightly by 10 microM unlabelled prostaglandin E2. Unilateral nodose ganglionectomy or dorsal rhizotomy decreased the density of iloprost binding sites in the nucleus tractus solitarius or dorsal horn, respectively, with a greater decrease in the operated side. Ligation of the vagus either central or peripheral to the nodose ganglion resulted in an accumulation of iloprost binding sites proximal to the ligation. These results suggest that specific binding sites for iloprost, presumably prostacyclin receptor, are present in the nervous system and, in particular, that the iloprost binding sites in the nucleus tractus solitarius, dorsal horn and possibly in the superficial layers of the spinal trigeminal nucleus caudalis are produced in their sensory ganglia and transported to central terminals of the primary sensory afferents as well as to their peripheral terminals.
N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists have been proposed as potential therapeutic agents in different neurological diseases, including Parkinson's disease. The effects of gene expression of a chronic treatment with the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, dizocilpine maleate (0.8 mg/kg day, per os for 50 days) were analysed in rat striata. Using quantitative in situ hybridization, we measured the messenger RNA expression of the genes encoding D1, D2 dopamine receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, preproenkephalin A and substance P. Chronic treatment with dizocilpine maleate induced a moderate but significant increase in messenger RNA of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 subunit in the striatum and the adjacent cortex, suggesting an action of dizocilpine maleate in these two regions. This treatment did not induce any change in D1 receptor, preproenkephalin A or substance P messenger RNA content in the striatum, whereas D2 receptor messenger RNA was increased in the striatum of treated rats. Microscopic analysis revealed that it was the number of medium-sized neurons expressing D2 receptor messenger RNA that was significantly enhanced, while the mean amount of message per cell remained unchanged. These results demonstrate that glutamate via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, regulates the D2 receptor gene in striatal neurons. A chronic treatment with dizocilpine maleate increases the number of striatal neurons expressing the D2 receptor gene, suggesting a recruiting phenomenon.
The modulation of striatal cholinergic neurons by glutamatergic inputs was studied by monitoring the output of acetylcholine collected via a transversal microdialysis probe implanted into the striatum of freely moving rats. A transversal microdialysis membrane was inserted in the striatum and acetylcholine or GABA levels in the dialysate were measured. Acetylcholine levels in the dialysate were quantified by a high-performance liquid chromatography method with an electrochemical detector, while GABA levels were measured by a high-performance liquid chromatography method with a fluorescence detector. The dialysis membrane was perfused with Ringer solution containing 7 microM physostigmine sulphate and drugs, dissolved in the perfusion solution, were administered locally via the dialysis membrane. Local administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 3-[(RS)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (25-100 microM) brought about a decrease in striatal acetylcholine output which was dose-dependent, reversible and partially antagonized by 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. On the other hand, local administration of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoil-benzo(F)quinoxaline was followed by an increase in acetylcholine output which reached a maximum of about +55% at 12.8 microM 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoil-benzo(F)quinoxaline and was readily reversed when the drug was withdrawn from the perfusion solution. Local administration of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist (S)-alfa-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (50 and 200 microM) decreased acetylcholine output and this effect was reversed by simultaneous perfusion with the GABA antagonist bicuculline (50 microM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We examined the possible innervation of the caudal hypoglossal nucleus by the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis of the medulla oblongata, based on single-neuron recording and retrograde tracing experiments in Sprague-Dawley rats. Under pentobarbital sodium (50 mg/kg, i.p.) anesthesia, electrical stimulation of the caudal portion of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis with repetitive 0.5-ms rectangular pulses increased (46 of 51 neurons) the basal discharge frequency of spontaneously active cells, or evoked spike activity in silent, hypoglossal neurons located at the level of the obex. This excitatory effect was related to the intensity (25-100 microA) and/or frequency (0.5-20 Hz) of the stimulating pulses to the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. Perikaryal activation of neurons by microinjection of L-glutamate (0.5 nmol, 25 nl) into the caudal portion of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis similarly produced an excitatory action on eight of 14 hypoglossal neurons. Retrogradely labeled neurons were found bilaterally within the confines of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis following unilateral microinjection of wheatgerm agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase or Fast Blue into the corresponding hypoglossal recording sites. Furthermore, the distribution of labeled neurons in the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis substantially overlapped with the loci of electrical or chemical stimulation. These complementary electrophysiological and neuroanatomical results support the conclusion that an excitatory link exists between the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis and at least the caudal portion of the hypoglossal nucleus in the rat.
Neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla may function as interneurons in the baroreceptor reflex are by inhibiting sympathoexcitatory bulbospinal neurons in rostral ventrolateral medulla. While some caudal ventrolateral medullary neurons are excited orthodromically by baroreceptors and antidromically from the rostral ventrolateral medulla, there is no anatomical evidence to prove that these barosensory neurons of the caudal ventrolateral medulla monosynaptically innervate the bulbospinal neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. To establish the presence of such a direct projection, barosensory neurons were identified in the rostral caudal ventrolateral medulla of anesthetized rats by criteria that they spontaneously discharged with a cardiac rhythm and were excited by baroreceptor stimulation. The anterograde tracer biocytin was iontophoresed onto these neurons and, in the same animal, the retrograde tracer wheatgerm-agglutinated apo-horseradish peroxidase conjugated to gold particles was injected by micropressure into the ipsilateral spinal (thoracic level 3) intermediolateral cell column to label bulbospinal neurons. After 18-24 h, rats were killed and sections through the rostral ventrolateral medulla were processed for both markers. By light microscopy, numerous biocytin-labeled varicose processes overlapped rostral ventrolateral medullary neurons containing wheatgerm-agglutinated apo-horseradish peroxidase conjugated to gold particles. By electron microscopy, biocytin was found in axons and terminals. The terminals (n = 76) were large (0.6-1.2 microns in diameter), contained numerous small, clear vesicles and formed primarily symmetric synapses on perikarya and large (1.5-4.5 microns) dendrites within the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Some of these target neurons contained wheatgerm-agglutinated apo-horseradish peroxidase conjugated to gold particles associated with lysosomes and multivesicular bodies in the cytoplasm. The results indicate that: (i) neurons in the barosensory sympathoinhibitory region of the caudal ventrolateral medulla directly synapse on bulbospinal neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla; and (ii) the synaptic profile (symmetric synapse) and location (perikarya and large dendrites) is consistent with the conclusion that baroreceptor neurons of the caudal ventrolateral medulla potently and monosynaptically inhibit sympathoexcitatory neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. The findings support the hypothesis that the barosensory region of the rostral caudal ventrolateral medulla is an intermediate relay in the baroreceptor reflex are.
A controversy exists in the literature as to whether neurons containing the calcium binding protein calbindin-D28k are located within the human substantia nigra. The point of variance between reports, however, is not the anatomical distribution of these neurons, but rather the delineation of the dorsal border of the substantia nigra. It has been suggested that the dense substance P striatonigral innervation delimits the substantia nigra in the human. The aim of the present study is to re-examine the distribution of calbindin-D28k-positive neurons throughout the substantia nigra using substance P to delimit its borders. Although a few calbindin-D28k-positive neurons were found in the medial cell group of the substantia nigra, the vast majority of positive neurons were located in the adjacent A8 and A10 dopaminergic cell groups. This anatomical location of calbindin-D28k-positive neurons is consistent with previous reports, though our results indicate that when the striatonigral projection is used to define the substantia nigra, calbindin-D28k is not a notable feature of these neurons. This questions the neuroprotective role of this protein in Parkinson's disease.
Chronic (5-14 days) preganglionic denervation of the rat superior cervical ganglia by sectioning the cervical sympathetic trunk resulted in a time-related partial or complete loss of nitric oxide synthase (isoform I)-immunoreactive fibers and terminals surrounding many sympathetic ganglionic neurons. Unexpectedly, denervation unmasked many varicose nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive fibers, some of which could be traced the entire length of the superior cervical ganglia. Injection of the retrograde tracer Fluorogold into the superior cervical ganglia labeled a population of nodose ganglion cells and of dorsal root ganglion cells from C8 to T3 segments. When the same sections were processed for nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity, 40% of the Fluorogold-containing nodose ganglion cells also expressed nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity, whereas colocalization was observed in only a few dorsal root ganglion cells. Similarly, injection of Fluorogold into denervated superior cervical ganglia labeled a population of nodose ganglion cells. Sectioning of all nerve trunks associated with the superior cervical ganglion prior to injection of Fluorogold, except the cervical sympathetic trunk, resulted in no detectable labeling of Fluorogold in the ipsilateral nodose ganglion cells. These results indicate that a population of rat nodose ganglion cells contain nitric oxide synthase and that some of these neurons project their axons through the superior cervical ganglion and terminate in the peripheral target tissues. The possibility that nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive vagal afferent fibers may participate in nociception is considered.
A time course study in untreated male Sprague-Dawley rats showed that there was no significant difference in the rate of regeneration of motor and sensory axons after a crush injury. Acidic fibroblast growth factor, given topically directly to the site of the crush injury (osmotic minipump for three days) or systemically (i.v. once daily for three days), stimulated the regeneration of motor axons and myelinated sensory axons in the sciatic nerve of the rat. Dose-dependent increases in regeneration distance were seen after 3.6, 36 or 360 ng/day were applied locally and 3 or 10 micrograms/kg per day were given systematically. The greatest effects were achieved with 36 ng/day locally or 10 micrograms/kg per day systematically, when the increase in regeneration distance over three days compared to untreated rats was 47% and 48%, respectively. Administration of heparin vehicle had no significant effect on regeneration. We conclude that since a crush injury has little effect on the endoneurial tubes and supporting cells, the stimulatory effects of acidic fibroblast growth factor on peripheral nerve regeneration seen in this study are likely to be due to a direct acceleration of axonal extension. This is in contrast with the axonal regeneration that occurs across a gap after nerve transection, where axonal extension may be secondary to stimulatory effects on non-neuronal cells providing a supporting &quot;bridge&quot; across the gap. These results suggest that acidic fibroblast growth factor may be clinically useful in the treatment of peripheral neuropathy in man, particularly since systemic treatment for short periods may be effective.
Studies of the pathways involved in the vestibulo-ocular reflex have suggested that the projection from the superior vestibular nucleus to the ipsilateral oculomotor nucleus is inhibitory, whereas the medial vestibular nucleus, the abducens nucleus and the contralateral superior vestibular nucleus most likely exert excitatory effects on oculomotor neurons. In order to determine directly the termination pattern and the neurotransmitter of these afferents, we studied their input to the oculomotor nucleus in the rabbit at the light microscopic level with the use of anterograde tracing of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin combined with retrograde tracing of horseradish peroxidase from the extraocular muscles, and at the ultrastructural level with the use of anterograde tracing of wheatgerm-agglutinated horseradish peroxidase combined with GABA and glycine postembedding immunocytochemistry. The general ultrastructural characteristics of the neuropil and the types of boutons observed in the rabbit oculomotor nuclei are in general agreement with the descriptions for the oculomotor complex of other mammals. The superior vestibular nucleus projected bilaterally to the superior rectus and inferior oblique subdivisions, and ipsilaterally to the inferior rectus and medial rectus subdivision; the medial vestibular nucleus projected bilaterally to the medial rectus, inferior oblique, inferior rectus and superior rectus subdivisions with a strong contralateral predominance. The abducens nucleus projected contralaterally to the medial rectus subdivision. More than 90% of all the anterogradely labeled terminals from the ipsilateral superior vestibular nucleus were GABAergic. These terminals were characterized by flattened vesicles and symmetric synapses, and they contacted somata, as well as proximal and distal dendrites of motoneurons. All terminals derived from the medial vestibular nucleus the abducens nucleus and the contralateral superior vestibular nucleus were non-GABAergic. These non-GABAergic terminals showed spherical vesicles and asymmetric synapses, and they contacted predominantly distal dendrites. None of the anterogradely labeled terminals from the studied vestibular nuclei or abducens nucleus were glycinergic. The present study provides the first direct anatomical evidence that most, if not all, of the synaptic input from the superior vestibular nucleus to the ipsilateral oculomotor nucleus is GABAergic, and that the medial rectus subdivision is included in the termination area. Furthermore, it confirms that the projections from the medial vestibular nucleus, the abducens nucleus and the contralateral superior vestibular nucleus are exclusively non-GABAergic.
To investigate the long-term effects of excitatory amino acid microinjections into the basal forebrain and its correlation with a possible Ca2+ imbalance associated with the excitotoxic process, ibotenic acid, mainly an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, and quisqualic acid, an agonist of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, were injected into two regions rich in cholinergic neurons, namely the medial septal nucleus and the ventral globus pallidus. Within the globus pallidus but not within the medial septal nucleus, 13 days and one year postlesion, nerve cell death was associated with the appearance of calcium deposits within the large putative GABAergic pallidal neurons, being more pronounced in ibotenic acid than quisqualic acid-lesioned rats. An intermediate two month post-lesion study with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) and ibotenic acid microinjections in globus pallidus demonstrated that the AMPA subtype of glutamate receptor may also be involved in this Ca2+ imbalance, together with the N-methyl-D-aspartate and metabotropic subtype receptors. Quisqualic acid lesions in globus pallidus and medial septum were associated with a substantial disappearance of cholinergic cell bodies and their nerve terminal networks within the cerebral cortex and hippocampal formation respectively, as assessed by choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholine esterase immunocytochemistry. Ibotenic acid lesions resulted in a lower reduction of cholinergic markers. One year after septal lesions induced either by ibotenic or quisqualic acid, a marked atrophy of the entire dorsolateral septal nucleus was observed. Our results support the hypothesis that brief and intense glutamate exposure can induce long-term neurodegenerative processes and give evidence that long-term excitotoxic lesions of the two areas studied result in marked differences in neuronal damage, including intracellular calcium deposits which do not correlate with the cholinergic deficits produced by multiple glutamate receptor subtypes.
To date, our understanding of the elaborate mechanism that governs the information processing of neural tissue or the brain is based mainly on data obtained from single-electrode recordings in vivo or in vitro. The refinement of electrophysiological techniques has advanced our knowledge about neural information processing, but clearly, we are still far from complete and coherent understanding of these brain functions. Although conventional approaches have provided the bulk of our knowledge about neural information processing, there is clearly a need for research tools that are better suited to investigate the detailed properties of individual neurons on the one hand and allow for studying the interactions between large numbers of neurons on the other hand. The use of optical recording methods with voltage-sensitive dyes (extrinsic optical signal recording) seems to be one of the most promising ways to attack the above problems. This approach allows to record the neural activity at many sites simultaneously and thus provides spatio-temporal information about the flow of electrical activity in a given preparation. The optical recording without using voltage-sensitive dyes, intrinsic optical signal recording, is also useful to detect the neural activity in the brain. The signal is thought to be originated from the metabolic change of the brain tissue which is associated with the change in neural activity. We compared the both activity mapping obtained with extrinsic signals and intrinsic signals. This kind of trial seems to be useful not only for understanding the origin of the metabolic signal, but also for treating the data obtained with PET or functional MRI.
This article discusses an interdisciplinary total quality management (TQM) project that planned for the expansion of the seizure monitoring program on a neuroscience unit. The processes of education, bed management, and patient care were evaluated by a TQM group of staff nurses, unit leader, attending physicians, clinical nurse specialist, and technicians. Each participant identified actual and potential problems and their effects on the participant's area of care.
Disorders of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation are increasingly recognized as an important group of inborn errors of metabolism that are associated with a significant, but easily preventable, morbidity and mortality in children. However, diagnosis is often delayed because there is no easily applied method that detects all defects. Therefore, we have characterized the acylcarnitine intermediates of fatty acid oxidation in peripheral blood cells from healthy control volunteers and patients with four different defects. After selective permeabilization with histone II AS, a novel permeabilizing agent, the cells were incubated with [U-14C]hexadecanoate and beta-oxidation flux and the acylcarnitine esters formed were measured. Blood cells from the control population produced large amounts of 3-hydroxyacylcarnitines and 2-enoylcarnitine esters, in addition to saturated acylcarnitine esters. This result is different from that found in other tissues (fibroblasts and muscle), where only saturated acylcarnitine esters could be detected. In blood cells from patients with defects of enzymes involved in long-chain fatty acid oxidation, flux was significantly reduced at 15 to 20% of control values (7.1 +/- 2.3 nmol C2 units formed per minute per International Unit of citrate synthase activity). There was a characteristic accumulation of acylcarnitines that was pathognomonic for the site of the defect. Thus, analysis of beta-oxidation intermediates from blood cells allows unequivocal identification of the four most common beta-oxidation defects.
The effects of hydrational factors on the ability of cholecystokinin (CCK) to alter taste reactivity responses to intraoral water infusions was assessed in fluid-replete and fluid-deprived rats. Naive male rats were injected with CCK (8 micrograms/kg, IP), or physiological saline (1 ml/kg, IP) and taste reactivity responses elicited by brief (30 s) intraoral water infusions at 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 min postinjection were measured. One week later and following a 24 h water deprivation period, taste reactivity responses to intraoral water infusions were measured again. Exogenous administration of CCK was found to produce a significant decrease in the frequency of ingestive responses accompanied by a significant increase in passive drip during oral water infusions in fluid-replete rats. In contrast, CCK was found to have no effect on the frequency of taste reactivity responses when rats were subjected to a period of water deprivation. These results demonstrate that the rat's state of hydration interacts with the ability of CCK to alter taste reactivity responses to intraoral water infusions.
This report describes the procedure for converting a commercially sold construction tool into a versatile, noninvasive, proximity detector suitable for laboratory use. The recommended modifications, which are both simple and inexpensive, enable the device to be integrated with laboratory computers.
To clarify the psychiatric liaison issues in cancer care, questionnaires were distributed to physicians at 31 teaching hospitals in Japan, including cancer centers and psychiatrists at 197 teaching hospitals. Data from 329 physicians and 156 psychiatrists showed that the majority of the physicians felt troubled by the psychiatric problems of terminally ill patients. However, actual psychiatric referrals were infrequent. An important factor that interferes with appropriate psychiatric referrals for cancer patients is that most physicians do not usually inform patients of a cancer diagnosis. This, it seems that close communication between physicians and psychiatrists is essential in caring for terminally ill cancer patients in the context of Japanese culture, when the psychiatric consultations are offered.
Abnormal patterns of cerebral hemispheric asymmetry have been inconsistently reported in association with schizophrenia. Radius of gyration (Rg) is a measure of the mean dispersion of points in a radially organized structure about that structure's centre of gravity. We developed computerized methods for estimating Rg of the magnetic resonance image (MRI) boundary between cortex and subcortex, and applied these methods to measurement of cerebral hemispheric asymmetry in 37 schizophrenics (SZs) and 30 controls (CONs). In right-handed CONs, Rg of right brain boundaries was significantly greater than Rg of left brain boundaries; in left-handed CONs, Rg of left brain boundaries was significantly greater than Rg of right brain boundaries. In right-handed males (both SZ and CON) there were significant differences in Rg between hemispheres; whereas in females (both SZ and CON), there were no such differences. Right-handed male SZs (N = 26) were distinguished by reversal of the right-handed male CON pattern of interhemispheric difference in Rg, and by global reduction in Rg of right brain boundaries. These was no evidence for significant abnormality of Rg in right-handed female SZs (N = 7). There findings suggest an important interactive effect of gender and schizophrenia on lateralized cerebral structure.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the glycine/NMDA receptor antagonist, L-701,324 (7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3(3-phenoxy)phenyl-2(H)quinolone) blocks the activation of mesolimbic dopamine systems induced following psychostimulant administration in the rat (Bristow et al. 1994). In the present study, pretreatment with L-701,324 also reversed the deficit in prepulse inhibition (PPI) observed in rats reared in social isolation after weaning. Given that PPI is also attenuated in schizophrenic patients and that isolation rearing induces both neurochemical and behavioural abnormalities suggestive of a physiologically induced state of dopaminergic hyperactivity, these results suggest that blockade of the glycine/NMDA receptor may offer a new strategy for the development of novel antipsychotic agents.
The effects of nicotinic receptor ligands on performance in a task measuring sustained attention, or vigilance, were tested. This task required the animals to discriminate between signal and non-signal events. The sequence of signal (central panel light illumination for 500, 50 or 25 ms) and non-signal presentations was randomized over three blocks of 54 trials each (27 signal trials, 9 per length, and 27 non-signal trials). A left lever press following a signal was counted as a hit, and a right lever press following a non-signal event was counted as a correct rejection. Hits and correct rejections were rewarded, whereas misses and false alarms (defined as incorrect right and left lever presses, respectively) were not. Baseline performance was characterized by a signal length dependent ability of the animals to discriminate between signal and non-signal events. Administration of nicotine (0.19, 0.62, 1.9 mumol) or of two novel nicotinic receptor agonists, ABT-418 and A-82695, did not produce main effects on vigilance performance. Lobeline (1.9, 6.2, 19 mumol), a nicotinic receptor ligand with mixed agonist/antagonist activities, impaired the animals' ability to discriminate between signal and non-signal events. The antagonist mecamylamine (5, 15, 50 mumol) potently impaired performance while increasing the number of errors of omission. The lack of effect of nicotine largely corresponds with the findings from previous studies on the acute effects of nicotine in intact subjects and non-smoking humans. While the detrimental effects of lobeline may have been related to the antagonist effects of this compound, the reasons for the differences between the effects of nicotine and lobeline still remain unsettled. These data support the hypothesis that nicotine receptor mechanisms are maximally activated in intact animals performing this task, and suggest that effects of acute nicotinic agonist treatment would not produce further cognitive benefit for these animals.
The fear-potentiated startle (PSR) paradigm is a putative behavioral model for the determination of anxiolytic properties of drugs. The present study further investigated the predictive validity of the model. Predictive validity is high, when only drugs clinically used as anxiolytics attenuate PSR dose dependently. Results showed that startle potentiation decreased dose dependently after the administration of the anxiolytics CDP (2.5-10 mg/kg, IP) and alprazolam (1-3 mg/kg, IP). After administration of the clinically non-anxiolytic drugs amitriptyline (2.5-10 mg/kg, IP), carbamazepine (5-20 mg/kg, IP), fentanyl (0.0025-0.04 mg/kg, SC), naloxone (2.5-10 mg/kg, IP), nicotine (0.4-1.6 mg/kg, IP), alcohol (500-2000 mg/kg, IP), and d-amphetamine (0.6-2.4 mg/kg, IP), a dose-dependent decrease in startle potentiation was not found. The PSR correctly discriminated most of the drugs tested in clinically anxiolytic and clinically non-anxiolytic drugs. However, haloperidol behaved as a false positive, and results of nicotine and alcohol were at variance with results reported by others.
The effects of oral administration of ethanol [1.1 ml/kg 95% ethanol administered as a 20% (by volume) solution] and intravenous administration of the alpha 2 adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine hydrochloride (0.4 mg/kg), alone and in combination, were compared using a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Twelve healthy subjects completed 4 test days during which drug effects on subjective measures of intoxication and anxiety, plasma levels of the norepinephrine (NE) metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol (MHPG) and cortisol, and cardiovascular indices were assessed. Acutely administered oral ethanol significantly increased the subjective measures of intoxication and anxiety, plasma MHPG, and sitting systolic blood pressure compared with placebo. Intravenous yohimbine significantly increased subjective measures of intoxication and anxiety, plasma MHPG and cortisol, and blood pressure relative to placebo. The ethanol-induced increase in plasma MHPG was significantly greater than that following yohimbine, whereas yohimbine resulted in significantly greater increases in anxiety, plasma cortisol, and blood pressure measurements than ethanol. The combined administration of ethanol and yohimbine had a clear additive effect of increasing the severity of acute intoxication compared with ethanol or yohimbine alone, and resulted in a significantly greater plasma MHPG response compared with either drug given alone. Although the pharmacokinetic effects of ethanol administration on NE metabolism must be considered, these findings suggest that the intoxicating and anxiogenic effects of acute ethanol administration may be associated with increased NE turnover, as measured by plasma MHPG, in healthy human subjects. In addition, these results indicate that ethanol and yohimbine may act additively to increase ethanol intoxication and that they may increase NE turnover through different physiological mechanisms.
Two rating scales, which were originally developed for measurements of objective and subjective signs of opiate withdrawal, were used to evaluate potential estimates (correlates) of methadone effects in relation to plasma methadone concentrations. Patients participating in our regular methadone maintenance treatment project were studied during 24 h after the intake of the daily methadone dose. Methadone concentrations in plasma were compared to the subjective (estimated by the patients) and objective (estimated by the investigator) signs of the drug effects before, and 2.5, 5, 9 and 24 h after intake of methadone. Some new items possibly related to rising methadone concentrations were added to the subjective scale. Results indicated that, for subjective ratings, the majority of the items investigated corresponded well with the plasma methadone concentrations. The most significant associations were found for the following items: low psychomotor speed, alertness, running nose, yawning and anxiety. For objective ratings, only the items rhinorrhea, piloerection and signs of anxiety were significantly associated with the methadone concentrations. These rating scales may, together with plasma methadone determinations, be of considerable value when making dose adjustments for methadone maintenance patients. Further work is, however, needed to establish concentration-effect relationships.
In this study, we compared selection of conjunctions of spatial frequency and orientation in young and old subjects, using performance and event-related brain potential (ERP) measures. Responses to target conjunctions were slightly but significantly slower in older subjects; lateralized readiness potential (LRP) onsets did not differ between groups. Older subjects made more false-positive responses to stimuli sharing only spatial frequency with the target. Difference waves associated with selection of separate dimensions included frontal positivity and occipital and central negativity and were 20-50 ms slower in older subjects. Later parts of these difference waves had smaller amplitudes in older subjects. Sensory discrimination, assessed through the effects of physical stimulus parameters on ERPs, was not clearly affected by age. Data are interpreted in terms of a relationship in older subjects between longer latencies of difference waves but equal LRP onsets and a higher false-alarm rate.
We carried out a formal overview of the ten trials which compared the outcome of patients managed within a stroke unit with those managed in general wards. Care in a stroke unit was associated with an odds reduction for early mortality (median follow up 3 months) of 28% (95% confidence interval 8-44%; 2 p &lt; 0.01), which was largely sustained (odds reduction 21% CI 1-37%; 2p &lt; 0.05) at final review (median follow up 1 year). The odds reduction for a poor outcome (death or institutionalisation) at final review was 34% (95% CI 19-47%; 2p &lt; 0.001). The mean length of stay in stroke units ranged from 61% to 133% (pooled result 96%) of that in general wards. Stroke patients managed within specialist units are more likely to be alive and living at home a year after the stroke than those managed in general wards. Stroke unit care does not apparently increase the time spent in hospital.
This study aimed at identifying the characteristics and feasibility of rehabilitation at home for acute stroke patients in south-west Stockholm. A population-based systematic sample of 16 patients, fulfilling defined criteria, was selected from approximately 1/3 of the stroke patients having been in hospital for one week or more at a neurology department, and offered early discharge in combination with home-based rehabilitation as an alternative to sustained rehabilitation in hospital. Fifteen patients, mean age 68.2 years, male/female ratio 9/6, independent in feeding and continent one week after acute stroke, participated in the study. The most important components of the home-based rehabilitation programme were that: 1) one therapist was selected as case-manager using the other therapists on a consultant basis; 2) the training sessions consisted of different task-specific activities, based on the patients' personal interest; 3) education and individual counselling were offered to all spouses; and 4) adherence to structured training between therapy sessions was promoted. The length of such programmes varied from 4 to 19 weeks after discharge and the mean number of home visits was 11. Reported time for training between therapy sessions for 14 patients was mean 1.2 hours per day. The patients' lifestyle activities, personal and instrumental ADL, and motor capacity at 3, 6 and 12 months after stroke, assessed by validated and reliable methods, followed patterns similar to those reported for other stroke patients. The mean time in hospital for patients in the study was 14 days; for patients with similar ADL capacity but not included in the study it was 27 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and dynorphin elicit regionally selective presynaptic modulation in the hippocampal formation and the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra, respectively. We examined potential anatomical substrates for their presynaptic modulation by determining the distribution and size of large (80-120 nm) dense-core vesicles (DCVs), organelles previously shown to be immunoreactive for each peptide. Throughout the hippocampal formation, NPY-immunoreactive DCVs were located primarily in axon terminals and were more sparingly distributed in dendrites. In comparison with other portions of the hippocampal formation, NPY-labeled DCVs were most abundant in axons and terminals of the CA1 region. The DCVs in the CA1 region of the hippocampus also more frequently had larger mean cross-sectional diameters when located along portions of the terminal in contact with unlabeled axons. In both the CA1 region of the hippocampus and the dentate gyrus, NPY-labeled DCVs in contact with portions of the axonal membrane apposed to astrocytes also were larger than those located more centrally in the axon terminal. Dynorphin-immunoreactive DCVs in axon terminals of the substantia nigra were significantly larger when found near portions of the axonal membrane in contact not only with other axons and astrocytic processes, but also occasionally with postsynaptic dendrites. The parallels between diameters of DCVs and known selectivity of NPY for presynaptic modulation in the CA1 region of the hippocampus suggest a direct correlation between the size and distribution of immunoreactive DCVs and their sites of exocytotic release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The current classification for 5-HT2 receptors accommodates three subtypes. In addition to the originally defined 5-HT2 receptor, sanctuary is now provided for the structurally related 5-HT1c receptor (now 5-HT2c) and at least one atypical 5-HT receptor subtype. The strong functional union of this family is reflected in the paucity of ligands that will discriminate between its subtypes and prompts some re-evaluation of the activities of compounds which may now be regarded as nonselective for the receptor subtypes in this class. In this article, Gordon Baxter and colleagues examine the pharmacology of both officially recognized and atypical 5-HT2 receptor subtypes. A number of novel selective agents are highlighted, some of which may prove useful for 5-HT2 receptor classification and, ultimately, clarify the mechanistic basis for current and future therapeutic strategies which target this receptor family.
Responses to full-field colored flashes (red, blue, and green) were compared with those to illuminance-matched white flashes in area V1, optic radiations, and the lateral geniculate nucleus of two alert macaques. Laminar profiles of visual evoked potentials (VEPs), current source density, and multiunit activity were obtained using multicontact electrodes capable of sampling from all layers of cortex or lateral geniculate nucleus, simultaneously. In striate cortex, stimulation with colored flash enhanced transmembrane current flow dramatically in both layer 4c and the supragranular laminae. Stimulation with red evoked the largest enhancement in every electrode penetration. The mean peak amplitudes of current sinks evoked by red were 203% and 537% of those evoked by white light in layer 4c and the supragranular laminae, respectively. Color effects in V1 were preceded by an initial epoch of wavelength-insensitive activity. In layer 4c, the red effect reached significance, on average, at 47 ms, or approximately 24 ms after the onset of transmembrane current flow. In the supragranular layers, the red effect reached significance, on average, at 55 ms, or approximately 14 ms after the onset of current flow. Recordings from optic radiations in the white matter below V1 and from lateral geniculate nucleus showed no significant difference in the responses to color and illuminance-matched white light. Enhancement of supragranular current flow with color stimulation increased the contribution of these laminae to the generation of the surface VEP. Comparison of the surface VEP wave forms evoked by white and color stimuli may, therefore, help to differentiate the responses of the granular and supragranular laminae.
Previous work using homogenate binding has shown that the development of (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10imin e maleate (MK-801) binding in cat visual cortex increases from 21 days to 42 days, the height of the plastic period, and decreases in adulthood. We have studied the generality of this finding by examining the development of NMDA binding sites in several brain regions and by examining the development of other binding sites in the visual cortex. After confirming the original finding, we extended it by showing that the sensitivity of MK-801 binding sites to glutamate and glycine decreases when the cat becomes an adult. We then examined the regional specificity of MK-801 binding. Retinal binding did not change significantly with age. Binding in both visual cortex and hippocampus increased significantly from 7 days to 42 days regardless of whether binding was measured per milligram wet weight or per milligram protein. The decline from 42 days to adulthood was less dramatic in the hippocampus than in the visual cortex and was statistically significant only when binding was measured per milligram protein. Saturation analyses also showed a difference in the two structures. Bmax in the visual cortex, but not in the hippocampus, decreased from 42 days to adulthood. To determine whether these developmental changes were specific to MK-801 binding sites, we compared the age-dependent binding of MK-801, kainate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), and muscimol. Like MK-801, kainate binding increased from 7 days to 42 days and decreased from 42 days to adulthood. AMPA and muscimol binding showed a similar increase in binding from 7 days to 42 days but did not decrease significantly from 42 days to adulthood. Displacement experiments suggest that AMPA and kainate bind to separate sites. The 42-day peak in NMDA and kainate binding suggests that their associated receptors may have a role in determining the plastic period of visual cortex.
We investigated the dynamic properties of the human vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) during roll head rotations in three human subjects using the magnetic search coil technique. In the first of two experiments, we quantify the behavior of the ocular motor plant in the torsional plane. The subject's eye was mechanically displaced into intorsion, extorsion or abduction, and the dynamic course of return of the eye to its resting position was measured. The mean predominant time constants of return were 210 msec from intorsion, 83 msec from extorsion, and 217 msec from abduction, although there was considerable variability of results from different trials and subjects. In the second experiment, we quantify the efficacy of velocity-to-position integration of the vestibular signal. Position-step stimuli were used to test the torsional or horizontal VOR, being applied with subjects heads erect or supine. After a torsional position-step, the eye drifted back to its resting position, but after a horizontal position-step the eye held its new horizontal position. To interpret these responses we used a simple model of the VOR with parameters of the ocular motor plant set to values determined during Exp 1. The time constant of the velocity-to-position neural integrator was smaller (typically 2 sec) in the torsional plane than in the horizontal plane (&gt; 20 sec). No disconjugacy of torsional eye movements was observed. Thus, the dynamic properties of the VOR in roll differ significantly from those of the VOR in yaw, reflecting different visual demands placed on this reflex in these two planes.
Four experiments were conducted to quantify the effect of performing a foveal discrimination task on sensitivity for a peripheral grating. The observer's primary task was to discriminate either the spatial frequency or orientation of successive foveal Gabor patches. On a third of the trials they also performed a secondary task to detect the presence of a near-threshold grating in the periphery. We find that sensitivity for detection of the peripheral grating depends on the similarity of the spatial frequencies and orientations between the foveal and peripheral stimuli. Importantly, sensitivity is also affected by which feature is being discriminated in the central task. Because the detectability of the peripheral grating is different when different features of the central stimuli are discriminated, we suggest that the effects on sensitivity are due to feature-specific attention and not simply to passive interactions between filters with similar tuning properties.
This study concerns the roles of absolute and relative orientation in determining detectability of a line-element target in a background field of uniformly oriented line elements. Target detectability was determined as a function of background-field orientation, sampled at 5 deg intervals, for three levels of orientation contrast--the difference between target and background orientations--sampled at 10, 20 and 30 deg. Stimulus displays were presented briefly and followed by a mask. There were 10 observers, whose detection performance was quantified by the discrimination index d' from signal detection theory. Target detectability was found to depend both on absolute orientation, represented by background-field orientation, and on orientation contrast. At each level of orientation contrast, performance was best when the background field, not the target element, was vertical or horizontal. These data are difficult to explain by general models of orientation discrimination based on simple orientation opponency between local line-sensitive filter units; three other models specifically concerned with target detection are briefly considered.
Activity-dependent long-lasting plasticity in hippocampus and neocortex includes long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength. Recent studies have confirmed theoretical predictions that the sensitivity of LTP- and LTD-inducing mechanisms is dynamically regulated by previous synaptic history. In particular, prior induction of either repeated short-term potentiations or LTP lowers the threshold for induction of LTD and raises the threshold for LTP. In the current study, transient activation of protein kinase C with phorbol 12,13-diacetate was able to substitute for synaptic activity in priming synapses to exhibit enhanced homosynaptic LTD and to suppress the induction of LTP at Schaffer collateral synapses in area CA1 of hippocampal slices. This priming lasted 30 min, but not 3 hr, following phorbol 12,13-diacetate bath application. These data suggest that a protein kinase C-sensitive phosphorylation site may be an activity-sensitive target mediating the rapid expression of LTP and LTD.
Motor and cognitive impairment is common in human immunodeficiency virus disease in humans and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) disease in rhesus monkeys. We have examined peptide neurotransmitter expression in the frontal cortex of SIV-infected rhesus monkeys to identify alterations in cortical neurons that might explain this impairment. A 2-fold higher number of preprosomatostatin (SRIF) mRNA-positive interneurons was observed in layer IV of frontal cortex in two separate cohorts of SIV-infected animals compared to uninfected controls. Increased SRIF mRNA expression in layer IV was independent of clinical signs of immunodeficiency disease and was associated with both motor and cognitive impairment. Altered SRIF mRNA expression in deeper cortical layers was associated specifically with motor impairment. Increased SRIF mRNA expression occurred without detectable changes in cortical cell density. These data suggest two mechanisms for cortical dysfunction associated with lentivirus infection. Increased SRIF mRNA expression in layer IV may be due to altered patterns of activity in cortical afferents that project to layer IV, while increased SRIF mRNA expression in deeper cortical layers could reflect susceptibility to locally generated mediators in response to primate lentivirus infection of the brain. Altered function of somatostatinergic interneurons may contribute to primate lentivirus-induced encephalopathy.

The immunophilin FK506 binding protein 12 (FKBP12) is associated with and modulates the ryanodine receptor calcium release channel of skeletal muscle. Ryanodine receptor has amino acid homology and functional similarity with another intracellular Ca2+ release channel, the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R). In the present study we show that highly purified preparations of IP3R contain FKBP12. The complex of these two proteins is disrupted by the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin, both of which are known to bind FKBP12 with high affinity. Disrupting the IP3R-FKBP12 interaction increases Ca2+ flux through IP3R, an effect that is reversed by added FKBP12. FKBP12 appears to be physiologically linked to IP3R, regulating its Ca2+ conductance.
We recently showed that the opioid alkaloids, etorphine, dihydroetorphine and diprenorphine, have remarkably potent antagonist actions on excitatory opioid receptor functions in mouse sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Pretreatment of naive nociceptive types of neurons with pM concentrations of these antagonists blocks excitatory prolongation of the calcium-dependent component of the action potential duration (APD) elicited by pM-nM morphine or other bimodally acting mu, delta and kappa opioid agonists and unmasks inhibitory APD shortening which usually requires much higher (ca. microM) concentrations. The present study demonstrates that pM concentrations of [des-Tyr1] fragments of dynorphin and beta-endorphin, as well as beta-endorphin-(1-27), can also selectively block excitatory opioid receptor functions in DRG neurons and unmask potent inhibitory effects of low concentrations of bimodally acting mu, delta and kappa opioid peptides and alkaloid agonists. These N- or C-terminus modified dynorphin or beta-endorphin peptides can be readily formed in neurons by specific peptidase activities. Since sustained activation of excitatory opioid receptor functions is essential for the development of tolerance/dependence in chronic morphine-treated DRG neurons in culture, the present in vitro study may help to account for the unexplained efficacy of [des-Tyr1] dynorphin fragments, as well as the endogenous opioids dynorphin A and beta-endorphin, in suppressing development and expression of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal and morphine tolerance in vivo.
To determine whether the number of cell divisions in the teleost retina exhibited a regular daily variation, we labeled dividing cells with an antibody to proliferating cell nuclear antigen. The number of dividing rod precursor cells in the outer nuclear layer of the retina were counted in retinas from the telost fish Haplochromis burtoni, sacrificed at 4-h intervals during a standard light-dark cycle and in constant darkness. These rod precursor cells exhibited a striking rhythm of cell division. The highest number of cell divisions (acrophase) was found to occur at night when it was approximately 3 times higher than during the day. The observed rhythm persisted in animals held in constant darkness. We suggest that this endogenous 24-h rhythm of rod precursor cell division may be controlled by a circadian clock. Although there are several examples of continuously proliferating cell populations which exhibit circadian or diurnal rhythms, this appears to be the first documentation of a rhythm of division in cells destined to become neurons.
Transthyretin (TTR) in plasma is associated with yellow compounds. Their properties differ, and in the chicken protein a major yellow compound has recently been identified as a carotenoid, lutein, also called xanthophyll. We now show that the major yellow component extracted from human TTR has properties like a pterin derivative, 7,8-dihydropterin-6-carboxyaldehyde (2-amino-4-hydroxy-6-formyl-7,8-dihydropteridine). The human TTR derivative has chromatographic and spectral properties identical to a yellow photochemical degradation product of biopterin and a spectrum like that of the pterin aldehyde.
Nerve growth factor promotes the survival of populations of sensory and sympathetic neurons. Although ganglia have been used for classical assays of neurotrophin action, knowledge is incomplete regarding the spatial arrangements through which neurotrophins are delivered to responsive cells within the ganglia and their attached nerve trunks. Whereas populations of ganglionic neurons may be capable of responding to a particular neurotrophin in vitro, the spectrum of receptor components and neurotrophins expressed by the various neuronal and nonneuronal cells comprising the ganglia in adult rats remains to be elucidated in vivo. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA was expressed by a population of small to medium sized neurons in all sensory ganglia except in the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. Interestingly, BDNF immunoreactivity was detected in a more widespread population of neurons of these ganglia, as well as in scattered satellite cells of both sensory and sympathetic ganglia. These nonneuronal cells also expressed mRNA encoding a truncated form of the BDNF receptor, trkBtrunc, and full-length transcripts of trkB appeared to be confined to neuronal populations. Several other components of neurotrophin receptors (low-affinity neurotrophin receptor, trk, and trkC) were prominently expressed by different populations of neuronal cells in sympathetic and sensory ganglia, but they were not detected in nonneuronal cells. Neither nerve growth factor nor neurotrophin-3 mRNAs were detected in these ganglia. Unexpectedly, BDNF and trkBtrunc expression was detected in oligodendrocytes myelinating the central processes of sensory neurons. Schwann cells did not express detectable quantities of either entity, thereby establishing a dramatic boundary delineated by neurotrophin/neurotrophin receptor expression that coincided with the interface between the oligodendroglia of the central nervous system (CNS) and Schwann cells of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Localization of BDNF expression to an additional population of nonneuronal cells--satellite cells within sensory and sympathetic ganglia--suggest a more extensive role for neurotrophic factors than originally encompassed by the target-derived neurotrophic-factor-concept paradigm. These data support the hypothesis of a possible autocrine or paracrine trophic interaction between populations of neuronal and nonneuronal cells in the peripheral nervous system. BDNF expression in oligodendrocytes but not in Schwann cells at the CNS/PNS junction may provide an additional means of maintaining cell-appropriate connections in the nervous system.
This study describes the postnatal change in size of motoneurons in the hypoglossal nucleus that innervate the genioglossus muscle. Such anatomical information is essential for determining the cellular mechanisms responsible for the changes observed in the electrical properties of these motoneurons during postnatal development. The cells analyzed here are part of an earlier study (Nez-Abades et al. [1994] J. Comp. Neurol. 339:401-420) where 40 genioglossal (GG) motoneurons from four age groups (1-2, 5-6, 13-15, and 19-30 postnatal days) were labeled by intracellular injection of neurobiotin in an in vitro slice preparation of the rat brainstem and their cellular morphology was reconstructed in three-dimensional space. The sequence of postnatal dendritic growth can be described in two phases. The first phase, between birth (1-2 days) and 13-15 days, was characterized by no change in either dendritic diameter (any branch order) or dendritic surface area of GG motoneurons. However, maturation of the dendritic tree produced more surface area at greater distances from the soma by redistributing existing membrane (retracting some terminal branches). During the second phase, between 13-15 days and 19-30 days, the dendritic surface area doubled as a result of an increase in the dendritic diameter across all branch orders and a generation of new terminal branches. In contrast to the growth exhibited by the dendrites, there was little discernible postnatal growth of somata. At all ages, dendrites of GG motoneurons show the largest amount of tapering in the first-and second-order dendrites. The calculated dendritic trunk parameter deviated from a value 1.0, indicating that the dendritic tree of developing GG motoneurons cannot be modeled accurately as an equivalent cylinder. However, the value of this parameter increased with age. Strong correlations were found between the diameter of the first-order dendrite and the dendritic surface area, dendritic volume, combined dendritic length, and, to a lesser extent, the number of terminal dendrites in GG motoneurons. Correlations were also found between somal and dendritic geometry but only when data were pooled across all age groups. These data support earlier studies on kitten phrenic motoneurons, which concluded that postnatal growth of motoneurons was not a continuous process. Based on the fact that there was no growth in the first 2 weeks, the changes in the membrane properties described during this phase of postnatal development (e.g., decrease in input resistance) cannot be attributed to increases in the total membrane surface area of these motoneurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Particulate and soluble guanylyl cyclase activities were studied in postmortem temporal cortex from a series of Alzheimer's disease patients and matched control subjects. Particulate guanylyl cyclase activity was not significantly different between groups. In contrast, the Vmax values for basal and sodium nitroprusside-stimulated soluble guanylyl cyclase activities were approximately 50% lower in the Alzheimer's disease cases, compared to controls. This difference between groups was statistically significant for sodium nitroprusside-stimulated, but not for the basal, enzyme activities. These results provide the first evidence for a loss of nitric oxide responsive guanylyl cyclase activity in Alzheimer's disease brain.
Differentiation of the Drosophila retina is asynchronous: it starts at the posterior margin of the eye imaginal disc and progresses anteriorly over two days. During this time the disc continues to grow, increasing in size by approximately eightfold. An indentation in the epithelium, the morphogenetic furrow, marks the front edge of the differentiation wave. Anterior progression of the furrow is thought to be driven by signals emanating from differentiating photoreceptor cells in the posterior eye disc. A good candidate for such a signal is the product of the hedgehog (hh) gene; it is expressed, and presumably secreted, by differentiating photoreceptors and its function is required for continued furrow movement. Here we show that ectopic expression of hedgehog sets in motion ectopic furrows in the anterior eye disc. In addition to changes in cell shape, these ectopic furrows are associated with a tightly orchestrated series of events, including proliferation, cell cycle synchronization and pattern formation, that parallel normal furrow progression. We propose that the morphogenetic furrow coincides with a transient boundary that coordinates growth and differentiation of the eye disc, and that hedgehog is necessary and sufficient to propagate this boundary across the epithelium.
Students of vision have long speculated about the functions of the distinct lamination of the lateral geniculate nucleus and the massive return projection from visual cortex to this thalamic structure. This paper proposes that these features of the visual system reflect, in part at least, its solution to a geometric problem inherent in binocular vision. Points in the visual quadrants are imaged on geometrically non-corresponding retinal points. Two such retinal loci, optically conjugate with a given visual point at one fixation distance or angle, will correspond to no single visual point at other fixation distances or angles. This raises potential problems for visual cortical neurons sensitive to a narrow range of binocular disparities. If these neurons are to function optimally at a variety of fixation distances and angles, their disparity tuning must be variable. It is suggested here that such dynamic disparity tuning is effected by the corticogeniculate projection acting on the segregated ocular representations in the geniculate laminae.
In an earlier study we found more than twice as many vasopressin (AVP) neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of homosexual men as compared to heterosexual men. The present measurements in the same individuals showed that there is no difference in the number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-expressing neurons in the SCN. The reduced nuclear diameter of both VIP and AVP neurons in the SCN as found in homosexual men points to metabolic alterations in the SCN in relation to sexual orientation.
Flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO) catalyze the oxidation of certain xenobiotics and drugs which contain a nucleophilic heteroatom. Here we report the first assessment of human brain flavin-containing monooxygenase from tissues obtained at autopsy from seven traffic accident victims. Human brain microsomes catalyzed the S-oxidation or N-oxidation of model substrates methimazole and N,N-dimethylaniline, respectively. The psychoactive drugs chlorpromazine, imipramine and fluoxetine, were also metabolized by human brain FMO. 'Western' immunoblot analyses revealed immunological cross-reactivity of the human brain FMO with rabbit pulmonary FMO. Immunocytochemistry further revealed the localization of the FMO predominantly in the neuronal cell bodies in the magnocellular reticular nuclei, colliculi and substantia nigra. Human brain clearly contains an active FMO system, and it is conceivable that such enzyme(s) are significantly involved in the local metabolism and modulation of pharmacological effects of psychoactive drugs.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) receives extensive afferent input from neurons containing the opioid peptide enkephalin (Enk) and/or GABA. We examined the ultrastructural basis for known functional interactions between these inhibitory neuromodulators using a combined immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver technique. As visualized with either marker in single sections, Enk-immunolabeled terminals contained numerous small clear vesicles and one or more intensely immunoreactive dense-cored vesicles. Enk-labeled terminals formed either symmetric or asymmetric synapses on small or large unlabeled dendrites. The immunoreactive dense-cored vesicles were usually detected away from these sites of synaptic contact. Terminals singly immunoreactive for GABA, or dually labeled for Enk and GABA, showed similar morphological features but formed primarily symmetric axo-dendritic synapses. In many instances, GABA- and/or Enk-immunolabeled terminals were in direct apposition to each other and formed synapses on immediately adjacent parts of a common dendrite. Close appositions were also noted between GABA- and Enk-immunoreactive axons and varicosities that did not form synapses with either common or divergent dendrites in single sections. Immunoreactive dense-cored vesicles were frequently detected at the apposed plasmalemmal surfaces between these axon terminals. The findings suggest that Enk and GABA are released from the same or convergent terminals and co-regulate the activity of common target neurons within the rat VTA. The results are also consistent with potential presynaptic interactions between these transmitters.
We had found that the binocular area of the visual cortex is larger in volume and has more neurons in male than in female rats. The present study examined whether the number of synaptic junctions in this area is sexually dimorphic. Ten littermate pairs of 90-day-old (socially housed) Long-Evans hooded rats were used. Synaptic junctions were counted and their lengths were measured on electron micrographs taken from layers II-III of the binocular visual cortex. There were no sex differences in the numerical density of synaptic junctions, the number of synaptic junctions per neuron, or the length of synaptic junctions within any synaptic category or of all synapses combined. Sex differences were found in the total number of synaptic junctions and in several categories (asymmetric synapses, spine synapses, asymmetric spine synapses): male rats had more synaptic junctions than female rats because of the larger volume of layers II-III in the binocular area of male rats. These data indicate that neurons in the binocular visual cortex of both male and female rats receive a characteristic number of synaptic junctions, but the greater number of neurons in the binocular area of male rats results in more synaptic junctions in the area.
Using immunocytochemistry combined with confocal and electron microscopy, the secretory pathways related to substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), galanin (GAL), and neuropeptide Y (NPY) were investigated in neurons in rat lumbar (L) 4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) before and after peripheral axotomy. All four peptides were processed through the regulated secretory pathway in many small neurons in normal DRGs, and CGRP through this pathway also in some large neurons. In many small neurons, two neuropeptides could be sorted into the same or separate large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs). The LDCVs had a significantly larger diameter in small as compared to large DRG neurons. Fourteen days after sciatic nerve cut, the levels of SP- and CGRP-like immunoreactivities (-LIs) and the number of LDCVs containing these peptides were markedly reduced, but SP- and CGRP-LIs were still seen in the regulated pathway. GAL-LI was markedly increased in many small neurons and some large neurons and NPY-LI mainly in large neurons. Both peptides were particularly abundant in the Golgi region. In small neurons, the number of LDCVs containing GAL- or NPY-LI was increased, but did not appear to reach the numbers containing SP- or CGRP-LI in normal DRG neurons. After axotomy, CGRP-LI and GAL-LI were often in separate LDCVs. One type of NPY-positive large neurons showed budding off of LDCVs after axotomy, but also some &quot;scattered&quot; labeling in the cytoplasm. In the second type, NPY-LI was mainly found in multivesicular bodies. In several myelinated nerve fibers a &quot;diffuse&quot; distribution of NPY was seen together with some LDCVs containing NPY-LI. In contrast, in unmyelinated nerve fibers, NPY-, GAL-, SP-, and CGRP-LIs were always observed in LDCVs. Thus, both in normal and axotomized DRG neurons, peptides are processed through the regulated pathway. However, in some large neurons, NPY is, in addition, secreted through the constitutive pathway, perhaps as a consequence of limited sorting mechanisms for NPY, i.e., the plasticity of the secretory mechanisms does not match the rate of peptide synthesis after axotomy.
Hyphenated mass spectrometric techniques such as LC-MS are advantageous over standard MS methods, because they provide increased sensitivity and minimize signal suppression by other compounds present in the reaction mixture. Recently, we have introduced so-called continuous beds, and applied this technique to prepare a 0.32 mm I.D. cation-exchange capillary column, in order to separate the reaction product substance P(1-7) after proteolytic cleavage of substance P by an endopeptidase recovered from human cerebrospinal fluid. The use of a volatile buffer for elution provides very good flow stability. Ion-exchange microcolumns may be particularly useful for the separation of those peptides that co-elute in reversed-phase chromatography because the separation mechanisms of these two methods are different.
One of the pathological features in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is neurofibrillary tangles in the brain. The main constituent of tangles is the microtubuli-associated protein tau in a hyperphosphorylated state. Tau is also released into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and in this study we have used an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay to measure tau in CSF from AD and control cases. Our findings show that tau levels in AD cases are significantly elevated compared to healthy control individuals. We suggest that tau may serve as a biochemical marker of Alzheimer's disease.
Transient forebrain ischemia in rodents caused internucleosomal DNA fragmentation that appeared in the striatum 24 h after reperfusion, and in the hippocampus 72 h after reperfusion. Gel electrophoresis and an in situ technique to label 3' termini of endonuclease generated DNA fragments demonstrated similar temporal patterns. These data show that endonuclease activation accompanies the demise of selectively vulnerable neurons following transient forebrain ischemia.
We compared some binding parameters of [3H]nemonapride and [3H]spiperone in human dopamine D4 (hD4) receptors with three different numbers of tandem repeat units. Although both of the radioligands showed similar affinity constants for each hD4 receptor variant, the maximal number of binding sites labeled by [3H]nemonapride was approximately 1.35-fold higher than that by [3H]-spiperone for all variants. Estimated Ki values for the inhibition of [3H]nemonapride binding by a series of dopaminergic ligands were highly correlated to respective values obtained for the inhibition of [3H]spiperone binding to each hD4 receptor. These results suggest that the hD4 receptor, as shown for the D2 receptor, may exist in multiple molecular forms as a monomer-dimer equilibria, and that [3H]spiperone may discriminate in the multiple molecular forms.
Glutamate decreased intracellular pH (pHi) in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The protonophore, FCCP (1 microM), produced an acidification comparable to that produced by glutamate. Application of glutamate to FCCP-treated cells, returned pHi to resting levels. This alkaline shift resulted from a glutamate-induced membrane depolarization that removed the driving force across the plasmalemma for H+ entry via FCCP. The endogenous protonophore, arachidonic acid (10 microM), produced pHi changes similar to those elicited by FCCP. Because application of glutamate and FCCP in combination did not change pHi, this treatment was used to determine the role of glutamate-induced acidification in neurotoxicity. FCCP (1 microM, 5 min) did not affect neuronal viability, either alone or in combination with various concentrations of glutamate, as indicated by the release of lactate dehydrogenase into the bathing medium. Thus, acidification was not the cause of glutamate-induced cell death although, it may be symptomatic of neurotoxic processes.
Neurons exhibit a wide range of properties in addition to postsynaptic potential (PSP) summation and spike generation. Although other neuronal properties such as paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) and slow PSPs are well characterized, their role in information processing remains unclear. It is possible that these properties contribute to temporal processing in the range of hundreds of milliseconds, a range relevant to most complex sensory processing. A continuous-time neural network model based on integrate-and-fire elements that incorporate PPF and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) was developed here. The time constants of the PPF and IPSPs were estimated from empirical data and were identical and constant for all elements in the circuit. When these elements were incorporated into a circuit inspired by neocortical connectivity, the network was able to discriminate different temporal patterns. Generalization emerged spontaneously. These results demonstrate that known time-dependent neuronal properties enable a network to transform temporal information into a spatial code in a self-organizing manner--that is, with no need to assume a spectrum of time delays or to custom-design the circuit.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophin family, expresses potential effects on survival and outgrowth from dopaminergic neurons in ventral mesencephalon. In this study we have examined the expression of BDNF mRNA and its high affinity trkB receptor mRNA in the nigrostriatal system after grafting to the anterior chamber of the eye. The BDNF mRNA expression has been compared to the dopaminergic innervation of striatum as revealed by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry and the development of D1 and D2 subtypes of the dopamine receptor mRNAs. Ventral mesencephalon and striatum anlage were either co-grafted or grafted alone and evaluated 2 weeks (immature grafts) or 6 weeks (mature grafts) after transplantation. In situ hybridization for BDNF revealed a positive signal over large neurons in the ventral mesencephalic grafts with an increased silver grain density in the mature grafts. The striatal grafts were negative for BDNF mRNA at both time points evaluated, but in situ hybridization for trkB truncated mRNA revealed increased silver grain density in both the ventral mesencephalic grafts and striatum, with a patchy appearance. The D1 and D2 mRNAs were expressed in a patchy pattern in the striatum both in single grafts and when co-implanted with ventral mesencephalon at both time points evaluated. Often the patches of D1 mRNA did not overlap with the D2 mRNA patches. TH-immunohistochemistry revealed positive neurons in all ventral mesencephalic grafts and a dense patchy innervation of the striatal co-grafts. In conclusion, the trkB truncated mRNA and the dopamine receptor mRNAs were expressed in the striatal graft independent of the contact to a ventral mesencephalic transplant and the dopaminergic input, and BDNF mRNA expression in the ventral mesencephalic transplants was independent of the contact to its striatal target.
The distribution of the G alpha i-2 mRNA was investigated with in situ hybridization on tissue sections of the rat cerebral cortex. A non-radioactive method based on digoxygenin labelled cRNA was used for in situ hybridization. The G alpha i-2 mRNA was shown to be present predominantly in large neuronal shaped cells in laminae II-III. The ontogenic development of the expression of G alpha i-2 mRNA in the rat cerebral cortex was quantified using a solution hybridization RNAse protection assay. The abundancy of G alpha i-2 mRNA was shown to increase significantly from embryonic day 16 to adult age. The amount of G alpha i-2 mRNA in adult cerebral cortex of the rat brain was 23 amol/micrograms RNA. The distribution and ontogenic development of G alpha i-2 mRNA are discussed.

A cDNA library was constructed from the pineal gland of rats injected with isoproterenol and screened with 32P-labeled cDNAs encoding arylamine N-acetyltransferases from rabbit and human liver. Two types of cDNAs for arylamine N-acetyltransferases (A-type and B-type) were isolated. Expression of the cDNAs in Chinese hamster ovary cells indicated that A-type N-acetyltransferase acetylates both arylamines and arylalkylamines, while the B-type enzyme acetylates only arylamines. Therefore, neither the A-type nor the B-type of enzyme seems to be the arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase involved in melatonin synthesis in the pineal gland. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that both A-type and B-type cDNAs code for 290 amino acids, and that they showed 82.8% similarity in the coding region. However, the nucleotide sequence in the 5' non-coding region was identical in the A-type and B-type cDNAs. In addition, the 5' non-coding region contained another possible open reading frame for 79 amino acids. Data base research revealed that the complementary sequence of the 5' non-coding region has high similarity with the coding regions of cDNAs for high-mobility-group proteins (HMG) 1 and 2, which are thought to regulate mRNA transcription.
The adrenal medulla contains high-affinity strychnine binding sites, presumed to be receptors for glycine. In this study, glycine injection (400 pmol) via a cannula attached to a microdialysis probe increased in vivo concentrations of catecholamines in the adrenal microdialysate in anesthetized rats. Strychnine perfusion (20 pmol/20 min) blocked these responses. To identify receptors potentially mediating this effect, we tested for RNA transcripts of the three known alpha subunits of strychnine binding site, using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Only mRNA encoding the alpha 3 isoform was found in the rat adrenal. The findings suggest that in the rat adrenal, glycine stimulates catecholamine release by binding to strychnine binding sites and that those sites probably contain the alpha 3 isoform.
GTP hydrolyzing activity was assayed by measuring the amount of 32P(i) released from 0.3 microM [gamma-32P]GTP in the membranes prepared from rat brain. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) stimulated the high-affinity GTPase activity in hippocampus, but not in striatum, in a concentration-dependent manner with an EC50 value of 18 nM and maximal percent stimulation of 13.9%. This response was mimicked by (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin [(+/-)-8-OH-DPAT], but not by (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophyenyl)-2-aminopropane [(+/-)-DOI]. These results suggest that 5-HT-stimulated high-affinity GTPase activity of the GTP-binding protein(s) is mediated via 5-HT1A receptor subtype in the rat hippocampus.
Signal transduction at a diverse range of pharmacologically distinct receptors is effected by the enhanced turnover of inositol phospholipids, with the attendant formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. Although considerable progress has been made in recent years towards the identification and characterization of the individual components of this pathway, much less is known of mechanisms that may underlie its regulation. In this review, evidence is presented for the potential regulation of inositol lipid turnover at the level of receptor, phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C and substrate availability in response to either homologous or heterologous stimuli. Available data indicate that the extent of receptor-stimulated inositol lipid hydrolysis is regulated by multiple mechanisms that operate at different levels of the signal transduction pathway.
1. The cellular mechanisms underlying temporal synaptic signalling of tectothalamic pathways were investigated in rat medial geniculate body (MGB) maintained in vitro. Stimulation of the brachium of the inferior colliculus elicited either a short latency, single- (or dual-) spike or a long latency (10-80 ms) burst in MGB neurones. The delayed burst response was found in most non-lemniscal or caudodorsal MGB (MGd) neurones, whereas single-spike units were mainly seen in the lemniscal ventral MGB (MGv). Population latency analysis revealed that the overall relay time of tectothalamic transmission is approximately 50 ms, with at least two excitation peaks occurring around 8 and 15 ms, respectively. 2. Intracellular recordings showed that the delayed burst responses in MGd neurones were mediated by an EPSP-triggered low threshold spike (LTS). Small variations in either the membrane voltage or in EPSP amplitude induced significant shifts of LTS latency. 3. Compared with MGv cells, MGd neurones exhibited a more negative resting membrane potential and a prolonged EPSP; they lacked an apparent hyperpolarization-activated inward rectifier (Ih). These factors seem to lead collectively to a dominant occurrence of long latency burst response in the MGd. In the majority of single-spiking MGv cells that expressed a clear Ih, application of Cs+ consistently hyperpolarized the cell, which transformed a single-spike synaptic response into an EPSP-LTS burst or a subthreshold EPSP. 4. Taken together, these data suggest that the monosynaptic tectothalamic pathways are capable of introducing a ventrodorsal gradient in auditory response time. This synaptic activity pattern is probably dominantly regulated by a set of membrane conductances expressed endogenously in thalamocortical neurones.
Immunohistochemistry was used to demonstrate urotensin I (UI), urotensin II (UII), and angiotensinogen (Ao)-like immunoreactivities (ir) in the CNS of Aplysia californica. The fish UI is a 41 amino acid peptide that has 50% identity with mammalian corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). Identity also exists between UI and angiotensinogen in a tetrapeptide at the N-terminus. Ao-ir neurones were found in the F cluster of the Aplysia cerebral ganglia. Beaded Ao-ir fibres were seen in the neuropile and commissure of the cerebral, pleural and pedal ganglia. Ao neurosecretory material was also seen in the perineural region of the proximal supralabial nerve. Previously we have demonstrated UI and UII immunoreactivities were present in the CNS of Aplysia. A comparison of adjacent sections of the cerebral ganglia immunostained sequentially for UI, UII and Ao revealed that all three immunoreactivities co-existed in the same cells of the F cluster of the cerebral ganglia. Liquid-phase immunoabsorption of the Ao antiserum revealed that porcine or human angiotensinogen but not UI or UII were able to quench Ao immunostaining. Conversely UI and UII staining were quenched by white sucker (Catatomus commersoni) UI and goby (Gillichtys mirabilis) UII, respectively, but they were not modified by angiotensinogen. These results suggest that UI-, UII-, and Ao-like peptides might co-exist as separate entities in the cerebral ganglia of Aplysia californica where they can act in an integrated and/or independent modulatory way.
The mechanism underlying the change in clathrin immunohistochemistry preceding delayed neuronal death (DND) was studied in gerbils. The ischaemic change observed with chc5.9 anti-clathrin antibody in hippocampal CA1 was initially ameliorated by pentobarbital, which blocks DND, but 1 day after ischaemia, no change in the immunoreactivity of the SDS-denatured clathrin molecule was detected by Western blotting and no change in the clathrin content in CA1 was detected by SDS-PAGE. No ischaemia-induced change in immunohistochemistry was observed with another monoclonal anti-clathrin antibody, X-22. The above results imply that some modifications that affect the structure of clathrin molecules around the chc5.9 specific epitope may be a crucial step in the course of DND.
Nitric oxide is synthesized by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) from L-Arg, which contains a guanidino group. Arcaine is the diguanidino compound and a derivative of Arg. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of arcaine on rat brain NOS activity, using nitrite and nitrate as indicators. Arcaine inhibited NOS activity in a linear mixed manner (K1 = 18.68 microM). Almost all previously reported NOS inhibitors were synthesized by substituting the guanidino nitrogen of Arg, but the guanidino nitrogens of arcaine were not substituted. Arcaine was also reported to be a competitive antagonist of the polyamine site on the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor. Arcaine appears to be an excellent drug to investigate not only the chemical nature of NOS but also the functional and structural relationship between NOS and NMDA receptors.
The ability of beta-amyloid peptides to activate the classical complement cascade and the presence of various complement proteins including the membrane attack complex (C5b-9) on dystrophic neurites in Alzheimer's disease brains, raises the possibility that the complement system may contribute to this neurodegenerative disorder. To address this issue, we have studied the effect of complement activation on nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells, and on retinoic acid (RA)-differentiated human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Although incubation of both cell types with human serum resulted in activation of complement, as indicated by iC3b formation, only PC12 but not SH-SY5Y cells were killed by human serum treatment. In contrast, heat-inactivated serum (56 degrees C, 45 min) was not neurotoxic. On SH-SY5Y cells, both PCR amplification and immunocytochemistry demonstrated the presence of CD59, a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein that restricts homologous complement activation by inhibiting the formation of the membrane attack complex. The presence of CD59 probably accounts for the inability of human complement to lyse the human cell lines. Indeed, removal of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) rendered SH-SY5Y cells vulnerable to complement attack and eventually led to serum-medicated cell death. Reconstituted C5b-9 was also toxic to both PC12 and PI-PLC-pretreated SH-SY5Y cells. These observations suggest that complement activation can cause neuronal cell death and that this process is regulated by homologous restriction.
The mammalian pineal organ is a major endocrine component of the circadian timing system, primarily concerned with the regulation of photoperiodic responses. The effect of different photoperiods on the diurnal variation in the concentration of melatonin and 5-methoxytryptophol (5-ML) was studied in the pineal glands, obtained at autopsy, of 38 human subjects, and measured by radioimmunoassay. A diurnal rhythm in pineal melatonin was evident only in the long photoperiod (April-September) with melatonin concentrations being 4.2 times higher at night (22.00-10.00 h) than during the day (10.00-22.00 h). In contrast, diurnal variations in the pineal 5-ML content were only observed in the short photoperiod (October-March) with high concentrations during day-time and low concentrations during night-time. In general, night-time concentrations of both melatonin and 5-ML were higher in summer than in winter. These data suggest that the synthesis of indoleamines in the human pineal exhibits a diurnal rhythm which is affected by seasonal changes in day length.
We have investigated the effects of the phorbol ester 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) on depolarization-evoked Ca2+ influx and catecholamine secretion in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. PMA (100 nM) strongly inhibited K(+)-evoked [Ca2+]i transients and Mn2+ quenching of fura-2 fluorescence. In contrast, 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate, a phorbol ester inactive on protein kinase C (PKC), had no effect. Maximal PMA-mediated inhibition occurred at 5-10 min incubations and were variable from cell to cell, ranging from 25 to 65% of controls. The [Ca2+]i transients evoked by the L-type Ca2+ channel activator Bay K 8644 were strongly inhibited by 100 nM PMA. PMA (0.1-10 microM) inhibited K(+)-evoked adrenaline and noradrenaline release by 23-44%. The data indicate that phorbol ester-mediated activation of PKC inhibits voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels in chromaffin cells, leading to a prominent depression of depolarization-evoked catecholamine secretion.
The lateral cortex of the lizard Gekko gecko is composed of three parts: a dorsal and ventral part located rostrally and a posterior part located caudally. In order to obtain detailed information about the efferent connections of these lateral cortex subdivisions, iontophoretic injections of the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and biotinylated dextran were made in the various parts. The main projection from the dorsal part terminates in the caudal part of the medial cortex. Other cortical projections were noted to the ipsi- and contralateral lateral cortex, the large-celled part of the medial cortex, and the dorsal cortex. Additional fibers were found bilaterally in the anterior olfactory nucleus and the external amygdaloid nucleus. The ventral part of the lateral cortex projects mainly to the ipsilateral, posterior part of the dorsal ventricular ridge and the external amygdaloid nucleus. Minor contralateral projections to these nuclei were also found. Other projections were observed to travel to the caudal part of the medial cortex, to the nucleus sphericus, and bilaterally to the lateral cortex and the anterior olfactory nucleus. The posterior part of the lateral cortex has similar efferent connections as the dorsal part and should be regarded as the caudal continuation of the dorsal part. Because previous studies have shown that the medial cortex and the amygdaloid complex project to different hypothalamic areas, we conclude that the dorsal and ventral parts of the lateral cortex transmit olfactory information to separate hypothalamic areas that are probably involved with different types of behavior.
In the choroid plexus, the ion pump Na+,K(+)-ATPase regulates the production of cerebrospinal fluid. We now report that incubation of choroid plexus with an activator of protein kinase C, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, strongly stimulates the phosphorylation of Na+,K(+)-ATPase and inhibits its activity. Similar effects were obtained with serotonin, which in the choroid plexus stimulates phosphoinositide turnover, thereby activating protein kinase C. Serotonin (10 microM) increased by about 10-fold the amount of phosphorylated Na+,K(+)-ATPase and significantly reduced its activity. Two-dimensional peptide mapping showed comigration of Na+,K(+)-ATPase phosphorylated by either phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate or serotonin in intact cells and by protein kinase C in vitro. These results demonstrate that first messengers can regulate the activity of Na+,K(+)-ATPase through a mechanism involving protein phosphorylation. Moreover, they provide a plausible mechanism for the demonstrated ability of serotonin to decrease cerebrospinal fluid production.
Treatment of human 293 cells transfected with amyloid precursor protein (APP)K595N,M596L (the &quot;Swedish&quot; mutation) with a specific inhibitor of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPases, bafilomycin A1 (baf A), leads to a potent inhibition of the release of the A beta peptide. This is accompanied by a selective inhibition of beta-secretase activity. Surprisingly, baf A did not inhibit the production of A beta from either wild-type APP (WT APP) or from APPv7171 (the &quot;Hardy&quot; mutation), expressed in the same cell type. In contrast, the robust production of A beta from a human neuroglioma-derived cell line (HS683) transfected with WT APP, or from primary human mixed brain cultures (HMBC) expressing genomic WT APP, were also effectively inhibited by baf A. The inhibition of A beta production from the HMBC was also accompanied by the inhibition of beta-s-APP release. No inhibition of alpha-s-APP release was seen in any of the cell types tested. These results indicate that intracellular acidic processes are rate-limiting for beta-secretase cleavage and A beta production from SW APP, but not WT APP, in the peripheral 293 cell line. Furthermore, such acidic processes also play a rate-limiting role in A beta release from human central nervous system-derived cells, including HMBC. Differential trafficking of the SW APP into an acidic compartment conducive to beta-secretase cleavage and A beta release could be one explanation for the increased production of A beta observed on expression of this mutation.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of progressive intellectual failure in aged humans. AD brains contain numerous amyloid plaques surrounded by dystrophic neurites, and show profound synaptic loss, neurofibrillary tangle formation and gliosis. The amyloid plaques are composed of amyloid beta-peptide (A beta), a 40-42-amino-acid fragment of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). A primary pathogenic role for APP/A beta is suggested by missense mutations in APP that are tightly linked to autosomal dominant forms of AD. A major obstacle to elucidating and treating AD has been the lack of an animal model. Animals transgenic for APP have previously failed to show extensive AD-type neuropathology, but we now report the production of transgenic mice that express high levels of human mutant APP (with valine at residue 717 substituted by phenylalanine) and which progressively develop many of the pathological hallmarks of AD, including numerous extracellular thioflavin S-positive A beta deposits, neuritic plaques, synaptic loss, astrocytosis and microgliosis. These mice support a primary role for APP/A beta in the genesis of AD and could provide a preclinical model for testing therapeutic drugs.
For many types of behaviours, it is necessary to monitor the position or movement of objects that are temporarily occluded. The primate posterior parietal cortex contains neurons that are active during visual guidance tasks: in some cases, even if the visual target disappears transiently. It has been proposed that activity of this sort could be related to current or planned eye movements, but it might also provide a more generalized abstract representation of the spatial disposition of targets, even when they are not visible. We have recorded from monkey posterior parietal cortex while the animal viewed a visual stimulus that disappeared, and then, depending on experimental context, could be inferred to be either moving or stationary. During this temporary absence of the stimulus, about half of the neurons were found to be significantly more active on those trials in which the stimulus could be presumed to be moving rather than stationary. The activity was thus present in the absence of either sensory input or motor output, suggesting that it may indeed constitute a generalized representation of target motion.


The human dopamine D4 receptor has polymorphic tandem repeats in the third cytoplasmic loop. However, these repeats are not present in the rat counterpart. To determine whether the tandem repeats are specific to humans or not, we analyzed genomic DNA sequences for the D4 receptor of six primate species (human, chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, macaque, marmoset). Sequencing data revealed that all primates have the 48-bp tandem repeats in the D4 receptor gene. This finding suggests that these repeats originated before the separation of the New World monkey lineage from the Old World monkey and ape-human lineages.
The role of the putative sigma receptor in mediating neuroprotection against glutamate-induced neuronal injury was examined in mature cultured rat cortical neurons. With the exception of the selective sigma 1 ligand (+)-3-PPP, all of the sigma ligands tested were neuroprotective, preventing glutamate-induced morphological changes and increases in LDH release. Their rank order of neuroprotective potency (and EC50 values) was as follows: (+)-SKF 10,047 (0.81 microM) &gt; (+)- cyclazocine (2.3 microM) &gt; dextromethorphan (3.1 microM) = haloperidol (3.7 microM) &gt; (+)-pentazocine (8.5 microM) &gt; DTG (42.7 microM) = carbetapentane (46.3 microM). When corrected for relative sigma versus PCP binding affinity, it appears that a positive correlation exists between neuroprotective potency and sigma 1 site affinity. However, there does not appear to be a significant correlation between neuroprotective potency and the sigma 2 site. Critically, none of the sigma ligands were neurotoxic when tested alone at concentrations at least 5-30 times their respective neuroprotective EC50 values. Results from preliminary experiments with the selective sigma 1 ligand (+)-pentazocine indicated that sigma-mediated neuroprotection may involve the buffering of glutamate-induced calcium flux. Collectively, the results of these in vitro experiments demonstrate that sigma ligands are neuroprotective and therefore deserve further exploration as potential therapeutic agents in in vivo models of CNS injury and neurodegenerative disorders.
In addition to neuromodulation, endogenous opioids serve as growth factors. The naturally occurring opioid peptide, [Met5]enkephalin, termed opioid growth factor (OGF), has been found to be a potent and tonic inhibitor of processes related to growth and renewal, particularly cell proliferation. OGF mediates its actions through the zeta (zeta) opioid receptor. In order to determine if OGF and/or the zeta receptor are present in human corneal epithelium, immunocytochemistry was utilized. Immunoreactivity with regard to OGF and to the zeta receptor could be detected in the cortical cytoplasm of both basal and suprabasal epithelial cells, but was not associated with the cell nucleus. Investigation of the ubiquity of OGF and zeta receptor in the vertebrate cornea showed that both elements are present in a wide variety of classes of the phylum Chordata, including mammalia, aves, reptilia, amphibia, and osteichthyes. These results suggest that an endogenous opioid system related to growth may have originated as early as 300 million years ago, and that the function of this system in cellular renewal and homeostasis is a requirement of the vertebrate corneal epithelium.
In the present study, the development of tolerance to the motor impairing effects of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHBA) and ethanol was compared (Experiment 1). Rats were required to perform a motor coordination task daily shortly after ethanol (3.5 g/kg) and GHBA (1.0 g/kg) administration for 9 consecutive days. Tolerance to the motor impairing effects of ethanol and GHBA developed to a similar extent but with different patterns. On the tenth day, the presence of cross-tolerance to the motor impairing effects of GHBA and ethanol was assessed (Experiment 2). Administration of 1.0 g/kg GHBA produced a significantly lower impairment in ethanol-tolerant rats than in ethanol-naive rats. Similarly, administration of 3.5 g/kg ethanol induced a significantly lower impairment in GHBA-tolerant rats than in GHBA-naive rats. The presence of cross-tolerance between GHBA and ethanol is discussed in terms of common pathways of neuroadaptation to chronic GHBA and ethanol.
Low-frequency synaptic stimulation evokes long-term depression of synaptic strength. One hypothesis is that modification of AMPA receptors by phospholipase A2 causes long-term depression. A previous study reported bromophenacylbromide, a completely nonselective phospholipase A2 inhibitor, blocked long-term depression at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in hippocampus. In contrast, I show here that 3-(4-octadecyl)-benzoylacrylic acid (OBAA), a much more potent and selective inhibitor of low and high molecular weight phospholipase A2, does not block long-term depression at these same synapses, indicating that phospholipase A2 is not necessary for modifications causing long-term depression.
Visual function in monkeys is subserved at the cortical level by a large number of areas defined by their specific physiological properties and connectivity patterns. For most of these cortical fields, a precise index of their degree of anatomical specialization has not yet been defined, although many regional patterns have been described using Nissl or myelin stains. In the present study, an attempt has been made to elucidate the regional characteristics, and to varying degrees boundaries, of several visual cortical areas in the macaque monkey using an antibody to neurofilament protein (SMI32). This antibody labels a subset of pyramidal neurons with highly specific regional and laminar distribution patterns in the cerebral cortex. Based on the staining patterns and regional quantitative analysis, as many as 28 cortical fields were reliably identified. Each field had a homogeneous distribution of labeled neurons, except area V1, where increases in layer IVB cell and in Meynert cell counts paralleled the increase in the degree of eccentricity in the visual field representation. Within the occipitotemporal pathway, areas V3 and V4 and fields in the inferior temporal cortex were characterized by a distinct population of neurofilament-rich neurons in layers II-IIIa, whereas areas located in the parietal cortex and part of the occipitoparietal pathway had a consistent population of large labeled neurons in layer Va. The mediotemporal areas MT and MST displayed a distinct population of densely labeled neurons in layer VI. Quantitative analysis of the laminar distribution of the labeled neurons demonstrated that the visual cortical areas could be grouped in four hierarchical levels based on the ratio of neuron counts between infragranular and supragranular layers, with the first (areas V1, V2, V3, and V3A) and third (temporal and parietal regions) levels characterized by low ratios and the second (areas MT, MST, and V4) and fourth (frontal regions) levels characterized by high to very high ratios. Such density trends may correspond to differential representation of corticocortically (and corticosubcortically) projecting neurons at several functional steps in the integration of the visual stimuli. In this context, it is possible that neurofilament protein is crucial for the unique capacity of certain subsets of neurons to perform the highly precise mapping functions of the monkey visual system.
Motivated by predictions of a structured neuronal model of the cortex, we performed a behavioral experiment which showed that listening to a Mozart piano sonata produced significant short-term enhancement of spatial-temporal reasoning in college students. Here we present results from an experiment which replicates these findings, and shows that (i) 'repetitive' music does not enhance reasoning; (ii) a taped short story does not enhance reasoning; and (iii) short-term memory is not enhanced. We propose experiments designed to explore the neurophysiological bases of this causal enhancement of spatial-temporal reasoning by music, and begin to search for quantitative measures of further higher cognitive effects of music.
Dramatic advances in neuroscience are changing and enriching our understanding of brain and behaviour. But reductionist interpretations of these advances can cause great harm.
In the fields of psychiatry and neurology, the dopaminergic system is one of the most important neurotransmitter systems in the brain. Whereas pharmacological and biochemical studies had initially indicated two subclasses of dopamine receptors (DA-R), recent progress in molecular biology techniques has led to the identification of five distinct genes of DA-Rs (D1-R-D5-R) and splice variants. The gene products are classified into the D1-R family (D1-R and D5-R) and D2-R family (D2-R, D3-R and D4-R) based on their structure and pharmacological features. This review summarizes the structure, localization, function and pharmacology of DA-R subtypes on the basis of knowledge obtained during the past few years. The genes encoding the D1-R family have no intron and the D2-R family genes have introns. The distributions of mRNAs encoding these five DA-R subtypes in the brain were different from their respective receptors. The localization of DA-R subtypes to particular brain regions and specific pharmacological profiles of DA-R subtypes allow new insights to be made into the mechanism of action of DA in the control of psychiatric and motor functions. The availability of detailed information about DA-R subtypes will not only clarify their roles in the brain, but will probably also lead to the development of new therapeutic drugs with more specific actions.
We describe the incidence and explore the quality of registered diagnosis for Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) in a population-based retrospective study in South-West Stockholm (SWS), Sweden, during the period 1973-1991. We used data on registered hospital discharges and open-care visits, and from medical records. Medical records were available for 83 (80.6%) of 103 patients with registered GBS diagnosis at discharge from hospitals. For 69 (83.1%) of such patients, the information from the hospital record fulfilled the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke (NINCDS) clinical criteria for GBS. One out-patient presented with suspected GBS. In contrast, none of 40 patients discharged with diagnosis of unspecific polyneuropathy fulfilled the above mentioned criteria. During the period 1973-1991, the mean annual incidence of GBS per 100,000 was 1.74, 95% CI 1.41-2.12, from register data and 1.49, 95% CI 1.19-1.85, after excluding those not fulfilling criteria for GBS. The age-adjusted incidence after validation was higher for men, 1.64, 95% CI 1.19-2.21, than for women, 1.46, 95% CI 1.05-1.99. An increasing incidence with age was found, presenting the age-specific curve a bimodal shape. The results of this study confirm that hospital discharge diagnostic data in Sweden can be used for purposes of epidemiological research and surveillance for GBS, and show that the incidence of GBS in SWS compares to those described in other populations.
A total of 707 cases of violent death (suicide, undetermined mode or accident) occurring in 1990 were investigated at the Department of Forensic Medicine in Stockholm. The catchment area of the Department includes about 1.9 million people. Fourteen percent of the population in the area are immigrants. The largest single immigrant group was the 91,015 Finnish-born inhabitants, who represented 33% of the overall immigrant population. Thirty percent of all undetermined deaths and 20% of the suicides were among people born outside Sweden. A significant overrepresentation of the largest immigrant group (Finnish-born) was found in both the definite and undetermined suicide categories. There was also an overall overrepresentation of immigrants among the undetermined cases and a trend towards overrepresentation among definite suicides. Also, there was a significant overall overrepresentation of immigrants in the total cases of undetermined and definite suicide. Some psychosocial factors found predominant among the immigrant sample were social isolation, low social class and poor social network. The findings in this study indicates that immigrant status should be considered as a risk factor for suicide in Sweden. Previous reports on the high suicide rates among immigrants in Australia, Canada, Great Britain and the United States suggest that the overrepresentation of immigrants found in our study could represent a worldwide epidemiological trend related to voluntary and forced migration. Possible hypotheses that could explain this phenomenon are discussed.
We recently reported that the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein (DAG) complex is biochemically divided into two subcomplexes: one is the dystroglycan complex comprised of 156DAG and 43DAG and the other is the sarcoglycan complex comprised of 50DAG, A3b, and 35DAG. A3b is a novel dystrophin-associated glycoprotein with an approximate molecular mass of 43 kd but is distinct from 43DAG. In the present study, we examined the striated muscles of the dystrophic hamster with anti-A3b antibody in addition to anti-50DAG, anti-43DAG, anti-35DAG, anti-dystrophin, and anti-laminin antibodies by both immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analysis and found that 50DAG, A3b, and 35DAG are selectively lost. This selective defect of the sarcoglycan complex in dystrophic hamster muscles may give rise to dystrophic changes in striated muscles. Thus, the differentiation of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex into the dystroglycan and sarcoglycan complexes is important not only from a biochemical standpoint but also in understanding the cause of muscular dystrophy in the hamster. Our findings further show that the dystrophic hamster may serve as an animal model for a human disease, severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy, which has recently been shown to result from a selective defect in the sarcoglycan complex.
Cerebral blood flow (rCBF), measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry, spontaneously fluctuates at approximately 6 events/min in the anesthetized rat. These cerebrovascular waves (CWs) are preceded by simultaneous and synchronous bursts of electrocorticographic activity similar to burst-suppression/spindle-burst electroencephalogram patterns. Identical burst-CW complexes are evoked by single electrical pulses of specific sites in the cerebellar fastigial nucleus or rostral ventrolateral medulla. These consist, sequentially, of a constant initial triphasic (positive-negative-positive) potential reversing polarity in lamina V, variable afterbursts, and transient elevations of rCBF appearing approximately 1.2 s after burst onset. Evoked bursts are occluded by spontaneous bursts appearing &lt; 50 s earlier. Procainization of the cortex reversibly blocks burst-CW complexes. Gradually increasing stimulus frequency proportionally increases the numbers of burst-CW complexes before rCBF rises. We conclude that spontaneous and evoked burst-CW complexes result from excitation of common neurons in lamina V. These intracortical &quot;vasodilator&quot; neurons are spontaneously excited by thalamocortical afferents generating burst-suppression electroencephalogram (EEG) patterns and excited reflexively by afferent signals from the fastigial nucleus or rostral ventrolateral medulla and couple intrinsic neuronal activity to local vascular mechanisms generating vasodilation.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a potent vasodilator and widely distributed neuropeptide that may participate in the injury response of peripheral nerve. We examined evidence for the presence of CGRP immunoreactivity (IR) and its activity in experimental neuromas of Sprague-Dawley rats created by sectioning the midsciatic nerve with resection of 2-3 cm of its distal portion and branches. CGRP activity was evaluated by measuring local blood flow in neuromas using hydrogen polarography and laser-Doppler flowmetry. At all time points studied after nerve section (24 h, 48 h, 7 days, 14 days) there was a rise in local blood flow in the neuroma stumps. At 48 h the hyperemia was maximum but was reversed by topical application of human CGRP(8--37), a specific CGRP-receptor antagonist. CGRP presence was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and radioimmunoassay (RIA). At 24 and 48 h, CGRP IR was intense and distributed in a globular and diffuse pattern apparently not confined to discrete axonlike profiles. At 7 and 14 days, CGRP IR remained prominent and was associated with disorganized axonlike profiles, sometimes directed in a circumferential pattern around the outside of the neuroma. RIA confirmed rises in CGRP content at 24 and 48 h that accompanied the changes in local blood flow and altered distribution of CGRP IR. CGRP accumulates in a time-related fashion within experimental neuromas, where it induces among other possible actions prominent local vasodilatation. CGRP may be important in the regenerative milieu of injured nerves.
Cycling of various cerebral metabolic substances, arterial vascular diameter, and flow has been noted by many workers at a frequency near 0.1 Hz. Suspicion that this phenomenon is dependent on the type of anesthesia led us to investigate the occurrence of cerebral blood flow (CBF) cycling with different anesthetics. Fifteen Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with either pentobarbital (n = 5, 40-50 mg/kg), alpha-chloralose (n = 5, 60 mg/kg), or halothane (n = 5, 1-0.5%). Body temperature was maintained at 37 degrees C. Femoral arterial and venous catheters were placed, and a tracheotomy was performed, permitting artificial ventilation with 30% O2-70% N2. A closed cranial window was formed over a 3-mm diameter craniotomy. Mean arterial pressure (MABP), arterial partial pressures of CO2 and O2 (PaCO2 and PaO2), and pH were controlled and stabilized at normal values. CBF was determined using laser Doppler flowmetry. To induce cycling, MABP was transiently and repeatedly lowered by exsanguination. Fast Fourier analysis of selected 64-s flow recordings (n = 38) was performed. CBF cycling was observed, independent of the type of anesthesia, in all animals. In 36 epochs, cycling was induced when MABP was reduced to a mean pressure of 65 +/- 1.5 mmHg. The mean frequency and amplitude were 0.094 +/- 0.003 Hz and 6.6 +/- 0.5%, respectively. Cycling occurred without blood withdrawal in two epochs. With the use of the blood-withdrawal epochs (n = 36), all three anesthetics shared a common linear slope between amplitude and blood pressure (P &lt; 0.02) and blood pressure change (P &lt; 0.01). Pentobarbital differed from alpha-chloralose and halothane in the relation between cycling frequency and blood pressure. Only pentobarbital exhibited correlation between frequency and blood pressure (P &lt; 0.02) and blood pressure change (P &lt; 0.001). The occurrence of these oscillations is not related to the type of anesthesia, and they usually occur at MABP values that are near or just above the lower limit of autoregulation. At this pressure level, CBF oscillations would suggest that vasoconstrictive and dilatory forces are no longer in balance, but alternatively vying for control.
We have evaluated the voltage dependence and unitary conductance of gap junctional channels that were recorded in a clone isolated from the hepatoma cell line SKHep1. In this clonal population (designated SKHep1A), Northern blots, immunoprecipitation, and immunohistochemical staining demonstrated the expression of connexin (Cx) 45; no other gap junction protein was identified by these techniques, although weak hybridization with Cx40 was detected. Macroscopic junctional conductance (gj) in these cells was low, averaging 1.3 nS, and was steeply voltage dependent. Parameters of voltage sensitivity were as follows: voltage at which voltage-sensitive conductance is reduced by 50%, 13.4 mV; steepness of relation, 0.115 (corresponding to 2.7 gating charges), and voltage-insensitive fraction of residual to total conductance approximately 0.06. Unitary conductance (gamma j) of these junctional channels averaged 32 +/- 8 pS; although gamma j was independent of transjunctional voltage (Vj), at high Vj values (&gt; 50 mV), smaller conductance values were also detected. Open probabilities of the 30-pS channels at various Vj values closely matched the predicted voltage-dependent component of macroscopic gj, the residual conductance at high Vj might be attributable to the smaller conductance events. The voltage dependence of human Cx45 gap junction channels is as steep as that seen for channels formed by Xenopus Cx38 and is much steeper than that previously reported for channels formed of the highly homologous chick Cx45 and for other mammalian connexins expressed either endogenously or exogenously.

The study of the acquisition of motor skills, long moribund in developmental psychology, has seen a renaissance in the last decade. Inspired by contemporary work in movement science, perceptual psychology, neuroscience, and dynamic systems theory, multidisciplinary approaches are affording new insights into the processes by which infants and children learn to control their bodies. In particular, the new synthesis emphasizes the multicausal, fluid, contextual, and self-organizing nature of developmental change, the unity of perception, action, and cognition, and the role of exploration and selection in the emergence of new behavior. Studies are concerned less with how children perform and more with how the components cooperate to produce stability or engender change. Such process approaches make moot the traditional nature-nurture debates.
T lymphocytes bearing the gamma delta T-cell receptor have been found in the central nervous system of patients with multiple sclerosis in association with demyelinated lesions. Although the biological function of these cells remains to be established, it has been proposed that they are involved in the response to highly conserved antigens, such as heat shock proteins (hsp), expressed during tissue damage and thus may contribute to the development of an autoimmune response. Using polymerase chain reaction, we probed for the presence of T-cell receptor gamma delta cells in fresh-frozen early autopsy brain tissue from patients with multiple sclerosis and patients with non-multiple sclerosis conditions. The results demonstrated the presence of two major V-J combinations of the T-cell receptor delta chain--V delta 2-J delta 3, V delta 2-J delta 1--and we used a direct sequencing technique to determine whether this gamma delta T-cell population was clonal or diverse. In chronic-active plaques from 9 patients with multiple sclerosis, we found a striking predominant gene rearrangement within the V delta 2-J delta 3 T-cell receptor population that was not present in central nervous system tissue from patients with other neurological diseases. In contrast, within the V delta 2-J delta 1 T-cell receptor population, a predominant rearrangement pattern was detected in only 1 of the multiple sclerosis patients. The sequence of the predominant V delta 2-J delta 3 gene rearrangement was confirmed by cloning and sequencing the gene products from 1 multiple sclerosis patient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)



Local infusion of beta-endorphin (beta-END) into the medial preoptic area (MPOA) dose-dependently impaired the gating of the copulatory response and the execution of the sexual performance of sexually experienced, intact male rats. Local naloxone treatment prevented the impairment of the sexual response by beta-END, but failed to facilitate unimpaired copulation. Local infusion into the MPOA of equimolar doses of alpha-endorphin, dynorphin-A-(1-17) or met-enkephalin were less effective than beta-END. It is suggested that endogenous opioid systems in the MPOA are normally quiescent, and increased activity may be related to disrupted or inhibited male sexual behavior.
We have characterized cultured skin fibroblasts from two siblings affected with a fatal mitochondrial disease caused by a nuclear genetic defect. Mitochondrial respiratory-chain function was severely decreased in these cells. Southern-blot analysis showed that the fibroblasts had reduced levels of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). The mtDNA was unstable and was eliminated from the cultured cells over many generations, generating the rho0 genotype. As the mtDNA level decreased, the cells became more dependent upon pyruvate and uridine for growth. Nuclear-encoded subunits of respiratory-chain complexes were synthesized and imported into the mitochondria of the mtDNA-depleted cells, albeit at reduced levels compared with the controls. Mitochondrial protein synthesis directed by the residual mtDNA indicated that the mtDNA was expressed and that the defect specifically involves the replication or maintenance of mtDNA. This is a unique example of a respiratory-deficient human cell line exhibiting defective mtDNA replication.
Phospholipase A2 activities could be detected in both cytosolic and membrane fractions prepared from rat C6 glioma cells. The activities in both fractions were significantly increased by human recombinant interleukin-1 beta in a dose-dependent manner. Such a stimulation required a long-time exposure over 72 h and was partially inhibited by cycloheximide, a potent protein synthesis inhibitor. These results suggested that interleukin-1 beta may stimulate phospholipase A2 activity through its gene activation.





NMDA receptors, ATP receptors, and nicotinic ACh receptors respond to agonist by undergoing conformational changes that open weakly selective cationic channels that are permeable to calcium. We determined the fraction of the current carried by calcium by simultaneously measuring membrane current using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques and intracellular Ca2+ using the fluorescent indicator Fura-2. The Fura-2 response to free Ca2+ was calibrated individually for each cell. Two different calibration methods are compared: one uses voltage-activated Ca2+ channels, and the other uses the same ligand-gated channels that are being tested but in a pure Ca2+ solution. The two methods give quantitatively different results. The method using pure Ca2+ currents through ligand-gated channels calibrates the Fura-2 signal through the same influx pathway that generates the test response, thus controlling for the distribution of channels and ensuring a similar interaction between the incoming Ca2+ and Fura-2. In a physiologic solution containing 2.5 mM Ca2+ at a holding potential of -50 mV, the percentage of inward current carried by Ca2+ through NMDA receptors in hippocampal neurons is 12.4%. By comparison, in sympathetic neurons the percentage of current carried by Ca2+ through neuronal nAChRs is 4.7%, and through ATP-activated purinergic receptors it is 6.5%. These percentages can be used to estimate the amount of Ca2+ entry through these receptors during synaptic activation, but care must be exercised in considering the many subtypes of each receptor.
The oculomotor smooth pursuit system is driven by the slip of the target image upon the retina arising from errors in matching eye and target velocities. However, pursuit of an object moving against a structured background causes most retinal flow to be in the direction opposite to target movement. Central mechanisms allow these distracting signals to be overridden effortlessly. To isolate the anatomical substrate of this capacity we studied the effect of the presence of a structured background upon smooth pursuit in 26 patients with focal cerebral lesions. In normal control subjects, studies confirmed that a background has little effect upon pursuit. Eye movements were recorded by the scleral search coil method or by infra-red oculography. The target was a bright spot moving horizontally in a triangular waveform of amplitude +/- 11.25 degrees visual angle, at either 10, 20, 30 or 36.5 degrees/s. Data were collected in darkness and with a structured background: 14 patients showed a significant reduction of gain with a structured background, while the remaining 12 showed little or no effect. Comparison of the location of the cerebral lesions in these two groups suggested that lesions in the inferior parietal cortex (area 40) or in white matter containing parieto-frontal connections result in disruption of pursuit in the presence of a background.
Competing models of the basis of limb apraxia were tested through analysis of joint coordination deficits in three apraxic subjects with lesions that included the left parietal lobe. Three-dimensional shoulder, elbow, wrist and hand trajectories were recorded for repetitive 'slicing' gestures made in a series of conditions in which contextual cues were introduced in a graded fashion. The apraxic subjects showed marked deficits in joint coordination across context conditions. Even when actually manipulating a tool and object, the apraxic subjects failed to show proper joint synchronization, failed to apportion their relative joint amplitudes properly, and failed to produce the correct phase relationships among pairs of arm angles. Thus, apraxic subjects not only have deficits in the spatial plan for the movement, but they also have deficits in translating those plans into the details of the angular motions at the joints, even when actually manipulating a tool and object. These data support a model of apraxia in which apraxia can result from either the destruction of visuo-kinaesthetic motor representations of learned movement, stored in posterior association cortex, or from a separation of these representations from premotor or motor areas.

We have isolated a 3845 base-pair cDNA (BNGLUAS) encoding a bovine glutamate transporter (bovine GLAST) by screening a bovine retina cDNA library with an oligonucleotide probe corresponding to conserved regions of known glutamate transporters. The cDNA sequence predicted a protein of 542 amino acids and displayed 96% and 97% amino acid identity with the rat GLAST/GluT-1 and human GLAST, respectively. Expression of the bovine GLAST in Xenopus oocytes revealed Na(+)-dependent [14C]L-glutamate uptake and electrogenic glutamate uptake.
The transcription rates of the alpha 1, alpha 5, and alpha 6 gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptor subunit genes were analyzed in cultures maintained in low KCl (12.5 mM), in low KCl treated with NMDA (10 microM), and in high KCl (25 mM). alpha 1 and alpha 5 transcription rates were significantly increased in response to NMDA or high KCl treatment, while alpha 6 and cyclophilin transcription rates were not changed by either condition. These data suggest that following NMDA or high KCl treatment of granule cells, changes in alpha 1 and alpha 5 mRNA content are a consequence of a specific transcriptional rate increase of the corresponding subunit genes.
Plasma membrane calcium pumps (PMCAs) play a major role in the maintenance and fine regulation of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration. Fourteen subregions of the normal human brain were carefully dissected and analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for the distribution of mRNAs corresponding to the four known PMCA genes as well as their alternative splicing products at two previously defined 'hotspots' A and C. All PMCA genes were found to be expressed in every brain subregion; however, consistent differences were found in the distribution of alternative splice options. The four cortical regions and hippocampus were characterized by the relative preference of variants that include an entire exon at site C and lead to the expression of isoforms of the a-type. Inferior olive and olfactory bulb showed a relative preponderance of the b-form 'default' types of alternative splicing at site C, and a decrease or even the lack of 'differentiated' forms such as variants 1a and 1c. At the N-terminal splice site A, the default x-type variants were predominant in all brain regions for PMCA 1, 3, and 4. By contrast, the pattern of PMCA2 variants was the most variable, ranging from the presence of the entire set of 2x, 2w, and 2z forms in inferior olive to the almost exclusive presence of form 2z (excluding all alternatively spliced sequences) in the four cortical regions, caudate, and hippocampus. Regional differences in the PMCA splice type distribution in normal human brain may correlate with different demands on the regulation of the set-point resting Ca2+ levels in these areas. Changes in these patterns may correlate with altered physiological states of the affected regions and/or reflect an (early) sign of Ca2+ dyshomeostasis characteristic of many neurodegenerative diseases.
The ascending dopaminergic pathway of 3-day-old rats has been unilaterally destroyed by the injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the lateral hypothalamus. Five days later, a suspension containing embryonic dopaminergic neurones was injected in the lesioned neostriatum. Rotational responses to dopaminergic agonists were tested eight months after grafting and animals were killed one month later. Neostriatal dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptors were examined using autoradiography while changes in D2 receptor mRNA levels were studied by in situ hybridization. The lesion induced a behavioural hypersensitivity - as manifested in contralateral rotations - to dopaminergic D1 (SKF 38393) or D2 (LY 171555) agonists which was abolished by the graft. Density of D1 receptors was not affected by the lesion while D2 receptors density was increased by 20-25% in the more rostral part of the neostriatum. Changes in D2 mRNA after the lesion paralleled those observed for D2 receptor density, i.e. D2 mRNA level was increased by 15-19% in the rostral neostriatum. The graft did not influence D1 receptor densities but reversed the post-lesion increase of D2 receptors associated parameters. It is concluded that dopaminergic grafts implanted in neonatal hosts are able to normalise the density of D2 receptors by an action on their synthesis.
Huntington's Disease (HD) is a progressive degenerative disorder of the central nervous system inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. Clinically, the disorder is characterized by choreoathetosis (with age of onset typically in the late thirties or early forties) and neuropsychiatric disturbance. The striatum is particularly vulnerable to the degenerative disease process, with selective loss of medium spiny neurons and decreased levels of associated neurotransmitters, including substance P. GABA, met-enkephalin and dynorphin. Although the underlying pathophysiology is unknown, recent theories concerning pathogenesis have involved mitochondrial abnormalities and excitotoxin-mediated damage. The gene for HD has recently been discovered and characterized as an unstable CAG trinucleotide repeat sequence on the short arm of chromosome 4 (now known as IT15). The direct test now available for the HD gene has facilitated disease diagnosis, particularly for those with unclear family history or chorea of uncertain origin; presymptomatic testing is also available. Management of affected individuals is unsatisfactory as only symptomatic control is available. However, as the effect of the genetic abnormality may soon be known, specific treatment of the disorder may become available in the near future.
Laboratory and clinical observations of patients with a large-fiber somatic sensory neuropathy indicate a dramatic inability of these patients to set accurate tonic or phasic levels of muscle activity needed to maintain static postures and to reproduce simple movements. These observations suggest that somatic sensation contributes to sensations of motor output, previously thought to be mediated by central mechanisms of corollary discharge. We review data describing psychophysical performance on weight-matching tasks and discuss new experiments on reaching tasks done by patients with a large-fiber sensory neuropathy and normal controls. In combination, the data show that patients with peripheral sensory deficits exhibit an impaired sense of muscular effort and the consequences of active movement. In addition, the data on weight matching indicate that the basis of disrupted effort sense relates to an inability to correlate psychophysical decisions with concomitant muscle activity. In new experiments, accuracy to match actively achieved arm end points by pointing was decreased in patients with large-fiber sensory neuropathy. The collective results suggest that appreciation of motor output is mediated in part by peripheral return from somatic sensory afferent systems.
A 5-year-old girl presented with a 1-year history of a subcutaneous swelling in the right parietal region. There were no cerebral symptoms or signs. Plain X-ray of the skull showed a lytic bony lesion with sclerotic margin. Computed tomography showed a hypodense, osteolytic lesion with thinned and bulged inner and outer skull tables with intact continuity. There was no intracranial lesion. At operation, the mass was found to be pink and granular, and was totally enucleated. Histology revealed it to be a benign osteoblastoma.

To determine whether an intact brainstem is essential for the generation of neurogenically mediated fluctuations of R-R intervals and blood pressure, three patients with cerebellar lesions causing severe brainstem compression or death, one patient with a large pontine infarct and one patient with a pontine haemorrhage, were studied. Time-frequency maps (based on a modified Wigner distribution) were constructed from blood pressure and R-R interval signals in these patients with brainstem injury and were compared with maps of normal control subjects. Low frequency sympathetically mediated rhythms (0.01-0.12 Hz) in systolic and diastolic pressure remained detectable but attenuated in patients with brainstem injury whereas there was an almost complete loss of normal R-R intervals rhythmicity over 0.01 to 0.5 Hz range. These data suggest that fluctuations in R-R intervals require an intact brainstem, whereas low frequency approximately 0.06 +/- 0.02 Hz blood pressure rhythms may be preserved by spinal sympathetic circuitry.
A case is presented of a 45-year-old woman who developed parkinsonism, cerebellar dysfunction, aphasia and flaccid paralysis secondary to heat stroke. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed irregular patchy areas of increased signal intensity in the white matter of both cerebral hemispheres and the left striatum, remaining unchanged over a follow-up period of two years. Cerebellar atrophy, while not seen on initial examination, was present on the follow-up study done one year later and became more marked after two years.
Nucleic acids not only code for proteins, but also play a role in a multitude of biological processes, where they act as structural supports, binding sites, co-factors, or catalysts. Recently, an array of techniques has been developed in which molecules that are best fit to perform a given task are selected from a pool of randomized RNA or DNA molecules. These techniques can provide information about the structure/function relationship governing the various biochemical properties of RNA and DNA, including their interaction with proteins. Immediate applications are found not only in the field of transcriptional regulation, but also in the field of RNA-based catalysis.
Recent studies have revealed that a heterogeneous population of mRNAs is present in neuronal dendrites (including mRNAs that encode proteins involved in intracellular signaling), that different types of neurons have different assortments of dendritic mRNAs, and that the levels of some dendritic mRNAs are up-regulated by activity. These findings reinforce and extend the hypothesis that the localization of mRNA in dendrites provides a means of synthesizing proteins locally that are important for synaptic function.
Using oligomer primers based on the cDNA sequence of human interleukin 1 beta converting enzyme (ICE), we have employed the RT-PCR method and rat spleen RNA to clone and sequence rat ICE. We report here that the predicted amino acid sequence of rat ICE proenzyme consists of 402 amino acids (p45) and shares 61% and 90% identity, respectively, with human and mouse ICE amino acid sequences. The active site cysteine (Cys284) and 3 or 3 potential processing sites are conserved suggesting that their the rat ICE heterodimer consists of a p22 (Ser104-Asp296) and a p10 (Gly315-His402) subunit or a cryptic processing site creates a smaller heterodimer. Northern blot analysis has revealed a approximately 2.2 kb and a more abundant approximately 1.45 kb ICE transcript both widely expressed in the rat with the highest expression in spleen and intestine and lowest in brain. IL-1 beta mRNA was similarly distributed. Injection of the immunostimulant, lipopolysaccharide (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.), increased rICE mRNA content between 2- to 3-fold in the rat brain with smaller increases measured in testis and spleen. The structural conservation of this enzyme suggests that rat models of inflammation will be useful for evaluating the therapeutic potential of ICE inhibitors in humans.
IGF2 has been shown to be expressed preferentially from the paternally derived allele, although the maternal allele can be found active during both prenatal and postnatal development as well as in neoplastic tumours in humans. We addressed here whether or not the biallelic expression patterns that can be seen during postnatal human liver development reflected a coordinated change in the activities of the four promoters of human IGF2. We show here that the P2, P3 and P4 promoters, but not the P1 promoter, display monoallelic activity in embryonic, neonatal and younger infant liver specimens. The P2, P3 and P4 promoters can, however, be found active either monoallelically or biallelically or even monoallelically on opposite parental alleles in older infant and adult liver specimens. In contrast, H19, which is closely linked to IGF2, is monoallelically expressed in all postnatal liver samples analysed. We conclude that the functional imprinting status of IGF2 during postnatal liver development appears to be promoter/enhancer-specific and either partly or completely independent of H19.
Neuropeptides and peptide hormones are synthesized as part of larger precursor proteins that are processed post-translationally by subtilisin-related calcium-dependent prohormone convertases (PCs), frequently at multiple basic sites, to generate biologically active peptides. The atrial gland of Aplysia californica produces large quantities of egg-laying hormone (ELH)-related peptides, providing a unique opportunity to study prohormone processing. We have screened an Aplysia atrial gland cDNA library using a Lymnaea stagnalis PC2 probe and have isolated an Aplysia PC2-related 4.6-kb cDNA partial clone that was truncated on the 5' end. The remaining 5' atrial gland PC2 nucleotide sequence was obtained by reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The composite cDNA structure (5.6 kb) was deduced from sequence analysis of the RT-PCR product combined with the sequence obtained from the cDNA clone. The deduced cDNA of Aplysia atrial gland PC2 encoded a putative preproendoprotease of 653 amino acids that was evolutionarily related to other eukaryotic PC2s, and showed the strongest sequence identity with recently reported Aplysia nervous tissue PC2 sequences. In situ hybridization demonstrated extensive expression of PC2 in atrial gland secretory cells. The cDNA clone contained a relatively long 3'untranslated region (3'-UTR) of 3,632 nucleotides. Strikingly, the 3'-UTR also contained several major nucleotide repeat sequences including the microsatellite repeats, (CA)n and (TG)n, and a TA-rich region comprised largely of the triplet repeat (TTA)n. The characterized Aplysia PC2 is a candidate endoprotease that may play an important role in the processing of ELH-related precursors in the atrial gland and represents the first example of PC2 expression in exocrine tissue.
The changes in dopamine system regulation occurring during stimulant administration are examined in relation to a new model of dopamine system function. This model is based on the presence of a tonic low level of extracellular dopamine that is released by the presynaptic action of corticostriatal afferents. In contrast, spike-dependent dopamine release results in a phasic, high concentration of dopamine in the synaptic cleft that is rapidly inactivated by reuptake. Tonic dopamine has the ability to down-modulate spike-dependent phasic dopamine release via stimulation of the very sensitive dopamine autoreceptors present on dopamine terminals. Stimulants are known to elicit locomotion and stimulate reward sites by releasing dopamine from terminals in the nucleus accumbens, which is followed by a rebound depression. It is proposed that the initial activating action of stimulants is caused by increasing the release of dopamine into the synaptic cleft to activate the phasic dopamine response. However, by interfering with dopamine uptake, stimulants also allow dopamine to escape the synaptic cleft, thereby depressing subsequent spike-dependent phasic dopamine release by increasing the tonic stimulation of the autoreceptor. In contrast, repeated stimulant administration is proposed to cause long-term sensitization by pharmacological disruption of a cascade of homeostatic compensatory processes. Upon drug withdrawal, the fast compensatory systems that were blocked by stimulants rapidly restore homeostasis to the system at a new steady-state level of interaction. As a consequence, the slowly changing but potentially more destabilizing compensatory responses are prevented from returning to their baseline conditions. This results in a permanent change in the responsivity of the system. Homeostatic systems are geared to compensate for unidimensional alterations in a system, and are capable of restoring function even after massive brain lesions or the continuous presence of stimulant drugs. However, the system did not evolve to deal effectively with repetitive introduction and withdrawal of drugs that disrupt dopamine system regulation. As a consequence, repeated insults to a biological system by application and withdrawal of drugs that interfere with its homeostatic regulation may be capable of inducing non-reversible changes in its response to exogenous and endogenous stimuli.
There is ample evidence for the involvement of aberrant protein phosphorylation reactions in aging and age-associated neurological disorders. Alzheimer's disease (AD) in particular. The exact nature of this involvement, however, is not yet elucidated. In the brain tissue of AD patients, there are numerous examples of altered protein phosphorylation pathways. Individual protein kinases and phosphorylation by these kinases in AD brain tissues have been found to be altered. Protein kinases studied include protein kinase C (PKC), protein tyrosine kinase (PTK), casein kinase II (CKII), Ca++/calmodulin-dependent kinase II and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, all of which are thought to be necessary for cell survival. Interestingly, different protein kinases are involved in different aspects of AD pathology. It is postulated that the perturbation of amyloid beta/A4-protein precursor (APP) metabolism triggers abnormal protein phosphorylation reactions responsible for dysfunction and eventual death of neurons in the brain. The association of APP mutation with certain familial types of AD strongly suggests that there might be a link between aberrant APP metabolism, protein phosphorylation cascades and the eventual expression of AD pathology (plaques and tangles) and neurodegeneration. In summary, recent studies emphasise the prime importance of protein phosphorylation in aging and AD. This raises the possibility that future pharmacological interventions might be devised to interfere with this kinase cascade for the prevention or treatment of age-associated neurological disorders.

This article reviews research on the relatively recently discovered event-related potential component, the mismatch negativity (MMN), which is of great potential interest for understanding central auditory function and various forms of its pathology. This change-specific response can serve as an accurate objective measure for central sound representations that form the basis, for instance, for correct hearing of speech. Deficiencies in the MMN may be related to different forms of deficits in central auditory processing.
The use of the mismatch negativity as a probe to study the memory upon which it depends is reviewed. Topics about the memory include its duration, its capacity, the kind of information that can be stored in the memory, how the information is stored, whether the memory is accessed in parallel or in series, whether it is hard-wired or can be modified by experience, and its relationship to sensory memory.
There is wide interest in the clinical application of mismatch negativity (MMN) to assess discriminative capabilities in individuals whose auditory capacities are difficult to determine, including infants, young children and those with severe cognitive impairment. Before MMN can be used as a clinical electrophysiologic measure, it is necessary to establish that it can be reliably elicited in normal individuals. This chapter describes a detailed analysis of MMN recorded in a group of healthy 8-yr-old children to assess intrasubject and intersubject reliability of the response. We conclude that although statistically reliable results can be obtained with group data, and perhaps even in individuals when large numbers of stimuli can be delivered, the unfavorable signal to noise ratio of individual MMN data currently limits its clinical applicability. Suggestions for approaches to surmount these difficulties are presented for its eventual clinical usefulness.
In active muscle, a supramaximal conditioning stimulus to peripheral nerve produces a classic silent period in the EMG. The present experiments examined the effect of this type of conditioning stimulus on motoneurone excitability in relaxed muscle. EMG responses evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation of the brain were recorded from the first dorsal interosseus muscle (FDI) in 10 healthy subjects and 5 patients with sensory neuropathy. These responses (motor evoked potentials) were conditioned by supramaximal peripheral nerve stimuli given 0-150 msec beforehand. In the normal subjects, the classic silent period in the FDI lasted about 100 msec. The same conditioning stimulus only abolished motor evoked potentials when the conditioning-test interval was so short that the antidromic peripheral nerve volley collided with the orthodromic volley set up by magnetic brain stimulation. At longer conditioning-test intervals, although remarkably inhibited (65% mean suppression between 10 and 40 msec), the test motor potential was never completely abolished and gradually recovered by 100 msec. Inhibition of cortically evoked motor potentials did not depend upon activity set up by the conditioning stimulus in peripheral nerve sensory fibres. The patients with complete peripheral sensory neuropathy had the same extent and time-course of inhibition as the normal subjects. We conclude that in relaxed subjects the inhibitory effect of peripheral conditioning results almost exclusively from the motoneuronal inhibitory mechanisms consequent to antidromic invasion.
The site of action for the modulation of hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal function by adrenal steroids is not known. Glucocorticoid receptors (GR) are an obvious potential site of action, but there have been conflicting reports of GR localization in magnocellular neurons. We confirm studies finding undetectable levels of GR in vasopressin or oxytocin neurons, but now report that chronic hypoosmolality induces the expression of GR in magnocellular vasopressin neurons, but not oxytocin neurons. These data support the hypothesis that the vasopressin gene can be directly inhibited by glucocorticoids, and that the induction of GR expression in magnocellular neurons may be part of a redundant set of mechanisms to suppress the expression of AVP during periods of prolonged hypoosmolality. This mechanism represents a novel form of steroid feedback control in brain.
We are interested in analysing the detailed modulation of defined neuronal systems by multiple neuropeptides encoded in the FMRFamide locus of the snail Lymnaea. Cloning of the FMRFamide gene has predicted the existence of two novel peptides previously unknown from biochemical analysis, the pentapeptides EFLRlamide and QFYRlamide. These peptides may form part of a new family of peptides sharing the sequence motif -FXRlamide. In this paper we adopt a novel approach to first identify and characterize -FXRlamide-like peptides in extracts from the central nervous system of Lymnaea. By a combination of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and continuous-flow fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry, we identify three novel peptides: EFLRlamide, pQFYRlamide and pQFLRlamide. The first two are those predicted in exon II of the FMRFamide locus whereas the last is, interestingly, a product which cannot be derived from post-translational modification of the predicted peptides but must be encoded by as yet unidentified nucleotide sequences. A specific antibody raised to EFLRlamide, and immunoreactive to all three peptides, revealed EFLRlamide-like expression throughout the central nervous system in the same cells where exon II is transcribed and the peptide SEEPLY (a post-translational product of exon II) was localized. Additional cells, however, were also identified. Immunoreactivity was mapped in a number of identified neurons in the central nervous system, including two heart cardioexcitatory motoneurons, the Ehe cells (E heart excitors of the visceral ganglion) and penial motoneurons in the right cerebral ganglion. The peripheral tissues (heart and penial complex) that these respective classes of neurons innervate also exhibited EFLRlamide immunoreactivity. The central and peripheral localization of EFLRlamide-like immunoreactivity suggested that EFLRlamide/pQFYRlamide may have an important physiological role in both these peripheral systems as well as in the central nervous system. This was confirmed by physiological experiments that showed that EFLRlamide and pQFYRlamide inhibited many central neurons and in particular the Bgp neurons in the right parietal ganglion. EFLRlamide had complex biphasic effects on the frequency of heart-beat: an initial inhibitory response was followed by a long-lasting increase in the rate of beating. Taken together with earlier work, this study now completes the analysis and localization of the full set of post-translational products of the FMRFamide precursor in Lymnaea and supplies further evidence towards the characterization of the physiological systems which such peptides may modulate in concert.
Potassium-depleted fibroblasts are unable to develop polarized morphology and lack coated pits. Experiments were carried out to measure internalization of fibronectin receptors (FNR) in potassium-depleted cells and possible association of FNR with AP-2 complexes after adding potassium back to the cells, which restores cell polarization. AP-2 complexes are the cell surface component of coated pits that contain both clathrin and membrane receptor binding domains. Potassium-depleted fibroblasts endocytosed antibody-tagged FNR and also internalized fluorescent fibronectin that previously had been adsorbed to the substratum. During cell polarization, antibody-tagged FNR reorganized into fibrillar structures along stress fibers beginning from nucleation sites at cell margins. Plasma membrane AP-2 complexes, which were undetectable in potassium-depleted cells, reappeared at the cell surface above the nucleus and then spread toward the cell margins. The results show that endocytosis of FNR can occur at least partially by a coated pit-independent mechanism.
Although the pathogenesis of schizophrenia is unknown, there are data which indicate that the disease may be due to neurodevelopmental disturbances. Cell recognition molecules such as N-CAM and L1 antigen are involved in cell-cell interactions during development and in plasticity of the nervous system and could therefore be altered in relation to ongoing or established pathological processes. Using the Western blot technique, we found significant increases in N-CAM immunoreactive proteins and decreases in L1 antigen in the CSF of schizophrenic patients as compared to normal controls. The decrease in L1 antigen was observed in the 140-kDa band, and N-CAM was increased only in the 120-kDa band. The 120-kDa band of N-CAM and the 140-kDa band of L1 antigen were prominent components of CSF, but in serum these bands were minor or not detectable. Neuroleptic treatment did not significantly change either N-CAM or L1 antigen concentrations in CSF. It is possible that these CSF proteins are derived from CNS cells as secreted soluble N-CAM isoforms and L1 peptides. Our results suggest the possibility of a specific pattern of abnormal cellular function in the CNS in schizophrenia.
Intractable headaches have been described as the presenting complaint of many patients with T. solium neurocysticercosis. We conducted a house-to-house neuroepidemiological survey of 2,723 residents of an Andean community, known to be endemic for this infection. Migraine headaches were confirmed in 187 cases (68.7 per thousand), and tension headaches were diagnosed in 77 cases (28.3 per thousand). Fifty-seven migraine sufferers accepted computed tomography examination, and in 19 it revealed neurocysticercosis. In 11 out of 52 migraineurs who had their blood drawn, electron immunotransfer blot testing (EITB) was positive for anticysticercal antibodies. In a computer-generated random sample of this community, 109 headache-free individuals were examined by CT, and 87 had EITB. Of the 109 subjects examined by CT, 14 were positive for cysticercosis. Of the 87 individuals tested by EITB, 7 were positive. A statistically significant difference between the symptom-free general population and the migraine patients was obtained for both CT (odds ratio 3.39, P &lt; 0.005) and EITB (odds ratio 3.07, P &lt; 0.05) diagnosis of neurocysticercosis. Neurocysticercosis appears to be a significant risk factor for the presentation of migraine-type headaches in areas endemic for T. solium infection.
The purpose of the present study was to determine the tonotopic map in the chicken cochlea at 19 days of incubation (E19) by obtaining characteristic frequencies (CFs) for primary afferents, labeling the characterized neurons, and documenting their projections to the papilla. The lowest and highest CFs recorded were 188 and 1623 Hz respectively. The embryonic tonotopic map coincided with maps reported for post-hatch chicks. There were no evidence that neurons selective to low frequencies project inappropriately to more basal locations of the embryonic papilla. Linear regression was used to estimate the frequency gradient (b = 0.037 +/- 0.012 In Hz/% [b +/- SEb]) and intercept (In C, where C = 111 Hz) of the semilog plot of frequency versus cochlear position (in % distance from apex). From these estimates the octave distribution was calculated to be 18.7%/octave or 0.58 mm/octave. These quantities were not significantly different from those found in post hatch chickens. We conclude that the tonotopic map of the avian cochlea for CFs between 100 and 1700 Hz is stable and relatively mature from age E19 to post-hatch day 21 (P21). The most striking sign of immaturity in the E19 embryo is the limited range of high CFs. We offer the hypothesis that, between the ages of E19 and P21, improvements in middle ear admittance alone or in combination with functional maturation of the cochlear base may be the principal factors responsible for the appearance of adult-like high CF limits and not an apically shifting tonotopic map.
Primary afferent activity was recorded from the cochlear ganglion in chicken embryos (Gallus domesticus) at 19 days of incubation (E19). The ganglion was accessed via the recessus scala tympani and impaled with glass micropipettes. Frequency tuning curves were obtained using a computerized threshold tracking procedure. Tuning curves were evaluated to determine characteristics frequencies (CFs), CF thresholds, slopes of low and high frequency flanks, and tip sharpness (Q10dB). The majority of tuning curves exhibited the typical 'V' shape described for older birds and, on average, appeared relatively mature based on mean values for CF thresholds (59.6 +/- 20.3 dBSPL) and tip sharpness (Q10dB = 5.2 +/- 3). The mean slopes of low (61.9 +/- 37 dB/octave) and high (64.6 +/- 33 dB/octave) frequency flanks although comparable were somewhat less than those reported for 21-day-old chickens. Approximately 14% of the tuning curves displayed an unusual 'saw-tooth' pattern. CFs ranged from 188 to 1623 Hz. The highest CF was well below those reported for post-hatch birds. In addition, a broader range of Q10dB values (1.2 to 16.9) may related to a greater variability in embryonic tuning curves. Overall, these data suggest that an impressive functional maturity exists in the embryo at E19. The most significant sign of immaturity was the limited expression of high frequencies. It is argued that the limited high CF in part may be due to the developing middle ear transfer function and/or to a functionally immature cochlear base.
Thapsigargin (TG), an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-ATPase, depletes intracellular Ca2+ stores and induces a sustained Ca2+ influx without altering phosphatidyl inositol levels. TG plus phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) but not TG alone induced IL-2 in Jurkat T cells, suggesting that TG had no effect on protein kinase C (PKC). However, TG induced increases in IL-2R alpha protein as well as IL-2R alpha mRNA in Jurkat T cells in a dose-dependent manner. A similar increase in IL-2R alpha by TG was also observed in human peripheral T cells. Further, like PMA, TG markedly induced NF kappa B in Jurkat T cells. However, TG and PMA exhibited a synergistic action on IL-2R alpha expression, suggesting that TG and PMA induce IL-2R alpha through distinct pathways. PMA- but not TG-induced IL-2R alpha is inhibited by the PKC inhibitor H7, whereas TG- but not PMA-induced IL-2R alpha was inhibited by cholera toxin, forskolin and 1,9-dideoxy forskolin. In toto, these results suggest that TG induces IL-2R alpha in human T cells through a PKC-independent pathway.
A new approach for EEG segmentation is introduced. This is based on a methodology for optimal segmentation of non-stationary signals derived from the maximum a posteriori estimation principle. It is a model-based, not sequential approach that allows for segmentation at different resolution levels. The features of the methodology are illustrated by its application to EEG recordings containing several types of spectral changes due to normal and pathological variations of spontaneous brain rhythmic activities, as well as physiological artifacts.
A new measure of dissimilarity between two EEG segments is proposed. It is derived from the application of the mathematical concept of distance between series of one-step predictions according to the estimated non-linear autoregressive functions. The non-linear autoregressive estimation is performed by non-parametric regression using kernel estimators. The possibility of applying this measure for automatic classification of EEG segments is explored. For this purpose multidimensional scaling and cluster analyses are applied on the basis of the calculated dissimilarity measures. In particular, its application to different EEG segments with delta activity and also with alpha waves reveals high agreement with visual classification by EEG specialists.
There is considerable evidence for trial to trial variability of the event related potentials (ERPs) within a given subject's recording. This variability influences the outcome of usual procedures in ERP analysis. Better results may be obtained if the sources of variability are explicitly taken into account in an appropriate model. This paper considers a probabilistic model, the random shift and scaling (RSS) model, where the response is modified by a random time shift and a random scale factor. In addition to this, an additional random scale factor which affects both the response and the background noise is taken into account. This time shift and these scale factors are handled as nuisance parameters. Maximum likelihood and least squares estimators of these parameters and the waveform of response are derived for the RSS model. It is shown that the Woody estimate of the ERP reported in earlier work can be derived by restricting the assumptions for the RSS model. Test statistics for hypotheses on means are obtained for the RSS model and a new type of discriminant function. The usefulness of the method is illustrated by means of simulation studies. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves are used to demonstrate that the new type of discriminant performs better than the usual Fisher's Linear Discriminant.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is found in high concentrations in the mammalian central nervous system. It is a mitogen for glia and it influences the development and survival of specific populations of neurons. In this study, we investigated the effect of various concentrations of bFGF on the survival of embryonic and postnatal cholinergic basal forebrain neurons plated at low and high density in the presence and absence of glia. We observed that 50 and 100 ng/ml of bFGF increased the survival of embryonic cholinergic neurons plated at high density. This effect was observed only in the presence of glia. Lower concentrations of 10 and 20 ng/ml had no effect on cholinergic neuronal survival. The number of GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein)-positive cells in high-density embryonic cultures was increased by all concentrations of bFGF. In low-density embryonic cultures, an increase in cholinergic neuron survival was observed at concentrations ranging from 20 to 100 ng/ml. The number of GFAP-positive cells in low-density cultures was also increased by all concentrations of bFGF. Similar to low-density embryonic cultures, the survival of cholinergic neurons from postnatal day 2 cultures was significantly increased in the presence of glia at concentrations of 20, 50 and 100 ng/ml of bFGF. Postnatal glia was affected by all concentrations of bFGF, as was observed in embryonic cultures. This study indicates that high concentrations of bFGF can influence cholinergic neuronal survival by stimulating and increasing glia, which may produce factor(s) that are necessary for cholinergic neuron survival.
Ultraviolet ray B (UV-B) induced dermatitis in the rat may be a model for human psoriasis vulgaris. Detailed studies of this model are reported. Rat skin responded to UV-B irradiation quite differently from human, guinea-pig, or mouse skin. Rat UV-B dermatitis was characterized by a sharply demarcated brownish-red lesion with scale formation lasting for 10 days. Histologically, microvascular dilatation, intraepidermal accumulation of polymorphonuclear leucocytes with microabscess, mononuclear cell infiltration at the papillary dermis and hyperproliferation of epidermal cells were observed. These features were similar to those of clinical psoriasis vulgaris in man. Leucocyte suppression, induced by systemic ferritin administration to the irradiated rats, resulted in loss of the epidermal hyperproliferation and inhibition of the tissue leucocytosis. This leucocyte suppression remodelled the picture of the rat UV-B dermatitis into that seen in other mammalian species, where microvascular dilatation and degeneration of keratinocytes (so-called sunburn cells) are characteristic. The irradiated epidermis of the rats treated with ferritin possessed an in vitro PMN chemotactic property. Rat UV-B dermatitis seems to be a useful model to investigate aetiopathogenic mechanisms in psoriasis vulgaris. However, the former heals after injury and does not relapse as does psoriasis.
An essential role of alpha-2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) was revealed in the prevention of septic shock induced in guinea-pigs by an elastase producing strain (IFO-3455) of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. When bacterial peritonitis was induced by inoculating fibrin-thrombin clot containing viable bacteria at a dose of 10(9) c.f.u./kg body weight, the guinea-pigs (n = 6) died within 7-8 hours due to septic shock. Prior to the shock, consumption of two-thirds of the circulating alpha 2M was observed. When circulating alpha 2M was depleted 4 hours after the bacterial inoculation, the guinea-pigs immediately developed shock and died within one hour. This shock was prevented either with a specific elastase inhibitor, HONHCOCH(CH2C6H5)CO-Ala-Gly-NH2, zincov (6 microM), or with human alpha 2M. Simultaneous depletion of circulating Hageman factor also prevented shock in the alpha 2M-depleted animals. These results indicate that septic shock was induced through activation of the Hageman factor dependent system by the bacteria-produced elastase which survived alpha 2M in the circulation.
The relationship of reading-writing ability and EEG coherences was studied in 84 subjects from two age groups 7.0-8.9 and 9-11.2 years old. All children were divided into three groups according to their performance on a pedagogical test: ped1, normal children; ped2, children with mild problems; ped3, children with reading-writing disability. The following results were obtained: in general, children showed higher coherences in groups with poor performance in the delta, theta and beta bands. In the alpha band, higher coherence values were related to better performance. The exceptions to this general pattern were rare. Group ped2 had higher coherences in delta, theta and alpha bands than ped1 and ped3, in left temporal leads. In older children the same tendency was observed, but group differences in the theta, alpha and beta bands were few. In this age range, the significant group differences were almost all interhemispheric coherences. The discriminant analysis that classified subjects by their coherence values gave very good results, fact that demonstrates, that EEG coherence is a highly sensitive measurement indicating not only the existence of a reading-writing problem, but also the degree of its severity.

Kindling epileptogenesis was induced by periodic electrical stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus. The progressive nature of hippocampal kindling is demonstrated by a detailed description of the behavioral signs and the progressive increase of the after-discharge duration in the course of kindling acquisition. Furthermore, the evolution of the alterations in the paired-pulse local evoked field potentials and the modifications of the GABAA receptor binding and of the expression of mRNAs encoding for the subunits of the GABAA and glutamate receptors are considered. Evidence is presented that during kindling opposite changes occur in the CA1 and the fascia dentata in terms of the balance between excitation and inhibition due to contrasting changes in GABA-mediated inhibitory function.
The neurotropic effect of the distal stump of transected sciatic nerve on regenerating axons emerging from the proximal stump was investigated in rats by the coculture of excised neonatal dorsal root ganglia and segments of degenerated and nondegenerated sciatic nerves. In all cultures, neurites from the ganglion extended directly towards the degenerated distal stump and not towards the undegenerated nerve segment. Analysis of the supernatants of nerve homogenates by native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis demonstrated that 250 and 18 kDa proteins were upregulated in the degenerated distal stumps and that 89, 67 and 65 kDa proteins were expressed by these stumps but not by normal nerve. Placement of the individual protein strips, cut from the gels, in dissociated cultures of dorsal root ganglion cells showed that the 89 and 18 kDa strips possessed strong neurotropic activity. Neurons survived selectively on these strips and outgrowing neurites elongated on the strips, parallel to the direction of the band. When explanted dorsal root ganglia were cultured along with the strips, outgrowing neurites extended selectively towards those containing the 89 and 18 kDa bands. It is concluded that these bands contain chemotropic substances, the nature of which requires further investigation.
A thermal method has been developed to quantify continuous perfusion changes with self-calibration. A dynamic, one-dimensional bio-heat transfer model of the thermal probe and tissue describes the system response to either continuous or transient heating. A nonlinear least-squares fit of the model to experimental data yields estimates of the baseline perfusion and other model parameters. With a partial analytical solution of the model, the optimal estimation procedure is two orders of magnitude more efficient than with a total numerical solution of the model system. Experimental data is used to estimate the operating relations between perfusion and the temperature measurement. A new procedure has also been presented to obtain the dynamic response of the system for continuous measurement of perfusion.
The carboxy-terminal region of dystrophin has been suggested to be crucially important for its function to prevent muscle degeneration. We have previously shown that this region is the locus that interacts with the sarcolemmal glycoprotein complex, which mediates membrane anchoring of dystrophin, as well as with the cytoplasmic peripheral membrane protein, A0 and beta 1-syntrophin (Suzuki, A., M. Yoshida, K. Hayashi, Y. Mizuno, Y. Hagiwara, and E. Ozawa. 1994. Eur. J. Biochem. 220:283-292). In this work, by using the overlay assay technique developed previously, we further analyzed the dystrophin-syntrophin/A0 interaction. Two forms of mammalian syntrophin, alpha 1- and beta 1-syntrophin, were found to bind to very close but discrete regions on the dystrophin molecule. Their binding sites are located at the vicinity of the glycoprotein-binding site, and correspond to the amino acid residues encoded by exons 73-74 which are alternatively spliced out in some isoforms. This suggests that the function of syntrophin is tightly linked to the functional diversity among dystrophin isoforms. Pathologically, it is important that the binding site for alpha 1-syntrophin, which is predominantly expressed in skeletal muscle, coincides with the region whose deletion was suggested to result in a severe phenotype. In addition, A0, a minor component of dystrophin-associated proteins with a molecular mass of 94 kD which is immunochemically related to syntrophin, binds to the same site as beta 1-syntrophin. Finally, based on our accumulated evidence, we propose a revised model of the domain organization of dystrophin from the view point of protein-protein interactions.
Dystrophin, the protein product of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy locus, is a protein of the membrane cytoskeleton that associates with a complex of integral and membrane-associated proteins. Of these, the 58-kD intracellular membrane-associated protein, syntrophin, was recently shown to consist of a family of three related but distinct genes. We expressed the cDNA of human beta 1-syntrophin and the COOH terminus of human dystrophin in reticulocyte lysates using an in vitro transcription/translation system. Using antibodies to dystrophin we immunoprecipitated these two interacting proteins in a variety of salt and detergent conditions. We demonstrate that the 53 amino acids encoded on exon 74 of dystrophin, an alternatively spliced exon, are necessary and sufficient for interaction with translated beta 1-syntrophin in our assay. On the basis of its alternative splicing, dystrophin may thus be present in two functionally distinct populations. In this recombinant expression system, the dystrophin relatives, human dystrophin related protein (DRP or utrophin) and the 87K postsynaptic protein from Torpedo electric organ, also bind to translated beta 1-syntrophin. We have found a COOH-terminal 37-kD fragment of beta 1-syntrophin sufficient to interact with translated dystrophin and its homologues, suggesting that the dystrophin binding site on beta 1-syntrophin occurs on a region that is conserved among the three syntrophin homologues.
Animal experiments have shown that the parvocellular oxytocin (OXT) neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) inhibit food intake. In the present study, the PVN and its OXT neurons have been investigated in an extreme human eating disorder, i.e. the Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). PWS patients are characterized by gross obesity, insatiable hunger, hypotonia, hypogonadism, and mental retardation. The PVN of 5 PWS patients (2 males and 3 females), varying in age between 22-64 yr, and 27 controls (14 males and 13 females) without any primary neurological or psychiatric diseases was morphometrically investigated after conventional staining with thionine and immunocytochemical staining for OXT and vasopressin (AVP). The thionine-stained volume of the PVN was 28% smaller in PWS patients (P = 0.028), and the total cell number was 38% lower (P = 0.009). The immunoreactivity for OXT and AVP was decreased in PWS patients, although the variability within the groups was high. A strong and highly significant decrease (42%; P = 0.016) was found in the number of OXT-expressing neurons of the PWS patients. The volume of the PVN-containing OXT-expressing neurons decreased by 54% (P = 0.028) in PWS. The number of AVP-expressing neurons in the PVN did not change significantly. The OXT neurons of the PVN seem to be good candidates for playing a physiological role in ingestive behavior as &quot;satiety neurons&quot; in the human hypothalamus.
Polyols are reduction products of aldoses and ketoses; their concentrations in tissues can reflect carbohydrate metabolism. Several polyol species were quantitated in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma from 10 Down Syndrome (trisomy 21) subjects between the ages of 22 and 63 years (3 of whom were demented) and from 10 healthy age-matched controls, using a gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric technique. The mean CSF concentration and the mean CSF/plasma concentration ratio of myo-inositol were significantly elevated in Down syndrome compared with controls, but were not correlated with the presence of dementia in the Down subjects. Plasma myo-inositol was not significantly altered in these subjects. No significant difference between Down syndrome and controls was found for CSF concentrations of mannitol, sorbitol, galactitol, ribitol, arabitol, or 1,5-anhydrosorbitol, but plasma mannitol, ribitol and arabitol were elevated in Down syndrome. The present observation provides new impetus for studying synthesis and transport of myo-inositol as well as phosphatidylinositol cycle in trisomy 21 disorder.
Experimental studies in the 1960s and 1970s demonstrated the high sensitivity of Doppler ultrasound in detecting gaseous bubbles. More recent studies have shown that microscopic air bubbles, as well as glass microspheres as small as 5 mu to 20 mu, cause characteristic high-intensity signals. Recently it has been demonstrated that less echogenic embolic materials such as thrombus, platelet aggregates, and atheroma can also be detected with a high sensitivity. Such &quot;solid,&quot; or formed-element, emboli as small as 200 mu to 400 mu can be detected; the lower size limit of detection was due to an inability to make smaller embolic particles rather than to the sensitivity of the detection process itself. Analysis of the Doppler signals provides some information about embolus size and composition, but accurate characterization in clinical practice is not possible using current technology. Studies in experimental models have allowed the detailed description of embolic signals; they appear as a short-duration, frequency-focused increase in intensity, predominantly unidirectional in the direction of flow, and usually contained within the spectral envelope. In contrast, artifacts appear as a bidirectional, high-intensity increase with maximum intensity at low frequencies. These differences have been exploited to develop automatic embolus detection programs, and an off-line version has been successfully validated in an experimental model.
The conventional algorithms employed in electron microscope tomography require that the series of images obtained from different orientations of the specimen each represent a parallel orthographic projection under uniform magnification. Electron microscope optics can produce distortions in images that may affect the accuracy of a tomographic reconstruction. These distortions result in images with differential rotation and magnification of regions of a thick or highly tilted specimen located at different distances with respect to the plane of focus. The distortions increase in magnitude and may significantly affect the accuracy of the tomographic data when images are acquired under current center misalignment or non-eucentric positioning of the specimen. An additional source of error can be introduced if the condenser lenses are adjusted to compensate for the intensity attenuation due to the increased beam path length as the specimen is tilted. The change in beam crossover position due to adjustment of the condensers alters the beam divergence and may introduce systematic changes in magnification over the tilt series. The process of alignment of the tilt series will propagate these errors to more central regions of the image. In most cases, with proper consideration, it is possible to minimize these errors to levels where they will have negligible effects on the resolution of the tomographic reconstruction.
The primary objective in this multicentre, double-blind randomised, parallel study was to compare the metabolic effects of 12 months of treatment with an ACE inhibitor (enalapril) with those of a selective beta-blocker (atenolol) in patients with mild hypertension. The patients (35-69 years of age) were included if they were without antihypertensive drugs and after six months of nonpharmacological treatment had supine DBPs between 90 and 104 mmHg; 220 patients were randomised to enalapril (20 or 40 mg/day) and 218 to atenolol (50 or 100 mg/day). After 12 months of treatment, atenolol significantly increased the glucose concentrations at 60, 90 and 120 minutes after an oral intake of 75 g glucose (P &lt; 0.01), while enalapril did not. Atenolol significantly increased fasting blood glucose and insulin concentration 120 minutes after glucose intake, while enalapril did not. Plasma total cholesterol and triglycerides increased significantly in patients having atenolol but not in those having enalapril. HDL cholesterol decreased significantly in the atenolol group but not in the enalapril group. The proportions of patients with clinical adverse experiences were similar in both treatment groups. These results indicate that enalapril does not influence either glucose tolerance or lipoprotein metabolism while atenolol does. These findings are consistent over the 12 month treatment period and confirm earlier short-term study results.
Significant improvements in the treatment of common neurological diseases can be expected over the next few years from the application of advances now occurring in the basic neurosciences. In many disorders of the central nervous system, disability accumulates as a result of the degenerative process and its failure to repair. In part, this is because with differentiation, cells in the adult nervous system lose the ability to proliferate and migrate. A family of growth factors orchestrates proliferation, migration, differentiation and survival of neurones and glia; because certain of these growth factors also protect from injury cells which they support during development, there should soon be opportunities for limiting damage following a variety of insults and for rescuing degenerating neurones and glia. The discovery that axon regeneration is actively inhibited, perhaps in order to maintain stability in the complex systems and circuits that are established during development, suggests new strategies for enhancing axonal regeneration in spinal and head injury. Recruiting cells that are capable of restoring glial-neuronal interactions into areas of damage will be an important part of the brain repair strategy but it may prove possible to restore complex cellular arrangements through cell implantation only. Grafted neurones survive, produce appropriate neurotransmitters, form connections and restore some behaviours, but their relative inability to grow limits the degree of structural and functional repair that can be achieved: nevertheless, nerve cell implantation is now being used in the management of certain neurodegenerative diseases of the human central nervous system. There are also prospects for increasing the remyelination which occurs following acute inflammatory disease of the central nervous system, through the combination of immunological treatments that limit the disease process, growth factors that recruit oligodendrocytes and implantation of glial progenitors into demyelinated areas.
During the period of synapse elimination, motoneurons are impaired in their ability to generate or regenerate axonal branches: following partial denervation of their target muscle, young motoneurons do not sprout to nearby denervated fibers and after axonal injury, they fail to reinnervate the muscle. In the rat levator ani (LA) muscle, which is innervated by motoneurons in the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), synapse elimination ends relatively late in development and can be regulated by testosterone. We took advantage of this system to determine if the end of synapse elimination and the development of regenerative capabilities by motoneurons share a common mechanism, or, alternatively, if these two events can be dissociated in time. Axotomy on or before postnatal day 14 (P14) caused the death of SNB motoneurons. By P21, toward the end of synapse elimination in the LA muscle, SNB motoneurons had developed the ability to survive axonal injury. Altering testosterone levels by castration on P7 followed by 4 weeks of either testosterone propionate or control injections did not change the ability of SNB motoneurons to survive axonal injury during development, although these same treatments alter the time course of synapse elimination in the LA muscle. Thus, we dissociated the inability of SNB motoneurons to recover from axonal injury from their developmental elimination of synaptic terminals. We also measured the effect of early axotomy on motoneuronal soma size and on target muscle weight. Axotomy on P14 caused a long-lasting decrease in the soma size of surviving SNB motoneurons, whereas motoneurons axotomized on P28 recovered their normal soma size. Axotomy on or before P7 caused severe atrophy of the target muscles, matching the extensive loss of motoneurons. However, target muscle recovery after axotomy on P14 was as good as recovery after axotomy at later ages, despite greater motoneuronal death after axotomy on P14. This result may reflect an increase in motor unit size, a decrease in polyneuronal innervation by SNB motoneurons that survive axotomy on P14, or a combination of the two.
Lectin cytochemistry was used to identify surface epitopes selectively expressed by chromaffin cell chemoreceptors (glomus cells) in the rat carotid body. Unexpectedly, these studies revealed that binding sites for peanut agglutinin (PNA; Arachis hypogea) were highly expressed by all neuroendocrine-derivatives of the sympathoadrenal neural crest, including glomus cells, small, intensely fluorescent cells, and adrenal chromaffin cells in situ. In contrast, principal sympathetic neurons did not express PNA receptors. PNA binding was inhibited by 2% galactose. To determine whether expression of PNA receptors was selectively induced by neuroendocrine differentiation of sympathoadrenal precursors, we compared PNA labeling of embryonic sympathoblasts in the presence of either nerve growth factor (NGF) or the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX). DEX-treated cells, which expressed several neuroendocrine traits, bound PNA, whereas NGF-treated neuronal derivatives did not. In addition, to examine whether expression of existing PNA receptors was down-regulated by neuronal differentiation of chromaffin cells, we compared labeling of PC12 cells, which normally bind PNA, in the presence and absence of NGF. Although PC12 cells acquired characteristic neuronal morphologies in the presence of NGF, they did not lose PNA labeling, even after 8 days of NGF treatment. These findings indicate that neuronal and neuroendocrine derivatives of the sympathoadrenal lineage can be distinguished by differential expression of carbohydrate epitopes and suggest that PNA receptors are induced by neuroendocrine differentiation.
An enzyme responsible for the oxidation of dopamine and formation of neuromelanin in brain has not been identified. Prostaglandin H synthase is prominent in brain and possesses peroxidase activity that may cooxidize dopamine to reactive dopamine quinones. This study examined the ability of purified prostaglandin H synthase to catalyze the oxidation of dopamine in vitro. Dopamine oxidation was determined by monitoring the formation of aminochrome and by examining catechol-modified residues on protein present in the reaction mixture. Aminochrome was formed from dopamine in the presence of prostaglandin H synthase, and the reaction rate was dependent on the concentration of substrate and enzyme in the reaction mixture. Both arachidonic acid and hydrogen peroxide could serve as substrates for the prostaglandin H synthase-catalyzed oxidation of dopamine. Indomethacin blocked the reaction when arachidonic acid was used as a substrate, but not when hydrogen peroxide was used. Enzymatically oxidized dopamine covalently bound to protein, as indicated by the presence of cysteinyl-dopamine residues. Binding was significantly reduced in the absence of enzyme or in the presence of antioxidants. These results suggest that the peroxidase activity of prostaglandin H synthase is responsible for catalyzing the oxidation of dopamine to reactive dopamine quinones. It is possible that prostaglandin H synthase is responsible for the oxidation of dopamine and formation of neuromelanin in vivo, which may have implications for the development of Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, drugs such as aspirin that modulate the activity of this enzyme may provide a potential therapeutic approach for the prevention of Parkinson's disease.
Calcium-activated neutral proteases (calpains) are regulated by specific endogenous protein inhibitors, the calpastatins, which are widely distributed in mammalian tissues. Calpastatins from different species or in various tissues from the same species exhibit considerable size heterogeneity on sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gels, reflecting both transcriptional and posttranslational regulation. This heterogeneity has complicated previous biochemical characterizations. In this study, we purified bovine brain calpastatin to homogeneity. The inhibitor was purified 2,463-fold from a cytosolic fraction of fresh bovine cerebral cortex by chromatographies on diethylaminoethyl cellulose, Ultrogel AcA44, phenyl-Sepharose, concanavalin A-Sepharose, and Q-Sepharose. The major calpastatin displayed a native molecular mass of 250-300 kDa by gel filtration and was composed of 125-kDa polypeptide chains by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Small amounts of a 68-kDa calpastatin fragment were detected particularly in molecules exhibiting smaller native molecular mass (250 kDa). When electroeluted from SDS gels, the 125- and 68-kDa polypeptides each inhibited calpain. The purified protein was strongly immunoreactive toward antibodies raised against a synthetic peptide, CEKLGEKEETIPPDYR, shown to be a conserved repetitive motif in the calpastatin gene or a recombinant polypeptide corresponding to domains L and 1 of human calpastatin. Calpastatins purified from bovine and human erythrocytes exhibited molecular masses of 78 and 68 kDa, respectively, by SDS-PAGE. Both erythrocyte calpastatins reacted strongly with antibodies against the conserved sequence but not with antibodies raised against domains L and 1 of human calpastatin, indicating that the erythrocyte inhibitors lack these two domains.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An alteration in signal transduction systems in Alzheimer's disease (AD) would likely be of pathophysiological significance, because these processes control normal brain functions. Previously, a diminished beta-adrenergic-mediated cyclic AMP response was found in cultured fibroblasts from AD patients. Because cross-talk between the phosphoinositide and cyclic AMP pathways exists, the phosphoinositide cascade was studied under conditions that were similar to those for studying the cyclic AMP response. Cells from AD patients and age-matched controls responded to bradykinin (BK) and released inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P3] in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The level of Ins(1,4,5)P3 increased rapidly and transiently in response to BK, peaked at 5 s, but still remained 116-132% above the basal level by 30 s. Although the temporal patterns were similar in both groups, the Ins(1,4,5)P3 concentrations in AD fibroblasts were 73 and 89% above levels in the age-matched controls at 5 and 10 s, respectively. Prostaglandin E1 also increased Ins(1,4,5)P3 formation, but this response was not different between the two groups. Although KD (affinity) values for the BK receptor were similar in both control and AD cells, the number of BK receptors (Bmax) was significantly elevated in AD fibroblasts (186.8 +/- 0.8 fmol/mg of protein) as compared with control fibroblasts (57.2 +/- 15.3 fmol/mg of protein). These results indicate that the elevated Ins(1,4,5)P3 production in response to BK in AD fibroblasts is positively correlated with an increase in the receptor numbers.
Ligand binding to the cannabinoid receptor of brain membranes has been characterized using [3H]CP 55,940 and the Multiscreen Filtration System. Binding of [3H]CP 55,940 is saturable and reaches equilibrium by 45 min at room temperature. At a concentration of 10 micrograms of membrane protein/well, the KD for [3H]CP 55,940 is 461 pM and the Bmax is 860 fmol/mg of protein. The apparent KD of [3H]CP 55,940 is dependent upon tissue protein concentration, increasing to 2,450 pM at 100 micrograms of membrane protein. Binding of [3H]CP 55,940 is dependent upon the concentration of bovine serum albumin in the buffer; the highest ratio of specific to nonspecific binding occurs between 0.5 and 1.0 mg/ml. The Ki of anandamide, a putative endogenous ligand of the cannabinoid receptor, is 1.3 microM in buffer alone and 143 nM in the presence of 0.15 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. When [14C]anandamide is incubated with rat forebrain membranes at room temperature, it is degraded to arachidonic acid; the hydrolysis is inhibited by 0.15 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. These results support the hypothesis that anandamide is a high-affinity ligand of the cannabinoid receptor and that it is rapidly degraded by membrane fractions.
The lumped constant (LC) for the alpha-methyl-L-tryptophan method to convert the brain's uptake of labeled alpha-methyl-L-tryptophan into the regional rate of serotonin synthesis was estimated. The method involved independently estimating the unidirectional uptake constant of the tracer (alpha-[14C]methyl-L-tryptophan) to the tissue and the tracee (tryptophan) (with the addition of a radioactive compound) and calculating their ratio. The LC was estimated from logarithmically transformed data. Similar experiments were performed using rats treated with the drug probenecid, which blocks the efflux of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (a metabolite of serotonin) from the brain. The experiments using probenecid, corrected for the difference in the levels of plasma free tryptophan (increased in probenecid-treated rats) relative to control experiments, gave an average LC for the rat brain of 0.46 +/- 0.14 (mean +/- SD). This value was not significantly different from the one obtained in controls (0.43 +/- 0.13). In addition, the LC was also calculated using unidirectional uptake constants in the probenecid-treated rats for alpha-methyl-L-tryptophan and L-tryptophan. This LC value was 0.39 +/- 0.10. There was no significant difference between these three LC values. Thus, an average +/- SD LC of 0.42 +/- 0.07 for 28 brain structures investigated in this study was obtained. Statistically the LC obtained in different structures had a variability that could be accounted for by errors in measurements alone. In other words, dispersion in the LC values could be fully accounted for by chance alone. Data confirmed that the LC value did not change when the rate of serotonin synthesis was increased by probenecid treatment. We also showed that the rate of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid accumulation in probenecid-treated rats was 58 pmol g-1 min-1 (rat brain), which is about twice as much as reported by others for a normal rat. This difference could also be accounted for by the increase in the plasma level of free tryptophan in probenecid-treated rats.
The influence of K(+)-induced membrane depolarization and NMDA treatment on the regulation of NMDA receptor subunit (NR) expression was investigated during the development of granule cells in culture, as a follow-up of previous work on NMDA receptor activity. In spite of the increase in NMDA receptor activity elicited by these treatments (K25 or K10 + NMDA cultures), the main developmental changes in receptor mRNA levels were similar to those in untreated cells (K10) (a threefold increase in total NMDA receptor mRNA, quantitative dominance of NR1 mRNA, late expression of NR2C, and virtual absence of NR2D. However, high K+ and NMDA treatment resulted in a greater increase of NR2A mRNA levels and a retardation in the developmental changes in the relative amounts of NR2B and NR2C mRNAs. The correspondence between NMDA receptor activity and the amount of NR1 and NR2A subunit proteins was excellent, the rank order being K25 &gt; K10 + NMDA &gt; K10 at 9 days in vitro. Because the increase in subunit mRNA was not always paralleled by an increase in subunit protein, the control of NMDA receptor expression involves critically, in addition to gene transcription, regulation of translational and/or posttranslational events.
The cDNA NYMDAR1 (NR1) encodes a single polypeptide that forms a receptor-channel complex with electrophsiological and pharmacological properties characteristic of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. Homomeric NR1 recombinant receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes show functional responses with low levels of conductance. In this study we have characterized, by radioligand binding techniques, the pharmacological properties of homomeric receptors of two human NR1 isoforms (NR1a and NR1e, which differ in their C-terminal region), transiently expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. The glycine site antagonist (+/-)-4-(trans)-2-carboxy-5,7-dichloro-4-[3H]phenylaminocarbonylamino - 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline ([3H]L-689,560) bound to NR1a- and NR1e-transfected cells with high affinity (KD = 3.29 and 1.61 nM, respectively). Bmax values for NR1a- and NR1e-transfected cells were 3.82 and 1.69 pmol/mg of protein, respectively, and Hill coefficients were close to unity. Ki values for glycine site antagonists inhibiting [3H]L-689,560 binding to NR1e-transfected cells were similar to those observed with rat brain membranes. Affinity values for agonists and partial agonists were four-to 16-fold weaker, indicating that the glycine site of homomeric NR1 receptors is in an antagonist-preferring state. Ki values obtained with NR1a-transfected cells were approximately twofold lower than those obtained with NR1e-transfected cells. High-affinity binding to NR1-transfected cells was not observed with the transmitter recognition site radioligands L-[3H]glutamate and D,L-(epsilon)-2-[3H]amino-4-propyl-5-phosphono-3-pentanoic acid ([3H]CGP-39653) or the ion-channel radioligand [3H]dizocilpine ([3H]MK-801).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) is normally expressed as a cell-associated protein, and accordingly it is not clear how it exerts its action on target cells in vivo. It has been proposed that cells release, by death or other mechanisms, small amounts of FGF-2 that then acts in an autocrine manner. To address the question of whether it is necessary that FGF-2 remain cell associated or needs to be secreted from cells to have biological activity, we expressed the 18-kDa form of FGF-2 in primary fibroblasts as a cell-associated (FGF-2-B) or as a secreted (FGF-2-S) protein. FGF-2 protein is detected in cell lysates and membrane fractions of both cell types, whereas it is present in significant amounts only in the conditioned medium of FGF-2-S cells. No FGF-2 is detected in control (untransfected) cells. FGF-2-S cells also grow faster than the control of FGF-2-B cells. Yet, when evaluated for their ability to promote the survival of embryonic hippocampal neurons in vitro, both the cell types are active, establishing the activity of the transgene product. We conclude that FGF-2 is active when engineered to be expressed as a cell-associated form or secreted from cells.
Peptides are of potential interest in the field of gene therapy but require modification by genetic engineering to facilitate their secretion. Amino terminal addition of a signal peptide is not always sufficient to achieve this goal, as found in this study for beta-endorphin. To overcome this problem, addition of the pre-pro-sequence of mouse nerve growth factor to beta-endorphin was tested. Retrovirus-mediated expression of a hybrid construct of the pre-pro-sequence of nerve growth factor and human beta-endorphin in primary fibroblasts resulted in the secretion of beta-endorphin immunoreactivity at a rate of 620 pg/h/10(6) cells. Analysis of the secreted beta-endorphin immunoreactivity with reverse-phase HPLC, immunoassays using three different antibodies, and an assay for the specific displacement of [3H][D-Ala2,N-MePhe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin from mu-opioid receptors suggests that the pre-pro-sequence is cleaved off from the pre-pro-sequence/beta-endorphin construct prior to secretion, resulting in bona fide beta-endorphin. Transplantation of beta-endorphin-secreting cells into brain or spinal cord may provide a gene therapy approach for the treatment of chronic, opioid-sensitive pain states.
N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase is a membrane-bound brain peptidase which cleaves the neuropeptide N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate to N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate. In the present study, we have determined the localization of N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase in the peripheral nervous system. Using enzyme assays and immunoblotting, we demonstrate that sciatic nerve, phrenic nerve, cervical dorsal root ganglion and superior cervical ganglion contain N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase activity as well as an N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase-like protein. Furthermore, we show that N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase-like immunoreactivity is extensively co-localized in peripheral nerves with immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein, a known marker for non-myelinating Schwann cells. Using electron microscopy, we demonstrate N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase-like immunoreactivity in cell membranes of non-myelinating Schwann cells in the superior cervical ganglion. These results show that N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase is expressed in the peripheral nervous system by non-myelinating Schwann cells. This cellular localization suggests that N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase may be involved in the signalling between axons and Schwann cells, for example during development or regeneration.
Elucidation of the functional roles of the extracellular matrix component laminin in adult peripheral nerve has been hindered by differing accounts of its ultrastructural localization. This is the first report applying the advantages of the cryo-immunogold technique to laminin localization in peripheral nerve. Laminin labelling was found over the basal lamina and possibly over the immediately subjacent Schwann cell plasma membrane, but specific labelling appeared to be absent from other membranes (including those of non-myelinated axon/Schwann cell clusters) and from endoneurial collagen fibrils. It would appear that the functional roles played by laminin in normal adult peripheral nerve are likely to be mediated via its localization in the basal lamina, rather than through a more widespread distribution within the endoneurium.
We studied the distribution, morphology, ultrastructure and connectivity of parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in the entorhinal cortex of the rat. Immunoreactive cell bodies were found in all layers of the entorhinal cortex except layer I. The highest numbers were observed in layers II and III of the dorsal division of the lateral entorhinal area whereas the lowest numbers occurred in the ventral division of the lateral entorhinal area. Most such neurons displayed multipolar configurations with smooth dendrites. We distinguished a type with long dendrites and a type with short dendrites. We also observed pyramidal immunoreactive neurons. A dense plexus of immunoreactive dendrites and axons was prominent in layers II and III of the dorsal division of the lateral entorhinal area and the medial entorhinal area. None of the parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells became retrogradely labelled after injection of horseradish peroxidase into the hippocampal formation. By electron microscopy, immunoreactivity was observed in cell bodies, dendrites, myelinated and unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. Immunoreactive dendrites and axons occurred in all cortical layers. We noted many myelinated immunoreactive axons. Immunoreactive axon terminals were medium sized, contained pleomorphic synaptic vesicles, and established symmetrical synapses. Both horseradish peroxidase labelled and unlabelled immunonegative cell bodies often received synapses from immunopositive axon terminals arranged in baskets. Synapses between immunoreactive axon terminals and unlabelled dendritic shafts and spines were abundant. Synapses with initial axon segments occurred less frequently. In addition, synaptic contacts were present between immunopositive axon terminals and cell bodies and dendrites. Thus, the several types of parvalbumin-containing neuron in the entorhinal cortex are interneurons, connected to one another and to immunonegative neurons through a network of synaptic contacts. Immunonegative cells projecting to the hippocampal formation receive axo-somatic basket synapses from immunopositive terminals. This connectivity may form the morphological substrate underlying the reported strong inhibition of cells in layers II and III of the entorhinal cortex projecting to the hippocampal formation.
To characterize the phenotype of inflammatory cells in the central nervous system (CNS) in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), Lewis rats were immunized with guinea pig myelin basic protein and frozen sections of the spinal cord with EAE were examined immunohistochemically using a panel of monoclonal antibodies against T cells and adhesion molecules. In addition, double immunostaining was performed with glial and T cells markers to examine the interaction between infiltrating T cells and reactive brain cells during the course of EAE. In the early stage of EAE, inflammatory cells first appeared in the subarachnoid space (SAS) and infiltrated the subpial region. The majority of inflammatory cells in SAS expressed TCR alpha beta and either CD4 or CD8 molecules. However, only CD4+ T cells infiltrated the parenchyma while the majority of CD8+ cells remained in SAS. A similar differential localization of T cells was observed with regard to CD45RC molecules. Inflammatory cells in SAS consisted of both CD45RC+ and CD45RC- population, while those in the parenchyma were largely CD45RC-. With regard to adhesion molecules, the leptomeninges constitutively expressed fibronectin (FN) and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1). Most SAS inflammatory cells expressed very late activation antigen 4 (VLA-4) and, to lesser extent, lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1) in the early stage of EAE. On the other hand, parenchymal infiltrating cells expressed LFA-1 more strongly in the peak stage. Double staining for V beta 8.2 TCR and microglia demonstrated an increase in the number of microglia together with morphological changes into rod-shape cells in the vicinity of infiltrating T cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
During an 18 month period 39 patients were evaluated with [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose-PET (FDG-PET) for primary brain tumours. These included patients with suspected newly diagnosed tumours and patients with known tumours who were being evaluated for possible recurrence or increasing tumour grade. Scans were performed on a 951-31 Siemen's PET scanner with 4 mm resolution. Scanning time was about 20 minutes per patient. All patients had undergone recent cerebral MRI. These patients were divided into two groups. In the first group (30) MRI and PET concurred on the diagnosis. The second group (nine) comprised those where the interpretation of MRI and PET was different or there was a question of the diagnosis on MRI. This group comprised three patients in whom MRI suggested recurrent tumour and PET inaccurately suggested radiation necrosis; two patients with newly diagnosed enhancing lesions on MRI in whom PET was useful in distinguishing strokes from tumour; two patients with prior gliomas with new enhancing isolated lesions on MRI in whom PET scan accurately depicted radiation necrosis; and two patients with newly diagnosed enhancing lesions on MRI in whom PET scan was helpful in distinguishing multiple sclerosis from tumour in one but not in the other. Therefore, of the 39 patients, PET was helpful in five in distinguishing tumour from other disease processes; but, in so far as influencing treatment, it seemed helpful in only two. Thus PET seems to be of limited value as an aid to evaluating and treating patients with suspected or known primary brain tumours.

1. In this study we describe application of high-frequency stimulation to the group Ia afferent-to-motoneuron synapse of cats to determine the extent to which regeneration of axotomized muscle afferents and motoneurons into skin or into muscle rescues their ability to generate excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). 2. The medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle nerve was transected and 1) left chronically axotomized, 2) cross-united to the caudal cutaneous sural (CCS) nerve, or 3) self-united. The ability of the operated MG muscle afferents to generate EPSPs in normal lateral gastrocnemius-soleus (LGS) motoneurons and of normal LGS muscle afferents to generate EPSPs in the operated MG motoneurons was tested 5 wk-30 mo later. 3. EPSPs were generated by bursts of 32 shocks at 167 Hz and averaged in register. In normal cats, EPSP amplitude decreased (negative modulation) during these bursts in type S motoneurons and could increase or decrease in type F motoneurons (positive or negative modulation). 4. After axotomy, EPSPs generated both in axotomized motoneurons and by axotomized afferents showed only negative modulation during the burst, and the negative modulation was much greater than in normal animals. Regeneration of the muscle nerve into skin significantly decreased the negative modulation relative to axotomy. Regeneration of the muscle nerve into muscle restored the EPSP modulation behaviors even more, to essentially normal values. 5. We conclude that the ability of muscle afferents to generate EPSPs in motoneurons in response to high-frequency stimulation, and the ability of motoneurons to express those EPSPs, are both influenced by the target innervated by those neurons. Synaptic efficacy is severely reduced by target deprivation (axotomy), partially rescued by cross-regeneration into skin, and rescued virtually completely by regeneration into the native muscle. We speculate on the role of target-derived neurotrophins in these effects.
1. In this study we investigate the peripheral receptive field properties and spinal cord connections of low-threshold muscle afferent fibers cross-regenerated into the skin to determine whether a cutaneous target can rescue physiological functions lost after chronic axotomy. 2. In adult cats the medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle nerve was coated with the distal cut end of either the caudal or lateral cutaneous sural nerves and allowed to regenerate into the hairy skin (postoperative period 6-30 mo). During terminal acute experiments we made recordings of single MG afferent fibers in dorsal root filaments and peripheral nerve. Conduction velocity and receptive field characteristics were determined for each fiber. In addition, the MG nerve was stimulated to elicit cord dorsum potentials and monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in heteronymous motoneurons. As controls, studies were carried out after MG nerve axotomy (postoperative period 2.5-12 mo). 3. After innervation of the skin, MG muscle afferent fibers exhibited firing characteristics and proximal segment conduction velocities like those of normal MG afferents. Responses to skin and hair stimulation consisted primarily of slowly adapting, stretch-sensitive, and steady discharge patterns, all common in normal muscle afferents but not in cutaneous afferents. These properties were observed despite the innervation of touch domes and single hairs, suggesting that the peripheral physiology of muscle afferents is a function of the axonal membrane and is not respecified by a cutaneous target and/or receptors. 4. Cord dorsum potentials were characteristic of those elicited by intact muscle afferents rather than skin afferents and showed recovery of configurations lost after chronic axotomy. 5. The monosynaptic EPSPs elicited in lateral gastrocnemius-soleus motoneurons also recovered from the reduction in amplitude observed after chronic axotomy. The configurations of these EPSPs were characteristic of muscle afferents rather than skin afferents. 6. These experiments demonstrate that the peripheral and central physiological properties of muscle afferents are rescued from the axotomy state if the afferents are allowed to reinnervate skin. We found no evidence that respecification had occurred to bring the function of muscle afferents into accord with the new cutaneous target.
1. The effects of electrical pulse stimulation and temporary pharmacological inactivation of the ipsilateral cerebellar flocculus on the activity of single Y group cells were studied in three alert squirrel monkeys. The extent of the flocculus was mapped by multiunit recording and by electrical pulse train stimulation, which elicited slow eye movement. 2. Single electrical pulse stimulation of the flocculus (0.1-ms constant current, 25-400 microA) resulted in inhibition of all 24 Y cells examined. The inhibition was evidenced as a cessation of cell firing for varying periods [8.8 +/- 2.4 (SD) ms] after the stimulus. The latency of inhibition (0.71 +/- 0.34 ms) suggests that the effect was due to direct activation of Purkinje cells monosynaptically projecting to the Y group. 3. The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist muscimol was used to temporarily inactivate the flocculus while recording from single Y neurons. After control responses of cells under various behavioral paradigms were collected, muscimol (total volume of 3-4 microliters of 2.0% muscimol in saline) was injected in the flocculus through a pair of fine syringes. With this technique, the contribution of the flocculus to the signal content of Y group cells was examined, both in the animals with normal vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) gain (5 cells in 3 animals) and after adaptation of the VOR to either high (5 cells in 1 animal) or low gain (7 cells in 2 animals). 4. In the normal animal, pharmacological floccular inactivation resulted in increased dc firing and in the loss of normal modulation with eye velocity. Modulation during visual-vestibular interactions was also lost, so cell responses did not differ from those during the VOR in darkness. Only minor changes (usually gain increases) in the latter response were noted after flocculus inactivation. The results suggests an extrafloccular input source to the Y group, conveying head velocity information. We believe that this input originates in the brain stem, probably in the superior vestibular nucleus. 5. To examine whether the adapted responses of Y cells during the VOR in darkness are due to their floccular input, single cells were studied before and after pharmacological floccular inactivation, in animals whose VOR had been adapted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The activity of 113 Y group neurons was recorded extracellularly in 5 alert squirrel monkeys. Sixty-two cells were recorded in naive animals, and 51 cells were recorded after adaptation of the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) with the use of telescopic lenses. The animals were lying on their right side, so that head rotation was in the vertical (pitch) plane and optokinetic stimulation elicited vertical eye movement. The responses of most cells, as well as the concurrent eye movement, were studied during 1) the VOR, elicited in darkness or in light by sinusoidal head rotation, 2) visual following, elicited by sinusoidal rotation of a full-field optokinetic drum around the stationary animal, and 3) paradigms of visual-vestibular interaction, elicited by combined sinusoidal vestibular and optokinetic stimulation. Stimulation parameters for both head and drum velocity were usually 0.5 Hz, 35 degrees/s peak velocity. 2. Y group cells respond vigorously during visual following and during suppression of the VOR (produced by in-phase rotation of the head and the optokinetic drum); the response is approximately in-phase with eye velocity during visual following, and approximately in-phase with head velocity during suppression of the VOR. During the VOR in darkness, Y cells usually exhibit only slight modulation. The results suggest a linear interaction of visual following and vestibular signals on Y cells during vertical visual-vestibular interaction. Taking into account the excitatory projection of Y cells to superior rectus and inferior oblique motoneurons, a causal role of the Y group in rapid modification of VOR gain during visual-vestibular interaction is suggested. 3. Nine Y neurons from two animals were recorded continuously, for periods ranging from 30 min to 5 h, while the VOR was being adapted to higher or lower gain. Progressive changes of the gain of the VOR in darkness were evident after approximately 30 min from the initiation of head rotation under visual-vestibular mismatch. Consistent changes of the gain and/or phase of the neuronal response during the VOR in darkness were noted in all cases. The phase of the neuronal response gradually approximated head velocity phase during adaptation of the VOR to low gain, increases in the neuronal gain thereafter ensued; the opposite changes were observed during adaptation of the VOR to high gain. 4. Sixteen Y cells were recorded from 1 animal chronically adapted to high VOR gain with the use of magnifying lenses, and 35 cells were recorded from 2 animals chronically adapted to low VOR gain with the use of miniaturizing lenses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The proleg withdrawal reflex of Manduca sexta larvae is mediated by mono- and polysynaptic connections from afferents innervating mechanosensory planta hairs (PHs) to ipsilateral proleg retractor motoneurons. During the larval-pupal transformation, a rise in ecdysteroids causes the dendrites of proleg motoneurons to regress and, concurrently, the proleg withdrawal reflex is lost. The objective of this study was to identify synaptic correlates of dendritic regression that contributed to this behavioral change. The accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneuron regresses during the larval-pupal transformation and dies in a segment-specific pattern after pupation. The compound excitatory postsynaptic potential (cEPSP) evoked in APR by electrically stimulating the proleg sensory nerve decreased in amplitude during the larval-pupal transformation. The developmental decrease in cEPSP amplitude, the extent of APR's regression, and several of APR's intrinsic electrical properties were similar in segments in which the motoneuron was fated to live or die. In heterochronic mosaic pupae bearing retained larval PH afferents, APR's dendritic regression was associated with decreases in both the mean amplitude of monosynaptic EPSPs produced by PH afferents and the proportion of PH afferents that produced detectable EPSPs. These changes appeared due to a developmental decrease in the size of the synaptic currents produced by PH afferents. Evidence was also obtained suggesting that PH afferents do not regress at pupation. These findings support the hypothesis that the ecdysteroid-mediated regression of proleg motoneuron dendrites disconnects them from sensory inputs and, thereby, contributes to the elimination of the proleg withdrawal reflex.
Some areas of the mammalian CNS, such as the retina, contain not one but two fast inhibitory neurotransmitter systems whose actions are mediated by GABA and glycine. Each inhibitory receptor system is encoded by a separate gene family and has a unique set of agonists and antagonists. Therefore, in rat retinal ganglion cells we were surprised to find that a single agent, extracellular glutathione, was capable of modulating currents activated by either GABAA or glycine receptor stimulation. Both oxidized and reduced glutathione influence inhibitory neurotransmission in a manner similar to that of the sulfhydryl redox agents dithiothreitol (DTT) and 5,5'-dithio-bis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB). Remarkably, the actions of glutathione are diametrically opposed on the GABAA and glycine systems. In whole-cell recordings of single retinal ganglion cells with patch pipettes, reduced glutathione enhances GABA-evoked currents but decreases glycine-evoked currents. These findings suggest that endogenous redox agents, such as glutathione, may constitute a novel modulatory system for the differential regulation of inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian retina.
Utilizing Indo-1 microfluorimetry, we have investigated the role of mitochondria and Na+/Ca2+ exchange in buffering calcium loads induced by glutamate stimulation or depolarization of cultured rat forebrain neurons. A 15 sec pulse of 3 microM glutamate or 50 mM potassium with veratridine was followed by a 2 min wash with a solution containing either Na(+)-free buffer or the mitochondrial uncoupler carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (FCCP), or both. For glutamate-induced Ca2+ loads, a Na(+)-free wash delayed recovery to baseline by twofold, mitochondrial uncoupling delayed recovery by greater than fourfold, and the combined treatment essentially prevented recovery of [Ca2+]i for the duration of the wash. Although the depolarization stimulus was able to elicit a larger peak [Ca2+]i, the neurons required significantly less time to recover from depolarization-induced Ca2+ loads after identical wash manipulations, indicating a fundamental difference between calcium loads induced by glutamate as opposed to those induced by depolarization. We show evidence that the delayed recovery is not primarily the result of perturbations in intracellular pH regulation and have also demonstrated that a substantial portion of the delayed recovery is independent of Ca2+ entry during the washout phase. We conclude that glutamate and depolarization both induce Ca2+ loads whose buffering is critically dependent on functional mitochondria and secondarily reliant on Na+/Ca2+ exchange. The two systems overlap and seem to be responsible for buffering most of the glutamate-induced Ca2+ load, because manipulations that compromised both systems completely disabled the neurons' ability to recover [Ca2+]i to baseline.
Serotonin (5HT) transporters (SERTs) are responsible for clearance of synaptic and plasma 5HT and are molecular targets for multiple therapeutic and addictive compounds. Recently brain and peripheral SERT cDNAs have been cloned and characterized functionally in transfected cells. Antipeptide (S365) and anti-fusion protein (CT-2) antibodies, directed at epitopes poorly conserved among other Na+/Cl- cotransporters, have been prepared to facilitate the identification and characterization of SERT proteins in native and transfected cells. Immunoprecipitations and immunoblots of rat/human SERT-transfected HeLa cells reveal specific SERT-immunoreactive glycoproteins absent from extracts of vector-transfected cells and absent when incubations were conducted using peptide- or fusion protein-absorbed antibody. In SDS-PAGE of membranes prepared from rat midbrain and cortex, SERTs migrate as single 76 kDa polypeptides with a relative abundance consistent with the known distribution of 5HT neurons and axonal projections. SERT-immunoreactive proteins are also detectable in platelet and pulmonary membranes, sites of peripheral 5HT uptake, but not in liver. Our studies also indicate that brain and platelet SERTs are formed from identical polypeptides differing significantly in their extent of N-linked glycosylation. Immunocytochemistry performed on rat brain sections with CT-2 antibody revealed SERT expression associated with brainstem raphe nuclei in a pattern virtually identical to that obtained by labeling adjacent sections with 5HT antisera. SERT-immunoreactive fibers were found to be widely distributed throughout the rodent brain, with highest density in forebrain regions known to receive a dense serotonergic innervation. In a similar manner, CT-2 antibody also detects endogenous expression of human SERT proteins, providing an opportunity for future studies on the modulation of transporter protein expression in neurologic and psychiatric disorders.
In the adult rat nervous system, motor neurons are recognized specifically by a monoclonal antibody, MO-1. Because binding by MO-1 is lost following axotomy, contact with the target may regulate this motor neuron-specific epitope. To test this hypothesis, we examined the recovery of MO-1 immunoreactivity in hypoglossal neurons following unilateral damage to the hypoglossal nerve. During the first week following nerve crush, neurons in the ipsilateral hypoglossal nucleus lost all immunoreactivity for MO-1. Antibody binding returned with time, and by 4 weeks, 80% of the injured neurons had recovered the MO-1 epitope. Since motor neurons reinnervate their original targets readily following nerve crush, it appears that MO-1 binding is recovered when motor neurons return to their original target muscles in the tongue. When the hypoglossal nerve was cut and inserted into a foreign muscle nearby (the sternomastoid muscle), the MO-1 epitope was not detected in the injured neurons, even when examined 6 weeks after surgery. However, if the sternomastoid muscle was denervated prior to insertion of the hypoglossal nerve, thus allowing the hypoglossal nerve to synapse with this foreign target, increasing numbers of hypoglossal neurons reacquired MO-1 immunoreactivity with time. Our results suggest that the MO-1 epitope is only expressed in motor neurons that are in synaptic contact with skeletal muscle. Thus, a property that distinguishes mature motor neurons from other neuronal phenotypes appears to be regulated by direct synaptic interaction with the postsynaptic target.
The open-channel structure of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor was investigated to explain apparently conflicting interpretations about ionic interactions within the pore. Patch-clamp techniques were applied to tissue-cultured rat hippocampal neurons from the CA1 region. A wide range of ammonium derivatives was studied to learn about the structure of the pore from permeability and open-channel blocking characteristics. We conclude that the pore is asymmetric, having high-affinity binding for organic cations from the outside and having a larger external entrance. The minimum cross-sectional area of the pore is rectangular (approximately 0.45 x 0.57 nm) and is the single-occupancy binding site(s) for small permeant cations. The narrow region extending from this minimum cross section is short, and its shape underlies the voltage dependencies of blocking cations. While occupying the blocking site, some open-channel blockers can interact with permeant cations at their binding site in the minimum cross section. A structurally based hypothesis is presented, explaining that the electrostatic interactions between the blocking site and permeant-ion site produce a high voltage dependence for blockade by some cations.
Reform of the health care system is a complex process. Opinions vary as to the need for reform and the specific policy changes to be implemented. The Clinton administration has presented a proposal for health care policy reform, but alternative proposals have been recommended. A review of the legislative process indicates the many opportunities to amend or &quot;kill&quot; proposed health reform legislation. Given lack of success of the broad changes proposed in the Clinton plan, it is expected that incremental approaches will be more tried in the future. Active participation of neuroscience nurses in this process is strongly encouraged. The projected impact of health care reform on neuroscience nursing practice must be considered.
The use of pentobarbital-induced coma to manage intractable increased intracranial pressure remains a viable option in the acutely brain-injured patient. In a retrospective review of 15 patients with a variety of neurological injuries at our institution, it was found that aggressive management of respiratory, hemodynamic, metabolic and neurological status was required with the use of pentobarbital coma. A scoring system to determine the amount of interventions and nursing care required was used in the review. The Therapeutic Intervention Scoring System (TISS) demonstrated that with the acuity of illness, there were predictably increased interventions. As a method for quantifying the amount of care in this group of individuals, scoring of the interventions before, during, and after barbiturate coma was assessed. The findings demonstrated a significant difference in the scoring. Mean scores were: pre-treatment = 31.8, s.d. = 7.5; during = 41.7, s.d. = 2.0; post-treatment = 36.4, s.d. = 5.2, p &lt; 0.01. Further modifications of the TISS to include current neuroscience therapies, such as the monitoring of cerebral oxygen extraction by jugular bulb catheterization, may increase the utility of the TISS.
Two to three million people in this country live with the after-effects of a stroke. Care focuses on increasing the functional abilities of the stroke patient. Currently, there are different approaches used in caring for the stroke patient. Two approaches are presented for consideration in working with the stroke patient. A case study illustrates differences between the two approaches. Regardless of the approach used, consistency and long-term goal setting is necessary for patient progress.
A pilot study was conducted to identify support behaviors associated with the psychological adjustment of 39 critically-injured patients and 39 family members. Although the majority of critically-injured patients recover physically, current work shows that psychological difficulties persist. This study hypothesized that the psychological adjustment of critically-injured patients and family members will be a function of the type of support received. The second hypothesis was that support behaviors associated with psychological adjustment will differ between critically-injured patients and family members. Patients and family members completed the following paper and pencil instruments: The Instrument of Socially Supportive Behaviors, the Well-being Scale, State/Trait Anxiety Scale, Life Experience Survey, The Blishen Occupational Index and a demographic questionnaire. Using multiple regression with backward elimination, squared semi-partial correlations and partial F, cross-sectional data showed that the measure of well-being but not anxiety was related to different types of support behaviors in partial support of the first hypothesis. Support for the second hypothesis was provided by the finding that the critically-injured patient's level of well-being was positively associated with nondirect support and instrumental aid, and negatively with direct guidance. In contrast, instrumental aid was found to be associated with poor well-being in family members. The findings offer neuroscience nurses insights into the types of support that may enhance the well-being of critically-injured patients and their family members.
Human recombinant glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was tested for its ability to stimulate fiber formation and neuron survival in primary cultures of peripheral ganglia dissected from the chicken embryo. GDNF, first characterized by its actions on central nervous system (CNS) neurons, had a marked stimulatory effect on fiber outgrowth in sympathetic and ciliary ganglia. Weaker responses were evoked in sensory spinal and nodose ganglia and in the ganglion of Remak. In addition, survival of neurons from the sympathetic and ciliary ganglia was stimulated by GDNF at 50 ng/ml. The effects were not mimicked by the distant but related protein transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF beta 1). The profile of neurons stimulated by GDNF is also distinct from the patterns of stimulation shown by nerve growth factor (NGF), stimulating strongly sympathetic but not ciliary ganglia, and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), stimulating mainly the ciliary ganglion. Moreover, using in situ hybridization histochemistry, GDNF was demonstrated to be present in the pineal gland in the newborn rat, a target organ for sympathetic innervation. The present results suggest that GDNF is likely to act upon receptors present in several autonomic and sensory neuronal populations. GDNF may serve to support fiber outgrowth and cell survival in peripheral ganglia, adding yet one more trophic factor to the list of specific proteins controlling development and maintenance of the peripheral nervous system.
The cellular localization of inducible (iNOS) and constitutive (cNOS) nitric oxide synthase was studied in rats by immunocytochemical techniques involving specific iNOS and cNOS directed antibodies and by NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. Paraformaldehyde-fixed vibratome sections of brains and cryostat sections of peripheral lymph nodes were studied of rats treated with endotoxin (2.5 micrograms/kg or 2.5 mg/kg i.v.), rats infected with rabies virus, and rats exposed to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). Endotoxin-treated animals showed no appearance of immunoreactive iNOS (ir-iNOS) cells in the brain with the exception of a few microglial cells near the median eminence and some meningeal macrophages. In the same animals however, iNOS-immunoreactive cells were found in peripheral lymph nodes. Neurons that stain positive for cNOS and for NADPH-diaphorase could be observed in brains of control as well as of endotoxin-treated animals with a similar distribution and staining intensity. In contrast, animals that had been infected with rabies virus or subjected to EAE, showed the appearance of ir-iNOS-positive cells in several brain areas. These cells are located near blood vessels and lesion sites. The majority of these cells are GSA-I-B4 isolectin-positive and therefore are likely to represent macrophages. Our data suggest that increased production of nitric oxide may play a role in the altered brain functions in rabies-infected and EAE rats. On the contrary, increased nitric oxide production is probably not involved in the non-specific symptoms of sickness induced by endotoxin.
NB2a/d1 cells constitutively express and extensively phosphorylate neurofilament (NF) triplet proteins. However, only hypophosphorylated NFs are observed within the Triton-insoluble perikaryal cytoskeletons of undifferentiated and differentiated cells, while phosphorylated NF isoforms accumulate exclusively within the axonal neurites elaborated following treatment with dbcAMP. We examined NF synthesis and distribution of newly synthesized subunits by immunoprecipitation from 35S-methionine-radiolabeled undifferentiated and dbcAMP-treated differentiated cells. Following a 15 min pulse radiolabeling, NF-H isoforms migrating from approximately 160-200 kDa, NF-M isoforms migrating from approximately 97 k-145 Da, and a single 70 kDa NF-L isoform were readily detectable within Triton-soluble fractions from both undifferentiated and differentiated cells. During chase analyses in the absence of radiolabel, the entire spectrum of isoforms was present in Triton-soluble and -insoluble fractions from both undifferentiated and differentiated cells. However, differentiated cells displayed a significant increase in radiolabel associated with each subunit and isoform. Normalization of their NF synthesis levels to those of undifferentiated cells revealed that differentiated cells deposited 10-fold more radiolabeled subunits into the Triton-insoluble cytoskeleton as compared to undifferentiated cells. Similar levels of radiolabeled subunits were observed throughout the 2 hr period in dbcAMP-treated cells. By contrast, radiolabeled subunits and isoforms increased in undifferentiated cytoskeletons during the chase period, although final levels remained substantially lower than those observed in cytoskeletons of dbcAMP-treated cells. These data were considered with respect to potential mechanisms by which the phosphorylated NFs are normally excluded from perikaryal cytoskeletons. The presence of extensively phosphorylated subunits within perikarya indicates the presence of necessary NF kinases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Insulin has recently been shown to ameliorate damage in models of global brain ischemia. To determine whether insulin is also neuroprotective in focal ischemia, 20 rats were given 2 to 3 IU/kg insulin and 10 did not receive treatment prior to normothermic transient middle cerebral artery occlusion for 2 hours at a blood pressure of 60 mm Hg. To further elucidate whether infarction volume is influenced by variations in blood glucose levels within the physiological range, blood glucose was raised in 10 of the insulin-treated animals to levels comparable with the untreated controls. At 1-week survival, damage was assessed using quantitative neuropathological examination of 25 coronal planes. It was found that preischemic insulin lowered the mean intraischemic blood glucose level from 8.4 +/- 0.2 mM (mu +/- standard error of the mean) in the control group to 3.4 +/- 0.2 mM and reduced total damage (atrophy plus cortical and striatal necrosis), expressed as the percentage of the normal hemisphere, from a control of 28.5% +/- 2.9% to 14.5% +/- 1.6% (p &lt; 0.005). Coadministration of glucose and insulin resulted in a mean intraischemic blood glucose level of 10.1 +/- 0.5 mM, with 27.0% +/- 2.4% total damage (p = 0.96, compared with control). Total ischemic damage showed an independent correlation with blood glucose levels (r = 0.67, p = 0.0018). The findings indicate that insulin benefits transient focal ischemia and that reducing the blood glucose from 8 to 9 mM to the low-normal range of 3 to 4 mM with insulin dramatically reduces subsequent infarction. The data suggest that the neuroprotective mechanism of insulin action in focal middle cerebral artery occlusion is mediated predominantly via alterations in blood glucose levels. In comparison to global ischemia, focal ischemia appears to show only a minor direct central nervous system effect of insulin. In clinical situations in which transient focal ischemia to the hemisphere can be anticipated, insulin-induced hypoglycemia of a mild degree may be beneficial.
The spontaneous neuronal activity of meso-accumbens dopaminergic neurons was recorded in unanesthetized rats withdrawn from chronic morphine administration (15 days) by means of single cell extracellular recording techniques coupled with antidromic identification from the nucleus accumbens. Twenty-four h after last morphine administration, firing rate and burst firing were found to be drastically reduced and the relative refractory periods of the same neurons were prolonged in morphine-dependent rats as compared with chronic saline-treated controls. The number of spontaneously active dopaminergic neurons, however, did not differ between the two groups. Administration of morphine restored electrophysiological parameters. When rats were tested 2 h after last morphine administration, i.v. challenge with the opiate antagonist naloxone caused an abrupt and virtually complete reduction of dopaminergic firing rate, burst rate and a prolongation of the relative refractory period. These effects were not observed in control rats. The results indicate that the mesolimbic dopaminergic system is tonically reduced in its activity during morphine withdrawal syndrome and considering its role in the reinforcing properties of opioids, its depressed activity during the morphine withdrawal syndrome may bear relevance for the dysphoric state associated to morphine withdrawal in humans.
1. The effects of partial denervation on motor units of the fast twitch extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle of the rat were studied. 2. Partial denervation was performed by surgically removing 2-4 mm of the L4 ventral ramus in 3- and 18-day-old Wistar rats. Two to three months later, EMG activity, contractile properties and muscle fibre types were analysed. 3. After partial denervation the EDL muscle became significantly more active, particularly in the animals operated on at 3 days. The amount of activity during periods of rest was up to 4 times that of the control EDL muscle. 4. The maximum tetanic tension developed by the EDL muscles 2 months after partial denervation at 3 days was only 11 +/- 1.01% (S.E.M., n = 18) of the control. In animals operated on at 18 days this value was larger, i.e. 44 +/- 3.46% (S.E.M., n = 12). The low force output of animals operated on at 3 days was also reflected in the low mean motor unit (MU) force output which was only 69 +/- 5.82% (S.E.M., n = 17) of the contralateral control muscle. In contrast the force generated by MUs of rats operated on at 18 days was larger than that of control muscles, i.e. 151 +/- 13.05% (S.E.M., n = 11). The number of MUs was 6 +/- 0.32 (S.E.M., n = 19) in rats operated on at 3 days and 12 +/- 0.83 (S.E.M., n = 14) in rats operated on at 18 days. 5. The speed of contraction decreased and the resistance to fatigue increased. These changes were greater in animals operated on at 3 days. The proportion of muscle fibres reacting with antibody against slow myosin showed a significant increase, especially in the group of animals operated on at 3 days.
1. In the anaesthetized cat, electrical stimulation of the bulbar reticular formation produced a short latency (2.1 +/- 0.3 ms) positive potential in the cord dorsum. In contrast, stimulation of the nucleus raphe magnus with strengths below 50 microA evoked a slow negative potential with a mean latency of 5.5 +/- 0.6 ms that persisted after sectioning the contralateral pyramid and was abolished by sectioning the ipsilateral dorsolateral funiculus. 2. The field potentials evoked by stimulation of the bulbar reticular formation and of the nucleus raphe magnus had a different intraspinal distribution, suggesting activation of different sets of segmental interneurones. 3. Stimulation of these two supraspinal nuclei produced primary afferent depolarization (PAD) in single Ib fibres and inhibited the PAD elicited by group I volleys in single Ia fibres. The inhibition of the PAD of Ia fibres produced by reticulospinal and raphespinal inputs appears to be exerted on different interneurones along the PAD pathway. 4. It is concluded that, although reticulospinal and raphespinal pathways have similar inhibitory effects on PAD of Ia fibres, and similar excitatory effects on the PAD of Ib fibres, their actions are conveyed by partly independent pathways. This would allow their separate involvement in the control of posture and movement.

While retrograde regulation of neuronal development by target-derived factors in the autonomic nervous system is well established, the importance of anterograde influences on target development is unclear. Previous studies suggest that sympathetic innervation of sweat glands plays a critical role in the acquisition and maintenance of their secretory function. To define the signal(s) responsible, we disrupted muscarinic cholinergic transmission in developing and adult rats. Treatment of young rats with the nonselective antagonist, atropine, or an antagonist selective for the glandular muscarinic subtype, 4-DAMP, delayed the development of secretory responsiveness. Treatment of adult animals with atropine caused its loss. Further, following denervation, treatment with the muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine, largely preserved responsiveness while untreated animals lost function. Thus, acetylcholine, whose presence in sweat gland innervation is retrogradely specified by developmental interactions with the target tissue, in turn plays an important role in inducing and maintaining target tissue responsiveness through muscarinic receptor activation.
Oligodendrocytes are responsible for myelination in the vertebrate central nervous system, but what controls their differentiation remains unknown. To determine if clonally related rat spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors differentiated synchronously in a complex environment, retroviral clonal analysis was combined with immunocytochemistry using antibodies which define consecutive stages in oligodendrocyte development. In embryonic spinal cord cultures, most oligodendrocyte clones contained both differentiated oligodendrocytes and their precursors, demonstrating that clonally related oligodendrocytes differentiated asynchronously. Such asynchronous differentiation did not simply reflect differences in proliferation between clonally related cells. In young cultures, most clones were composed entirely of dividing cells. In older cultures, most clones contained nonproliferating immature precursor cells, suggesting that oligodendrocyte proliferation and differentiation are independently regulated, and differentiation is primarily regulated by environmental factors.
The neurotransmitter serotonin (5HT) has been implicated in morphogenesis of central nervous system and craniofacial structures. The actions of serotonin are mediated by multiple receptor subtypes, one of which, the 5HT3 receptor, is a ligand-gated ion channel. To determine whether this channel may contribute to the proposed morphogenic actions of serotonin, the expression of 5HT3 receptor transcripts was examined during mouse embryogenesis and correlated with the distribution of serotonin transporter mRNA and serotonin immunoreactivity. The pattern of 5HT3 receptor mRNA expression within the brain suggests possible roles for this receptor in the proliferation, differentiation, or migration of CNS neurons. In the peripheral nervous system, 5HT3 receptor transcripts were observed within cranial nerve sensory ganglia, olfactory neuroepithelia, and sympathoadrenal and enteric nervous systems during the initial stages of their formation. Striking expression of 5HT3 receptor transcripts occurred outside the nervous system, in association with regions of active chondrogenesis in the vertebral column, limbs, and craniofacial region, suggesting a possible involvement of this receptor subtype in the morphogenesis of olfactory receptor neurons, teeth, and genitalia.
Previous studies have demonstrated the appearance of phosphorylated neurofilament (NF) subunits within perikaryal cytoskeletons following aluminum exposure. In order to examine the mechanisms leading to this altered distribution of NF subunits, we carried out biochemical analyses of NF subunits in Triton-insoluble and -soluble fractions derived from aluminum-treated NB2a/d1 cells. In addition to increases in the Triton-insoluble cytoskeleton, increases in all three NF subunits were also detected within the Triton-soluble fraction of aluminum-treated cells. To address the nature of this increase in Triton-soluble subunits, aluminum-treated and untreated cultures were harvested in the absence of Triton and fractionated by established procedures to yield fractions greatly enriched for perikarya and neurites, respectively. Each of these subcellular fractions was then subjected to further homogenization in the presence of 1% Triton and centrifugation to yield Triton-insoluble cytoskeletons and Triton-soluble material derived from perikarya and axonal neurites, respectively. Resulting Triton-soluble fractions were &quot;clarified&quot; by high-speed centrifugation to eliminate oligomeric assemblies or soluble neurofilaments. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated quantitative recovery of the aluminum-induced increase in Triton-soluble NF subunits in the perikaryal fraction. Additional aluminum-treated and untreated cultures were pulse-chase radiolabeled with [35S]methionine and fractionated into Triton-insoluble and soluble fractions from isolated perikarya and axonal neurites. Autoradiographic analysis of immunoprecipitated NF subunits revealed that aluminum treatment delayed the translocation of newly synthesized subunits into neurites and resulted in the accumulation of radiolabeled subunits within the Triton-soluble fraction of perikarya. These findings suggest that aluminum may exert a relatively greater effect on NF subunits that have not yet undergone axonal transport and/or incorporation into Triton-insoluble structures vs those that have already deposited into axons. This possibility was supported by the observation that a higher concentration of aluminum was required to alter the electrophoretic migration of in vitro reassembled neurofilaments vs that required for unassembled NF subunits. These findings provide possible mechanisms for the accumulation of NF subunits in perikarya during aluminum intoxication.
The mammalian N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex is though to consist of an NR1 subunit in combination with one or more of the four NR2 subunits (A, B, C, and D). When corresponding cDNAs are expressed in Xenopus oocytes, ion channels with the characteristic profile of NMDA receptors are formed. The receptor is unique in requiring two coagonists, glutamate and glycine, for activation of the channel. We have used site-directed mutagenesis to study amino acids in the human NR1 subunit that contribute to the glycine binding site of the NMDA receptor without affecting the agonist site for glutamate. Mutations to D481 and K483 produced receptors with up to 160-fold lower affinities for glycine, as well as other agonists and partial agonists, without affecting maximum current size or the degree of agonist efficacy. The D481A mutation also led to 40-50-fold lower affinities for two structurally diverse glycine site antagonists. From these data we propose that the carboxyl group of this aspartate interacts with the amino moiety of glycine and the equivalent group contained in other agonists and antagonists.
The ability of volatile (halothane and isoflurane) and nonvolatile (alphaxalone and pentobarbital) general anesthetics to modulate radioligand binding to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors was examined in an immortalized cell line (WSS-1) expressing rat alpha 1 and gamma 2 subunits. Volatile anesthetics enhance [3H]flunitrazepam binding to WSS-1 cells in a concentration-dependent manner, with potencies and efficacies comparable to those found with native GABAA receptors. Transfection of these cells with cDNAs encoding rat beta 2 or beta 3 subunits had a significant influence on anesthetic efficacy but not potency in this assay. Thus, transfection with the beta 2 subunit reduced the efficacy of both isoflurane and halothane, whereas transfection with the beta 3 subunit increased the efficacy of isoflurane but not halothane, compared with values obtained in WSS-1 cells. In contrast, alpha-xalone (an anesthetic steroid) had no effect, whereas at high concentrations pentobarbital (an anesthetic barbiturate) produced a modest inhibition of [3H]flunitrazepam binding to GABAA receptors in WSS-1 cells. Transfection of WSS-1 cells with cDNAs encoding either beta 2 or beta 3 subunits resulted in a concentration-dependent enhancement of [3H]flunitrazepam binding by these nonvolatile anesthetics. Moreover, pentobarbital was significantly more potent in enhancing [3H]flunitrazepam binding to WSS-1 cells transfected with the beta 2 subunit, compared with the beta 3 subunit. The difference in subunit requirements between volatile and nonvolatile anesthetics for enhancement of [3H]flunitrazepam binding indicates that these classes of agents affect GABAA receptor function at distinct loci. These studies also provide evidence that the beta subunit is required for these nonvolatile anesthetics to positively modulate GABAA receptors.

The prion protein (PrP) is central to the aetiology of the prion diseases, transmissible neurodegenerative conditions of humans and animals. PrP null mice show abnormalities of synaptic neurophysiology, in particular weakened GABAA receptor-mediated fast inhibition and impaired long-term potentiation in the hippocampus. Here we demonstrate that this PrP null phenotype is rescued in mice with a high copy number of a transgene encoding human PrP but not in low copy number mice, confirming the specificity of the phenotype for loss of function of PrP. The ability of human PrP to compensate for loss of murine PrP will allow direct study of the functional consequences of the 18 human PrP mutations, which cause the inherited prion diseases; this phenotype can now form the basis of the first functional assay for PrP.
Levels of catecholamines and the synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) are markedly decreased in the dorsal striatum, caudate-putamen nuclei, following neurotoxic lesions with 6-hydroxy-dopamine (6-OHDA). We examined whether pre-embedding immunoperoxidase labeling of TH could be standardized for quantitatively examining the density and ultrastructure of spared dopaminergic terminals in the striatum of lesioned rats. The peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) method was used to localize rabbit antiserum against TH in caudate-putamen nuclei of adult rats given unilateral nigral injections of either vehicle or 6-hydroxydopamine in the early postnatal period. Experimental differences in fixation and immunocytochemical labeling were minimized by limiting comparisons of immunoreactivity to co-processed sections from the same litters of animals. Imaging software and a Phillips CM-10 electron microscope were used to quantitatively examine immunoreactive profiles in a narrow zone of tissue in contact with the embedding resin. Under these conditions variables attributed to differences in penetration were minimized. There were no significant differences in numbers or mean-cross sectional diameter of immunoreactive terminals in striatum ipsilateral versus contralateral to vehicle injections. Ipsilateral to the 6-OHDA injections, the density (numbers/area) of striatal TH-immunoreactive terminals was reduced by 50-90% in the majority of animals. In the most extensively lesioned rats, the cross-sectional areas of the remaining immunoreactive axons were significantly larger than in the contralateral striatum of the same animal or either hemisphere of vehicle injected controls. These results confirm and extend earlier findings on the plasticity of residual dopaminergic terminals in adult animals after neurotoxic damage. They also establish a quantitative method for ultrastructural analysis of the density of immunoreactivity in thick sections of tissue labeled prior to plastic embedding. The method has broad applicability to quantitative studies of neurotoxicity and plasticity in brain.
Neurotoxicology is a major focus of scientists and policy makers. Neurotoxicological investigations provide vital information needed by regulatory scientists to protect public health and can also elucidate fundamental mechanisms governing nervous system function and enhance our understanding of neurodegenerative diseases as well. A definition of neurotoxicity, developed by the Interagency Committee on Neurotoxicology, includes both permanent and reversible adverse effects on the nervous system. There are a number of factors that can greatly affect the outcome of any study designed to assess neurotoxicity, such as the choice of animal species, dose and dosage regimen, and route of administration. In considering neuroanatomical methodologies for assessing neurotoxicity, it is important to evaluate each technique for such factors as: limits of detection (sensitivity and signal to noise ratio), ability to be quantified, sampling problems, what is being measured and what can interfere with this measurement. Other questions relating to the strengths and weaknesses of neuroanatomical techniques that should be addressed include: is the technique difficult to perform? Is it reproducible? Which elements of the nervous system are best evaluated? Does the technique reveal the neuronal circuitry involved in the neurotoxic effect? Is successful application of the technique dependent on timing factors? Clearly, there are many factors that can influence the assessment of neurotoxicity so that it is best to base this assessment on converging data based on complementary techniques.
Determinations of plasminogen activator (PA) activity are usually performed in Triton X-100-treated tissue homogenates or crude membrane fractions. Such preparations usually involve a single Triton X-100 treatment. In the present paper we describe the pattern of variability of PA activity measured in different fractions obtained from the developing chick CNS by a repetitive procedure of Triton X-100 treatment and ultracentrifugation. To further characterize this PA activity we have also performed zymographic analyses during the embryonic development and the early postnatal life. Our results show that: a) a single Triton X-100 treatment does not completely extract the enzyme and this lead to an underestimation of the total PA activity; b) the PA activity is associated with the particulate component of the total tissue homogenate requiring its complete solubilization more drastic Triton X-100 treatments; c) better estimations of total and specific activities are obtained by using soluble fractions derived by ultracentrifugation from Triton X-100-treated membrane fractions; d) the developing chick optic lobe expresses only one kind of PA molecule along the entire development; e) the level of PA activity vary characteristically during the ontogeny and the early postnatal life indicating the existence of a developmentally regulated mechanism of PA expression.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is described as a tool in basic and clinical research in the neurosciences, especially in brain and heart. The physics and chemistry of the technique are reviewed. Numerous applications include measuring metabolism, blood flow and neurotransmitter properties quantitatively in vivo. Applications in facilitating drug research are outlined. PET is a unique tool for assessing in vivo biochemistry in humans.
Nineteen patients underwent a total of 24 medial thalamic lesions made with the Leksell Gamma Knife for the treatment of chronic intractable pain after extensive prior medical and surgical intervention had failed to provide pain relief. The lesion locations were based on prior experience with open radiofrequency medial thalamotomies for the treatment of pain and were directed at the intralaminar, mediodorsal, centromedian, and parafascicular nuclei. All lesions were made with the 4 mm collimator helmet at radiosurgical doses from 140-180 Gray. Follow-up MRI scans indicated anatomically distinct lesions which developed 3-6 weeks after the procedure and were fully formed by 8-12 weeks. The lesion volumes averaged 300-400 mm3 for a single isocentre, 600-900 mm3 for two isocentres, and 900-1100 mm3 for three isocentres. One patient developed a lesion 5500 mm3 in volume after a two isocentre lesion at 160 Gray. Of 15 patients who have been followed for more than 3 months (average follow-up 12 months) four patients (27%) are virtually pain free and functioning normally, whereas five other patients (33%) achieved greater than 50% pain relief. Thus 9/15 patients (60%) have had worthwhile benefit from medial thalamotomy with the Gamma Knife. Medial thalamotomy with the Gamma Knife produces thalamic lesions which are reliable in size, shape and location with a low complication rate and offers a minimally invasive, cost effective treatment for certain selected patients with chronic intractable pain.
Previous studies have demonstrated impaired complex I activity in platelets from Parkinson's disease (PD) patients who were receiving levodopa and other medications for their disease. Eleven patients with early PD underwent three sequential plateletphereses: while on no medication, after receiving carbidopa/levodopa for 1 month, and after receiving carbidopa/levodopa plus selegiline for 1 additional month. As expected, carbidopa/levodopa and selegiline significantly improved motor function in these patients. Treatment with carbidopa/levodopa alone and carbidopa/levodopa plus selegiline did not affect the activities of complexes I, II/III, and IV and citrate synthetase. These observations support the hypothesis that impaired complex I activity in PD patients is a characteristic of the disease and not due to medications.
Using MRI methods previously shown to optimize visualization of cytoarchitectonic details in the body of the hippocampal formation caudal to the pes hippocampi, we imaged and quantified the hippocampus proper including the subiculum and the dentate gyrus in 33 autistic patients between the ages of 6 and 42 years and in 23 age-matched normal healthy volunteers. Measures of these structures in autistic patients and normal healthy volunteers differed nonsignificantly, by less than 1.4%, regardless of whether or not the autistic patients were retarded or had a history of seizure episodes. By contrast, measures of vermian lobules VI and VII and the posterior portion of the corpus callosum in these same autistic and normal volunteers differed significantly, by more than 9.9%. The lack of a significant difference in the cross-sectional size of the posterior hippocampal formation between autistic and normal 6- to 42-year-olds is discrepant with predictions based on some, but not all, autopsy studies. This suggests that there is a need for additional quantitative autopsy study of the hippocampal formation and quantitative MRI study of rostral hippocampal regions that we did not explore in the present report. Also, quantitative autopsy and MRI studies have yet to examine hippocampal development in autistic patients younger than 6 years of age; whether early stages of growth are normal or not is unknown.
We studied the ratio of the maximal H-reflex to maximal direct muscle potential (H/M ratio), late facilitation and late inhibition in the recovery curve, and vibratory inhibition of the soleus H-reflex in three consecutive patients with hereditary dopa-responsive dystonia, before and during treatment with levodopa. In one patient, we repeated the H-reflex tests twice after withdrawal of levodopa. The results were compared with those in a group of 48 healthy subjects. In the patients before treatment, the soleus H-reflex recovery curve showed increased late facilitation and depressed late inhibition, reflecting alterations in postsynaptic interneuronal activity. Vibratory inhibition, predominantly reflecting presynaptic inhibitory action, was depressed. Normalization of these test results occurred during levodopa treatment, concurrent with a clear clinical response. The H/M ratio, reflecting the excitability state of the motoneuron pool, was similar during and without levodopa treatment. In the one patient tested after levodopa withdrawal, enhancement of late facilitation and decrease of vibratory inhibition paralleled the reoccurrence of dystonia most clearly. Since soleus H-reflex tests mainly reflect mechanisms operating at the spinal level, spinal aminergic or dopaminergic systems are probably involved in dopa-responsive dystonia.
A 55-year-old woman had paroxysms of vertigo and visual blurring associated with complex combined torsional, horizontal, and vertical nystagmus. These episodes occurred regularly at 2-minute intervals, each attack lasting for 15 seconds. Between attacks, there was a much finer asymptomatic nystagmus whose components were in the opposite direction to those associated with the paroxysmal attacks. A brain MRI revealed an arteriovenous malformation in close proximity to the left vestibular nucleus, with evidence of previous bleeding. Caloric testing demonstrated a left-sided vestibular paresis. We suggest that neurons in this patient's damaged left vestibular nucleus are usually underactive but regularly produce pathologic brief bursts of hyperactivity causing episodic reversal and gross exacerbation of her resting nystagmus. Treatment with low-dose carbamazepine was successful in abolishing both the paroxysms of nystagmus and the symptoms of vertigo and visual disturbance.

Non-A beta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NAC) is the second component in the amyloid from brain tissue of patients affected with Alzheimer's disease. Its precursor protein (NACP) was shown to be a brain-specific protein. In rat brain, NACP was more abundant in the neocortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, striatum, thalamus, and cerebellum and less abundant in the brain stem. Confocal laser microscopy analysis revealed that anti-NACP immunostaining was colocalized with synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals. Ultrastructural analysis showed that NACP immunoreactivity was associated with synaptic vesicles. NACP sequence showed 95% identity with that of rat synuclein 1, a synaptic/nuclear protein previously identified in rat brain, and good homology with Torpedo synuclein from the electric organ synapse and bovine phosphoneuroprotein 14 (PNP-14), a brain-specific protein present in synapses. Therefore, NACP is a synaptic protein, suggesting that synaptic aberration observed in senile plaques might be involved in amyloidogenesis in Alzheimer's disease.
Neuronal activity is an essential stimulus for induction of plasticity and normal development of the CNS. We have used differential cloning techniques to identify a novel immediate-early gene (IEG) cDNA that is rapidly induced in neurons by activity in models of adult and developmental plasticity. Both the mRNA and the encoded protein are enriched in neuronal dendrites. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence indicates a region of homology with alpha-spectrin, and the full-length protein, prepared by in vitro transcription/translation, coprecipitates with F-actin. Confocal microscopy of the native protein in hippocampal neurons demonstrates that the IEG-encoded protein is enriched in the subplasmalemmal cortex of the cell body and dendrites and thus colocalizes with the actin cytoskeletal matrix. Accordingly, we have termed the gene and encoded protein Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein). Our observations suggest that Arc may play a role in activity-dependent plasticity of dendrites.
Collapsing factors are proteins that induce growth cone collapse and paralysis when added in a soluble form to cultured embryonic neurons. Here we examine the responses of growth cones to localized collapsing signals. Temporal retinal ganglion cell growth cones exposed to a localized collapsing stimulus from nasal retinal ganglion cell axons frequently turn smoothly away from the axons without collapsing. Turning is rare on contact with retinal axons that are unable to induce collapse. In a separate series of experiments, dorsal root ganglion growth cones tend to turn away from beads coated with a brain extract enriched for the motility-inhibiting protein collapsin. Many turns are accomplished with filopodial contact alone. Growth cones do not turn away from control beads coated with heat-inactivated collapsin. These results suggest that inhibitory guidance cues can steer growth cones through a localized inhibition of lamellipodial protrusion.

Oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction are now considered to be important events in the cause of dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD). It is not known whether these biochemical abnormalities represent primary causes of PD or whether they are the end result of a series or reactions precipitated by environmental and genetic factors. Both oxidative damage and complex I deficiency are linked in a reciprocal manner and can potentially produce a toxic cellular environment capable of attacking a variety of biomolecules as well as inhibiting energy production. Defining the roles that these two biochemical defects play in nigral neuronal loss will provide important insights into the aetiology of PD.
The hypothesis of prefrontal dysfunction in psychopathy has been pursued for many years, without convincing results. It is proposed here that this approach in previous studies was far too global. The present investigation was carried out in order to test a more specific hypothesis of orbitofrontal and/or frontal ventromedial deficits in psychopathy. Psychopathic criminals were compared to non-psychopathic criminals with measures related to orbitofrontal or frontal ventromedial functioning, as well as with control measures more associated with frontodorsolateral and posterorolandic functions. All subjects provided urine samples for drug assay. It was found that, while the two groups performed similarly on all the control measures, including the drug tests, the psychopaths were significantly impaired on all the orbitofrontal-ventromedial tasks. The psychopaths were significantly impulsive on several tests as well as significantly dysosmic [corrected]. The latter finding is particularly important in the sense that it cannot readily be explained socioculturally, thus presenting a new and convincing argument for brain-based etiology of this disorder. The results are discussed in relation to other psychiatric disorders characterized by impulse dyscontrol as well as in relation to other putative neurobiological etiological factors in psychopathy.
We report a case of aseptic meningoencephalitis complicating iohexol myelography and compare this case with previous reports of neurotoxicity from intrathecal contrast media.
All anxiolytics so far tested show a common reduction in the frequency of reticular-elicited hippocampal rhythmical slow activity (RSA). Acute administration of the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine shares this effect with anxiolytics. The present experiment tested whether the MAO inhibitor antidepressant phenelzine shares this common effect of anxiolytics and imipramine on hippocampal RSA. Rats, implanted with reticular stimulating electrodes and subicular recording electrodes, received four acute doses (0.2, 2.0, 6.0 and 18 mg/kg) or one chronic dose (2 mg/kg/day for 35 days) of phenelzine. Acute administration of phenelzine failed to systematically affect RSA frequency. Chronic injections of phenelzine eventually produced a reduction in RSA frequency combined with a gradual increase in baseline RSA frequency. The absence of immediate action and the production of a chronic reduction in RSA frequency are distinct from the documented effects of anxiolytics and imipramine, whereas the increase in baseline RSA frequency is similar to imipramine. The different influence of phenelzine on RSA frequency compared with anxiolytics (including imipramine) is consistent with the different clinical profiles of these drugs.
The localization of the neurons expressing the acetylcholinesterase gene in the rat central nervous system was studied by in situ hybridization. The striatal and nigral neurons containing acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA were especially identified. Acetylcholinesterase messenger RNA was detected in numerous areas of the central nervous system, including cholinergic areas, like striatum, nucleus basalis of Meynert, septum and diagonal band of Broca, but also non-cholinergic areas, like the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, the cerebellum and the raphe dorsalis. In the striatum, 75% of the neurons expressing the acetylcholinesterase gene were identified as cholinergic neurons and 25% as somatostatin-producing neurons. All dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area were demonstrated to express the acetylcholinesterase gene. Our results suggest that several neuronal populations could contribute to the presence of acetylcholinesterase in the striatum: the striatal cholinergic and somatostatin-containing interneurons, the nigral dopaminergic neurons and other neurons that may be the corticostriatal, thalamostriatal and raphe-striatal neurons. This demonstrates that, especially in the striatum, acetylcholinesterase is not a specific marker of the cholinergic neurons. The diversity of the origins of striatal acetylcholinesterase suggests a multiplicity of functions for this enzyme: besides its cholinolytic actions, it may also possibly play a non-cholinolytic role in neuromodulation.
In order to investigate the basic cellular mechanisms involved in neuronal interactions within the striatum, we prepared a primary striatal cell culture from rat fetal brain in chemically defined medium. Using morphological and whole-cell recording methods, we observed that an intensive neuritic elongation with a progressive build up of a sodium-dependent electrogenesis occurred during the first week of culture. Morphologically mature synapses began to develop after 10 days in vitro. By this time, most of the neurons (82 +/- 9%) received spontaneously synaptic potentials, which led them to fire (71 +/- 11%). The spontaneous firing was prevented by cadmium (200 microM) and tetrodotoxin (5 microM), which suggested that a Ca(2+)-dependent release of neurotransmitters was involved in the synaptic activation. We further obtained evidence that GABA, and to a lesser extent acetylcholine, contributed to these spontaneous synaptic potentials. At 15 days in vitro, it was possible to observe up to four synaptic contacts on a given dendrite. By this time, whole-cell recordings performed on pairs of neurons showed that the mature neurons were interconnected by excitatory synapses. As the number of synapses increased, the striatal neurons gradually formed a large network in which spontaneous activity developed, which tended to be organized into synchronized bursting patterns.
We describe here a model of delayed-type hypersensitivity response in the CNS directed against a non-CNS antigen. The results presented in this paper show that bacillus Calmette-Gurin sequestrated behind the blood-brain barrier provokes an immune-mediated assault leading to bystander myelin damage. The delayed-type hypersensitivity response was induced by the intracranial injection of heat-killed bacillus Calmette-Gurin followed by subcutaneous immunization two to six weeks later. A single intracranial injection of bacillus Calmette-Gurin resulted in a rapid myelomonocytic response which persisted for approximately two weeks. By four weeks the inflammatory cells were no longer detected. Serum proteins were also excluded from the CNS parenchyma at this time. However, immunohistochemical staining with anti-bacillus Calmette-Gurin antiserum revealed the presence of bacillus Calmette-Gurin debris at the site of the original intracranial injection, indicating that the inflammatory response failed to clear the mycobacterium fully. Following peripheral sensitization with bacillus Calmette-Gurin in complete Freund's adjuvant, a strong delayed-type hypersensitivity response was detected at the site of bacillus Calmette-Gurin deposits in the CNS. An extensive inflammatory lesion was spread over a large area of the dorsal hippocampus. The lesion was composed predominantly of mononuclear phagocytes and T cells. Staining with anti-myelin basic protein antiserum showed bystander myelin damage. Delayed-type hypersensitivity responses were studied over several months and were still detected in the CNS five months after peripheral immunization.
In fibroblasts, serum stimulation has been shown to activate the immediate-early gene 3CH134 encoding a dual specificity protein phosphatase that regulates mitogen-activated protein kinase. We report here that 3CH134 messenger RNA levels increase during recirculation following 30 min forebrain ischemia in the rat brain. In normal rat brains, 3CH134 messenger RNA was found mainly in neurons of the cortex and thalamus. At recirculation periods up to 1 h after 30 min ischemia, 3CH134 messenger RNA increased in neurons and glial cells of all previously ischemic brain regions. After 3 and 6 h recirculation, a prominent increase of 3CH134 messenger RNA was observed in the pyramidal cell layer of all sectors of the hippocampus and the granule cells of the dentate gyrus, whereas in the other brain regions messenger RNA levels returned to control. Up to 6 h of recirculation the spatial induction pattern of 3CH134 was similar to the pattern observed for the immediate-early genes c-fos and c-jun. Within the hippocampus a similar pattern was also observed for the heat shock protein hsp70 messenger RNA. At 12 and 24 h after ischemia, increased levels of 3CH134 messenger RNA persisted in hippocampal neurons; at the same time a delayed increase of 3CH134 messenger RNA was observed in large neurons of the thalamus and in glial cells in damaged regions of the striatum. At later survival periods, 3CH134 messenger RNA returned to control levels. Our study shows that the mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase 3CH134 is induced in the brain after a period of global ischemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Using immunofluorescence histochemistry and pre- and post-embedding immunoelectron microscopy the rat lumbar dorsal horn was analysed in normal rats and 14 days after unilateral transection of the sciatic nerve. A marked increase in neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was observed in the ipsilateral, superficial dorsal horn, especially in laminae III and IV, of the lumbar 4-5 spinal cord segments after peripheral axotomy. In the ipsilateral lamina II two types of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive, presumably primary afferent terminals could be identified at the ultrastructural level. The first type contained many large dense-core vesicles (100-155 nm in diameter), whereas a second, more common type had only a few and smaller large dense-core vesicles (80-100 nm in diameter), plus synaptic vesicles of varying diameter (50-85 nm), large empty vesicles and tubular structures. Only occasionally were neuropeptide Y-positive terminals in lamina II involved in the formation of axonal labyrinths. In the ipsilateral lamina III, the number of neuropeptide Y-positive nerve terminals markedly increased after axotomy, with a moderate increase in lamina IV. These neuropeptide Y-positive terminals were morphologically similar to the second type of neuropeptide Y-positive terminal in lamina II, i.e. contained many synaptic vesicles (45-50 nm in diameter), a few small large dense-core vesicles (80-100 nm in diameter), electron-dense granular matrix and a few tubular structures. Fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane was often observed at these synapses. These terminals frequently formed glomeruli but were not involved in axonal labyrinths. With regard to local neurons, neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was observed in many dendrite-like profiles mostly making synaptic contacts with neuropeptide Y-negative dendrites and only rarely contacting the central terminal of the glomeruli. Neuropeptide Y-positive nerve endings were mainly seen in lamina I and the outer third of lamina II. After peripheral axotomy the number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine immunoreactive terminals was increased in laminae I and II. They contained many large dense-core vesicles (100-120 nm in diameter), and some of them were positive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine. Morphologically, the terminals were characterized by a granular matrix, tubular structures, empty vesicles, reduction in synaptic vesicles and absence of postsynaptic densities. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine-like immunoreactivities were often found in association with labyrinth formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We previously reported the presence of trkA messenger RNA expressing non-cholinergic neurons in the paraventricular anterior and reuniens nuclei, which are located in the thalamic midline. In the present study, retrograde labeling with iodinated (125I) nerve growth factor was used to identify the innervation target of these cells. Neurons in the paraventricular anterior and reuniens nuclei were labeled following injection of iodinated nerve growth factor into amygdala and hippocampus, but not into nucleus accumbens and entorhinal cortex, the two other main areas receiving strong innervation from the thalamic midline. Target ablation of hippocampus or amygdala failed to down-regulate trkA messenger RNA expression in the two thalamic nuclei, thus suggesting a role for nerve growth factor different from a critical survival factor. The thalamic paraventricular anterior and reuniens nuclei are part of the reticular formation which plays a role in general cortical activation, behavioral arousal and control of awareness. Retrograde transport of nerve growth factor by trkA messenger RNA expressing neurons in these nuclei suggests a physiological role of this trophic factor in the function of these cells.
Injury to a peripheral nerve causes central changes of various nature and complexity reflecting activation of multiple signaling mechanisms. In a previous study we reported that nerve lesion triggers central release of a tracer, wheatgerm-agglutinin conjugated to horse-radish peroxidase, by unmyelinated fibers in the spinal cord. The released tracer occupies the space between nerve terminals and dendrites without extending into the synaptic cleft. We interpreted this to suggest release of unidentified endogenous factor(s) at nonsynaptic sites, which may contribute to the signaling of peripheral injury to the central nervous system. For such signaling to occur, a message must first be communicated along the axon. This message may depend on axonal transport and/or altered electrical activity. In pilot experiments we observed that application of tetrodotoxin (to block impulse conduction) to the intact nerve did not result in tracer release. We hypothesized that the message might be the sustained discharge of C fibers that occurs after injury. We show here that selective activation of C fibers (by applying mustard oil to the hindlimb of anesthetized rats) causes central release of tracer previously transported from the sciatic nerve to superficial laminae of the dorsal horn.
Although glutamate is thought to be the neurotransmitter at the invertebrate neuromuscular junction, acetylcholine is accepted as the primary neurotransmitter of the vertebrate motoneurons. N-acetylaspartylglutamate, a dipeptide localized in putative glutamatergic neurons in brain, is also found in high concentrations (&gt; mM) in mammalian motoneurons and the ventral roots of spinal cord. N-acetylaspartylglutamate, which is released from neurons by depolarization in a Ca(2+)-dependent fashion, is implicated in glutamatergic transmission in two ways: it is a partial agonist at NMDA receptors, and it is cleaved to yield extracellular glutamate and N-acetylasparate by the specific peptidase N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase. Given the localization of N-acetylaspartylglutamate in motor neuronal perikarya and axons, we wondered whether N-acetylaspartylglutamate or glutamate cleaved from N-acetylaspartylglutamate by N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase may also play a role in neuromuscular transmission. Here we describe the immunocytochemical detection at the rat neuromuscular junction of N-acetylaspartylglutamate in terminals of motoneurons, of N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase in perisynaptic Schwann cells, and of the NMDAR-1 glutamate receptor subunit on postsynaptic muscle membranes. These results point to a potential role for N-acetylaspartylglutamate at the rat neuromuscular junction. Further, this is the first demonstration of a glutamate receptor protein at vertebrate neuromuscular synapses. Together with other recent findings, our results suggest that glutamate-like molecules are involved in neuromuscular transmission not only in invertebrates but also in veretebrates where they may modulate signaling by acetylcholine.
Five synthetic prostaglandin E analogs (11-deoxyPGE1, 17-phenyl-ol-trinor prostaglandin E2, enisoprost, MB28767 and misoprostol) have been evaluated for their ability to produce mechanical hyperalgesia in rats. The Randall-Selitto paw withdrawal model of mechanical hyperalgesia was used. Following intradermal injections (2.5 microliters) into the dorsal surface of the hindpaw, each prostaglandin E analog produced a dose-dependent (1-1000 ng) decrease in nociceptive threshold (i.e. hyperalgesia). Hyperalgesia produced by 17-phenyl-ol-trinor prostaglandin E2 and MB28767, was inhibited by the prostaglandin E1 antagonist SC19220 (7.5 ng), while the hyperalgesia produced by 11-deoxyprostaglandin E1, enisoprost and misoprostol was not inhibited by this antagonist. Hyperalgesia produced by all five analogs was significantly attenuated or completely blocked by inhibiting stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein with guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), adenylyl cyclase with 2'5'-dideoxyadenosine and protein kinase A with WIPTIDE. These results suggest the presence of more than one prostaglandin E-receptor subtype, which mediate hyperalgesia, predominantly via the cAMP second messenger system, in the hindpaw of the rat.
Previous studies have shown that low concentrations of exogenous ATP, added to the perilymphatic fluid, could modify the bioelectrical activity of the isolated semicircular canal of the frog (Rana pipiens). To test the hypothesis that ATP is endogenously present and active in the perilymphatic fluid, the influence of two ATP-purinoceptor antagonists, Reactive Blue 2 and suramin, and of the enzyme, nucleotide pyrophosphatase, were examined. When applied by perilymphatic bath substitution, the three compounds reduced, in a dose-dependent manner, the firing of the afferent fibers monitored in the absence of mechanically-applied stimulation. The response of the afferent fibers, recorded when the sensory cells were mechanically inhibited, was also reduced. No modification of the response of the excitatory phase of the mechanical stimulus was observed in the presence of the two antagonists. In contrast, the signal was significantly reduced by the enzyme. None of the three compounds exhibited an influence on the transepithelial potential, or its variation in response to mechanical stimulation. The ATP-induced modification of the firing rate of the afferent fibers, monitored in the absence of mechanical stimulation, was reduced in the presence of the three drugs. No influence of Reactive Blue 2 and suramin was observed on the increase of the spontaneous firing induced by carbachol. In contrast, the effect of carbachol was decreased by nucleotide pyrophosphatase. The excitatory influence of glutamate on the spontaneous firing was not modified by Reactive Blue 2, while it was slightly increased by suramin and nucleotide pyrophosphatase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons from prepubertal (29-day-old) and adult (three-month-old) male rats were demonstrated immunocytochemically using the LR1 antibody, and prepared for electron microscopic examination. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons were equally immunoreactive in the two age groups, but there were heavy deposits of reaction product in the outer nuclear envelope of these neurons in prepubertal animals. Point count stereology on electron micrographic montages of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons at x25,000 was used to compare the relative proportion of cytoplasm containing various subcellular organelles. More of the cytoplasm was occupied by Golgi apparatus and secretory vesicles in the prepubertal animals. The representation of mitochondria was equal in the two age groups, while there were more lysosomes in the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons from adult animals. The density of synaptic input to the neurons was estimated using quantitative morphometrics on electron micrographs of three levels of section through the neuron, magnified x25,000. The percentage of the perikaryal membrane with synaptic contacts was greater in the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons from adults. Most strikingly, there were gonadotropin-releasing hormone terminals on gonadotropin-releasing hormone soma of these neurons in prepubertal animals, but not in the adults. The highly immunoreactive outer nuclear envelope and relative larger representation of Golgi and secretory vesicles in gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons in prepubertal animals suggest that these cells are actively synthesizing peptides, including gonadotropin-releasing hormone. The large representation of Golgi apparatus may also reflect the active biosynthesis of membrane in association with the elaboration of neuronal processes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA plays an important role in regulating the activity of magnocellular oxytocin and vasopressin neurons located in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei through occupancy of GABAA receptors. However, the GABAA receptor is a hetero-oligomeric protein comprised of different subunits and the subunit types expressed in a given receptor complex appear critical for its sensitivity to GABA, benzodiazepines and/or steroids. Thus, in order to understand fully the GABAergic control of oxytocin and vasopressin secretion, definition of the GABAA receptors synthesized by magnocellular neurons in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei is required. In the supraoptic nucleus, antibodies directed against the alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta 2/3 subunits of the GABAA receptor revealed similar strong antigen distribution on all magnocellular neurons. Using sequential double-immunoperoxidase staining, immunoreactivity for all three subunits was observed on both oxytocin and vasopressin neurons of the supraoptic nucleus. In contrast, only alpha 2 subunit immunoreactivity was detected on the cell bodies of oxytocin and vasopressin neurons in the paraventricular nucleus. No sex differences were detected. In situ hybridization experiments using 35S-labelled oligonucleotides showed that all supraoptic neurons expressed alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta 2 subunit messenger RNA transcripts while magnocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus were only enriched in alpha 2 subunit messenger RNA. Quantitative analysis showed that the expression of alpha 1 and beta 2 subunit messenger RNAs in the paraventricular nucleus was half that observed in the supraoptic nucleus while expression of beta 3 subunit messenger RNA was very low in both nuclei. These results show that all oxytocin and vasopressin neurons located in the supraoptic nucleus synthesize and express alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta 2 subunits of the GABAA receptor while those in the paraventricular nucleus are only immunoreactive for the alpha 2 subunit. These observations suggest, therefore, that at least two pharmacologically distinct GABAA receptor isoforms exist on supraoptic neurons and that these are different to those expressed by paraventricular magnocellular cells. Thus, in addition to providing a definition of the subunits likely to form specific GABAA receptor isoforms on magnocellular neurons, this study gives direct evidence for GABAA receptor heterogeneity between supraoptic and paraventricular neurons, but not between oxytocin and vasopressin cells.
Localization of the messenger RNAs that encode the alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunits of GABAA showed a distinct topographic pattern in rat brain which corresponded with [3H]zolpidem binding in most brain regions. The close topographic correspondence between the specific receptor subunits examined and the distribution of [3H]zolpidem binding sites provides support for the hypothesis that this benzodiazepine type 1 selective ligand binds to a GABAA receptor that consists of alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunits in the rat brain. Brain regions with relatively high densities of alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunits of GABAA and [3H]zolpidem binding included olfactory bulb, medial septum, ventral pallidum, diagonal band, inferior colliculus, substantia nigra pars reticulata and specific layers of the cortex. Two areas with low [3H]zolpidem binding and a virtual absence of these GABAA receptor subunit messenger RNAs were the lateral septum and the striatum. In contrast to the discrete pattern observed for alpha 1 and beta 2 subunit messenger RNAs, the gamma 2 subunit messenger RNA was distributed more diffusely in brain. Only the hippocampus, layer 2 of the piriform cortex and the cerebellum showed a strong concentration of the gamma 2 subunit messenger RNA. It was determined with a polymerase chain reaction assay that both long and short variants of the gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs were present within several of the brain sites selected for examination. Sites with high densities of [3H]zolpidem binding sites had a greater relative abundance of the gamma 2 long splice variant, compared to the gamma 2 short variant. There were some regions that expressed high levels of alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2S subunit messenger RNAs but low [3H]zolpidem binding, suggesting that gamma 2 splice variant expression may modulate high-affinity [3H]zolpidem binding. To determine relationships between in vitro [3H]zolpidem binding and functional sensitivity in vivo, interactions between zolpidem and GABA were assessed in brain regions that contained high and low densities of [3H]zolpidem binding sites. In the medial septum, a brain region with a high concentration of [3H]zolpidem binding sites, iontophoretic application of zolpidem enhanced the inhibitory effect of GABA responses on 70% of the neurons examined. In the lateral septum, which contains very low densities of [3H]zolpidem binding sites, neurons were not sensitive to zolpidem enhancement of GABA-induced inhibition. These electrophysiological results demonstrate a correspondence between the regional distribution of [3H]zolpidem binding in vitro and functional sensitivity to the drug in vivo.
The serotonin receptor subtype 6, which raises intracellular cyclic AMP via stimulatory G-proteins, has recently been cloned and characterized. To determine the distribution of serotonin subtype 6 messenger RNA, in situ hybridization was performed in coronal sections of rat brain. 35S-labeled riboprobe, complementary to the 5' non-coding region of the serotonin subtype 6 messenger RNA, and a 33P-labeled riboprobe complementary to its 3' non-coding region, were used for hybridization. Serotonin subtype 6 receptor message was found in serotonin projection fields, rather than regions of serotonin-containing cell bodies, suggesting that the receptor is mainly postsynaptic. Hybridization signal was highest in olfactory tubercle, as well as prominent in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, dentate gyrus, and CA1, CA2 and CA3 of the hippocampus. Less intense hybridization was observed in cerebellum, some diencephalic nuclei, the amygdala, and layers 2, 3, 4 and 6 of the cortex. This pattern of hybridization was observed with both probes, but not when sense transcripts were used. Because the serotonin subtype 6 receptor has a high affinity for the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, and because striatum and nucleus accumbens are proposed sites of antipsychotic drug effects, the possibility is raised that this receptor may play an important role in mediating the effects of the atypical antipsychotic agents.
The presence of migrating callosal neurons during the development of the murine cerebral cortex was studied using biocytin and the lipophilic dye, 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate as retrograde tracers. After injections of biocytin in the presumptive somatosensory cortex of newborn mice which were analysed one day later, many anterogradely labelled fibres coursed towards the contralateral hemisphere through the corpus callosum. Retrogradely labelled callosal cells were also observed. Most callosal neurons corresponded to immature pyramidal cells. In addition, a few biocytin-labelled callosal neurons displayed extremely fusiform shapes, vertical orientation and a short, single process emerging from the apical side of the perikaryon. At the electron microscopic level, these cells had features identical to those described for migrating callosal neurons. Twenty-four hours after birth, these migrating neurons were almost exclusively observed in the upper, dense aspect of the cortical plate (presumptive layers II-III) and only very exceptionally in the infragranular layers. No retrogradely labelled cell resembling migrating neurons were noticed after injections on postnatal days 2 or 5. To study migrating callosal neurons at embryonic stages, crystals of the lipophilic dye were injected in the corpus callosum or the contralateral white matter in embryos aged 17, 18 and 19 days, corresponding to the initial development of the corpus callosum in mice. Whereas callosal migrating neurons were not detected at embryonic days 17 and 18, injections of the lipophilic dye on embryonic day 19 revealed the presence of labelled migrating neurons in the infragranular layers. To corroborate further that these cells are migrating neurons, [3H]thymidine was administered on embryonic days 16 and 17, and labelled mice were injected with biocytin on embryonic day 19 or the first postnatal day. Retrogradely labelled callosal neurons resembling migrating neurons were autoradiographically labelled. These results indicate that the specification of certain neuronal types and the emergence of their cell type-specific characteristics occur shortly after postmitotic neurons leave the ventricular zone, before being positioned within the cortical plate.
Pilocarpine administration to lithium chloride-pretreated rats results initially in discrete convulsive seizures, each behaviorally and electroencephalographically terminated, which then progress to convulsive activity with waxing-and-waning behavioral and electrographic severity; finally, a continuous convulsive state ensues, associated electrographically with continuous fast spiking. This stage does not last indefinitely but is followed by a dramatic electrographic change to periodic epileptiform discharges. The purpose of the present study was to determine with the 14C-2-deoxyglucose functional mapping technique what changes occur in the seizure anatomic substrate during and after this transition, in order to enable inferences about underlying mechanisms. Behavior associated with early and late continuous fast spiking consisted of head twitching; corresponding deoxyglucose autoradiographs displayed seizure-induced intense glucose utilization in most forebrain areas; extranigral brainstem was normal. At 2-3 h of status, fast spiking became interrupted by flat periods; periodic complexes soon dominated the electroencephalogram. Behaviorally, convulsive severity increased. Despite this dramatic electrographic evolution, little change in generalized forebrain metabolic hyperactivation occurred, except that the zona incerta/pretectal/superior colliculus complex displayed markedly increased activity. Deoxyglucose studies in late stages of periodic epileptiform discharges established a sequence of further changes. In late periodic discharges with clonic jerks, at 4 h after status entry, generalized forebrain hyperactivation still prevailed, but to a lesser degree than in early periodic discharges with clonic jerks. At a still later stage, late periodic discharges, subtle convulsive, autoradiographs revealed constriction of the seizure-activated anatomic substrate: hyperactivation was lost in most of neocortex and thalamus, and in caudal olfactory structures, cortical amygdala, and entorhinal areas, but retained in deep occipital cortex and many limbic areas. In the last stage, late periodic discharges, electrical, not associated with convulsive behavior, autoradiographs revealed residual activation in only Ammon's horn; in contrast, much of the forebrain displayed below-normal glucose utilization. These results demonstrate that in the later stages of status epilepticus, the transition from fast spiking to periodic complexes is not associated with a reduction in the seizure anatomic substrate. The electrographic entity of periodic epileptiform discharges is not anatomically or behaviorally homogeneous, but proceeds through successive stages characterized initially by a reduction of glucose utilization within generalized seizure-activated forebrain, then a contraction of the seizure anatomic substrate. Possible mechanisms underlying the transition to periodic complexes are discussed.
Continuous convulsive activity in status epilepticus generally does not occur suddenly in response to the inciting epileptogenic agent, but is rather the culmination of a stereotyped sequence of stages. Initially seizures are discrete, then undergo waxing-and-waning of convulsive/electroencephalographic severity. Following a transitional EEG-recorded fast-and-slow spiking phase, continuous fast spiking with invariant convulsive behavior ensues. We sought to map the seizure anatomic substrates corresponding to these stages, utilizing the 14C-2-deoxyglucose technique, in order to make inferences about underlying mechanisms. The lithium-pilocarpine status epilepticus model in rat was employed. Cerebral autoradiographs associated with discrete seizures revealed non-uniform cerebral metabolic activation, with rostral cortical and olfactory areas especially involved. Portions of basal ganglia were also activated, consistent with projections from seizure-activated areas. Successive stages of status entry displayed additional limbic and cortical activation, along with subcortical projection sites, so that by fast-and-slow spiking most forebrain areas were recruited. Based on these results, a model is proposed whereby cyclical seizure-attenuating mechanisms cause, in the initial stages of status entry, fluxing of seizure anatomic extents between small and large cerebral domains, with corresponding cycling of convulsive severity. In the later stages of status entry, these mechanisms become ineffective, resulting in steady-state maximal forebrain recruitment, associated with continuous and invariant convulsive behavior and electrographic fast spiking.
The neuropeptide FLFQPQRF amide is a FMRFamide-like peptide with some anti-opiate properties. Neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide receptors are present in the mammalian central nervous system and have been clearly identified as different from opiate receptors. Autoradiography has revealed neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide receptor localization within the ventral mesencephalon, where opiate receptors are also located. In order to delineate anatomical localization of neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide receptors, we used selective chemical lesions of dopaminergic cells and intrinsic perikarya of the ventral mesencephalon, coupled with in vitro autoradiographic techniques. We show that: (i) unilateral lesions of dopaminergic perikarya produced by 6-hydroxydopamine did not affect either ipsi or contralateral neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide receptor density within the mesencephalon; (ii) unilateral lesions of intrinsic perikarya by ibotenic acid injected into the ventral tegmental area produced a significant reduction of neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide receptors (40%) in this region; (iii) in the substantia nigra pars compacta, ibotenic acid unilateral lesions did not affect the density of neuropeptide FLFQPQRF-amide receptors; (iv) unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine or ibotenic acid lesions failed to affect neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide binding in the dopaminergic projection areas. These results suggest that, like opiate receptors, the neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide binding sites are not localized on dopaminergic neurons but are distributed on both soma of non dopaminergic cells in the ventral tegmental area and on fibers afferent to the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars compacta. To evaluate the possibility that the stimulation of neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide receptors may affect the opioid modulation of mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic neuron activity, we tested the effects of neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide ventral tegmental area infusion (0.25-10 micrograms) on the behavioral activation induced by intra-ventral tegmental area morphine infusion. We observed that in the ventral tegmental area, the stimulation of neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide receptors inhibits morphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. These results suggest that in the ventral tegmental area, neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide may participate, via an indirect mechanism, to the control of the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system activity by counteracting the effect of opioids.
Alterations in dopaminergic neurotransmission have profound effects on neuronal expression of the putative activity marker, Fos, in both the dorsal and ventral striatum. Stimulants such as D-amphetamine and cocaine increase Fos-like immunoreactivity by enhancing the activation of D1 dopamine receptors. In contrast, neuroleptics such as haloperidol and raclopride increase Fos-like immunoreactivity by blocking striatal D2 dopamine receptors. In the dorsal striatum, D1 receptor stimulation elevates Fos-like immunoreactivity predominantly in neurons projecting to the midbrain (substantia nigra), whereas D2 receptor antagonism enhances Fos-like immunoreactivity principally in neurons projecting to the pallidum (globus pallidus). These findings are consistent with the proposal that D1 receptors are located chiefly on striatonigral neurons, whereas D2 receptors reside mainly on striatopallidal neurons. Since the nucleus accumbens (largest component of the ventral striatum) also sends projections to the midbrain (ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra) and pallidum (ventral pallidum), the present study utilized retrograde tract-tracing techniques to determine if there was a similar segregation of D1 agonist- and D2 antagonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in these accumbal projections. In addition, we examined whether these relationships were the same in the core and shell regions of the nucleus accumbens. Like the dorsal striatum, D1 agonists (D-amphetamine and CY 208-243), but not D2 antagonists (haloperidol and clozapine), increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in accumbal neurons projecting to the midbrain (ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra). Also like the dorsal striatum, D2 antagonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity was located preferentially in accumbal neurons projecting to the pallidum (ventral pallidum). However, unlike the dorsal striatum, where the vast majority of neurons which display D1 agonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity project to the midbrain, nearly 50% of those neurons in the nucleus accumbens which were Fos-immunoreactive after D-amphetamine or CY 208-243 projected to the ventral pallidum. Thus, a similar number of accumbal neurons which expressed D1 agonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity were retrogradely labelled from the midbrain and ventral pallidum. Accumbal projections to the midbrain and ventral pallidum were retrogradely labelled with different retrograde tracers in order to determine the degree of collateralization between these pathways. Approximately 20% of retrogradely labelled neurons displayed both tracers, indicating that collateralization and damage to fibres of passage could not account for all of those cases in which D1 agonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity was detected in accumbal neurons projecting to the ventral pallidum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
While dyskinetic movements have been reported in primates with unilateral excitotoxic lesions following stimulation by dopaminergic agonists, the presence and intensity of the dyskinetic syndromes have varied extensively with size and location of lesion. With the intent of producing a more reliable behavioral model of Huntington disease, anatomically-defined lesions of limited size were produced by magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotaxic injection of quinolinic acid in specific regions within the caudate and putamen of rhesus monkeys. The location and extent of the lesions were verified by magnetic resonance imaging as well as quantitative positron emission tomography imaging with the dopamine D1 specific receptor ligand SCH 39166 as a marker for striatal output neurons. The quality, frequency and duration of dyskinetic movements were assessed and quantified before and after administration of 0.5 mg/kg apomorphine in multiple test sessions over several months. Selective unilateral lesions in the posterior putamen, but not in the anterior putamen or the head of the caudate, produced marked dystonia and dyskinesia after apomorphine administration. While combined unilateral lesions of the caudate and posterior putamen produced dyskinesia similar to selective posterior putaminal lesions, combined unilateral lesions of the anterior and posterior putamen did not elicit dyskenesia. On the basis of these results, one monkey received a bilateral selective lesion in the posterior putamen. This animal remained healthy and exhibited marked spontaneous Huntington-like chorea spontaneously in the first 48 h after lesioning and persistent apomorphine-induced dyskinesia thereafter. We conclude that bilateral selective excitotoxic lesions of the posterior putamen provide an improved model of the movement disorder of Huntington disease.
Glutamate dehydrogenase is one of the main enzymes involved in the formation and metabolism of the neurotransmitter glutamate. In the present study we investigated the enzyme ultrastructurally in the cerebellar cortex, a region rich in well defined glutamatergic neurons, by pre-embedding immunocytochemical staining (peroxidase-antiperoxidase), as well as by post-embedding immunogold labelling employing a new system for quantitation and for specificity testing under the conditions of the immunocytochemical procedure. A new antiserum against immunologically purified bovine liver glutamate dehydrogenase or antibodies isolated from this by affinity chromatography were used in rats fixed by perfusion with aldehydes. The pre-embedding method displayed peroxidase reaction preferentially in mitochondria of astroglial cells (including the Bergmann glia). Mitochondria of neuronal tissue elements were usually free of peroxidase-reaction product. Extra-mitochondrial staining was not observed. The post-embedding immunogold method was employed to overcome penetration problems and allow semiquantitative analysis of localization and specificity. The highest densities of gold particles were found over the mitochondria in astroglial cell elements (including the Bergmann glia). Mitochondria in cell bodies of Bergmann glia had a lower particle density than those in astrocytic processes. In the latter, analysis of frequency distribution revealed no evidence of a population of mitochondria lacking glutamate dehydrogenase, but suggested the presence of populations with different levels of immunoreactivity. Comparison with the labelling of embedded bovine liver glutamate dehydrogenase indicated that the enzyme constitutes a high proportion (10%) of the total matrix protein of these mitochondria. A weaker but significant labelling was found in oligodendrocytes of the white matter. The labelling of mitochondria in neuronal elements including glutamatergic mossy fibre terminals was of the order of 15% of that in astroglial mitochondria. No difference was detected between glutamatergic neurons (mossy and parallel fibres, granular cells) and non-glutamatergic neurons (Purkinje cells). The particle density over non-mitochondrial areas was very close to background over empty resin. The results, obtained with different methods of tissue and antibody preparation, agree to show that the present form of glutamate dehydrogenase is restricted to mitochondria and preferentially localized in astrocytes.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis may play a role in cardiovascular function by way of its connectivity to the diagonal band of Broca/ventral septal area. The present study sought to determine whether changes in systemic blood pressure affect the electrical activity of single units within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Extracellular voltage recordings from neurons in the bed nucleus were performed in urethane-anaesthetized rats catheterized for arterial blood pressure measurements and for the intravenous administration of pressor and depressor drugs. Afferent or efferent connectivity of each recorded neuron was determined following electrical stimulation of nearby nuclei with and without known barosensitive regions. Of neurons demonstrating efferent connectivity (antidromically evoked potentials) with the diagonal band of Broca/ventral septal area or habenular nuclei, 24 and 20%, respectively, responded to changes in blood pressure with either increases or decreases in firing frequency. Paraventricular nucleus-projecting neurons were not affected by alterations in arterial blood pressure. Orthodromic potentials (inhibitory and/or excitatory) in the bed nucleus were also observed following stimulation of these nearby nuclei. Of these orthodromically activated neurons, changes in arterial pressure affected 31% of neurons receiving input from the diagonal band of Broca/ventral septal area, 33% of neurons with connectivity to the habenular nuclei and 60% of neurons with connectivity to the paraventricular nucleus. These data show that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis contains a sub-population of cells that are sensitive to deviations in resting arterial pressure and that these cells receive synaptic modulation from several limbic/forebrain sources. Furthermore, the results are consistent with a role for the bed nucleus in the control of cardiovascular function and as a relay nucleus for modified baroreceptor input toward the diagonal band of Broca/ventral septal area.
Dephosphin/dynamin is a 94,000/96,000 mol. wt protein kinase C substrate from rat brain that is phosphorylated in nerve terminals and dephosphorylated upon stimulation of exocytosis and synaptic vesicle recycling. Phosphorylation activates an intrinsic GTPase activity and dephosphin may play a role in endocytosis [Robinson P. J. et al. (1993) Nature 365, 163-166]. In this study a specific polyclonal antiserum to dephosphin was used to investigate its distribution in rat brain by immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry. Immunoblots of various organs of the rat showed that dephosphin was detectable only in the whole brain and not in the testes, lung, kidney, adrenals, heart, liver or skeletal muscle. Immunoblotting of various regions of the brain revealed high levels of dephosphin, particularly in the hippocampus, cerebellum and cerebral cortex, but its absence from the anterior pituitary. Synaptosomes were prepared from these three regions and labelled with 32Pi for 60 min, followed by incubation in control or 41 mM K+ depolarizing buffer. Dephosphin was present in each region and was stoichiometrically dephosphorylated by depolarization, indicating the presence and regulation of dephosphin in intact cerebellar nerve terminals. The cerebellum was selected for detailed study, using conventional light and confocal microscopy, owing to its ordered and well-characterized structure. Immunostaining was abundant within the cerebellar cortex and deep cerebellar nuclei, but almost entirely absent from the medulla. In the cortex many neuronal cells contained dephosphin-like immunoreactivity which was also evident in perikarya, axons, and nerve terminals. Dephosphin-like immunoreactivity was not detected in the radial Bergman glial cells. The greatest concentrations were observed in synaptic terminals, particularly in granular layer glomeruli and basket cell terminals surrounding Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites. Dephosphin therefore appears to be exclusive to neuronal tissue, but is distributed widely throughout the brain. It is located in many neuronal cell types of the cerebellum and may be particularly enriched in synaptic terminals, where it is regulated by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. This distribution suggests a role for dephosphin in synaptic vesicle cycling in nerve terminals.
Optic nerve stimulation evoked monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents in suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons maintained in vitro. These currents were completely blocked by a combination of glutamate receptor antagonists, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and 4-aminophosphonovaleric acid. Stimulation of the ipsilateral or contralateral suprachiasmatic nucleus produced a biphasic response consisting of an excitatory postsynaptic current followed by an bicuculline-sensitive inhibitory postsynaptic current. Most suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons had spontaneous inhibitory and excitatory synaptic currents produced by action potential-independent and, less frequently, action potential-dependent release of GABA and glutamate. Baclofen reversibly reduced the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked by optic nerve stimulation and the effect was antagonized by 2-hydroxysaclofen. In addition, baclofen reduced the frequency but not the amplitude of the spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. In a subset of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons, baclofen induced an outward current, probably by increasing a potassium conductance. Baclofen had no effect on either evoked or spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents or on currents activated by pulse application of glutamate. These data indicate that activation of GABAB receptors can inhibit suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons by two mechanisms. The first is to inhibit the release of glutamate from terminals of the retinohypothalamic tract. The second is the postsynaptic activation of a potassium conductance in a portion of these neurons.
A cortical taste region has recently been identified in the caudolateral orbitofrontal cortex of the macaque. The afferents to this region were investigated by means of retrograde tracing, using six injections of wheatgerm-conjugated horseradish peroxidase. The area of taste cortex was first identified physiologically in all the monkeys used in this anatomical study. The four injections into the middle and posterior part of this region resulted in large numbers of labelled cell bodies in the insular-opercular primary taste cortex. Following the two more anterior injections, label was found predominantly in the caudal part of the cardolateral orbitofrontal cortex itself. None of the injections resulted in labelled cells in the gustatory thalamic nucleus ventralis posterior medialis, pars parvocellularis, although all injections resulted in label of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus. Afferents were also seen from more anterior parts of the orbitofrontal taste cortex, which may represent backprojections from subsequent taste areas. These results suggest that the caudolateral orbitofrontal cortex contains a higher-order taste cortex.
Two types of high-voltage-activated calcium currents were identified in whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings of the neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells, which control egg-laying in the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The currents were: (i) a rapidly inactivating high-voltage-activated current, with an activation threshold of -40 mV and maximal amplitude at +10 mV; and (ii) a slowly inactivating high-voltage-activated current, with a threshold of -10 mV and a peak at +30 mV. Both currents were reduced by nifedipine and verapamil, but not by omega-conotoxin GVIA, suggesting that they belong to the L-type family of calcium currents. The voltage-dependence of inactivation of the rapidly inactivating high-voltage-activated current was bell-shaped. Time-constants of inactivation ranged from 10 to 25 ms. Steady-state inactivation was characterized by a potential of half maximal inactivation of -21.7 +/- 3.4 mV and a slope factor of 8.1 +/- 1.7 mV. The voltage-dependence of inactivation of the slowly inactivating high-voltage-activated current was S-shaped. Time-constants of inactivation increased with depolarization up to a maximum of 300 ms. The steady-state inactivation parameters were a potential of half maximal inactivation of +6.8 +/- 2.2 mV and a slope factor of 6.0 +/- 1.1 mV. The membrane-permeable analog of cAMP, 8-chlorophenylthio-cyclic AMP, predominantly increased the slowly inactivating high-voltage-activated current, and shifted its voltage-dependence of activation and inactivation 10 mV to the left. The rapidly inactivating high-voltage-activated current was slightly increased by 8-chlorophenylthio-cyclic AMP. 8-Bromo-cyclic GMP and the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-13-phorbol acetate, had qualitatively similar effects. Both agents enhanced the rapidly inactivating current and, to a lesser degree, the slowly inactivating current, without affecting their voltage-dependence. The cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, Walsh inhibitor peptide, antagonized the stimulating effect of 8-chlorophenylthio-cyclic AMP. The broad-spectrum protein kinase inhibitor 1-(5-isoquino-linylsulfonyl)-2-methyl-piperazine (H-7) strongly attenuated the effects of 8-chlorophenylthio-cyclic AMP, 8-bromo-cyclic GMP and 12-O-tetradecanoyl-13-phorbol acetate, suggesting that all treatments increase both types of high-voltage-activated calcium currents through phosphorylation of the channel-complex.
To relate the ultrastructure of unmyelinated afferents to the cat carotid body with the known electrophysiological properties of cat chemosensory C-fibers, we took advantage of the fact that the calcitonin gene-related peptide is exclusively present in a population of sparsely branched afferents to the carotid body. They have a morphology identical to the afferents originating from carotid sinus nerve unmyelinated axons. Immunoreactive axons were stained using pre-embedding protocols and horseradish peroxidase-labeled secondary antibody. Labeling was present only in unmyelinated axons and boutons distributed in the interstitial and parenchymal tissue. The varicosities had an average diameter of 0.7 micron, and contained both small, clear vesicles and larger dense-core vesicles. No labeled axons were ever seen to contact glomus cells, but could be observed as close as 0.2 micron to a glomus cell, always with an interposed glial process. With a very sensitive protocol, that used tungstate-stabilized tetramethylbenzidine as the chromogen, amorphous deposits of reaction product were often detected in the extracellular space around a labeled bouton. We interpret these findings as indicating that the reciprocal chemical transmission between the oxygen-sensitive glomus cells and the unmyelinated afferents takes place through non-synaptic transmission, via the rather large extracellular space of the carotid body. In addition, the larger distances between glomus cells and unmyelinated afferents could explain the lowered sensitivity and sluggishness of chemosensory C-fibers, compared to the A-fibers.
In this study we have evaluated the mechanisms mediating the prolonged hyperalgesia induced by administration of prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, an inhibitor of type IV phosphodiesterase. The Randall-Selitto paw pressure device was employed to measure the effect of intradermal injection of test agents on the time course of the decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold produced by prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram in the hairy skin of the hindpaw of the rat. The intradermal injection of prostaglandin E2 produced a dose-dependent decrease in the nociceptive threshold which lasted approximately 2 h. While rolipram alone had no significant effect on nociceptive threshold, it enhanced and prolonged (&gt; 72 h) prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia. WIPTIDE, a protein kinase A inhibitor, when administered 30 min after prostaglandin E2, or with prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, a time when prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia was at its peak, produced a significant reduction in hyperalgesia. However, at 90 or at 180 min after injection of prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, WIPTIDE was found to be without effect. H-8, a protein kinase G inhibitor, and okadaic acid, a protein phosphatase inhibitor, when administered 30 min after prostaglandin E2, or 180 min after prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, produced no significant effect. However, when administered 90 min after prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram, each produced a significant reduction in the hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 plus rolipram.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Peripheral neuropathy can be associated with a variety of symptoms, including spontaneous unpleasant sensations and pain, as well as increased sensitivity to sensory stimuli. A peripheral neuropathy model involving an L5 spinal nerve lesion in male rats has been used to gain insight into the mechanisms that underlie symptoms that develop after nerve injury. This model was used to study the involvement of sensory fibres, the sympathetic postganglionic neuron and the role of nerve growth factor in the induction and maintenance of altered sensory function in the nerve territory of the intact L4 spinal nerve. Sensory testing was done with calibrated von Frey filaments and a radiant heat apparatus [Hargreaves K. et al. (1988) Pain 32, 77-88] and the occurrence of abnormal spontaneous behaviour was recorded. L5 spinal nerve resection produced increased mechanical and heat sensitivity as well as abnormal spontaneous behaviours. Surgical sympathectomy at the L5 but not at the L4 spinal nerve level alleviated all sensory abnormalities. However, a lesion of preganglionic fibres to the L5 level had no significant effect on sensory abnormalities. Thus, sympathetic postganglionic neurons at the level of spinal nerve injury can contribute to neuropathy symptoms independent of input from preganglionic neurons. Postganglionic sympathetic nerve crush alone led to increased mechanical sensitivity but not to increased heat sensitivity nor to abnormal spontaneous behaviour, further emphasizing the role of sympathetic postganglionic neuron changes for the development of increased mechanical sensitivity. An L5 spinal nerve resection in rats treated neonatally with capsaicin induced increased mechanical sensitivity which was slower in onset and lower in magnitude than that in untreated littermates and was abolished by postganglionic sympathectomy. Nerve growth factor perfused onto the cut L5 spinal nerve also markedly delayed the onset of increased mechanical sensitivity. Two pathophysiological mechanisms leading to central changes may be necessary to produce altered sensations in this model: (i) ongoing activity in C-fibres, independent of sympathetic postganglionic neuron activity and (ii) activity in sensory fibres modulated by a sensory-sympathetic interaction in the injured spinal nerve or dorsal root ganglion. The sympathetic postganglionic neuron contribution is independent of preganglionic sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system, suggesting a novel mechanism by which sympathetic efferent terminals can regulate sensory fibre activity. A contribution of a loss of neurotrophic factors to the sympathetic postganglionic neuron following nerve lesion is also suggested to contribute to the symptoms induced by the spinal nerve lesion.
The present study utilized immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry to examine the localization of corticotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactivity and messenger RNA in neurons of the human brainstem. A large population of corticotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons appeared in the lateral region of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum. These corticotropin-releasing hormone-containing neurons are predominantly located in the compact subnucleus of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. Proceeding caudally, corticotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive neurons in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus travel in a dorsomedial direction approaching the ventral border of the locus coeruleus in a dispersed fashion and cluster in a region ventromedial to the locus coeruleus which corresponds to the ventral aspect of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. Dense corticotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive fibers are present in the dorsal portion of the locus coeruleus and are most prominent in the middle to rostral levels of the nucleus. The cellular and regional localization of corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA in the human brainstem is identical to the perikaryal distribution visualized by immunocytochemistry. Neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus express abundant levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA as revealed by dense silver grains overlying these neurons on the emulsion autoradiograms. Within the locus coeruleus, the cellular expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive and corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA is exclusively localized to non-pigmented neurons. The present study confirms a previous finding describing dense corticotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive fibers innervating the human locus coeruleus and extends these findings by identifying corticotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactive and corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA-containing perikarya in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, in the ventral portion of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and in the locus coeruleus proper. From morphological observations, the corticotropin-releasing hormone-containing neurons in human pontomesencephalic tegmentum form a continuous population of neurons that are positioned anatomically to exert a putative neuromodulatory influence on locus coeruleus neurons.
Intracellular recordings were used to characterize the inhibitory synapses formed by Purkinje cells on neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei of the rat. This work was performed on organotypic cerebellar cultures where functional connections between Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar neurons are formed de novo. After blocking ionotropic excitatory amino acid, and GABAA receptors with 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione,D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and bicuculline, respectively, the majority of deep cerebellar neurons fired spontaneously without accommodation. This tonic firing was linearly dependent on membrane potential and was abolished with hyperpolarization. Bath application of muscimol and baclofen reversibly hyperpolarized deep cerebellar nuclei cells. In the presence of excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, field stimulation within the Purkinje cell layer induced monosynaptic inhibitory potentials in deep cerebellar neurons that were graded and completely blocked by bicuculline. Inhibitory potential amplitudes were not markedly reduced during fast repetitive stimulation of Purkinje cells, and the resulting hyperpolarization was not affected by the competitive GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 35348. A single inhibitory potential temporarily interrupted trains of action potentials induced in deep cerebellar cells by short depolarizing pulses. Trains of five inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, evoked at 20 Hz, induced a hyperpolarization which transiently blocked the spontaneous firing of deep cerebellar cells. The efficiency to block action potential discharges depended on the frequency of evoked inhibitory potentials. Bath application of bicuculline induced burst discharges in the control solution. When the excitatory amino acid receptors were pharmacologically blocked, bicuculline depolarized deep cerebellar neurons inducing sustained action potential discharges. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, bicuculline abolished miniature inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and resulted in a membrane depolarization of deep cerebellar cells. We conclude that deep cerebellar neurons isolated from synaptic inputs display a pacemaker-like activity. Although these neurons possess GABAA and GABAB receptors, we confirm that only GABAA receptors were involved in the generation of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, even with high frequency stimulation. The amplitude of evoked inhibitory potentials was weakly frequency-dependent, thus allowing a powerful inhibition of the pacemaker-like activity by trains of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Additionally, spontaneous and miniature inhibitory potentials control the excitability of deep cerebellar neurons by exerting a continuous hyperpolarizing tone.
We have shown previously that repeated restraint stress results in differential adaptation at both macrophysiological and cellular levels. Chronic stress accentuates vasopressinergic control of adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion in the pituitary. The present work determined whether endogenous vasopressin plays a role in response to repeated restraint. The first experiment explored changes in the response of repeatedly stressed animals to intracerebral vasopressin infusions. The second determined the effect of pretreating rats with a vasopressin V1a receptor antagonist on the way that they adapted to repeated restraint. Experiment 1: rats were subjected either to daily 60-min restraint for 10 days or transferred to the testing room where restraint sessions took place (controls). On the 11th day, they were infused with either artificial cerebrospinal fluid or 250 pmol vasopressin. The behavioural response to vasopressin was unaltered by previous stress. Plasma corticosterone was lowered in vasopressin-treated rats only after previous stress. Sixty minutes after vasopressin infusion, the central amygdala, locus coeruleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract and the dorsal vagal nucleus expressed increased levels of c-fos, and there were significant two-way interactions between stress and infusion for dorsal paraventricular nucleus, locus coeruleus and dorsal vagal nucleus. One-way analysis suggested that previous stress also reduced the c-fos response to vasopressin in the nucleus of the solitary tract. These results show that previous stress causes differential alterations in behavioural, endocrine and cellular responses to vasopressin. Experiment 2: rats were implanted with a transmitter which monitored heart rate and core temperature and a lateral cerebroventricular cannula. For 10 days, either artificial cerebrospinal fluid or 2500 pmol V1a antagonist, [d(CH2)1(5)-O-Me-Tyr2-Arg8]-vasopressin were infused i.c.v. 10 min prior to a 60-min restraint session. On the 11th day, no infusions were carried out, but rats received the usual period of restraint. The vasopressin antagonist was followed by motor responses (freezing, grooming and burrowing), more evident during the third and fifth days of stress. Core temperature responses were altered by the antagonist: stress-induced hypothermia was greatly reduced. Reduced baseline core temperatures, observed in controls as successive stress proceeded, were absent in antagonist-treated rats. By contrast, there were no significant effects of vasopressin antagonism on stress-induced tachycardia, nor in the way that this adapted to repeated restraint. On the 11th day (no i.c.v. infusions), hypothermic responses were no different in rats previously receiving either antagonist or control vehicle, but secondary hyperthermia was greater in the first group. Corticosterone levels were not altered by previous i.c.v. infusions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Acute stress is known to evoke a discrete pattern of c-fos expression in the brain. The work reported here shows that this pattern is modified in regionally specific ways following repeated stress, and that this can be correlated with changes in telemetered heart rate, core temperature and corticosterone output that occur during adaptation. Intact male rats were restrained for 60 min daily for one or 10 days. Stress-induced tachycardia was maximal 10 min following the onset of restraint, and decreased thereafter. The peak value was not altered by repeated restraint, but levels fell towards baseline values more rapidly with increasing bouts of stress. Core temperature showed marked reduction during the first 10 min of the initial stress, followed by a minor (and not very consistent) overshoot during the remainder of the stress period. In contrast to heart rate, stress-induced hypothermia did not alter during repeated restraint. Corticosterone was raised dramatically immediately following the first 60-min session of restraint, and this was attenuated by repeated stress. Sixty minutes after the end of the first stress session, there was pronounced c-fos expression in the lateral septum, lateral preoptic area, lateral hypothalamic area, all divisions of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, the medial (but not central) amygdala, the locus ceruleus and a brainstem structure (thought to be Barrington's nucleus), compared to rats transferred to the testing room but not restrained. Sixty minutes after the 10th stress session, c-fos expression was markedly decreased in some of these areas compared with the pattern observed after the first stress, especially in the paraventricular nucleus (dorsal and medial parvicellular regions) and in medial amygdala. However, all other areas measured demonstrated a sustained response even after repeated stress. There were no significant differences in c-fos expression in rats repeatedly transferred to the testing room (but not stressed) compared to singly transferred counterparts. These results show that both neuronal and physiological responses adapt to a repeated stress, but that in both cases this has highly specific components. It seems likely that adaptive changes in c-fos expression are associated with those in some features of autonomic and endocrine reactions. It is noteworthy that there is evidence that the lateral septum, in which c-fos expression did not diminish after repeated stress, may be involved in temperature control, whereas the paraventricular nucleus, in which c-fos did alter, has been linked with both cardiac and corticoid regulation.
Intraperitoneal or intrahippocampal injections of kainate induce both hippocampal cell death and axonal remodeling of the dentate gyrus granular neurons. We report here that injection of kainate into the dorsal hippocampus of adult mice may also trigger a conspicuous and long-lasting global trophic response of granule cells. Morphological changes include somatic and dendritic growth and increased nuclear volume with ultrastructural features characteristic of neuronal development. The trophic response is correlated with a specific overexpression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor that is maintained for at least six months. This shows that plasticity in adult neurons can, in addition to axonal remodeling, extend to generalized cell growth. Our results further suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor could be involved in the activation and/or maintenance of this phenomenon.
The mechanisms by which activation of excitatory amino acid receptors is coupled to the regulation of gene transcription were studied using cultured hippocampal neurons from neonatal rats. Voltage recording, calcium imaging, specific RNA analysis and immunocytochemistry were carried out on sister cultures. This allowed analysis of the expression of functional glutamate receptor subtypes, examination of their role in controlling intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i), and determination of their relative contributions to the transcriptional regulation of six immediate early genes c-fos, fosB, c-jun, junB, zif/268 (also termed Egr-1; NGFI-A; Krox-24) and nur/77 (also termed NGFI-B). Expression of all six immediate early genes was induced in hippocampal neurons by glutamate treatment. Nuclear run-on assays demonstrated that this induction occurred at the transcriptional level. Activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor was necessary and sufficient for the transcriptional response. Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, while present in cultured hippocampal neurons, contributed relatively little to the regulation of transcription. Calcium imaging showed that glutamate-induced changes in [Ca2+]i were almost entirely mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, rather than by L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels. Previous studies have shown that stimulation with selective agonists of either N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, or L-type calcium channels can lead to an increase in [Ca2+]i and c-fos expression. Here we demonstrate that in our hippocampal culture system glutamate controls [Ca2+]i and induces immediate early gene transcription primarily by activating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
The possibility of histological and functional integration of nervous tissue heterotopically grafted into the adult host brain was investigated. Suspensions of embryonic (E17-18) rat hippocampus with dentate fascia were placed into acute cavities in the barrel field of young adult rats (n = 25). Golgi-Cox silver impregnation and Cresyl Violet stain were used for histological analysis 3-4 months postgrafting. The surviving grafts were present in 80% of the grafted animals. Only three out of 20 surviving grafts were completely isolated from the surrounding host brain; other grafts had areas of direct confluence with the host neuropil. Extracellular recording of neuronal activity revealed normal spontaneous activity typical of the hippocampus in the majority of the grafts. Electrical stimulation of the posterior nucleus of the thalamus, homolateral motor neocortex, contralateral barrel field, and sensory stimulation of the host evoked responses in 50-60% of the grafted neurons. This did not differ significantly from the responsiveness of the similarly tested neurons of homotopic neocortical suspension grafts. The latencies of the responses in the hippocampal grafts were consistently longer (by about 10 ms) than in the neocortical ones. Comparison of the hippocampal suspension grafts with other types of hippocampal and neocortical grafts suggests that under certain conditions heterotopic tissue can be successfully integrated into the host brain. Development of the host-graft interconnections depends on topical proximity, the presence of denervated synaptic loci in both tissues, elimination of the intragraft neuronal targets and disruption of the intrinsic connections between them.
We have previously found that dissociated mesencephalic tissue, which differs from the host at both major histocompatibility complex and non-major histocompatibility complex gene loci, can survive stereotaxic transplantation to the striatum of adult rats. We have now studied the outcome of intrastriatal neural allografts in rats that were systemically immunized by an orthotopic skin allograft either prior or subsequent to intracerebral implantation surgery. Dissociated mesencephalic tissue from Lewis rat embryos was stereotaxically injected into the dopamine-depleted striatum of hemi-parkinsonian Sprague-Dawley rats. One group was immunized by an orthotopic allogeneic skin graft of the same genetic origin as the neural graft, six weeks before the neural transplantation (the pre-immunized group). Another group was post-immunized by an orthotopic skin allograft, six weeks after the neural transplantation (the post-immunized group). A control group of rats was not challenged by a skin allograft. Marked behavioural recovery was observed in six of seven rats in the control group, in six of eight rats in the post-immunized group, and in none of the pre-immunized rats. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive cells were found in rats from the two behaviourally compensated groups, but not in the pre-immunized group. The immune responses were evaluated by OX-18 (monoclonal antibody against major histocompatibility complex class I antigen), OX-6 (major histocompatibility complex class II antigen), OX-42 (microglia and macrophages), glial fibrillary acidic protein (astrocytes), OX-8 (cytotoxic T-lymphocytes) and W3/25 (helper T-lymphocytes) immunocytochemistry. All the neural allografts in the pre-immunized group were rejected, leaving scars only. There were more intense immune responses to the allografts in the post-immunized group than the control group, in terms of immunocytochemically higher expression of major histocompatibility complex class I and II antigens and more intense cellular reactions consisting of macrophages, activated microglia and astrocytes, in addition to CD8- and CD4-positive lymphocytes. In summary, the results show the following: (i) systemic pre-immunization leads to complete rejection of intrastriatal neural allografts, implying that the status of the host immune system before transplantation determines the outcome for intrastriatal neural allografts; (ii) established intrastriatal neural allografts can survive for at least six weeks after systemic immunization, in spite of increased host immune responses in and around the allografts; (iii) there are no marked immune reactions against intrastriatal neural allografts 13 weeks after implantation in rats which have not been systemically immunized by a skin allograft; (iv) pre-immunized rats may provide a very useful animal model to investigate the role of inflammatory lymphokines in immune rejection and to test alternative immunosuppressive drugs.
We have examined the effects of diazepam on the stress-induced increase in extracellular dopamine and norepinephrine in the medial prefrontal cortex using in vivo microdialysis. In naive rats, acute tail pressure (30 min) elicited an increase in the concentrations of dopamine and norepinephrine in extracellular fluid of medial prefrontal cortex (+54 and +50%, respectively). Diazepam (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased the basal concentration of extracellular dopamine and norepinephrine. Diazepam also attenuated the stress-evoked increase in the absolute concentrations of extracellular dopamine (+17%), but did not alter the stress-induced increase in norepinephrine (+41%). However, when the drug-induced decrease in basal dopamine and norepinephrine concentration was taken into account, the stress-induced net increase in dopamine above the new baseline was equivalent to that obtained in vehicle pretreated rats, whereas the net increase in norepinephrine was almost twice that obtained in control subjects. In rats previously exposed to chronic cold (three to four weeks at 5 degrees C), tail pressure again produced an increase in the concentrations of dopamine and norepinephrine in the medial prefrontal cortex (+42% and +92%, respectively). However, in these chronically stressed rats, diazepam no longer decreased basal dopamine or norepinephrine in extracellular fluid, nor did it affect the stress-induced increase in the concentrations of these catecholamines. These data indicate that diazepam has complex effects on the extracellular concentrations of dopamine and norepinephrine which vary depending upon whether the rat is undisturbed or stressed during the period of drug exposure as well as the rat's prior history of exposure to stress. Moreover, these data raise questions regarding the role of catecholamines in the mechanism by which diazepam exerts its anxiolytic properties.
High-speed chronoamperometry with Nafion-coated monoamine-sensitive carbon fiber electrodes was used to estimate changes in extracellular dopamine concentration in the nucleus accumbens during cocaine self-administration behavior in rats. In trained animals, time-locked biphasic fluctuations in dopamine-dependent electrochemical signal were found to accompany cocaine self-injections (0.8-0.9 mg/kg/inj). The mean signal gradually increased by the equivalent of 20-30 nM of dopamine during the 60 s preceding the injection, reached a peak value at the lever-press and decreased abruptly by about 20-30 nM for 40-60 s after the injection. This cyclic pattern was repeated with the next lever-press. The post-cocaine signal decreases were most pronounced during the first 30 min of each session, when self-administration behavior was highest (eight to 16 injections), and gradually diminished during the session. In contrast, the pre-injection signal increases became enhanced over time. Lever-presses reinforced by a double cocaine dose were followed by significantly larger and longer lasting signal decreases. These biphasic fluctuations quickly disappeared after several non-reinforced lever-presses. Although experimenter-delivered cocaine injections paced to mimic the pattern of self-administration also induced biphasic signal fluctuations, both the post-drug signal decreases and subsequent pre-injection increases were significantly smaller. It is hypothesized that the increases in signal seen in trained animals are a consequence of cocaine-induced dopamine uptake inhibition following behavior-associated dopamine cell activation. In contrast, the post-cocaine abrupt transient signal depression may be related to a decrease in mesolimbic dopamine release due to inhibition of dopamine cell activity. Signal decreases seen after self-administered procaine suggest that cocaine's local anesthetic action may contribute to this decrease in dopamine release. Additionally, while the latency of response differed somewhat, since apomorphine administration also led to a reduction in signal, autoreceptor activation may also have contributed to the cocaine-induced signal depression. That learning and behavioral mechanisms are also important determinants of the observed cocaine-induced signal changes is suggested by the signal decreases after the first non-reinforced responses, signal differences between self- and passively-administered cocaine and signal increases caused by cocaine-related cues. In light of numerous neuropharmacological studies implicating the significance of the mesolimbic dopamine system in the organization and regulation of goal-directed behaviors, these data suggest that mesolimbic dopamine system activation may mediate motivational and activational components of drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior, while the transient, reward-associated inhibition of the system may be involved in regulating these behaviors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
When exposed to an environment for the first time, rats express greater behavioral activation than rats which were previously habituated to that environment. The circuit containing the ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum is required for the expression of locomotor activity elicited by amphetamine-like psychostimulants. It was hypothesized that this circuit is necessary for the expression of novelty-induced motor activity. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter in the projection from the ventral tegmental area to the nucleus accumbens, while GABA is contained in the projections from the nucleus accumbens to the ventral pallidum and from the ventral pallidum back to the ventral tegmental area. Prior to exposing rats to a novel or habituated environment, they received a microinjection of either saline vehicle or one of the following drugs: fluphenazine (dopamine antagonist) into the nucleus accumbens, muscimol (GABAA agonist) into the ventral pallidum, or baclofen GABAB agonist) into the ventral tegmental area. Each of these pretreatments prevented novelty-induced motor activation without suppressing the activity of habituated animals. In contrast, when these microinjections were made into adjacent motor nuclei of the basal ganglia, including fluphenazine into the striatum, muscimol into the globus pallidus and baclofen into the substantia nigra, they were ineffective in blocking novelty-induced motor activity. These data indicate that the integrity of the circuit that contains the ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum is required for the manifestation of novelty-induced motor activity.
Extracellular and intracellular studies were undertaken to test the effects of the non-peptide, substance P (NK-1) receptor antagonists CP-96,345 and CP-99,994, and of CP-96,344, the inactive enantiomer of CP-96,345, on the responses of spinal dorsal horn neurons to peripheral noxious and non-noxious cutaneous stimuli in spinalized cats anesthetized with alpha-chloralose. The effect of these agents on the response of dorsal horn neurons to iontophoretic application of substance P was also tested in extracellular studies. The substance P-induced slow, prolonged discharge of dorsal horn neurons was blocked by administration (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) of CP-96,345 (n = 10) or CP-99,994 (n = 9), but was unaffected by CP-96,344 (n = 9). The response of substance P-sensitive neurons to noxious thermal stimulation of the cutaneous receptive field, especially the late afterdischarge phase, was also significantly inhibited by CP-96,345 (n = 10) and by CP-99,994 (n = 7). The response of such neurons to noxious pinch stimulation of the receptive field was also significantly inhibited by CP-96,345 (n = 7) and CP-99,994 (n = 8), but the response of three other substance P-sensitive neurons to pinch was unaffected by CP-96,345. CP-96,344 did not affect the response of any neuron tested to either of these noxious stimuli (noxious thermal, n = 7; pinch, n = 6). The response to hair afferent stimulation was unaffected by any of these compounds (CP-96,345, n = 16; CP-96,344, n = 5; CP-99,994, n = 6). In intracellular studies, the effect of these antagonists was tested on responses of dorsal horn neurons to noxious pinch stimulation or to a train of high intensity electrical stimulation of the superficial peroneal nerve. Both stimuli produced an initial fast depolarization followed by a slow and prolonged depolarization with corresponding discharge patterns. CP-96,345 (n = 3) and CP-99,994 (n = 6) selectively blocked the late, slow components of the stimulus-evoked response without affecting the early components. Responses to single electrical pulses of the same intensity and duration were not affected. CP-96,344 did not affect any of the responses tested (n = 5). The data indicate that nociceptive responses of a subset of spinal dorsal horn cells are selectively blocked by the NK-1 receptor antagonists, CP-96,345 and CP-99,994, thus confirming the involvement of NK-1 receptors in these responses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In this study co-localization of galanin- with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactivity was examined in dorsal root ganglion neurons 14 days after sciatic nerve cut using a laser scanning confocal microscope. CGRP- and galanin-like immunoreactivities were also analysed in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord of these animals with immunofluorescence microscopy. The ultrastructural changes in galanin-immunoreactive, presumably primary afferent terminals in the superficial dorsal horn, were studied as well as the relationship between galanin-, substance P- and CGRP-like immunoreactivities in primary afferent terminals. Local galanin-positive neurons in lamina II were also analysed after peripheral axotomy. Under the confocal microscope, CGRP-like immunoreactivity was located in the perinuclear region, probably the Golgi complex, and in dot-like structures, probably representing large dense-core vesicles, in normal dorsal root ganglion neurons. However, after peripheral axotomy CGRP was mainly detected in dot-like structures. Only a slight decrease in percentage of CGRP neurons in dorsal root ganglion was seen after axotomy, and about 84% of the galanin-positive neurons contained CGRP. The field of galanin-positive nerve fibres in the superficial lumbar (L)4 and L5 dorsal horn expanded and the intensity of staining for CGRP was reduced in these regions 14 days after sciatic nerve cut. Using pre-embedding immunoelectron microscopy, several morphological changes were observed in galanin-positive terminals in laminae I and II ipsilateral to the lesion. Most importantly, the most frequently occurring type of galanin-positive terminals (type 1) showed distinct changes with a granular matrix, many immunoreactive, peripherally located large dense-core vesicles, empty large vesicles and synaptic vesicles which were displaced from the presynaptic zone. Other galanin-positive terminals underwent even more pronounced morphological changes, including extensive vesiculolysis, also of large dense-core vesicles, filamentous degeneration or formation of axonal labyrinths. An increased number of galanin-positive nerve terminals was observed in lamina III of the ipsilateral dorsal horn after axotomy. They did not form glomeruli and contained few large dense-core vesicles. Post-embedding immunocytochemistry combined with quantitative analysis revealed that significant changes occurred in a proportion of terminals also with regard to peptide content in large dense-core vesicles after axotomy. Thus, the percentage of galanin-positive large dense-core vesicles increased in several cases and that of substance P- and CGRP-immunoreactive ones decreased.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Using light microscopic immunoperoxidase and immunofluorescence histochemistry, double-staining methodology, and electron microscopic pre-embedding and post-embedding immunocytochemistry, we studied galanin-immunoreactive neurons in the superficial dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Co-existence of galanin with other neuropeptides was also analysed. The lumbar 4 and 5 segments of normal rats and after rhizotomy or spinal cord transection were studied. Galanin-positive local neurons in lamina II were often islet cells and could be classified as type A, which had abundant electron-dense cytoplasm containing many large dense-core vesicles, and type B, which had electron-lucent cytoplasm with only a few large dense-core vesicles. Galanin-positive and -negative peripheral afferent terminals made synaptic contact mostly with galanin-negative dendrites and cell bodies, but also with type B galanin cell bodies and with galanin-positive dendrites of unidentified type. Galanin-immunoreactive terminals from local neurons could also be classified into two types. Type alpha terminals were most common; they contained densely packed synaptic vesicles and many large dense-core vesicles, were strongly immunostained and most frequently made synaptic contact with galanin-negative dendrites. Type beta terminals contained loosely packed synaptic vesicles and a few large dense-core vesicles, and were weakly immunostained. Axosomatic synaptic contact were sometimes found between type beta terminals and type B galanin-positive cell bodies, but were most often associated with galanin-negative dendrites. Double immunostaining showed that galanin-like immunoreactivity co-localized mainly with enkephalin-like, but sometimes also with neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in some local neurons in lamina II. Galanin-like and substance P-like immunoreactivities were identified in the same neurons in deeper layers of the dorsal horn. Coexistence of these neuropeptides and neurotensin with galanin was demonstrated not only in terminals in lamina II but also in large dense-core vesicles, as revealed by post-embedding immunocytochemistry. These results show that galanin-immunoreactive neurons in lamina II receive inputs directly from primary afferents and frequently make synaptic contacts with other intrinsic neurons. Galanin in the superficial dorsal horn may be released both from primary afferents and local neurons to modulate sensory processing in many different ways, including interacting with enkephalin, neuropeptide Y, neurotensin and substance P released from the same and/or other local neurons.
Galanin applied in the bath or by micropipette directly on to locus coeruleus neurons in an in vitro slice preparation caused a hyperpolarization accompanied by a small decrease in membrane resistance. Immunohistochemical staining of intracellularly filled neurons indicated that the effect of galanin was exerted on norepinephrine neurons of the locus coeruleus. The galanin effect was variable in amplitude and duration and often showed desensitization, with subsequent applications producing a smaller response. When cells were exposed to tetrodotoxin or tetrodotoxin/low calcium media, the galanin response was still present. Under voltage clamp galanin application caused a net outward current that did not reverse in normal potassium concentrations; however, by increasing extracellular potassium concentrations the net outward current was reversed and the reversal potential shifted to a less negative potential. The response to galanin was identical when either KCl or KAc was used as the intracellular electrode solution. Tetraethylammonium chloride significantly reduced or abolished the response to galanin in most cells, although in a few cells the galanin response was not affected. Glibenclamide, a blocker of ATP-sensitive potassium channels, did not affect the galanin hyperpolarization. In addition, diazoxide had no effect on the membrane properties of locus coeruleus neurons. These results demonstrate that galanin exerts its inhibitory effect in the locus coeruleus via an increase in K+ conductance; however, not via the pancreatic type of ATP-sensitive K+ channels. Cryostat sections of the locus coeruleus incubated in 125I-labeled galanin revealed binding sites in the locus coeruleus at all levels. Sections of the locus coeruleus processed for ultrastructural immunocytochemistry showed galanin immunoreactivity in many neuronal somata and dendritic processes within the nucleus, confirming earlier evidence for the coexistence of galanin and noradrenaline in locus coeruleus neurons. Galanin-immunoreactive soma and dendrites in the locus coeruleus less frequently received galanin-immunoreactive synapses of axonal origin. These findings suggest that endogenous galanin in the locus coeruleus is mainly released from noradrenaline galanin somata and/or dendrites to act on autoreceptors or on receptors on adjacent neurons.
The activity of the neurotransmitter dopamine in the nucleus accumbens is considered to be an important element in the central processing of reinforcement. Unilateral administration of the neurokinin substance P into the area of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis of rats was found to be reinforcing, as assessed by the conditioned place preference paradigm. Simultaneous in vivo microdialysis showed that administration of substance P into the area of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis could increase extracellular concentrations of dopamine in the contralateral nucleus accumbens. Only those animals in which the administration of substance P induced this increase in dopamine levels acquired place preference. Furthermore, the changes in extracellular dopamine levels after substance P administration had a bimodal time course with an acute increase (to about 160% of baseline) during the first hour after injection, with a low (to 120-130%) and enduring increase occurring thereafter. Interestingly, during this second increase there were indications for positive correlations with the degree of place preference induced by substance P. Further positive correlations with place preference were found in the levels of the serotonergic metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. In contrast to dopamine, these were observed ipsi- and contralateral to the side of substance P administration. By combining the methods of in vivo microdialysis and conditioned place preference it was shown that the reinforcing effect induced by unilateral substance P injection in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis is related to dopaminergic (and possibly serotonergic) mechanisms in the nucleus accumbens.
The effect of RPR 100893, a selective and specific neurokinin-1 antagonist, or its enantiomer RPR 103253 was examined on c-fos antigen expression in brain stem and upper cervical cord 2 h after intracisternal capsaicin injection (30.5 micrograms/ml) in pentobarbital-anesthetized Hartley guinea-pigs. Positive cells were counted at three levels corresponding to obex, -2.25 mm and -6.75 mm in 18 sections (50 microns). Immunoreactivity was strongly expressed within laminae I and IIo of trigeminal nucleus caudalis, area postrema and the leptomeninges. Moderate labeling was present in the nucleus of the solitary tract and the medullary lateral reticular nucleus, whereas few positive cells were found in the ventral portion of the medullary reticular nucleus and Rexed laminae III-V and X. The distribution of labeled cells was consistent with previously reported results following subarachnoid placement of the noxious agents, blood or carrageenin. Pretreatment with RPR 100893 (1, 10 and 100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) but not its enantiomer (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) 30 min prior to capsaicin injection significantly reduced the number of positive cells in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (P &lt; 0.01) in a dose-dependent manner, but not within area postrema or nucleus of the solitary tract. These results indicate that (i) the instillation of capsaicin into the subarachnoid space is an effective stimulus for the induction of c-fos antigen within trigeminal nucleus caudalis, presumably through activation of trigeminovascular afferents, and (ii) the neurokinin-1 antagonist RPR 100893 reduces the number of positive cells selectively within this nucleus. The findings are significant because drugs which alleviate vascular headaches decrease the number of c-fos-positive cells within trigeminal nucleus caudalis following noxious meningeal stimulation. Hence, strategies aimed at blocking the neurokinin-1 receptor may be useful for treating migraine and cluster headache.
Tachykinin peptides such as substance P and neurokinin B have been widely studied as mediators of pain transmission. The expression of neurokinin-1 and neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNAs in the spinal cord is increased following intense nociception. The opiate ligands morphine and naltrexone alter behavioral responses to formalin-induced pain and alter evoked substance P release. This study investigated whether these opiates similarly alter the expression of substance P-, neurokinin B-, neurokinin-1 receptor- and neurokinin-3 receptor-encoding messenger RNAs in spinal systems following formalin-induced nociception. Expression levels of various messenger RNAs were quantitated using solution hybridization-nuclease protection assays. Six hours after hindpaw treatment, the levels of substance P-encoding preprotachykinin messenger RNA in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia and neurokinin B, neurokinin-1 receptor and neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNAs in the lumbar dorsal horn were increased by approximately two-fold as compared to sham-treated controls. Pretreatment with naltrexone resulted in a further increase in the nociception-induced substance P messenger RNA expression in the dorsal root ganglia; preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression was not affected by morphine. Nociception-induced neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA expression in the dorsal horn was blocked by morphine, but was not affected by naltrexone. Both morphine and naltrexone blocked the formalin-induced increases in neurokinin B and neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNA levels. Increased neurokinin B messenger RNA expression may reflect increased neurokinin B turnover in spinal interneurons activated by nociception. Neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNA expression levels varied closely with, and thus may be regulated by, the levels of neurokinin B messenger RNA in the same regions. The results of this study indicate that pretreatment with opiate ligands modulates the expression of tachykinin peptide and neurokinin receptor encoding mRNAs in spinal systems following a peripheral chemogenic inflammatory stimulus. Thus, endogenous opioid systems may be involved in activity-induced changes in the expression of spinal tachykinin peptides and neurokinin receptors.
Expression of neuropeptide messenger RNAs in striatal neurons was studied in post mortem human brain tissue by the use of in situ hybridization histochemistry. Clusters of cells expressing high levels of prodynorphin messenger RNA, and less strikingly, preprotachykinin messenger RNA, were prominent in the caudate nucleus and were present but less pronounced in the putamen. Proenkephalin and prosomatostatin messenger RNA-containing cells were more homogeneously distributed throughout the striatum, though the latter were much sparser. The four neuropeptide messenger RNA patterns in the nucleus accumbens were rather homogeneous compared with the dorsal striatum. Of these, prodynorphin messenger RNA showed a higher level of expression per cell in the nucleus accumbens relative to the dorsal striatum. The relationship of neuropeptide-containing cell clusters to the striosomal organization was characterized by looking at the register of these markers with patterns of low acetylcholinesterase activity and dense mu opiate receptor binding. In the caudate and putamen, clusters of cells expressing high levels of dynorphin and preprotachykinin messenger RNAs were clearly in register with the striosomes. The accumbens was defined by high prodynorphin messenger RNA levels, both low and high levels of acetylcholinesterase staining, and very low to absent mu opiate receptor binding. The distribution of high-expressing prodynorphin messenger RNA-containing cells--to the patch compartment and throughout the entire ventral striatum/nucleus accumbens region--defines the limbic domain of the neostriatum and suggests particular relevance to human striatal organization and function, because the distribution of this opioid neuropeptide is considerably more compartmentalized in human than in non-human species.
Annual incidence rates of selected congenital anomalies were calculated between January 1979 and December 1992 among all births in Tokyo metropolitan hospitals. Congenital anomalies were observed in 1989 infants, or about 1.5% of the 132,091 births. The characteristics of the study population were identical to that for the total births in Tokyo. Incidence rates showed practically no secular changes, indicating stationary trends during the 14 years monitored.
Neuroscience research of memory using rats behavior is bringing the behavioral studies and the recent molecular neurobiological findings closer to each other. Careful construction of behavioral tasks for rats is necessary first. Concerning the brain regions for memory, the hippocampus has been and is the most critical one. Consideration of psychological frameworks to see the hippocampal functions in memory, i.e., spatial memory, working and reference memory, configural association, entorhinal-hippocampal interplay, and long-term potentiation, are also necessary. To improve the significance of studies with rats, methods of making hippocampal lesions should be improved. Also, easy following the findings of studies with monkeys, visual-dominant animals, should be avoided. Research trying to find basic manners of information processing of memory in the brain rather than functional maps and systems may be adequate for studies with rats. The concept of &quot;cell assemblies&quot; for memory processing in the rat was introduced.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of neonatal handling on learned helplessness (LH) model of depression in the rat. We also investigated the effect of neonatal handling on behavior in an open field test of emotionality. The handling procedure reduced helplessness behavior, with a decrease in the number of escape failures, an increase in the number of avoidance responses, and a decrease in the escape latency in the shuttle-box after induction of LH. In addition, handling during infancy decreased the number of boli in an open field test, which suggests that the level of emotivity in adulthood was reduced. It is suggested that handling in infancy improves behavioral adaptation to the environment, including enhanced adaptive response to stress.
The present study was conducted to determine the effects of chronic stress on sleep using a rodent paradigm of around-the-clock signalled intermittent foot shock in which some rats can pull a chain to avoid/escape shock while another group of rats is yoked to the first group. We measured sleep using telemetry; four-channel EEG was collected 24 h/day in rats during 2 prestress days; days 1, 2, 3, 7, and 14 during chronic stress; and 3 poststress days. States of REM sleep, non-REM (NREM) sleep, and waking were scored for each 15-s period of the EEG recordings. During the prestress period, rats slept (REM plus NREM) 55% of available time during the light hours and 34% of the dark hours with the remainder represented by waking. On the first day of stress, total sleep and, especially REM sleep, decreased markedly. By the second day of stress, only REM sleep in the controllable stress group (but not the uncontrollable stress group) was still significantly decreased compared to prestress levels, and REM sleep returned to baseline levels by day 7 of stress. The recovery of sleep quantity was accomplished by increased sleep during the dark hours, resulting in a long-lasting disruption of normal circadian sleep patterning.
Sexually dimorphic pheromone pathways have been used successfully to study insect olfactory coding. As one of the few mammalian species with an identified sex pheromone, the domestic pig (Sus scrofa) may be an ideal vertebrate species in which to examine sex differences in olfactory processing of a specific stimulus. In this experiment, androstenone and control odor detection thresholds were measured in adult male, female, and castrated male pigs. In an operant task, pigs were tested with descending concentration series of both androstenone and geraniol. All groups were equally sensitive to geraniol, but there was a sex difference in sensitivity to the odor of androstenone. Female pigs' detection threshold was a dilution fivefold lower than the threshold for intact males. Castrated males did not differ significantly from either males or females. This is the first example of a sexual dimorphism in sensitivity to a mammalian pheromone.
Recently, several authors have called for an integration of philosophy, psychology, and neuroscience regarding the mind-brain problem (Brothers 1989; Cooper 1985; Hundert 1989). In this essay I review two philosophical theories of mind that lead to very different conclusions regarding integration. Reductionist materialism is the theory that currently has the widest acceptance. Unity theory, a less familiar theory, may present the most plausible alternative to reductionism currently available. Numerous examples from the psychiatric literature are used to illustrate the challenge that faces each of these theories. Critical evaluation of how they meet the challenge, particularly in accounting for apparent psychosomatic causation, shows the strengths and weaknesses of each theory, particularly regarding their clinical utility in psychiatry.

The activation patterns of the psoas and iliacus muscles were investigated in 7 healthy adult subjects (4 men and 3 women) during a variety of motor tasks in standing, sitting and lying. Myoelectric activity was recorded simultaneously from the 2 muscles using thin wire electrodes inserted under guidance of high-resolution ultrasound. In general, both muscles were coactivated, albeit to different relative levels, particularly when hip flexor torque was required. Selective activation of the iliacus could, however, be seen to stabilize the pelvis in contralateral hip extension during standing. Psoas was found to be selectively involved in sitting with a straight back and in contralateral loading situations requiring stabilization of the spine in the frontal plane. During training exercises from a supine position, such as sit-ups, the contribution of the psoas and iliacus muscles could be varied by changing the range of motion as well as the position and support for the legs. Thus, the 2 anatomically different muscles of the iliopsoas complex were shown to have individual and task-specific activation patterns depending on the particular demands for stability and movement at the lumbar spine, pelvis and hip.
In order to examine the molecular basis of schizophrenia we have employed a sequential differential hybridisation protocol to isolate mRNAs whose abundances are altered in schizophrenic compared to normal frontal cortex. Five cDNAs present at abnormal levels in the schizophrenic brain have been isolated by this method. The sequences were identified on the basis of homologies in the EMBL and Genbank databases. All the sequences encode mitochondrial transcripts; one encodes part of the 12s rRNA, three encode parts of the 16s rRNA region of the mitochondrial genome whilst the fourth encodes part of the amino acid sequence of cytochrome oxidase sub-unit II. It was established that mitochondrial sequences were not over-represented in the library and that this could therefore not account for the isolation of five mitochondrial transcripts by this procedure. Increased levels of cytochrome oxidase mRNA were detected in a further set of extracts from the frontal cortex of eight schizophrenic patients and five controls. The amount of mt-DNA was measured in these samples but there was no difference between schizophrenic and control. These results indicate a possible abnormality of mitochondrial function in the schizophrenic frontal cortex.
The present understanding of the anatomy of the basal ganglia has been updated. Recent work has produced a primate model of Parkinson's disease for study of its pathogenesis and treatment. In the last two decades, administration of dopamine agonist has been the mainstay of treatment of Parkinson's disease in the humans. However, recent use of dopamine-rich tissue such as adrenal gland or human foetal cells is opening up a new frontier for the treatment of more severe Parkinsonism. Nevertheless, there is still much to be learned at the basic neuroscience level before such procedure could be used widely in clinical practice.







A pronounced speech and language disorder affecting half of the 30 members of the four-generational KE family has been attributed by some researchers to a specific defect in the generation of morphosyntactic rules. The reported selectivity of the impairment has led to the view that the affected members suffer from a grammar-specific disorder. Our investigations of the same KE family indicate that the inherited disorder has a broad phenotype which transcends impaired generation of syntactical rules and includes a striking articulatory impairment as well as defects in intellectual, linguistic, and orofacial praxic functions generally. Although the evidence from this family thus provides no support for the existence of &quot;grammar genes,&quot; their linguistic difficulties do constitute a prominent part of their phenotype. Investigations of the neural and genetic correlates of their disorder could therefore uncover important clues to some of the bases of the primary human faculties of speech and language.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a common movement disorder that is associated with chronic neuroleptic exposure. To better characterize the clinical aspects of TD, we investigated the diurnal pattern of involuntary movements by blindly rating videotaped examinations of patients from the morning shortly after awakening and later in the same afternoon. In 10 patients, average TD ratings were worse in the afternoon than in the morning, especially in the case of limb-trunk dyskinesias. These findings suggest that it is important to rate patients at the same time of day in TD studies. Moreover, patients should be evaluated at least several hours after awakening.
Although hair cells in the cochlea and in the vestibular endorgans of anamniotes are thought to release glutamate or a similar compound as their transmitter, there is little evidence in amniotes (which, unlike anamniotes, possess both type I and II hair cells) as to the nature of the hair cell transmitters in the vestibular labyrinth. We have recorded extracellularly from single semicircular canal afferents in the turtle labyrinth maintained in vitro and have bath-applied a number of transmitter agonists and antagonists to relate the effects of these substances to the actions of the endogenous transmitter substances. Both glutamate and aspartate strongly excite the afferents while GABA and carbachol have negligible or weak effects. In contrast to its lack of effect on afferent activity in some anamniotes, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) was also found to excite these afferents. Kynurenic acid reversibly reduced the resting firing rates of the afferents and the increases in firing due to the application of glutamate and aspartate. These findings provide preliminary support for the hypothesis that glutamate (or a related compound) is also a vestibular hair cell transmitter in amniotes.
Electromyographic activity and the force of reflex and operant responses were recorded following administration of morphine. Low doses facilitated reflex responses to input from A-delta afferents but not from A-beta input. Higher doses inhibited A-delta responses but not A-beta responses. Operant avoidance responses to visual cues were unchanged. Thus, depending on the dose, nociceptive reflexes were facilitated or inhibited, without associated effects on non-nociceptive input or on motor output.
We used stimulation of corpus callosum (CAL) and the subiculo-cingulate tract (SCT), in an in vitro brain slice preparation, to study activity-dependent changes in synaptic efficacy in posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). SCT stimulation monosynaptically excites the apical dendrites of deep laminae (V-VI) pyramidal neurons, while CAL afferents drive these same cells via synapses on their basal dendrites. In contrast, most superficial laminae (II/III-IV) pyramids appear to be driven polysynaptically via ascending axonal collaterals of deep pyramids. In slices retaining these connectivities, we contrasted characteristics of synaptic plasticity in superficial vs deep laminae field and intracellular potentials evoked by conditioning stimuli given at frequencies of 100, 20, 8, 5 and 1 Hz. Tetanic stimulation (100 Hz) of SCT or CAL yielded homosynaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) of each pathway, while stimulus trains of 8-20 Hz did not. 1-5 Hz stimulation of SCT and CAL elicited homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength in each pathway. Associative LTD was induced by interleaving 5 Hz pulses to the SCT pathway with 100 Hz theta-burst stimulation of CAL, but was not induced when these stimulus loci were switched. Heterosynaptic non-associative LTD was also observed in the alternate pathway following tetanization of either SCT or CAL. In all cases, LTP and LTD were observed only in deep laminae recordings. In contrast, superficial records showed only paired-pulse facilitation and short-term post-tetanic potentiation. In in vivo experiments in anaesthetized rats, PCC responses to SCT stimulation were contrasted with responses to stimulation of anteroventral and anterodorsal thalamic nuclei (AV/AD). SCT-elicited field potentials closely resembled those evoked in the slice, with maximal amplitude tuned to the 4-8 Hz frequency band. AV/AD stimulation elicited field potentials which were not frequency tuned. Overall, these data suggest that the acute circuit properties of PCC superficial laminae, modulated by thalamic input and synaptic plasticity in deep laminae, can transform hippocampal synaptic inflow before relaying it to extracingulate targets.
Three alternative splicing products of amyloid precursor protein (APP), APP770, 751 and 695, were detected in mouse embryonal carcinoma (EC) P19 cells by reverse transcriptase RNA polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Alternative splicing of APP pre-mRNA in P19EC cells was remarkably changed by c-jun transformation. The relative ratio of APP770 encoding exons 7 and 8, non-neuron type, was increased by c-jun transformation, while that of APP 695 not encoding exons 7 and 8, neuron-specific one, was decreased. These results suggested that skipping of exons 7 and 8 was specifically blocked in c-jun transformed cells. APP 695, which increases in P19 EC cells under the culture conditions that induce the neuronal differentiation, did not increase in C2C5 cells under the same conditions, suggesting that c-jun transformed cells were not in the neuronal cell lineage and lost the ability to differentiate into neurons.
Glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) promotes survival of embryonic dopaminergic neurons in culture, and its expression pattern suggests a role as a transient target-derived trophic factor for dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. These neurons participate in the control of motor activity, emotional status and cognition, and they degenerate in Parkinson's disease for unknown reasons. To test whether GDNF has a trophic effect on dopaminergic neurons in the adult brain, we used a rat model in which these neurons are induced to degenerate by transecting their axons within the medial forebrain bundle. We report here that axotomy resulted in loss of half the tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing neurons in the substantia nigra. This loss was largely prevented by repeated injections of GDNF adjacent to the substantia nigra. Our findings suggest that GDNF or related molecules may be useful for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), a recently cloned new member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, promotes survival of cultured fetal mesencephalic dopamine neurons and is expressed in the developing striatum. There have, however, been no reports about effects of GDNF in situ. We have used the dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), which produces parkinsonian symptoms in man, to determine whether GDNF might exert protective or regenerative effects in vivo in the adult nigrostriatal dopamine system in C57/B1 mice. GDNF injected over the substantia nigra or in striatum before MPTP potently protects the dopamine system, as shown by numbers of mesencephalic dopamine nerve cell bodies, dopamine nerve terminal densities and dopamine levels. When GDNF is given after MPTP, dopamine levels and fibre densities are significantly restored. In both cases, motor behaviour is increased above normal levels. We conclude that intracerebral GDNF administration exerts both protective and reparative effects on the nigrostriatal dopamine system, which may have implications for the development of new treatment strategies for Parkinson's disease.
Neuronal c-Fos protein-like immunoreactivity (c-Fos IR) in parts of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS)-dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (dmnX) complex of the anaesthetized rat was studied 90 min after NTS microinjections of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and/or adrenergic receptor agonists in relevant cardiovascular doses. Microinjections of NPY and l-adrenaline alone into the NTS induced neuronal c-Fos IR in parts of the NTS-dmnX complex, while clonidine had no action. No double-labelled GFAP/c-Fos immunoreactive cells were found in the NTS-dmnX complex after the microinjection of NPY into the NTS. Coinjections of NPY and l-adrenaline or clonidine into the NTS reduced the NPY-induced increase in c-Fos IR. The results emphasize that during cardiovascular regulation NPY receptors can control neuronal gene expression in the NTS-dmnX complex via c-fos and that stimulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors can attenuate NPY receptor transduction also in terms of induction of c-Fos IR in the NTS-dmnX complex via an antagonistic alpha 2/NPY receptor interaction.
Application of kainate to the peri-locus coeruleus alpha (peri-LC alpha) resulted in a marked increase in paradoxical sleep (PS). This effect was completely blocked by specific non-NMDA receptor antagonists, but not by selective NMDA receptor antagonists. Kainate was 10 times more potent than AMPA, and their site of action was confined to the peri-LC alpha. This study is the first to show that excitatory amino acids play an important role in PS generation via the activation of kainate receptors which are located in the peri-LC alpha of the mediodorsal pontine tegmentum.
Using in situ end-labelling of DNA breaks (TUNEL) and staining with propidium iodide, we have investigated the occurrence of apoptosis in the adrenal cortex of hypophysectomized rats. Apoptosis was detected in the zona fasciculata and reticularis 3 days after hypophysectomy. Six days after hypophysectomy rats showed apoptotic cells mainly in the zona fasciculata. With the exception of the zona reticularis, cell death was largely prevented by ACTH replacement in 3-day hypophysectomized animals. The present results demonstrate that ACTH can reduce but not fully prevent apoptosis in the adrenal cortex of hypophysectomized rats and suggest that lack of other factors, such as other pituitary hormones, may be involved in the onset of apoptosis in the zona reticularis.
The effects of chronic treatment (3 days) with the nicotinic agonists, nicotine and cytisine as well as the antagonists, d-tubocurarine, hexamethonium and dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DH beta E) on alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) were investigated in a permanently transfected cell line, M10. The number of alpha 4 beta 2 nAChRs expressed in the cell line was assayed by (-)-[3H]nicotine binding. The two enantiomers of nicotine both significantly increased the number of nAChRs in a concentration dependent manner. No changes in the levels of mRNA for either alpha 4 or beta 2 subunits were found following chronic (-)-nicotine treatment. The effect of (-)-nicotine treatment on the number of nAChRs was partially blocked by the antagonists d-tubocurarine and hexamethonium, but not by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DH beta E). Chronic exposure of the cells to each of the antagonists did not influence the number of nAChRs. Treatment with the agonist cytisine resulted in a bell-shaped dose-dependent effect on the number of alpha 4 beta 2 nAChRs. In the presence of cytisine (microM) the effect induced by chronic(-)-nicotine treatment on the number of the nAChRs was attenuated. These results indicate that nicotinic agents can induce different regulatory effects in M10 cells due to their individual pharmacological properties as agonist and/or antagonist.
Human foetal dorsal root ganglia were grafted in place of native lumbar dorsal root ganglia in adult rat hosts. Between 4 weeks and 4 months later, the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) in the grafted roots showed extensive peripheral outgrowth of astrocytic processes, in contrast to the normal 'smooth' interface between the peripheral and central nervous system compartments of the DREZ. Fibres originating from the grafted neurones and approaching the DREZ changed their direction of growth and entered the spinal cord through the pia by following blood vessels, grew into the grey matter and ramified there. These findings suggest that the DREZ astrocytes in vivo are non-permissive not only to mature peripheral regenerating axons, but also to growing axons from immature neurones.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a well known experimental model for studying the activity-dependent enhancement of synaptic plasticity, and because of its long duration and its associative properties, it has been proposed as a system to investigate the molecular mechanisms of memory formation. At present, there are several lines of evidence that indicate that pre- and postsynaptic kinases and their specific substrates are involved in molecular mechanisms underlying LTP. Many studies focus on the involvement of protein kinase C (PKC). One way to investigate the role of PKC in long-term potentiation is to determine the degree of phosphorylation of its substrates after in situ phosphorylation in hippocampal slices. Two possible targets are the presynaptic membrane-associated protein B-50 (a.k.a. GAP 43, neuromodulin and F1), which has been implicated in different forms of synaptical plasticity in the brain such as neurite outgrowth, hippocampal LTP and neurotransmitter release, and the postsynaptic protein neurogranin (a.k.a. RC3, BICKS and p17) which function remains to be determined. This review will focus on the protein kinase C activity in pre- and postsynaptic compartment during the early phase of LTP and the possible involvement of its substrates B-50 and neurogranin.
Functional neuroimaging has become a powerful tool for investigating the neurobiological foundations of cognition. An overview is presented of the two major strategies by which such data are currently analyzed. One strategy compares the pattern of activity between two (or more) tasks, looking for those brain areas that show significant changes. The second investigates the functional relationships between regional activities in an attempt to determine the systems-level neural networks mediating the tasks. Object and spatial visual processing tasks are used to illustrate each of these strategies.

The effects of ibotenic acid lesions of the mammillary bodies (MM) on the sodium-dependent high affinity choline uptake (SDHACU) velocity into both the hippocampus and the frontal cortex were investigated in this study in either a quiet or an active (exploration of a T-maze) condition. Results showed that MM lesion globally produced a significant decrease of both hippocampal and cortical SDHACU. However, the magnitude of this decrease was not significantly different in the active as compared to the quiet condition. These findings suggest that MM lesion alters the tonically but not phasically active transynaptic control of cortical and hippocampal cholinergic activities.
The ultrastructure of septohippocampal neurons in the septal complex and their relations with catecholamine, principally noradrenaline, terminals were examined in single thin sections. Projection neurons were identified by retrograde transport of wheat-germ agglutinated apo-horseradish peroxidase conjugated to colloidal gold particles (WAHG) following an injection into the hippocampal formation of anesthetized adult rats. After a 1 day survival, sections through the septal complex were labeled with antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH). By light microscopy, numerous processes with TH- and DBH-immunoreactivity were near neurons containing retrogradely transported WAHG. By electron microscopy, most WAHG was associated with lysosomes, multivesicular and 'sequestration' bodies in the cytoplasm of perikarya and large dendrites. WAHG-labeled perikarya (n = 114) had a large amount of astrocytic coverage (&gt; 60% of surface) and a low amount of terminal coverage (&lt; 25%). WAHG-labeled perikarya and dendrites were either directly contacted by TH- or DBH-labeled terminals or abutted glial processes apposed to TH- or DBH-labeled terminals. Immunoreactivity for TH and DBH was found primarily in axons and axon terminals. The morphology and synaptic associations of TH-labeled terminals was similar to that reported previously. DBH-labeled terminals (n = 314; 0.5 +/- 0.2 microns in diameter) contained numerous small clear vesicles and from 0-4 large, dense-core vesicles. DBH-containing terminals: (1) contacted perikarya and dendrites (58%), 10% of which contained WAHG; (2) were closely apposed to other terminals (7%); or (3) were separated by glial processes (35%). DBH-labeled terminals formed chiefly symmetric synapses on perikarya. However, most DBH-containing terminals formed both asymmetric and symmetric synapses on the shafts of small dendrites, suggesting both excitatory and inhibitory functions for noradrenaline terminals on septal neurons. The results demonstrate that septohippocampal neurons (1) are mostly engulfed by astrocytes and have very little terminal coverage; (2) are both directly contacted (synapses) and indirectly contacted (appositions to apposing astrocytes or axon terminals) by catecholamine, particularly noradrenaline, terminals.
The innervation of the rat hard palate and the bordering part of the soft palate was studied after anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin (WGA-HRP) and to choleragenoid (B-HRP) in separate experiments. WGA-HRP labeling showed leakage from several types of nerve endings, whereas B-HRP did not. Both conjugates gave rise to heavy labeling of a variety of nerve endings. Intragemmal and, especially, perigemmal fibers were labeled in chemosensory corpuscles, which were most common in the medial wall of the incisive canal and in the most anterior part of the soft palate. Ruffini endings of different sizes were labeled in the incisive papilla. Other subepithelial endings forming elongated expanded profiles with medium- to large-caliber source fibers were most common in protruding parts of the palate. Labeled intraepithelial endings included Merkel endings, which were most frequent in the incisive papilla and the rugae. Other labeled profiles were medium-caliber afferents giving rise to irregular, beaded, and sometimes branched endings often located far superficially in the epithelium. Such endings were present both within and between protruding parts of the palate. Fine-caliber intraepithelial endings were labeled almost exclusively in WGA-HRP experiments.
In some families with early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenic mutations have been found in exons 16 and 17 of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene. One case of schizophrenia has been described with a mutation at codon 713. We have developed a single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) method that detects mutations in these exons and investigated 98 AD cases and 56 elderly healthy controls. An earlier reported mutation at codon 713 in a healthy control and a previously undescribed polymorphism at codon 705 in a sporadic case of AD were found. These mutations are probably not related to disease pathogenesis.
Glycosaminoglycan (GAG)-containing proteoglycans are associated with the neuritic plaques and cerebrovascular beta-amyloid deposits of Alzheimer's disease as well as with the amyloid deposits of prion and other disorders. GAGs and other sulfate-containing compounds have previously been shown to bind beta-amyloid peptide in vitro, suggesting possible effects of beta-amyloid deposition and/or toxicity in vivo. Using reduction of the redox dye 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) to measure beta-amyloid neurotoxicity in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells, several polysulfated GAGs and synthetic sulfate-containing compounds were found to attenuate the neurotoxic effects of beta-amyloid fragments beta 25-35 and beta 1-40. These results suggest that by binding beta-amyloid these compounds may prevent toxic interactions of the peptide with cells.
Time series of the durations each eye was dominant during binocular rivalry were obtained psychophysically. The oscillations showed an adaptation effect with mean and standard deviations of rivalry dominance durations increasing as a square root function of time over the course of a trial. The data were corrected for this non-stationarity. Dominance durations had a log-normal probability distribution and the autocorrelation function revealed no short term correlations in the time series. In an attempt to distinguish whether the variability of durations was due to a deterministic, low-dimensional chaotic attractor or to a stochastic process, the data were subjected to two tests. The first was calculation of correlation dimensions and the second was nonlinear forecasting of the time series. Both tests included comparisons with randomized 'surrogate data' as controls. In neither case was there a large difference between test results for actual data and surrogate data. We conclude that chaos is not a major factor underlying variability in binocular rivalry.

We tried to antagonize the endocrine and behavioural changes induced by the selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, flesinoxan, with the putative 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, (S)-UH301 ((S)-5-fluoro-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin). The interaction of (S)-UH301 (3 and 10 mg/kg s.c.) with flesinoxan (3 mg/kg s.c.) showed no antagonistic effects of (S)-UH301 on flesinoxan-induced corticosterone secretion. In fact, like flesinoxan (1 and 3 mg/kg s.c.), (S)-UH301 (3 and 10 mg/kg s.c.) itself dose dependently increased plasma corticosterone levels. Unlike flesinoxan, (S)-UH301 did not induce hyperglycemia, lower lip retraction and flat body posture. Moreover, flesinoxan-induced hyperglycemia and behavioural changes were effectively antagonized by (S)-UH301, showing potent 5-HT1A receptor antagonistic effects of (S)-UH301. Therefore we conclude that (S)-UH301 is a potent 5-HT1A receptor antagonist and that the (S)-UH301-induced corticosterone secretion is mediated by a non-5-HT1A receptor mechanism.
We studied the expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), GAD65 and GAD67, in cat retina by immunocytochemistry. About 10% of GABAergic amacrine cells express only GAD65 and 30% express only GAD67. Roughly 60% contain both forms of the enzyme, but GAD67 is present only at low levels in the majority of these double-labeled amacrine cells. The staining pattern in the inner plexiform layer (IPL) for the two GAD forms was also different. GAD65 was restricted to strata 1-4, and GAD67 was apparent throughout the IPL but was strongest in strata 1 and 5. This indicates that somas, as well as their processes, are differentially stained for the two forms of GAD. Cell types expressing only GAD65 include interplexiform cells, one type of cone bipolar cell, and at least one type of serotonin-accumulating amacrine cell. Cell types expressing only GAD67 include amacrine cells synthesizing dopamine, amacrine cells synthesizing nitric oxide (NO), and amacrine cells accumulating serotonin. Cholinergic amacrine cells express a low level of both GAD forms. Our findings in the retina are consistent with previous observations in the brain that GAD65 expression is greater in terminals than in somas. In addition, in retina most neurons expressing GAD67 also contain a second neurotransmitter as well as GABA, and they tend to be larger than neurons expressing GAD65. We propose that large cells have a greater demand for GABA than small cells, and thus require the constant, relatively unmodulated level of GABA that is provided by GAD67.
1. The electrophysiological actions of neurotensin on magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) were examined during intracellular recording from seventy-three supraoptic nucleus neurones in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. 2. Application of neurotensin tridecapeptide (NT(1-13); 1 nM to 3 microM) caused a membrane depolarization and reversibly attenuated the after-hyperpolarization (AHP) which followed current-evoked spike trains. This effect was accompanied by increased firing frequency during depolarizing current pulses evoked from a fixed potential. 3. The effects of neurotensin could be mimicked by the C-terminal fragment, NT(8-13), but not by the N-terminal fragment, NT(1-8). 4. Depolarizing responses to NT(1-13) or NT(8-13), retained during K+ channel blockade with internal Cs+, were accompanied by increased membrane conductance. Current- and voltage-clamp analyses revealed that neurotensin-evoked depolarizations result partly from the activation of a non-selective cationic conductance reversing near -34 mV. 5. Depolarizing responses to neurotensin were retained in the presence of TTX or in Ca(2+)-free solutions, indicating the involvement of receptors located on the plasma membrane of MNCs themselves. 6. Through these effects endogenously released neurotensin may modulate excitability, activity patterns and secretion from the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial axis.
In a prospective study, we documented the hemodynamic effects of conventional donor maintenance in 24 brain-dead organ donors. Patients were then randomized to receive either saline or a low dose arginine vasopressin (AVP) infusion. In the AVP group (n = 11), plasma hyperosmolality decreased (P &lt; 0.05), blood pressure increased (P &lt; 0.01), inotrope use decreased (P &lt; 0.01), and cardiac output was maintained. In the control group (n = 13), plasma hyperosmolality increased (NS); no significant change in blood pressure, cardiac output, or inotrope infusion rate occurred. Myocardial ATP levels were higher in the AVP than the control group (NS). Early organ function was similar in the 2 groups. We conclude that the use of a low dose AVP infusion enables inotrope use to be reduced and recommend consideration be given to the use of a low dose AVP infusion in potential thoracic organ donors.
Occurrence of estrogen receptor-immunoreactivity (ER-IR) in the cerebral cortex was examined in neonatal and adult rats. In newborn rats of postnatal day 1 (= day of birth) and postnatal day 5 (PD1 and PD5, respectively), ER-IR was not evident in the neocortex. On postnatal days 7, 10 and 13 (PD7, PD10 and PD13 respectively), a group of cells with distinct ER-IR appeared in the layer V of the auditory cortex. At the PD10, weak but specific ER-IR were also appeared in the somatosensory and the visual cortices. Among these areas, the ER-IR positive neurons occurred most frequently in the auditory cortex at PD10 rats. By examination of adjacent sections, one stained with Cresyl violet and the another stained with acethylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry, it was revealed that the region with ER-IR at PD7 to PD13 was limited to layer V of the neocortex. These signals, however, disappeared at PD15. In layer II of the neocortex, on the other hand, weak ER-IR signals were detected throughout the area sporadically at PD21 and in adults. The ER-IR detected transiently in the auditory cortex by the antiserum might contribute to maturation and establishment of the neurons of the rat auditory circuit.
Recent studies have indicated that both insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and IGF-1 receptor mRNA are abundant in developing and adult olfactory bulbs, and that IGF-1 receptor mRNA is abundant in the prenatal cerebral cortex. To examine the potential role of IGF-1 in development of a central nervous system region rich in IGF-1 and its receptor (the olfactory bulb), as compared to one in which IGF-1 is less abundant (the cerebral cortex), tissue pieces of these two central nervous system areas from E15-E17 rat fetuses were transplanted into the anterior chamber of the eye of adult host rats. The transplants were treated with either a total of 300 ng truncated IGF-1, two different IGF-1 polyclonal antisera, two different non-immune sera, a total of 15 micrograms IGF binding protein-1, or vehicle alone. Treatments were administered by preincubation just prior to grafting and by 5 microliters injections into the anterior chamber on days 5, 10 and 15 postgrafting. Olfactory bulb grafts treated with either of the two IGF-1 antisera grew significantly larger than grafts receiving any other treatment. No enhancement of graft size was seen in E16-E17 parietal cortex grafts after IGF-1 antibody treatment. Immunohistochemical studies revealed no difference between the treatments with regard to glial fibrillary acidic protein-, tyrosine hydroxylase- or neurofilament-immunoreactivity within the olfactory bulb grafts. Since, in the olfactory bulb the presumed reduction of endogenous IGF-1 achieved by antibody treatment caused enhanced growth, we suggest that the presence of appropriate endogenous levels of IGF-1 in this area induces maturation. This mechanism is not operative in all brain areas since it was not seen in cortex cerebri grafts. Thus, endogenous IGF-1 appears to influence brain development in a regionally specific manner.
In monkeys rendered parkinsonian, lesions and electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus reduce all major motor disturbances. The effect of electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus was assessed in three patients with disabling akinetic-rigid Parkinson's disease and severe motor fluctuations. Quadripolar electrodes connected to a pulse generator were implanted in the subthalamic nuclei on both sides. Patients were evaluated with the unified Parkinson's disease rating scale and timed motor tests. 3 months after surgery, activities of daily living scores had improved by 58-88% and motor scores by 42-84%. This improvement was maintained for up to 8 months in the first patient operated upon. One patient was confused for 2 weeks after surgery, and another developed neuropsychological impairment related to a thalamic infarction which improved over 3 months. In one patient, stimulation could induce ballism that was stopped by reduction of stimulation. This is the first demonstration in human beings of the part played by the subthalamic nuclei in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease.
The notochord and floor plate contribute to patterning the ventral neural tube in part by expressing a diffusible factor that induces motoneurons. To determine the mechanisms that direct the development of other classes of ventral neurons, we studied the development of dopaminergic neurons that reside near motoneurons in the ventral midbrain. We provide evidence that dopaminergic neurons develop in the vicinity of the floor plate and that they can be specified by the floor plate in vitro and in vivo. Unlike motoneurons, efficient induction of dopaminergic neurons requires contact with floor plate cells. These results suggest that neuronal diversification along the dorsal-ventral axis may be achieved partly through the concerted action of diffusible and contact-dependent signals from a single organizing center, the floor plate.
Factors that predict nonresponse to drug therapy (brofaromine or fluvoxamine) were investigated in a sample of 44 panic disorder patients. We used a strict definition of nonresponse to find patients who did not respond at all after 12 weeks of treatment. Using this definition, 15 patients (32.6%) were considered nonresponders. Nonresponders had a higher score on the Blood-Injury subscore of the Fear Questionnaire (FQ) and more often had high scores on several FQ subscores, indicative of comorbid phobic symptoms. These variables were subsequently used to predict nonresponse.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) are two sources of central nervous system (CNS)-derived arginine vasopressin (AVP), a nonapeptide that has been implicated in central autonomic regulation and in particular in cardiovascular regulation, through its actions within the CNS. These experiments were designed to determine if either the PVN or the BST were involved in the development of Goldblatt one-kidney one-clip (1K1C) hypertension in the rat. In order to test this hypothesis, ibotenic acid lesions of the PVN or electrolytic lesions of the BST were undertaken in both normotensive (sham-operated) rats and in 1K1C rats. In both cases the development of 1K1C hypertension was inhibited over the 18-21 days following surgery. Lesions of the PVN did not alter normal blood pressure regulation in the sham-operated animals, whereas lesions to the BST did affect normal blood pressure regulation, resulting in a dramatic increase in blood pressure during the initial days following surgery. These studies suggest that the PVN and BST are involved in the development of 1K1C hypertension in the rat, moreover the BST may also play a role in central cardiovascular control.
We have characterized the 5' and 3' ends of the rat beta 1-adrenergic receptor transcript using RNase protection assays and have used transient transfection analysis to identify regions of the beta 1-adrenergic gene 5'-flanking sequences which are important for expression. The transcript has multiple start sites, occurring primarily in two clusters at bases -250 and -280, relative to the first base of the initiation codon. Two potential polyadenylation signals at +2450 and +2732 are both functional, although the site at +2732 is preferred both in C6 glioma cells and in heart tissue. Characterization of the gene by transient transfection analysis has identified a region between bases -389 and -325 which is necessary for expression. The specific deletion of a potentially functional inverted CCAAT sequence within this region does not significantly alter activity. In addition to the region from -389 and -325, deletion of the bases between -1 and -159 and between -186 and -211 significantly alters expression. Both of these regions are down-stream from the beta 1-adrenergic receptor gene start sites and may function either through regulation of transcription or through alteration of the transcript structure.
To clarify the role of neuropeptides in dyskinesia induced by iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), the levels of five representative neuropeptides were examined in discrete regions of the rat brain 4 weeks after intraperitoneal injection of IDPN. The five neuropeptides examined were methionine-enkephalin (Met-Enk), substance P (SP) and somatostatin, which are closely related to extrapyramidal function, and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8), which are closely related to the neural mechanism of the dopamine system. IDPN pretreatment significantly increased Met-Enk in the basal ganglia but not SP or somatostatin; however, all three neuropeptide levels were increased in the hindbrain. In IDPN-treated rats, TRH and CCK-8 levels were increased in the nucleus accumbens, and the frontal cortical CCK-8 level was extremely increased. These findings, together with previous reports, suggest that neuropeptides in the basal ganglia, hindbrain and cerebral cortex play important roles in the manifestation of dyskinetic symptoms.
Tau proteins are abnormally phosphorylated in Alzheimer's disease. Pathological Tau proteins named PHF-Tau 55, PHF-Tau 64, and PHF-Tau 69, are the main constituents of the paired helical filaments (PHF). When treating SKNSH-SY 5Y cells with okadaic acid (OA), Tau 55 protein was clearly induced whereas Tau 64 protein was only faintly induced. Here, we show that the absence of Tau 69 could be explained by the fact that adult isoforms containing N-terminal inserts are not detected. Phosphorylation is similar for untreated cellular Tau proteins and fetal Tau proteins, while OA cell treatment transformed fetal-type into Alzheimer-type phosphorylated proteins.
Neuronal precursor cells persist in the adult forebrain ependymal/subependymal zone (SZ) and have been found to produce neurons in cultures derived from birds, rodents, and humans. We postulated that the survival of neurons generated from these cells might be constrained in adulthood by the local absence of trophic support. To test this hypothesis, we established explant cultures of adult rat forebrain SZ and assessed the effect of defined neurotrophins on the survival of new neurons arising from these explants. We found that microtubule-associated protein 2+ neurons arose from explants derived from a wide area of the SZ, spanning the rostral 6 mm of the ventricular system. In cultures exposed to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), &gt; 35% of new neurons survived at 22 days in vitro (DIV), and &gt; 25% survived at 42 DIV, concurrent with the virtually complete loss of neurons in unsupplemented controls. The surviving cells expressed trkB, the high-affinity receptor for BDNF. In contrast, neither nerve growth factor nor neurotrophic factor 3 enhanced neuronal survival. Thus, BDNF supports the survival of neurons produced by the adult rat forebrain and may act as a permissive factor for neuronal recruitment in adulthood.
Clinical and animal data suggest that exposure of developing brain to cocaine has adverse consequences. One candidate mechanism for such effects is drug regulation of gene expression. In adult rats, cocaine induces expression of nuclear immediate early genes with specific spatial and temporal patterns. The products of such genes (e.g., c-Fos, c-Jun, and Zif/268) subserve the coupling of cell surface receptor stimulation to transcriptional regulation. Thus, activation of immediate early gene expression in developing brain by cocaine could alter programs of neural gene expression and, thereby, neuronal phenotype and function. We report that, during rat brain development, cocaine produced brain region-specific and developmental age-specific induction of c-fos, c-jun, and zif/268 mRNAs. At each age studied (P8, P15, P28, and adults), we found that acute cocaine administration resulted in a unique cell-specific pattern of c-fos mRNA induction and c-Fos protein expression in striatum. We also observed cocaine-induced activation of AP-1 DNA binding activity in striatal extracts prepared at these different ages, suggesting that the observed induction of c-fos and c-jun may have biological consequences for the developing brain. These findings suggest a mechanism by which cocaine could alter patterns of gene expression during critical developmental periods with differential regional, temporal, and cellular vulnerabilities and, therefore, consequences for developing brain.
Activation of c-fos, a member of the class of immediate early genes that act as transcription factors, may be one of the initial molecular mechanisms underlying plastic changes in gene expression in response to drugs of abuse. By combining c-fos (radioactive) in situ hybridization histochemistry with nonradioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry for mRNAs encoding other striatal markers [preprotachykinin (substance P), proenkephalin, and D1 and D2 receptors], we have identified the cellular phenotype of striatal neurons activated by acute administration of cocaine to P8, P15, P28, and adult rats. At each age examined, substance P+, enkephalin- striatal neurons were the predominant class of cells in which cocaine induced c-fos gene expression. In addition, the topography of cellular activation at each age examined was distinct and reflected the topography of distribution of cells expressing high levels of substance P mRNA. We conclude that there is a marked specificity of cellular activation in striatum following acute cocaine administration restricted predominantly to subsets of substance P-expressing cells, with age-specific patterns in their topographic distribution.
The endogenous opioid peptide dynorphin is enriched in neurons in the nucleus accumbens, for which coexistence and synaptic interactions with substance P have been postulated. We examined the immunogold-silver localization of dynorphin and immunoperoxidase labeling for substance P in single coronal sections through the core subregion of the nucleus accumbens of acrolein-fixed rat brain tissue. Dynorphin-immunoreactive somata were more prevalent than substance P-containing neurons throughout the region sampled for ultrastructural analysis. Dynorphin-labeled cells were spherical, contained unindented nuclei, and were closely apposed to other somata and dendrites, some of which also contained dynorphin immunoreactivity. The appositions were characterized by the absence of glial processes and contiguous contacts between the plasma membranes. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum and coated vesicles could also be identified in the cytoplasms on either side of the somatic or dendritic appositions. The dynorphin somata and dendrites received synaptic input from numerous unlabeled as well as dynorphin- and/or substance P-labeled axon terminals. Both types of terminals were morphologically similar in their content of small and large dense core vesicles and their formation of mainly symmetric synaptic specializations. In addition to dynorphin-immunoreactive targets, numerous dynorphin- and substance P-labeled terminals also formed synapses with unlabeled somata and dendrites. In some cases, terminals separately labeled for dynorphin and substance P converged on common targets with or without detectable dynorphin immunoreactivity. Terminals colocalizing both peptides were also found to synapse on unlabeled or dynorphin-labeled somata and dendrites. Additionally, presynaptic interactions were suggested by close appositions between dynorphin- and/or substance P-labeled terminals and other terminals that were unlabeled, dynorphin labeled, or substance P labeled. These results provide morphological data suggesting nonsynaptic communication between dynorphin-immunoreactive neurons and other neurons possibly mediated through receptive sites or second messengers associated with smooth endoplasmic reticulum in the nucleus accumbens. They also indicate that, in this region, 1) the activity of dynorphin neurons may be dependent on activation of autoreceptors for dynorphin as well as substance P and 2) additional neurons lacking dynorphin immunoreactivity are most likely inhibited (symmetric junctions) by terminals containing either one or both peptides. The findings may have implications for motor and analgesic responses to aversive tonic pain transmitted through dynorphin and substance P pathways within the nucleus accumbens.
A random sample of 60 late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases from a population-based study were apolipoprotein E (apoE) genotyped and clinically examined with a 3-year interval. The epsilon 4 allele carriers had a significantly lower age of disease onset compared to non-epsilon 4 carriers. However, no significant differences were observed between epsilon 4 allele carries and non-carriers for Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) test scores at the first examination, in spite of a longer disease duration in the epsilon 4 allele carriers. After 3 years, MMSE test scores were still not significantly different between epsilon 4 carries and non-carriers but more than twice as many non-carriers had died. All other clinical features were similar between epsilon 4 allele carriers and non-carriers. This study indicates that the epsilon 4 allele is associated with a better prognosis of the disease in late-onset AD but that there are probably factors other than the epsilon 4 allele that are important for the AD phenotype.
Agmatine, a newly identified amine in mammalian brain, is an endogenous ligand for imidazoline and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. We sought to develop a polyclonal antibody to agmatine suitable for immunocytochemistry. Agmatine was conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin and injected into rabbits. The polyclonal antiserum so generated dose-dependently recognized the agmatine conjugate but not carrier protein by dot blot. Its reaction with the conjugate was selectively antagonized by agmatine but not related compounds. The antiserum, but not pre-immune or pre-adsorbed antiserum, selectively stained cultured adrenal chromaffin cells. Our results indicate that agmatine immunoreactivity is contained in a sub-population of adrenal chromaffin cells and, thus, these antibodies are useful for immunocytochemical localization of the amine in mammalian tissues.
In order to obtain a description of the innervation of the vaginal wall we employed an antiserum against the general neuronal marker, protein gene product 9.5, on normal human vaginal mucosa. Specimens were taken from the anterior and posterior fornices, from the anterior vaginal wall at the bladder neck level and from the introitus vaginae region, and then processed for indirect immunohistochemistry. All regions studied revealed a profound innervation, although regional differences were noted. The more distal areas of the vaginal wall had more nerve fibers compared to the more proximal parts. Also, biopsies from the anterior wall generally were more densely innervated than the posterior wall. Some large nerve coils were observed in lamina propria of the anterior wall as well as gatherings of thick-walled medium-sized blood vessels. Free intraepithelial nerve endings were only detected in the introitus vaginae region. These fibers were very thin, always varicose and could be observed just a few cell layers from the surface. In this part of the vagina, protein gene product 9.5 antibodies also stained cells within the basal parts of the epithelium. These cells were also neurone-specific enolase positive and resembled, from a morphological point of view, Merkel cells.

The effects of morphine, Met-enkephalin, and its synthetic analogue DAMA on the hemocytes of Culex pipiens mosquitoes were examined in vitro. Morphine caused the cells to round up and decrease in area. Met-enkephalin caused the cells to become ameboid and increase in area. This effect was accentuated with the addition of the neutral endopeptidase blocker phosphoramidon. DAMA caused a similar but greater enhancement of immune activation which was blocked by the opiate antagonist, naloxone. These results were similar to those seen in other invertebrate hemocytes.
In the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis egg laying is induced by multiple peptides, which are released by the neuroendocrine caudo-dorsal cells (CDCs). Egg laying in Lymnaea starts at about 50 days and increases initially with age to decreases again at an age of about 250 days. From that age on, the total number of animals that stop egg laying increases with age. The maximum age of Lymnaea is about 660 days. Lucifer Yellow fills of individual ventral CDCs showed reduced branching patterns in old animals. Immunocytochemical stainings demonstrated degeneration in ventral, dorsal and lateral CDCs. In animals that had stopped egg laying, CDCs could still be electrically activated. Regeneration studies after crushing the cerebral commissure showed that in old animals CDCs still can regenerate connections in the cerebral commissure. The properties of CDCs in old animals are discussed in relationship with possible mechanisms of cessation of egg laying in Lymnaea.

Arteries supplying cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are known to dilate with time. These changes are reversible, and the feeders have been shown to slowly decrease in calibre after removal of the AMV. There is evidence that arteries alter their internal diameters in response to sustained changes of blood flow so that shear stress is kept constant. This implies that blood flow-induced shear stress might be the driving force for remodelling of the cerebral vascular network in the presence of an AVM, and for reversion of these changes after radical operation. The objective of this study is to examine the hypothesis that the shear stress in cerebral arteries supplying AMVs is of the same magnitude as in arteries supplying normal brain tissue in spite of larger blood flow rate. Fifteen patients with supratentorial cerebral AVMs admitted for endovascular treatment were examined with transcranial Doppler ultrasound in the distal Willisian vessels. Vessel calibres were measured in angiograms with magnification correction. Shear stress was estimated assuming a constant value for blood viscosity. Corresponding arteries in the cerebral hemisphere with AVM and in the contralateral one were compared in pairs. Thirty-four pairs of homonymous arteries were studied. The arteries on the AVM side presented larger calibres, higher axial blood flow velocities, lower pulsatility index and larger blood flow rates than the contralateral side. There was a clear positive correlation between blood flow velocities and vessel calibres. The estimates of shear stress did not differ significantly in corresponding arteries of both hemispheres (p = 0.18). The results indicate a precise adjustment of cerebral arterial calibre and blood flow-induced shear stress that presumably induces the progressive dilation of AVM feeders, and the slow regression of the vessel calibres to average dimensions after removal of the lesion. Each vessel seems to remodel itself in response to long-term changes in blood flow rate so that the vessel calibre is reshaped to maintain a constant level of wall shear stress.
Serial transcranial doppler studies were carried out in 12 patients, who developed meningitis during their hospital stay. Blood flow velocities in large basal vessels of the anterior circle of Willis were correlated with CSF pleocytosis and CSF sugar values. Mean blood flow velocities were found to be directly proportional to the CSF white blood cell (WBC) count and were inversely proportional to the CSF sugar values. Blood flow velocities were higher when CSF WBC count was raised. With only one exception these velocities decreased progressively with a fall in the CSF WBC count. At the time of meningitis there occurred a reduction in CSF sugar values and the blood flow velocities were significantly higher. With increase in CSF sugar values there occurred a gradual fall in the blood flow velocities.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage, which sometimes occurs after skull trauma, is a life-threatening condition. A prompt start with antibiotics and/or prompt surgical treatment of fistulas is essential to avoid severe complications. This requires a fast and reliable method for detecting CSF leakage. This paper describes a fast (&lt; 2 h) method based on the identification of the tau protein (beta 2-transferrin) band(s). Tau protein is a brain-specific variant of transferrin that is characteristic of CSF. The method includes iso-electric focusing (IEF) on pre-cast polyacrylamide gels and silver staining using the PhastSystem, an automated instrument for electrophoresis and staining. In the present study, this technology was applied on 200 consecutive CSF samples, 32 of which were from healthy volunteers. Tau protein was detected in all CSF samples but 5 (2.5%), all of which were from patients with blood-brain barrier (BBB) damage. In these cases, the tau protein band was indistinct when direct silver staining was used. Therefore, immunofixation with an antitransferrin antibody was performed, and after that the tau protein band was easy to detect. The specificity of the method was high, since no brain-specific tau protein band was detected in serum, tears, saliva, or nasal secretion. As IEF of CSF using the PhastSystem is increasingly used as the routine method for detection of oligoclonal bands of IgG in neurological disorders, it could readily be used in the clinical (neuro) chemical laboratory also for the less frequent cases of suspected CSF leakage.
In this study of 34 consecutive histologically confirmed oligodendroglial brain tumours (15 oligoastrocytoma, 12 oligodendroglioma, 7 anaplastic oligodendroglioma) twenty five patients (75%) presented with symptoms related to seizures. Although the seizure incidence was lowest in anaplastic oligodendroglioma (57%) it was not statistically different from either pure (75%) or mixed (80%) oligodendroglial tumours. Patients with seizures had a significantly lower age (p &lt; 0.001) at diagnosis (median 36 years) than those without seizures (57 years). The types of seizure disorder, that were present for a median of 15 months prior to surgery, were variable with 32% having generalised, 36% partial and 32% mixed patterns. There were no significant differences between either the type or incidence of seizures and the particular cerebral location of the oligodendroglial tumour. Twenty four of the patients presenting with seizures underwent surgery (5 stereotactic biopsy, 5 stereotactic guided resection and 14 conventional craniotomy and resection) without intraoperative electrocorticography (ECoG). Eighteen (75%) of these patients also had postoperative radiotherapy (40 to 54 Gy in 30 fractions. Following these treatments the percentage of patients fit free at 6, 12, and 24 months were 67%, 56%, and 53%, respectively. Median time to first post operative seizure was 32 weeks (range 5 weeks to 5.3 years). After a median follow up time of 30 months 20 of the 25 patients who presented with seizures were still alive. Eight (40%) were seizure free and three other patients (15%) had experienced less than three postoperative seizures in follow-up periods ranging from 42 to 62 months. Although the numbers of patients on preoperative (87%) and postoperative (83%) anticonvulsant medications were similar, some had their medications either withdrawn (17%) or reduced (4%) whilst others had it introduced (12%) after interventional management. Only five (20%) patients who presented with seizures, compared to 6 (67%) who had not presented with seizures had died during median follow-up of 28 months. Three of nine patients (33%), who were initially seizure free, developed seizures between 25 and 36 months after initial surgery and radiotherapy. This study (i) confirms the high incidence of epilepsy in supratentorial oligodendroglial tumours; (ii) has shown that seizures associated with these tumours are significantly more common in younger patients; (iii) suggests that younger age, but not the presence of seizures, is a significant independent prognostic variable; (iv) that seizure control following a second operation is generally disappointing and (v) suggests that tumour resection and radiotherapy often facilitate control of the seizures by anticonvulsants. Because of the multiple clinicopathological and management variables involved a prospective study would be required to assess the optimal management of patients with seizure disorders associated with oligodendroglial brain tumours.
Unilateral ventrolateral (VL) thalamotomy for medically refractory tremorigenic movement disorders (MD) was performed in 9 patients with established multiple sclerosis. All patients had abolition of their coarse action/kinetic tremor with improvement in arm and hand function. In two patients some intention tremor either remained or was unmasked. Target coordinates ranged from 2 to -5 mm relative to the intercommissural line and from 8 to 16 mm lateral to the midline. There were no permanent surgical complications and the one stage procedure under local anesthetic was well tolerated. Although there were also improvements in posture and speech in some patients the overall and longer term functional impact of surgery was, except in two patients, disappointing. Since multiple sclerosis is a spectrum of disease entities, and tremor may be only one manifestation of the disease, clinical studies that use comprehensive patient assessments and objective criteria may allow prediction of longer term functional outcome in specific patient subgroups. The specific aims of the stereotactic procedure in severely disabled patients with MS and MD must also be clear.
The authors have observed a 33-year-old woman with a 3-year history of a clinical syndrome characterised by atrophy of the musculature of the left foot and leg with impaired motor function, associated with a paracentral cortical oligodendroglioma located in the right parietal region. Clinical, neuroradiological (MRI), electrophysiological (electromyography: EMG; motor evoked potential: MEP; median and tibial somatosensory evoked potential: m-SEP and t-SEP), and neuropsychological studies were performed every year for three years. Neurological examination showed an abnormal gait along with foot drop, pes cavus and pyramidal involvement. MEP and t-SEP recordings were abnormal on the left side, while EMG and neuropsychological tests gave normal results, which were unmodified over time. Our observations suggest that the crural amyotrophy observed in this case may be defined as of &quot;parietal&quot; or &quot;central&quot; origin, a clinical feature which more frequently affects the hand. A review of the literature is presented.
Total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) has been reported to delay deterioration in patients with progressive multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune disorders. METHODS--In an open trial, the effect of TLI combined with a one year course of low dose prednisone was compared to the effect of sham TLI and TLI only in a prior double-blind study of patients with progressive multiple sclerosis. RESULTS--Twenty-seven patients receiving TLI combined with corticosteroids had significantly greater lymphocytopenia in the year post-therapy than those receiving TLI only or sham TLI and Kaplan Meier product-limit survival analysis showed significantly less progression in the TLI plus steroid group over 4 years of follow-up. No difference in lymphocytopenia or progression was found with TLI plus corticosteroid therapy when the spleen was removed from the field of irradiation. CONCLUSION--These results lend further support to the hypothesis that TLI may be effective in progressive MS, and indicates that adding low-dose prednisone may enhance this effect. The study also suggests that TLI may be equally effective whether or not the spleen is irradiated.
Evidence for a viral cause of multiple sclerosis (MS) is indirect since no infectious agent has been reproducibly isolated from MS tissues nor has viral genome or antigen been consistently identified. The occurrence of spontaneous human and animal models of demyelination, serologic studies, and epidemiologic data provide persuasive circumstantial evidence for an infectious trigger in this disease. Potential mechanisms for viral induced demyelination include persistent infection of host tissues or immune mediated organ damage either in the presence or absence of the infectious agent. Any proposed viral candidate should cause demyelination in animals or man and the pattern of infection should be consistent with the unique geographic features of MS epidemiology. In addition, serologic studies should support an infection by the agent and/or viral genome should be detected in MS tissues. At this time no virus can be unequivocally linked to MS but cumulative evidence is more supportive of canine distemper virus than other viruses.
To determine when and how the dystrophin-positive muscle fibers are formed after myoblast transplantation into dystrophin-negative muscles, the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle from mdx nude mouse was chronologically examined after C2 myoblast transplantation by immunohistochemical and glucose 6-phosphate isomerase (GPI) isoenzyme analyses. The host TA muscle transplanted with C2 myoblasts became necrotic with accumulation of basic fibroblast growth factor in the necrotic areas. This may stimulate concomitant proliferation of the host satellite cells and C2 myoblasts. Small dystrophin-positive muscle fibers appeared in the necrotic areas 3 days after transplantation. This TA muscle contained two different kinds of homodimer GPI isoenzymes but did not contain the heterodimer, suggesting rare fusion of host and donor cells. The dystrophin-positive muscle fibers in the necrotic areas rapidly increased in number and in size by 7 days, but they were smaller than the original host muscle fibers. They had central nuclei, indicating that they were regenerating fibers. The presence of heterodimer GPI isoenzyme in these muscles indicated that the regenerating fibers were mosaic host/donor muscle fibers. The dystrophin-positive muscle fibers are probably formed first by fusion of donor cells with each other and then later by the fusion of host satellite and donor cells.
Observations were made on myelinated fibre regeneration in diabetic sensory polyneuropathy assessed in sural nerve biopsy specimens. These confirmed that regenerative clusters initially develop within abnormally persistent Schwann cell basal laminal tubes. The number of regenerating fibres, identified by light microscopy, was found to decline in proportion to the reduction in total myelinated fibre density. The relative number of regenerating fibres was significantly greater in patients with insulin-dependent as compared with those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes after correction for age. There was a slight negative correlation between the relative proportion of regenerating fibres and age, but this was not statistically significant. The progressive reduction in the number of regenerating fibres with declining total fibre density indicates that axonal regeneration fails with advancing neuropathy. The production of nerve growth factor (NGF) and NGF receptors by denervated Schwann cells is likely to be important for axonal regeneration. To investigate whether the failure of axonal regeneration could be related to a lack of NGF receptor production by Schwann cells, we examined the expression of p75 NGF receptors by Bngner bands immunocytochemically. In comparison with other types of peripheral neuropathy, p75 NGF receptor expression appeared to take place normally. It is concluded that failure of axonal regeneration constitutes an important component in diabetic neuropathy. Its explanation requires further investigation.
Cystic necrosis in the cerebellar white matter was found in three premature infants. The necrosis was characteristically localized in the center of the white matter of the superficial cerebellar folia, sparing the overlying cortex. The patients were aged between 28 and 34 gestational weeks, and had a clinical history of severe systemic hypotension. Thus, cystic leukomalacia represents a characteristic brain lesion in premature infants which may be caused by cerebellar hypoperfusion.
Apolipoprotein E (APOE) is a lipoprotein expressed in liver and brain as one of three isoforms (APOE 2, APOE 3 and APOE 4). Recent findings suggest that the presence of APOE 4 is associated with an increased risk for both familial Alzheimer's disease and late-onset Alzheimer's disease. We extended these observations by determining the frequency of APOE alleles in patients with pathologically confirmed Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), diffuse Lewy Body disease (DLBD), AD with concomitant PD pathology, demented PD patients without or with concomitant AD pathology and in schizophrenics with a progressive dementia (SCHIZ+DEM). The APOE genotype was determined by restriction digestion of polymerase chain reaction-amplified DNA isolated from frozen brain samples. The frequency of the APOE epsilon 4 allele was highest among sporadic AD and DLBD patients (0.30 and 0.38, respectively) and lowest in the SCHIZ+DEM and non-demented PD patients (0.06 and 0.1, respectively). Thus, the APOE epsilon 4 allele is over-represented selectively in patients with dementias associated with plaques and tangles and/or cortical Lewy bodies, but not in demented schizophrenics or non-demented PD patients.
This report describes a patient who had clinical features of both motor neuron disease and Parkinson's disease. Neuropathological examination and immunocytochemical studies showed that he had motor neuron disease of the progressive muscular atrophy type, and Lewy body Parkinson's disease, with intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies characteristic of both conditions. This is the first detailed description of these two diseases occurring concurrently in the same patient. A review of all previously reported cases of combined motor neuron disease and parkinsonism has led to the following conclusions: (1) that these two neuropathologically defined diseases occur together very infrequently, but (2) that parkinsonism and substantia nigra degeneration are not uncommon as part of the multi-system disease process underlying motor neuron disease.
To characterize neurons containing cortical Lewy bodies (LBs), vibratome sections of the superior temporal cortex from eight patients with the LB variant of Alzheimer's disease (LBV) were double-immunolabeled with anti-ubiquitin (a marker of LBs) and anti-nonphosphorylated neurofilament (SMI32; a marker of pyramidal cells) or parvalbumin (PV; a marker of interneurons) and were viewed with a laser-scanning confocal microscope. Almost all (96.1%) the LB-containing neurons were positive for SMI32, but not for PV. Furthermore, the average numbers of SMI32-immunoreactive neurons in layers 3 and 5 were 63% and 77% of those in controls, respectively. PV-immunoreactive neurons showed a greater than 40% decrease. These findings indicate that cortical LB-containing neurons are pyramidal cells and suggest that in LBV, there may be some differences in the degenerative processes effecting pyramidal cells and interneurons.
Pontosubicular neuronal necrosis is characterized by neuronal karyorrhexis, showing a peculiar distribution. In infants delivered at more than 29 gestational weeks (GW), neuronal karyorrhexis is restricted to the pons and subiculum, while in very premature infants (delivered at less than 28 GW), neurons in other brain regions, such as the inferior olivary nucleus, cerebellum, basal ganglia, thalamus and cerebral cortex, are also involved. Thus, karyorrhexis is more widely distributed in the more immature brain, implicating neuronal maturation as one of the pathogenetic factors relevant to this type of neuronal cell death.
Ultrastructural investigation of the hippocampal CA1 and CA4 of nine autopsy-proven cases of dementia of the Alzheimer type (duration of disease: 3-16 years; age: 76-92 years) revealed paired helical filaments (PHFs) and straight tubules (STs) in astrocytes of three advanced cases of long duration (&gt; 13 years). The PHFs and STs were indistinguishable from those seen in neurons. The abnormal glial fibrils were confined to the astrocytic processes that were associated with small vessels or, more frequently, with ghost tangles. In both locations the astrocytic PHFs and STs were located in the cytoplasm without limiting membranes, and were thicker than the straight filaments that composed ghost tangles. These findings, combined with the presence of regular constrictions of astrocytic PHFs, suggest that abnormal astrocytic fibers are produced by the glial cells, not engulfed by them. In addition, the presence of these abnormal glial filaments in only advanced, long-duration cases of dementia of the Alzheimer type suggests that disease duration has a significant effect upon the formation of these astrocytic profiles.
Results of previous studies suggested that the vestibular mediated postural instability observed in astronauts upon return to earth from orbital spaceflight may be exacerbated by an increased weighting of visual inputs for spatial orientation and control of movement. This study was performed to better understand the roles of visual and somatosensory contributions to recovery of normal sensori-motor postural control in returning astronauts. Preflight and postflight, 23 astronaut volunteers were presented randomly with three trials of six sensory organization test (SOT) conditions in the EquiTest system test battery. Sagittal plane center-of-gravity (COG) excursions computed from ground reaction forces were significantly higher on landing day than preflight for those test conditions presenting sway-referenced visual and/or somatosensory orientation cues. The ratio of summed peak-to-peak COG sway amplitudes on the two sway-referenced vision tests (SOTs 3 + 6) compared to the two eyes closed tests (SOTs 2 + 5) was increased on landing day, indicating an increased reliance on visual orientation cues for postural control. The ratio of peak-to-peak COG excursions on sway-referenced surfaces (SOTs 4, 5 &amp; 6) to an earth fixed support surfaces (SOTs 1, 2 &amp; 3) increased even more after landing suggesting primary reliance on somatosensory orientation cues for recovery of postflight postural stability. Readaptation to sway-referenced support surfaces took longer than readaptation to sway-referenced vision. The increased reliance on visual and somatosensory inputs disappeared in all astronauts 4-8 days following return to earth.
A mathematical model has been developed to help explain human multi-sensory interactions. The most important constituent of the model is the hypothesis that the nervous system incorporates knowledge of sensory dynamics into an &quot;internal model&quot; of these dynamics. This internal model allows the nervous system to integrate the sensory information from many different sensors into a coherent estimate of self-motion. The essence of the model is unchanged from a previously published model of monkey eye movement responses; only a few variables have been adjusted to yield the prediction of human responses. During eccentric rotation, the model predicts that the axis of eye rotation shifts slightly toward alignment with gravito-inertial force. The model also predicts that the time course of the perception of tilt following the acceleration phase of eccentric rotation is much slower than that during deceleration. During off vertical axis rotation (OVAR) the model predicts a small horizontal bias along with small horizontal, vertical, and torsional oscillations. Following OVAR stimulation, when stopped right- or left-side down, a small vertical component is predicted that decays with the horizontal post-rotatory response. All of the predictions are consistent with measurements of human responses.
We measured the linear vestibulo-ocular reflex (LVOR) and vergence, using binocular search coils, in 3 humans. The subjects were accelerated sinusoidally at 0.5 Hz and 0.2 g peak acceleration, in complete darkness, while performing three different tasks: i) mental arithmetic; ii) tracking a remembered target at either 0.34 m or 0.14 m distance; and iii) maintaining vergence at either of these distances by means of audio biofeedback based on vergence. Subjects could control vergence using the audio feedback; there was greater convergence with the near audio target. However, there was no significant difference in vergence between the near and far remembered target conditions. With audio feedback, the amplitude of smooth tracking was not consistently different for the near and the far conditions. However, the amplitude of tracking (saccades and smooth component) in the remembered target conditions was greater for near than for far targets. These results suggest that linear VOR amplitude is not determined by vergence alone.
A comprehensive neuropsychological test battery was administered to 10 consecutive patients undergoing neurosurgical intervention, capsulotomy, as a last resort treatment for chronic, incapacitating, and otherwise intractable illness, either obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD; n = 5) or non-OCD anxiety disorder (n = 5). The aim was to study the neuropsychology of severe anxiety disorders before and after a defined neurosurgical intersection of connections between the frontal lobes and related brain regions. Although extremely disabled by their illness before surgery, the patients performed within the normal range on most tests. After capsulotomy, there was significant improvement on measures of clinical morbidity and of psychosocial functioning, and the general neuropsychological performance remained remarkably intact. In a subgroup of 5 patients, however, perseverative responses were more common postoperatively, possibly indicating dysfunction of systems involving the frontal lobes. Although admittedly sparse, these data can be interpreted as suggesting that in vulnerable individuals, capsulotomy may give rise to increased perseverative behaviour in the laboratory, and possibly in the real world as well. This risk must be weighed against the potential clinical benefit of capsulotomy in this extremely disabled, sometimes suicidal patient population.



To identify the localization of the epitopes recognized by monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against the S1 subunit of the murine coronavirus JHMV spike protein, we have expressed the S1 proteins with different deletions from the C terminus of the S1. All of MAbs in groups A and B recognized the S1N(330) composed of 330 amino acids (aa) from the N terminus of the S1 and the larger S1 deletion mutants, but failed to react with the S1N(220) composed of 220 aa. MAbs in group C reacted only with the S1utt protein without any deletion. These results indicated that the S1N330 comprised the cluster of epitopes recognized by MAbs in groups A and B. These results together with the fact that all the MAbs in group B retained the high neutralizing activity suggested that the N terminus 330 aa are responsible for binding to the MHV-specific receptors. In pursuit of this possibility, we have expressed the receptor protein and examined the binding of each S1 deletion mutants to the receptor. It was demonstrated that the S1N(330) protein as well as other S1 deletion mutants larger than S1N(330) bound to the receptor. These results indicated that a domain composed of 330 aa at the N terminus of the S1 protein is responsible for binding to the MHV-specific receptor.
We have studied the neurovirulence for rats of the MAb-resistant variants isolated from a highly neurovirulent JHMV, cl-2. The variants, MM6 and MM13, with point mutation located within the N terminal 100 amino acids (aa) of the S1 protein showed no alteration in neurovirulence in comparison with cl-2, showing high neurovirulence. The variants, MM65 and MM85, with a deletion composed of about 150 aa located in the middle of the S1 subunit were revealed to be non-neurovirulent. A variant MM78 with one aa deletion, asparagic acid at number 543 from the N terminus of the S1, was shown to be low-virulence. The neurovirulence of these viruses paralleled with the viral growth potential in the rat brain. However, all of these variants as well as parental cl-2 showed high neurovirulence for mice. These results suggest that the domain composed of about 150 aa in the middle of the S1 is critical for high-neurovirulence of JHMV for rats.

In order to investigate the mechanism of action by which oxytocin induces penile erection, the effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (NAME) and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (NMMA), inhibitors of nitric oxide (NO) synthase, injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) on the response to oxytocin injected into the PVN was studied in male rats. NAME and NMMA, but not NG-mono-methyl-D-arginine (D-NMMA), which does not inhibit NO-synthase, prevented in a dose-dependent manner the response to oxytocin. NAME was 4-5 times more potent than NMMA. NAME prevention of the oxytocin effect was not observed when NAME was given together with L-arginine but not with D-arginine. Oxytocin-induced penile erection was prevented by the oxytocin antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin and by methylene blue, an inhibitor of guanylate cyclase, but not reduced hemoglobin, a NO scavenger, given intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.). In contrast, both methylene blue and hemoglobin were ineffective when injected into the PVN, unlike d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin. Penile erection was induced also by sodium nitroprusside and hydroxylamine, two NO donors, injected into the PVN. Like the oxytocin effect, the NO donor response was prevented by i.c.v. d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin and methylene blue, but not hemoglobin. In contrast, the three compounds were ineffective in preventing the NO donor response when injected into the PVN. The present results suggest that oxytocin induces penile erection by activating NO synthase in the PVN. NO in turn activates oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic areas that control the expression of this male sexual function by a guanosine cyclic 3':5'-monophosphate (cGMP) independent mechanism at least in the PVN.
Oxytocin, acting as an autotransmitter, gives rise to release of calcium from intracellular store(s) within magnocellular neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON). A possible target for a rise in intracellular calcium is the GABAA receptor, since it is known that the functioning of this receptor may depend (directly) on the intracellular free calcium concentration. Therefore the effect of oxytocin on the GABAergic synaptic input in the SON was analyzed. In situ patch clamp recordings from individual neurons of the SON were performed. Spontaneously occurring, bicuculline sensitive GABAergic inhibitory synaptic currents (IPSCs) were pharmacologically isolated from the excitatory glutamatergic synaptic input. This isolated GABAergic synaptic input was spontaneously and tonically active, arising from both somatic as well as from dendritic synaptic contacts and operated a chloride conductance. Application of oxytocin during such recordings, strongly reduced the amplitude of the IPSCs in 73% of the recordings. This reduction was (i) completely reversed by washing, (ii) blocked by a specific oxytocin receptor antagonist, and (iii) observed in slices from both female and from male animals. Thus autotransmission involving disinhibition of magnocellular neurons may explain why oxytocin facilitates it own release.

In the oxytocin (OT) gene several regions can be discerned that have a function in regulating its expression. Firstly, in the proximal 5' flanking region regulatory elements have been discovered that are targets for transcription factors of the nuclear hormone receptor family. Through these elements the OT gene of rat and man is responsive to estrogens, thyroid hormones and retinoids. Furthermore, these elements can be employed by the nuclear hormone orphan receptor family for repressive or inductive actions. In the distal 5' flanking region the POU class III proteins Brn-1, Brn-2, Brn-4, that are expressed in magnocellular neurons, and Oct-6 are able to bind, but do not display a significant regulatory activity on the OT gene in heterologous expression systems. Secondly, the OT precursor harbours both the biologically active hormone and the protein neurophysin that is able to associate with the hormone. Heterologous expression of wild-type and mutant vasopressin cDNAs in peptidergic cell lines shows that the highly homologous vasopressin-associated neurophysin domain associates with the hormone domain within the prohormone. This intramolecular interaction between two prohormone domains serves an essential intracellular function, i.e. the proper sorting of the prohormone into the regulated secretory pathway.

The loss of force production during sustained activity presents the CNS a unique control problem. Different tasks stress the neuromuscular system at different sites and times, and involve different cellular mechanisms. The functional organization of muscles and their motor units has evolved to avoid fatigue processes that impair motor performance. The purpose of this brief review is to examine the fatigue properties of type-identified motor units and to speculate what these properties reveal about the organization and control of muscle.
This chapter reviews several mechanisms that the CNS may use to mitigate muscle fatigue, including intrinsic motoneuron properties and feedback systems. The emphasis is on the effects of sensory inputs on spinal cord interneurons including: Renshaw cells; Ib inhibitory interneurons; interneurons mediating presynaptic inhibition; Ia inhibitory interneurons; and interneuronal networks constituting central pattern generators for locomotion. This exercise brings out how little is known about the operation of these circuits in dealing with muscle fatigue.
A substantial body of evidence demonstrates that opiates and opioid peptides modulate immune function. The present study used highly purified murine CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells to determine the effects of delta opioid receptor (DOR) agonists on proliferation. Splenic T-cells, obtained from male or female C57BL/6 or CD1 mice, were separated by a fluorescence activated cell sorter. Cells were stimulated to proliferate in serum free medium by cross-linking the T-cell receptor using plate-coated anti-CD3-epsilon, 3H-thymidine uptake was determined at 48 hours. Previous experiments had shown that deltorphin and [D-Ala2]-met-enkephalinamide (DAME), at concentrations from 10(-11) to 10(-7) M, dose dependently inhibited the proliferation of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells obtained from female C57BL/6 or CD1 mice. Similarly, the experiments herein demonstrate that proliferation of CD4+ T-cells from female CD1 mice was inhibited by 2,5 DPDP-enkephalin (DPDP-E), in direct relation to dose. In contrast, the anti-proliferative response of cells from C57BL/6 mice demonstrated an inverse relationship to dose. At 10(-11) M, the most effective dose of DPDP-E studied, 3H-thymidine uptake was inhibited by 50%. The selective DOR antagonist, naltrindole (10(-12) M), abolished this. DAME was used to compare the effects of DOR agonists on CD8+ T-cells from both strains of female mice. 3H-Thymidine uptake was dose-dependently inhibited to a similar degree in both strains; 10(-7) M DAME maximally reduced proliferation by 70%. DAME had similar effects on both CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells from male mice, and its inhibitory effect was markedly attenuated after 72 hours.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The brain-immune axis is a highly complex and dynamic homeostatic mechanism. The effect of morphine, or other drugs of abuse, on this interactive system can have multiple consequences, depending on the specific site(s) of action, duration of exposure and underlying neuroendocrine, neural and behavioral status. This emphasizes the critical role of interdisciplinary studies, incorporating behavioral, pharmacological, neuroanatomical, cellular and molecular approaches, that are necessary for elucidating opiate-BIA interactions. To characterize fundamental mechanisms of action, the sheer complexity of this system often requires that more rigorous experimental methodology be applied by multidisciplinary groups of investigators than ever before.



Calcium ions are critically important in many functions of the nervous system from neurotransmitter release to intracellular signal transduction. The large difference between intracellular and extracellular calcium ion concentration ([Ca2+]) highlights the importance of the mechanisms controlling influx and efflux of this ion. Loss of the regulatory ability of these mechanisms and the subsequent increased intracellular calcium levels may be involved in pathological events of brain trauma, stroke, epilepsy and other diseases. Ca2+ dynamics in the CNS ranging from 'waves' to 'spirals' are being studied because of the availability of fluorescent indicators of Ca2+ combined with confocal microscopy. Cellular mechanisms of Ca2+ signal transduction have been extensively reviewed (Tsien and Tsein, 1990; Carafoli, 1992; Berridge, 1993; Berridge and Dupont, 1994; Pozzan et al., 1994; Clapham, 1995; Ghosh and Greenberg, 1995). The aim of this review is to present the types of Ca2+ dynamics observed in the CNS thus far, both in normal brain function as well as in response after injury.

At this stage of our study, we do not know yet the relative contribution of each pathway that descends from the cerebral cortex, the cerebellar nuclei, and the SN to the control of pontomedullary reticuloreticular and reticulospinal neurons. Nor do we know the resultant activation patterns of reticulospinal neurons and those of axial and proximal motoneurons in relation to postural fixation and equilibrium. In dealing with the physiology of posture, such as the maintenance or change of body position, we are dealing with the emergent properties of the total system that are not described by the sum of the properties of its parts. Learning how a system subcomponent behaves in a carefully defined and constrained set of circumstances gives us no guarantee that the subcomponent will behave according to the same rules if the circumstances were changed (59). Further behavioral studies in animal and human subjects, especially using natural posture and movements, plus studies aimed at elucidating the fine architecture of the target system, including identification of acting neurotransmitters at each synaptic level of a system subcomponent, are now needed to confirm existing hypotheses (10, 37, 47) and elaborate new ones related to the control of posture and movement.
It is now possible to classify the startle syndrome according to underlying physiology (Table 1). This approach to the syndrome has highlighted certain clinical characteristics, which together with electrophysiological assessment, should allow the various causes of the startle syndrome to be distinguished and may eventually form a rational basis for pharmacological intervention.
ENM is an etiologically heterogeneous disorder clinically evident as brief (less than 500 msec) lapses of tonic muscular contraction which seems to be related to lesions or dysfunction of different anatomofunctional levels of the CNS (Fig. 13). ENM can occur in heterogeneous epileptic disorders, ranging from benign syndromic conditions (such as BECTS) to focal static lesional epilepsy, as in neuronal migration disorders, and even to severe static or progressive myoclonic encephalopathies (PMEs). Neurophysiological studies in patients with ENM lead to the following conclusions: 1. A cortical origin of ENM is supported by EEG mapping and dipole analysis of spikes related to the ENM. In particular, our data suggest that the focal spike is a paroxysmal event involving, primarily or secondarily, the centroparietal and frontal &quot;supplementary&quot; motor areas. 2. A cortical inhibitory active mechanism for the genesis of ENM is supported by the occurrence of a decreased motor response to TMS, with preserved spinal excitability as demonstrated by the persistence of F waves. A &quot;cortical motor outflow inhibition&quot; related to spike-and-wave discharges was suggested by Gloor in his Lennox lecture (34). The cortical reflex negative myoclonus, described by Shibasaki et al. (16) in PME, is also consistent with a cortical active inhibitory mechanism. The spike associated with ENM raises new issues about the definition of &quot;interictal&quot; versus &quot;ictal&quot; EEG paroxysmal activity. A single spike on the EEG can be clinically silent (therefore, &quot;interictal&quot;) or clinically evident as ENM (then viewed as &quot;ictal&quot;), depending on whether a given group of muscles is at rest or is showing tonic activity (see Fig. 4). These data, from a more general perspective, imply that the motor manifestation related to EEG paroxysmal events can depend not only on amplitude, topography, or intracortical distribution of seizure activity (35), but also on plasticity (36) and on the functional condition of the motor system (37). The variability of latency between the spike and the onset of the muscular inhibition (ranging from 15 to 50 msec, for the upper limbs), and the variability of duration of the ENM itself (from 50 to 400, or more, msec) indicate that ENM could be the result of inhibitory phenomena arising not only from a single cortical &quot;inhibitory&quot; area, but also from subcortical and pontine structures, as discussed by Mori et al. (this volume). The neurophysiological distinction between ENM and postmyoclonic periods of muscular suppression, mainly related to an EGG slow wave, as described by Lance and Adams (2) in the postanoxic action myoclonus is still a matter of discussion (38, 39). This is also the case for other movement disorders combining action myoclonus and epilepsy-as described in Ramsay Hunt syndrome (30), now better referred to as Unverricht-Lundborg syndrome (40) (Fig. 14). In these conditions, myoclonia and muscular silent periods are inconstantly associated with paroxysmal EEG discharges, suggesting a possible thalamocortical mechanism rather than a purely cortical one. In the most prolonged muscular inhibitions, both cortical and thalamocortical mechanisms might be implicated. Clearly, our knowledge of ENM is still very limited and gaining further insights into this complex phenomenon is a challenging problem.



Results obtained with the model Trichobilharzia ocellata-Lymnaea stagnalis have confirmed the hypothesis that the physiological effects evoked by schistosomes in their snail host--castration and giant growth--are brought about by them interfering with the neuroendocrine systems (NES) regulating the physiological processes concerned. As soon as differentiating cercariae are present in the daughter sporocysts a factor can be detected in the haemolymph of the snail host, called schistosomin, which acts both at the central and the peripheral parts of the NES involved in regulation of reproduction and growth. Schistosomin appears to be a host-derived factor, which is probably released by cells of the internal defence system, the haemocytes, and by connective tissue cells, the telo-glial cells. It meets the criteria of having a cytokine-like function although its molecular structure does not show sequence homology with any of the vertebrate-type cytokines identified to date. Its cytokine nature explains why schistosomin can interfere with different neuroendocrine regulatory systems both at the central and peripheral--target--level, namely after binding to its own receptor. Schistosomin is probably not only responsible for the effects exerted by the parasite on female reproduction but also for those on male reproduction and on growth so that energy and space become available for the continuous production of cercariae. The nature of the humoral cercarial factor, which induces schistosomin release, is as yet unknown. Based on its hydrophobic character and on the fact that it can pass through the wall of the daughter sporocyst, it is supposed to be a diffusible molecule or a protonephridial excretion product. It does not seem to be a vertebrate-type steroid, an ecdysteroid or an eicosanoid. Results obtained in vitro have indicated that schistosomin might have a suppressive effect on haemocyte activity. Plasma from snails 5-6 weeks post-exposure showed a tendency to inhibit phagocytic activity of haemocytes from non-infected snails, that is preparatory to the escape and migration of cercariae. Once shedding has started this effect of schistosomin is overrruled by a strong activation of haemocyte activity coinciding with the tissue damage that the cercariae cause in the host. The cercariae escape from being attacked by masking their surface coat with host molecules. As the physiological effects caused by schistosomes resemble those observed during stress in mammals, experiments were carried out to find out whether schistosomin is also released in non-parasitized snails during stress resulting in an inhibiting effect on reproduction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The Barthel Index has been widely adopted as a measure of disability. The Office of Population Censuses and Surveys (OPCS) disability instrument was developed to provide a comprehensive measure of disability for use in the 1985 survey of disability among adults. Both measures were used on 150 patients surviving 1 year from a consecutive cohort of 246 admissions to hospital with acute stroke. The Barthel Index when summed across categories (as is commonly done), correlated reasonably well with the OPCS disability instrument [-0.73 (p &lt; 0.001) 95% CI 0.64 to 0.80] despite its reliance on arbitrary weights and the omission of categories for communication, vision, hearing and intellectual disability. The broader scope of the OPCS instrument explained most of the floor and ceiling effects seen with the Barthel Index. The Barthel Index continues to have a useful role in stroke rehabilitation when used as a checklist for rehabilitation goals set by clinicians, as a predictor of long-term outcome and as an overall measure of disability or activities of daily living in descriptive studies, randomized controlled trials and audit. However, its floor and ceiling effects may lead to an underestimation of patients' and carers' problems in up to a third of patients. The OPCS instrument may prove to be a more useful outcome measure in randomized controlled trials and audits by virtue of its comprehensive nature.
In this study we examine whether the introduction of a clerking pro forma improves the completeness of the recording of the management of stroke patients and we review methodological issues important in this type of audit. We prospectively identified 244 consecutive stroke patients before and after the introduction of the pro forma. Patient case notes were traced and audited using a specifically designed form. Following the introduction of the pro forma, there was a significant improvement in the completeness of the recording of patient management; no change was observed for those items not included in the pro forma, suggesting a causal effect. We conclude that a stroke clerking pro forma improves the completeness of the recording of the assessment of hospitalized stroke patients; this has implications for clinical practice and future audit and may be applicable to other common conditions. We emphasize that methodological problems associated with a case note audit must be addressed if it is to produce useful, comparative data.
Specific gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) binding sites in cortical membranes of selectively bred alcohol-preferring sP and alcohol-non preferring sNP rats were compared using [2,3(-3)H]GHB ligand. The sP rat line showed an increased affinity (approximately 40% lower Kd) of both the high- and low-affinity sites in comparison with the sNP line. No significant difference in GHB receptor density (Bmax) was detected between the two rat lines. The results raise the possibility that differences in GHB binding sites may play a role in the genetic predisposition to ethanol preference in our rat line.
The effect of the dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist, darodipine, on ethanol withdrawal syndrome was examined in rats made dependent on ethanol by repeated ethanol administration for six consecutive days. Chronic co-administration of darodipine prevented the severity of ethanol withdrawal signs in a dose-dependent fashion. By contrast, acute administration of darodipine during the ethanol withdrawal phase was ineffective in reversing the withdrawal symptoms. The results suggest that the presence of darodipine in the central nervous system during the adaptative responses to ethanol is necessary to reduce the severity of the withdrawal syndrome. They also provide further evidence for a potential clinical usefulness of dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers in treatment of ethanol withdrawal.
Physostigmine, a reversible and nonselective cholinesterase inhibitor, administered by steady-state, continuous intravenous infusion to carefully selected subjects with mild-moderate Alzheimer disease, produced significant but modest improvement in memory in five of nine subjects. Drug dosing was limited by the occurrence of adverse effects. Apparent tolerance to adverse effects was observed in two subjects when the dose of physostigmine was escalated slowly over at least 2 weeks. Steady-state cholinesterase inhibition by physostigmine appears to produce sustained cognitive improvement in some subjects with Alzheimer disease without substantially altering its therapeutic index.
Large neurons shrink and synapses are lost in the neocortex as a function of normal aging, but different parts of the central nervous system vary in susceptibility to age changes. Thus, early-onset disease may appear different from late cases due to premorbid age changes rather than because of different pathogenesis.

The fructose analogue 2,5-anhydro-D-mannitol (2,5-AM) increases food intake in nondeprived rats. Several lines of evidence indicate that vagal signals arising from the liver are critical for this effect. In addition, 2,5-AM decreases plasma glucose and increases lipolysis, resulting in an increase in plasma free fatty acids and ketone bodies. In these respects 2,5-AM produces a state analogous to that observed after food deprivation. Using an indirect calorimeter, we determined that 2,5-AM (300 mg/kg ip) causes a potent and long-lasting decrease in respiratory quotient, indicating a decrease in the fraction of total energy derived from carbohydrate oxidation and an increase in the fraction derived from fatty acid oxidation. These metabolic variables were altered without affecting total metabolic rate. This dose of analogue also stimulated significantly greater food intake than injections of vehicle. These results support the continued use of 2,5-AM as a tool to probe the metabolic controls of food intake.
The mechanosensitive hair cells of the vertebrate acousticolateralis system have an apical bundle of stereocilia, deflections of which control the opening of mechano-electrical transduction channels and thus generate receptor potentials in the cell below. This review describes current theories of hair cell function in the light of recent immunocytochemical and ultrastructural findings; in particular, the location and operation of the transduction channels are considered. The most widely accepted hypothesis of mechanotransduction by hair cells is that fine extracellular links that run between the tips of shorter stereocilia and the sides of taller ones operate the transduction channels. However, the fact that the transduction channels are amiloride sensitive has led to labeling experiments using antibodies to the amiloride-sensitive epithelial Na+ channel from kidney which suggest that the mechanotransduction channels may not be directly associated with the tip links. Instead, they appear to be located near a junctionlike structure at the point of contact between the shorter and taller stereocilia. The implications of these findings for the tip link hypothesis are discussed.
Polyol species in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma--ribitol, arabitol, xylitol, 1,5-anhydrosorbitol, myo-inositol, mannitol, sorbitol, and galactitol--simultaneously were quantitated by a capillary gas chromatography/ion trap (mass spectrometric) detection method. The details of the methodology are discussed and the results of analysis of polyols in healthy human subjects are reported. Microliter volumes of cerebrospinal fluid or plasma were mixed with internal standard (deuterium labeled myo-inositol), deproteinized, and evaporated to dryness. Polyols were acetylated in the presence of pyridine catalyst and washed with sodium bicarbonate solution and the acetate derivatives were recovered. Standard curve solutions were similarly treated. The polyol components were resolved on a capillary column bonded with 50% phenyl-50% methyl polysiloxane. Chemical ionization mass spectra for the acetate derivatives of polyols were generated in an ion trap using acetonitrile as reagent gas. Each polyol yielded a fragment ion in 100% abundance arising probably from the loss of one acetate moiety from the protonated molecule. These ions were monitored. The relative standard deviation (within-day) for quantitation of polyols was not greater than 8% for cerebrospinal fluid and 15% for plasma matrix. A polyol profile in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma was determined in healthy human subjects and a cerebrospinal fluid/plasma concentration ratio larger than 1.0 was found for all polyol species except 1,5-anhydrosorbitol and xylitol. This assay technique will be used to study the role of polyols in central nervous system diseases.
The present investigation of connections in the basal ganglia of the lizard Gekko gecko has revealed that the efferent projections of the nucleus accumbens are far more elaborate than previously thought. The projections reach not only the ventral pallidum, the preoptic area, the lateral hypothalamic area and the ventral tegmental area, but also the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the dorsomedial thalamic nucleus, the substantia nigra and the retrorubral dopaminergic cell group. Additional projections were observed within the nucleus accumbens and, caudally, to the peribrachial region and the superior raphe nucleus. Moreover, the results of the present study indicate that the accumbal projections to both the ventral pallidum and midbrain dopaminergic cell groups have a medial-to-lateral topographical organization. This expanded view of the efferent projections of the nucleus accumbens of Gekko gecko suggests a great resemblance in accumbal output systems between reptiles and mammals. A notable difference, however, is observed in the &quot;limbic loop&quot;, which in reptiles, in contrast to mammals, seems to lack a cortical involvement.


Approximately one-fourth of neuropathologically confirmed cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD) also have brainstem and neocortical Lewy bodies, constituting a Lewy body variant of AD. Because Lewy bodies are a pathologic hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD), this subpopulation of AD subjects may have the same risk factors as PD subjects. Analyses of the cytochrome P450 CYP2D6-debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase mutant B allele, a susceptibility gene for PD, revealed a higher representation of this allele in the Lewy body variant of AD than in pure AD or non-AD without Lewy bodies.

Neuroimaging provides an unprecedented means by which to study psychiatric disorders. Structural imaging methods, i.e. computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), have revealed subtle differences in the brains of schizophrenic patients that appear to be present before symptom onset. Radionuclide functional methods such as single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET) have led to hypotheses about dysfunction in specific neuronal networks in schizophrenia. New advances in MRI allow functional data to be obtained noninvasively in a single individual using conventional MRI scanners. This chapter discusses the parallels between the historical technical developments in neuroimaging and the deepening understanding of the etiology and manifestations of schizophrenia.


The nervous system of adult mammals, unlike the rest of the organs in the body, has been considered unique in its apparent inability to replace neurons following injury. However, in certain regions of the brain, neurogenesis occurs postnatally and continues through adulthood. The nature, fate, and longevity of cells undergoing proliferation within the CNS are unknown. These cells are increasingly becoming the focus of intense scrutiny; this is a recent development that has led to considerable controversy over the appropriate terminology to describe neural cells as they pass through different stages of proliferation, migration, and differentiation. Continuing studies detailing the properties of mitotic populations in the adult CNS will provide a better understanding of the nature of these cells during their development and should lead to a more consistent nomenclature. Studies of neural precursors isolated from the embryonic brain have indicated that many subgroups of cells undergo mitosis and subsequent differentiation into neurons and glia in vitro. A number of substances, such as growth factors and substrate molecules, are essential for these processes and also for lineage restriction and fate determination of these cells. Recent studies have shown that cells with proliferative capabilities can also be isolated from the adult brain. The nature of these cells is unknown, but there is evidence that both multipotent cells (stem cells) and lineage-restricted cells (neuroblasts or glioblasts) are resident within the mature CNS and that they can be maintained and induced to divide and differentiate in response to many of the same factors that influence their embryonic counterparts. Presently, it is unclear how many potentially quiescent precursor cells exist in the adult brain or what combination of growth factors and substrate molecules is involved in the proliferation and differentiation of these cells. Some of these questions are currently being addressed by using immortalized neural precursors or growth factor-expanded populations of primary precursors to model precursor responsiveness to environmental manipulations. Because in vitro culture conditions are unlikely to provide all of the factors necessary for inducing the proliferation and differentiation of neural precursors, recent studies have explored the properties of well-characterized precursor populations after implantation back into specific regions of the developing or adult CNS. These studies have highlighted the importance of the microenvironment in precursor differentiation and further suggested that precursor plasticity is a characteristic that is probably common to neural precursors throughout the CNS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Nitric oxide (NO) has only recently been appreciated as a normal biologic substance with a role in signal transduction. It was first identified as endothelial-derived relaxing factor in blood vessels and as the mediator of the tumoricidal and bactericidal actions of macrophages. NO's role as a neural messenger may be even more prominent. Biosynthesis of NO involves oxidation of the guanidine group of arginine with stoichiometric formation of citrulline. NO synthase is one of the most extensively regulated enzymes in biology. In the periphery, NO is a likely transmitter of nonadrenergic, noncholinergic neurons. In the brain, NO neurons mediate action of glutamate acting at N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Excess release of NO appears to account for a major portion of neural damage following vascular stroke.
We are developing a relational database to facilitate quantitative and qualitative comparisons of proteins in human body fluids in normal and disease states. For decades researchers and clinicians have been studying proteins in body fluids such as serum, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and urine. Currently, most clinicians evaluate only a few specific proteins in a body fluid such as plasma when they suspect that a patient has a disease. Now, however, high resolution two-dimensional protein electrophoresis allows the simultaneous evaluation of 1,500 to 3,000 proteins in complex solutions, such as the body fluids. This and other high resolution methods have encouraged us to collect the clinical data for the body fluid proteins into an easily accessed database. For this reason, it has been constructed on the Internet World Wide Web (WWW) under the title Protein Disease Database (PDD). In addition, this database will provide a linkage between the disease-associated protein alterations and images of the appropriate proteins on high-resolution electrophoretic gels of the body fluids. This effort requires the normalization of data to account for variations in methods of measurement. Initial efforts in the establishment of the PDD have been concentrated on alterations in the acute-phase proteins in individuals with acute and chronic diseases. Even at this early stage in the development of our database, it has proven to be useful as we have found that there appear to be several common acute-phase protein alterations in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid from patients with Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and major depression. Our goal is to provide access to the PDD so that systematic correlations and relationships between disease states can be examined and extended.
Activity of neurons in the central cervical nucleus (CCN) was recorded extracellularly in decerebrate, immobilized rats. Neurons were identified by their antidromic response to electrical stimulation of the contralateral superior cerebellar peduncle. Stimulation of the ipsilateral dorsal neck muscles (m. biventer cervicis and complexus [BCC]; m. splenius [S]) by a single electric pulse evoked a short-latency (approximately 1 ms) excitatory response in the majority of CCN neurons. The response was usually followed by a period of inhibition of the resting discharge (approximately 20 ms). Stimulation of the contralateral BCC or S usually produced only inhibition of the resting discharge (approximately 20 ms). Mechanical stretching of BCC or S resulted in activation (about 100% increased firing rate) of the ipsilateral CCN neurons, lasting for the duration of the stretch. A pronounced dynamic component, i.e. an extra-excitation at the beginning of the stretch and inhibition after termination of the stretch, was also observed. Stroking and pinching of the skin in the neck region affected the tested CCN neurons, while cutaneous stimuli at other sites of the body were inefficient. Stimulation of the vestibular receptors was performed in two ways. (i) Unilateral galvanic stimulation of the labyrinths by constant current pulses through the external acoustic meatus affected all CCN neurons tested. Contralateral stimulation with negative current was found to be most efficient; it produced excitation followed by inhibition. (ii) Natural vestibular stimulation was performed by rotating the animal in the transverse plane (roll, +/- 10 degrees) or the sagittal plane (pitch, +/- 5 degrees). Sinusoidal movements (0.5-1 Hz) or trapezoid movements were applied. Sinusoidal roll tilt evoked responses in all neurons tested, with a peak discharge during contralateral rolling or at the moment of transition from the ipsi- to contralateral position. All tested CCN neurons also responded statically to roll tilt, i.e. their tonic activity increased with up to 65%, of which the majority (80%) responded in the continuously maintained contralateral roll tilt position compared to the ipsilateral. Sinusoidal pitch tilt also affected all tested neurons, although the reaction was smaller than compared to roll. They usually responded by increasing their firing rate when moving towards the nose-down position. A static response (40-60% difference in the firing rate between the extreme pitch positions) was observed in some neurons. No tested neurons showed any clear rhythmic modulation during either spontaneous or induced, real or fictive locomotion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

One might consider that the first Spanish psychiatrists were a group of alienists, that have been forgotten for many years, who worked in isolated conditions in the asylums of the 19th Century. On the other hand, there were a group of personalities, university professors specialised in other disciplines, that were not psychiatrists but had a much greater influence than the former during the early stages of the development of Spanish psychiatry as a differentiated medical speciality. This development was produced (considerably later than in other European countries) in two successive stages: a preliminary one, with local or aborted institutions (from the 15th Century to the year 1919) and a further one, with institutions that extended throughout the entire country, and were developed between 1920 and 1936. These national institutions were the ones that defined the beginning of Spanish psychiatry. The first one, that appeared in January of 1920, was the journal Archivos de Neurobiologa, that related each other, stimulated and served as on organ of expression to the remaining institutions that established this specialty. Finally, a summary is offered of the characteristics and the historical evolution of this journal emblematic of Spanish psychiatry, that is currently commemorating its 75th anniversary.
Three color flow cytometry was used to analyze immunoregulatory lymphocyte subsets in peripheral blood (PB) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 21 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and 15 age-matched healthy control subjects. Two cell surface antigens associated with T lymphocyte memory and activation, CD45R0 and CD29, were analyzed on the CD4+ and CD8+ subpopulations, respectively. A selective decrease in the expression of the CD45R0 isoform among CD8+ cells was noted in both PB (p &lt; 0.005) and CSF (p &gt; 0.0001) of patients with MS as compared with the control group while the expression of CD29 did not differ between the groups. These changes could indicate a defective differentiation into mature memory CD8+ T lymphocytes in patients with MS. Furthermore, the CD3+CD16/56+ T lymphocyte subset capable of mediating NK cell-like activities was investigated. Although this cell population is quantitatively small, a significant reduction of the proportion of this cell type was detected in both BP and CSF of the MS group compared with the controls (p &lt; 0.01 and p &gt; 0.001, respectively). Further studies are needed to establish the role of these observations in the pathogenesis of MS.
Latent inhibition (LI) is a measure of retarded conditioning to a previously-presented nonreinforced stimulus, that is impaired in schizophrenic patients and in rats treated with amphetamine. Neuroleptic drugs are known to produce two effects in this test paradigm: to antagonise amphetamine-induced disruption of LI, and to enhance LI when administered on their own. The present experiments tested the effects on LI of a potential antipsychotic, sigma ligand BMY-14802. The experiments used a conditioned emotional response (CER) procedure in rats licking for water, consisting of three stages: preexposure, in which the to-be-conditioned stimulus (a tone) was repeatedly presented without being followed by reinforcement; conditioning, in which the preexposed stimulus was paired with reinforcement (a foot shock); and test, in which LI was indexed by animals' degree of suppression of licking during tone presentation. In Experiment 1, 20 tone preexposures and two conditioning trials were given and the effects of 5, 15, and 30mg/kg BMY-14802 were assessed. Experiment 2 tested the effects of 15 and 30mg/kg on LI using ten preexposures and two conditioning trials. Experiment 3 investigated the effects of 15 and 30mg/kg on LI using 40 preexposures and extended conditioning consisting of five tone-shock pairings. Experiments 4 and 5 investigated antagonism of amphetamine-induced disruption of LI by 15 and 30mg/kg BMY-14802, respectively. BMY-14802 was found to antagonise amphetamine-induced disruption of LI and enhance LI when low numbers of preexposures and two conditioning trials were given, but not following extended conditioning. These results provide partial support for the suggestion that BMY-14802 may possess antipsychotic properties.






We explored the possibility that an insulin gene deleted in its 5'-flanking region is expressed in adult mouse brain. We used three independent lines of mice carrying a human insulin transgene which included the insulin gene transcription unit flanked by 168 base pairs upstream and 5.5 kb downstream. Using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay, human insulin mRNAs were detected in whole brain extracts. In all three lines, human insulin mRNAs were localized by in situ hybridization in a single cerebral site, the medial habenula. With a monoclonal antibody specific for human C-peptide and human proinsulin, labelling was restricted to a subset of habenular cholinergic neurons, with rare immunostained fibers. No labelling was observed in the projection fibers of the retroflexus fasciculus or in their axon terminals in the interpeduncular nucleus. Electron microscope studies suggested that the transgene expressing cells. These findings demonstrate that the human insulin transgene tested here includes a habenula specific promoter which could be useful for physiological and molecular studies on the habenula.
In a previous study, nonlinear autoregressive (NLAR) models applied to ictal electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings in six patients revealed nonlinear signal interactions that correlated with seizure type and clinical diagnosis. Here we interpret these models from a theoretical viewpoint. Extended models with multiple nonlinear terms are employed to demonstrate the independence of nonlinear dynamical interactions identified in the 'NLAR fingerprint' of patients with 3/s seizure discharges. Analysis of the role of periodicity in the EEG signal reveals that the fingerprints reflect the dynamics not only of the periodic discharge itself, but also of the fluctuations of each cycle about an average waveform. A stability analysis is used to make qualitative inferences concerning the network properties of the ictal generators. Finally, the NLAR fingerprint is analyzed in the context of Volterra-Weiner theory.
We describe a method for the characterization of electroencephalographic (EEG) signals based on a model which features nonlinear feedback. The characteristic EEG 'fingerprints' obtained through this approach display the time-course of nonlinear interactions, rather than aspects susceptible to standard spectral analysis. Fingerprints of seizure discharges in six patients (five with typical absence seizures, one with complex partial seizures) revealed significant nonlinear interactions. The timing and pattern of these interactions correlated closely with the seizure type. Nonlinear autoregressive (NLAR) analysis is compared with other nonlinear dynamical measures that have been applied to the EEG.
In memoriam Professor Hugo Adrian, born 1926, deceased 1994, in Santiago, Chile. After completion of his studies in veterinary medicine, he followed a successful career in neurophysiological research. He was Research Associate (1961-1962) and Visiting Professor (1973-1976) at the Neurophysiology Department University of Wisconsin, USA. He was the first Director (1958-1960) of the Institute of Physiology at the Austral University, Valdivia, and was Professor (1963-1973; 1977-1994) and Chairman of the Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile, where he led a group of researchers in auditory physiology, introduced the use of computer techniques to physiological studies, and developed several projects of applied neurophysiology.
In this study we analyzed the effect of neonatal monocular enucleation on the pattern of callosal connections in striate cortex of the golden hamster. Callosal connections were revealed in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the remaining eye following multiple injections of either the enzyme horseradish peroxidase or the fluorescent tracer Fluoro-Gold into the contralateral hemisphere. The most salient anomaly induced by the removal of one eye at birth is the appearance of a dense band of callosal connections that runs anteroposteriorly in medial portions of striate cortex. No obvious changes in the laminar distribution of callosal connections were observed. Comparison of our present results with those obtained by Olavarria et al (1987) in monocularly enucleated rats reveals that neonatal enucleation induces remarkably similar anomalies in the callosal patterns of rats and hamsters. This similarity suggests that the role the eyes play in the development of the visual callosal pathway is similar among rodent species. Moreover, the finding of an anomalous callosal band in striate cortex one-eyed hamsters supports the notion that disruption of visual input does not arrest callosal development, but rather leads to the development of entirely new features in the callosal pattern.
The neocortex is an important site of memory storage, and memories are believed to be formed in the cortex by the activity-dependent modification of synaptic connections. However, in contrast to the hippocampus where there has been an increasingly sophisticated analysis of synaptic plasticity, relatively little is known about the mechanisms of synaptic modification in neocortex. Here we summarize the results of a series of experiments conducted on slices of visual cortex in vitro, aimed at elucidating the elementary mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in the superficial layers of neocortex. We show that long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) result from high- and low-frequency conditioning stimulation, respectively, of the middle layers of cortex. Both forms of synaptic plasticity are input-specific and dependent on activation of postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The critical variable in determining the sign of the synaptic modification appears to be the level of postsynaptic depolarization during conditioning stimulation. The data support a model in which the state of correlation of pre- and post-synaptic activity is converted by the voltage-dependent NMDA receptor channel into a graded postsynaptic Ca2+ signal. LTD is triggered by a modest but sustained elevation in postsynaptic Ca2+, while LTP is elicited by larger changes in Ca2+. An important variable that regulates synaptic plasticity in the neocortex is intracortical inhibition, which constrains the patterns of activity that can reach the modifiable synapses in layer III.
Oxygen-reactive species are being described as agents responsible for cell degeneration mechanisms resulting from membrane, enzyme, and nuclear alterations. Lipid peroxidation on its own is considered to be one of the consequences of the free radicals attack, and among the different reactive aldehydes that can be formed from the decomposition of lipid peroxides, the most extensively assayed have been malondialdehyde (MDA). However, the different techniques currently used for MDA assay (HPLC, GLC) are barely sensitive enough to follow its production at the cellular level. In order to develop an immunofluorescent technique able to detect cellular damages provoked by lipoperoxidation, polyclonal antibodies against lysozyme modified by MDA treatment have been raised in rabbits. We show that this immunserum recognizes specifically all the MDA-treated proteins tested, but not the intact proteins or the proteins treated by other aldehydes. Moreover, we demonstrate using an ELISA technique that the amount of immunoreactive proteins in MDA-treated membrane erythrocytes is proportional to the concentration of MDA applied, suggesting that this assay may represent a quantitative method of determination of lipoperoxidative alterations. In addition, when coupled to an indirect fluorophore antibody (FITC), the immunserum allows a precise location of these modified proteins within the membranes of erythrocytes in which lipid peroxidation was initiated by far UV irradiation. In summary, the interest of this work is to provide an immunological probe that can precociously detect membrane damages induced by MDA, regardless of the cell type and pro-oxidant (physiological or pathological) conditions.
We have examined responses of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate) receptors in the chick nucleus magnocellularis to pairs of pulses of glutamate and determined the extent of desensitization and the rate of recovery. Receptors recovered from desensitization with a time constant of 16 ms, regardless of the concentration or duration of the conditioning pulse. Even with very brief conditioning pulses, evoking submaximal currents, desensitization occurred at a consistent rate after the removal of free ligand. A quantitative kinetic model based on these data shows that receptors must desensitize from a closed state. The results provide evidence that very brief exposure to glutamate, on the time scale of uniquantal synaptic transmission, will result in a significant reduction in sensitivity of postsynaptic receptors.
Cyclic GMP (cGMP) is the intracellular messenger that mediates phototransduction in retinal rods. As photoisomerizations of rhodopsin molecules are local events, the longitudinal diffusion of cGMP in the rod outer segment should be a contributing factor to the response of the cell to light. We have employed the truncated rod outer segment preparation from bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) and tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) to measure the cGMP diffusion coefficient. In this preparation, the distal portion of a rod outer segment was drawn into a suction pipette for measuring membrane current, and the rest of the cell was then sheared off with a glass probe, allowing bath cGMP to diffuse into the outer segment and activate the cGMP-gated channels on the surface membrane. Addition and removal of bath cGMP were fast enough to produce effectively step changes in cGMP concentration at the open end of the outer segment. When cGMP hydrolysis is inhibited by isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX), the equation for the diffusion of cGMP inside the truncated rod outer segment has a simple analytical solution, which we have used to analyze the rise and decay kinetics of the cGMP-elicited currents. From these measurements we have obtained a cGMP diffusion coefficient of approximately 70 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1 for bullfrog rods and approximately 60 x 10(-8) cm2 s-1 for tiger salamander rods. These values are six to seven times lower than the expected value in aqueous solution. The estimated diffusion coefficient is the same at high (20-1000 microM) and low (5-10 microM) concentrations of cGMP, suggesting no significant effect from buffering over these concentration ranges.
A programmable interface is provided to a simulated network of reaction-diffusion neurons. The interface allows special 'learn' and 'decide' syntactic constructs to be intermixed with conventional programming constructs. This hybrid combination allows the power of programmability to be combined with the power of adaptability to provide innovative solutions to complex problems. The network uses reaction-diffusion neurons instead of adaline neurons. A mesh topology is used instead of a feedforward topology. The performance of the mesh reaction-diffusion network compares favorably with that of conventional feedforward adaline networks. Enhancements to incorporate short- and long-term memory are described.
Successful 'clipping' of the apparent neck of a posterior communicating artery aneurysm was carried out, but 2 days later the patient had a further haemorrhage and died. Postmortem examination revealed that the aneurysm was that of a rare fusiform 'true' posterior communicating artery aneurysm.
The sensitivity of three scales of performance and handicap to the presence and development of epilepsy in patients with brain tumours was studied. Two hypothetical cases had equivalent disability, in one case due to epilepsy and in the other to physical impairment. The second case later developed epilepsy. All consultant neurologists and neurosurgeons in Scotland were asked to grade the cases using three scales commonly used for patients with cerebral glioma. Consultants rated the patient with epilepsy alone as being less disabled and handicapped than the patient with physical impairment without seizures (sign test p &lt; 0.003). At best 21% of clinicians (p = 0.03) were able to report a change in performance score in the second case when seizures developed. These scales do not reflect changes in handicap and performance associated with tumour associated epilepsy. Clinical trial protocols for treatments for brain tumours must state how performance and handicap related to epilepsy will be measured.

A 20-year-old woman presented with a 4-month history of persistent right frontotemporal headache. There were no features of raised intracranial pressure. Plain radiographs of the skull showed a dense calcified mass in the right frontal area. Computed tomography revealed the lesion to be uniformly hyperdense and non-enhancing. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the dural origin of the lesion which was hyperintense and non-enhancing. At operation a bony hard intradural mass was confirmed and excised. Histology revealed it to be an osteoma.
The use of the flexible neuroendoscope and laser fenestration in the surgical management of a symptomatic cyst of cavum septum pellucidum is reported. Successful communication was established between the cyst cavity and the lateral ventricles using this technique. Satisfactory clinical and radiological improvement as seen on MRI confirmed the operative success.
Reproductive function in all vertebrates is controlled by the brain-pituitary-gonadal axis. In teleost fish, endocrine cells within the adenohypophysis are grouped together and each collection of cells is innervated by specific neuropeptide fibers. An important regulatory step in reproductive control is gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), whose delivery to the pituitary is responsible for its release of gonadotropins. The hormone GnRH has been shown to play a critical role in the social control of reproduction in a teleost fish, Haplochromis burtoni. However, there has been no direct evidence that the preoptic area GnRH neurons project to the pituitary. In this study, we used a retrograde tracer and immunohistochemistry to identify those GnRH containing neurons that project to the adenohypophysis. We compared reproductively active territorial males with quiescent non-territorial males to discover whether the connectivity of the preoptic area GnRH neurons depends on the reproductive status of the male. We found that, irrespective of reproductive status, most GnRH neurons in the preoptic area project to the pituitary and that all of these GnRH neurons show the soma size change that has been associated with reproductive status in Haplochromis burtoni. Based on these data, we propose that there is a single population of GnRH containing cells in the preoptic area that change size as a function of reproductive state and that this entire population projects to the pituitary. This is the first direct demonstration that this essential circuit, linking GnRH neurons in the preoptic area to the pituitary, exists.
A set of cytological studies performed in the utricle and saccule of Astronotus ocellatus (Teleostei, Percomorphi, Cichlidae) identified two basic types of hair cells and others with some intermediate characteristics. This paper reports on applying the same techniques to the saccule of Carassius auratus (Teleostei, Otophysi, Cyprinidae) and demonstrates similar types of hair cells to those found in Astronotus. Since Carassius and Astronotus are species of extreme taxonomic distance within the Euteleostei, two classes of mechanoreceptive hair cells are likely to represent the primitive condition for sensory receptors in the euteleost inner ear and perhaps in all bony fish ears.
A body of literature suggests that the Mauthner cell startle response can be elicited by stimulation of the ear. While we know that there are projections to the M-cell from the ear, the specific endorgan(s) of the ear projecting to the M-cell are not known. Moreover, there are many reasons to question whether there is one pattern of inner ear to M-cell connection or whether the endorgan(s) projection to the M-cell varies in species that have different hearing capabilities of hearing structures. In this paper, we briefly review the structure of fish ears, with an emphasis on structural regionalization within the ear. We also review the central projections of the ear, along with a discussion of the limited data on projections to the M-cell.
This paper is an overview of some of the major points to arise in the accompanying contributions of this special symposium issue. The symposium papers arose out of discussions among investigators interested in the inner ear and Mauthner cell, with the focus on hydrodynamic components that activate the Mauthner cell through the octavolateralis system. The intention of the symposium was to investigate the possibility of using our knowledge of the Mauthner system to help understand acoustic processing by the ear, and of using our knowledge of fish hearing to better understand Mauthner cell function. This is the first attempt to take a broad look at both systems to see how they might function together. As such, these proceedings can serve as a mini-tutorial for investigators interested in one system or the other. In this summary paper we also identify some of the major uncertainties in our understanding of the ear-Mauthner connection. These include questions about: (1) the identity of the acoustic stimuli that are neuroethologically relevant to the Mauthner system; (2) the relative importance of the various octavolateralis inputs (acoustic, vestibular, or lateral line); (3) the contribution of the different various acoustic endorgans to the Mauthner system; (4) whether the Mauthner system can distinguish sound source location, and (5) whether Mauthner neurobiology is compatible with the prevailing model (the phase model) for determining sound source location by fishes. We believe these issues provide potentially useful avenues of future investigation that should give important insights in both acoustic processing by fish and the function of the mauthner system.

The Mauthner cell has an axon that is among the largest in diameter of any vertebrate neuron. It is commonly thought that the large size is needed for short latency escape responses involving a major contraction of the trunk musculature. Previous work, however, has shown that there is nothing unique about the strength of the Mauthner initiated response, compared to responses initiated by other smaller cells, and it is debatable that there is any important improvement in response latency due to Mauthner axon size. In this paper we advance an alternative explanation: although the Mauthner cell has a powerful excitatory influence on motoneurons, the large size of the Mauthner axon is most important in rapidly spreading an inhibitory signal that turns off other competing motor commands. Such competing commands are likely to arise in the presence of ongoing swimming behavior or ambiguous stimuli that could activate a fast turn either toward or away from the stimulus. These stimuli include apparent food items, or lures, presented by predators (such as anglerfish) and escape eliciting sounds which, in the presence of background noise, may have 180 degrees directional ambiguity. Thus, large size of the axon contributes most to the reliable expression of the escape behavior. We base this reliability hypothesis on a retrospective analysis of previous neurophysiological data and new anatomical measurements of the diameters of the large spinal cord axons from which we calculated conduction velocities. Our calculations show that the Mauthner-derived inhibition is fast enough that it allows an escape response to occur even when a conflicting motor command enters the spinal cord at the same time as the Mauthner axon impulse. The rapid spread of inhibitory influence, along with excitation, may be a general feature of motor system cells with large axonal diameters.
This report describes the connections of the olfactory bulb in juvenile chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) as revealed by the retrograde and anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA). Pressure injections of BDA to discrete locations within the bulb reveal that the olfactory bulb projects via medial and lateral tracts to various regions of the dorsal and ventral telencephalon as well as to the diencephalon. Terminal-like boutons are present in the ventral, dorsal, lateral and supracommissural nuclei of the ventral telencephalon and in the lateral-ventral and posterior zones of the dorsal telencephalon. There is also a projection to the nucleus taenia and to the contralateral olfactory bulb. A diencephalic terminal field occurs in the posterior tuberal region of the ventral diencephalon. Olfactory bulb fibers in the preoptic region have axonal varicosities near neurons containing releasing hormones. A synaptic connection is suggested allowing for the possibility that output from the olfactory bulb may directly modulate the activity of these neurons. Telencephalic injections of BDA are used to determine the origins of olfactory bulb efferents. Neurons are retrogradely labeled by BDA in a Golgi-like manner, allowing one to visualize the morphology of olfactory bulb efferents. Three types of neurons in the bulb are filled by injections into the posterior zone of the dorsal telencephalon: mitral cells and ruffed cells in the external cellular layer, and neurons in the internal cellular layer. Although it has been known that both mitral cells and neurons in the internal cellular layer project out of the bulb in teleosts, the use of BDA allowed for an accurate description of the morphology of these extrinsically projecting neurons. This is the first evidence that the ruffed cells in salmon project out of the bulb. The results of this study suggest that the secondary olfactory projections in chinook salmon are consistent with those in other teleosts with minor variations. The data also show that olfactory bulb efferents originate not solely from mitral cells in the external cellular layer but also from ruffed cells in the external cellular layer and neurons in the internal cellular layer. It is proposed that the extrinsically projecting neurons in the internal cellular layer constitute an anterior olfactory nucleus in salmon.

The authors describe 7 new cases of Angelman syndrome (AS: 3 males and 4 females) diagnosed on the basis of clinical features (dysmorphic facial features, severe mental retardation with absent speech, peculiar jerky movements, ataxic gait and paroxysms of inappropriate laughter) and neurophysiological findings. Failure to detect deletion of the long arm of chromosome 15 or the absence of epileptic seizure were not considered sufficient to exclude a diagnosis of AS. Feeding problems, developmental delay and early signs of ataxia, especially tremor on handling objects and unstable posture when seated, proved effective as clinical markers for early diagnosis of AS. The EEG patterns characteristic of AS were found within the first 2 years of life (under 18 months in the majority of cases). The authors conclude that AS should be included in differential diagnosis in a child aged under 12 months having cryptogenic psychomotor retardation with prevalent language compromise. Repeat EEG recordings are needed to check for the typical trace, and cytogenetic investigations are mandatory.
The patient described here suffers from Broca's aphasia without a comprehension disorder. She is unique, since she has two speech styles available and she shifts between them spontaneously. One style is characterized by a mild syntactic disorder and the other by a quite severe morphological and syntactic disorder. None of the current theories about the underlying disorder in Broca patients without comprehension deficits can account for the fact that two linguistically different speech styles can occur in one patient, except the adaptation theory. It will be argued that both styles can be explained by the assumption of an impairment to the grammatical encoder (a processor which transforms the preverbal message into a surface structure, Levelt, 1989). This view suggests that the distinction between syntactic and morphological agrammatism could be a matter of strategy, rather than of impairment.
Amico Bignami, neuropathologist and neuroscientist, professor of Neuropathology at Harvard Medical School, died on August 5, 1994. He is best known for his pioneering work on spongiform encephalopathies and intermediate filaments, in particular glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP).
Stimulation of sites in the rostral or caudoventral periaqueductal gray (PAG) results in substantial increases in mean blood pressure (MBP) and heart rate (HR). The efferent pathways from these PAG subregions possibly include a relay in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata (VLM), where neurons involved in maintaining vasomotor tone are located. Extracellular recordings were made from 21 cardiovascular neurons in the rostral VLM (RVLM) and from 6 cardiovascular neurons in the caudal VLM (CVLM) of the rat. These neurons showed barosensitivity and cardiac rhythmicity. In addition, the activity of 54 non- cardiovascular and nonrespiratory units was recorded. Responses to electrical stimulation of sites in the (rostral or caudal) PAG were studied in 16 of the 21 cardiovascular RVLM neurons, the 6 CVLM neurons, and 46 of the 54 noncardiovascular neurons. Eight of the RVLM neurons were excited by rostral PAG stimulation; the poststimulus time histograms showed a constant latency in live units (32 +/- 3 ms). This suggests the presence of relatively direct (although not monosynaptic) excitatory pathways from the rostral PAG to cardiovascular neurons in the RVLM, consisting of slowly conducting fibers (0.2-0.3 m/s). Five RVLM neurons did not respond to rostral PAG stimulation. Three units were tested with caudal PAG stimulation: one was excited, one inhibited, and one was unresponsive. The six cardiovascular CVLM neurons did not respond to PAG stimulation. Of the 46 noncardiovascular neurons, 14 cells were excited, 7 inhibited, and 2 cells antidromically activated. These results confirm earlier findings, extending them to the rostral PAG. They supply further evidence for the influence of the PAG on the cardiovascular function-related neuronal circuitry in the VLM.
The effect of the central administration of nitroglycerin, a potent organic nitrate vasodilator, on penile erection and yawning was studied in male rats. When given intracerebroventricularly (ICV), nitroglycerin (33-99 micrograms) induced the above responses dose-dependently. The minimal effective dose was 33 micrograms, which was active in 60% of the rats. Nitroglycerin (1.65-6.6 micrograms) induced penile erection and yawning also when injected in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Nitroglycerin responses were prevented by methylene blue (200-400 micrograms ICV), by d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin (0.5-1 micrograms ICV) but not hemoglobin (100-200 micrograms ICV). In contrast methylene blue (10-20 micrograms), d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2-Orn8-vasotocin (0.05-0.1 microgram) and hemoglobin (10-20 micrograms) were ineffective when injected in the paraventricular nucleus. Systemic haloperidol (0.5-1 mg/kg IP) was also ineffective. The results suggest that nitroglycerin induces penile erection and yawning by activating brain oxytocinergic transmission through the formation of nitric oxide in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus.
In urethane-anesthetized rats, neocortical LVFA induced by 100 Hz electrical stimulation of the median raphe area or by tail pinching was completely eliminated by a combination of scopolamine (5 mg/kg, IP) and p-chlorophenylalanine (500 mg/kg/day x 3, IP), providing evidence that LVFA is dependent on cholinergic-muscarinic and serotonergic inputs to the neocortex in urethane-anesthetized as well as in freely moving rats. The serotonergic receptor antagonists ketanserin and methiothepin (1-10 mg/kg, IP) also produced a dose-dependent blockade of LVFA in urethane-anesthetized rats, and eliminated virtually all LVFA when combined with scopolamine. A combination of diethyl ether anesthesia and scopolamine completely eliminated all neocortical LVFA without additional antiserotonergic treatment, and a combination of chloral hydrate anesthesia and scopolamine similarly blocked all LVFA in about 50% of the rats tested. In the remaining chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats, the residual LVFA could be eliminated by the serotonergic antagonist ritanserin (10 mg/kg, IP). As shown previously, in nonanesthetized rats treated with scopolamine, LVFA can be maintained by a serotonergic input to the neocortex. The present data suggest that some general anesthetics reduce or completely abolish this serotonergic LVFA. Further, the serotonergic antagonists used here exert much stronger antiserotonergic effects in rats anesthetized with urethane or chloral hydrate than in freely moving rats. Therefore, studies of serotonergic transmission or antagonist action, especially in the neocortex, in anesthetized rats may not be applicable to the waking state.
The effects of low-intensity electrical stimulation of sites in the hypothalamus and zona incerta (ZI) on mean blood pressure (MBP), heart rate (HR), and neuronal activity in the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) were investigated in rats. Long-lasting depressor responses were elicited from 67 sites in the hypothalamus and ZI. Effects on HR were variable, except for the ZI where bradycardiac responses were evoked. The amplitude of the depressor responses was significantly correlated with baseline MBP on stimulation of the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH) or the dorsal hypothalamic area. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made from 94 PAG neurons. Most units were located in the ventral half of the PAG (62/94), where spontaneous firing rates were significantly higher than in the dorsal half: 12.5 +/- 1.4 spikes/s as compared to 6.0 +/- 0.9 spikes/s. Changes in PAG neuronal activity to both ipsi- and contralateral hypothalamic stimulation were observed. Most neurons were inhibited or unresponsive. There was no site specificity: responsive and unresponsive neurons were scattered throughout the PAG. Inhibition was most effectively evoked by stimulation of the DMH (25 out of 39 neurons) and the ZI (9 out of 15 neurons). In most neurons, the inhibition strictly followed the time course of hypothalamic stimulation. The results suggest that PAG as well as nonPAG pathways participate in the hypothalamic control of cardiovascular function.
A retrograde labeling method is described in which rat embryonic (E18, E21) and postnatal (P1) medial septal neurons were labeled with succinyl wheat germ agglutin-fluorescein, fluorescent green microspheres, or 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (Dil) following in vitro hippocampal injections. The brains were removed and immediately immersed in oxygenated Tyrode solution. Dye was pressure injected into the hippocampus bilaterally. After incubating the brain in oxygenated Tyrode, the medial septal region was removed. The neurons were dissociated and cultured at medium density in 35 mm dishes with a hole in the bottom covered by a coverslip with a grid. The neurons were observed with a low light system, and cell counts were made at 5, 24, and 48 h. Labeled and unlabeled neurons showed considerable neurite outgrowth and acetylcholinesterase activity in culture. Highly reproducible labeling was obtained, with Dil giving the best results. Dil labeled the neurons in vitro, was retained during culture for 1 week, and was compatible with cell survival.
The life of Filippo Pacini (1812-1883) and his major scientific achievements are outlined. Pacini drew attention to the corpuscles named after him in 1831, when he was a medical student, and had to struggle for many years to convince the scientific community of the reliability and importance of his findings. In 1849 Pacini became professor of anatomy at the University of Florence. Creative scientist, innovative teacher, well aware that the use of the microscope represented a revolutionary approach, Pacini pursued histological studies until his death. He also first discovered in 1854 (30 years before Robert Koch) the causative agent of cholera, and firmly believed that the disease was contagious. Strong-willed, modest, and poor, Pacini received from his colleagues more recognition in the obituaries than during his life.
Previous physiological studies have shown that both the parabrachial nucleus and the subfornical organ are involved in drinking behavior and cardiovascular controls. The purpose of the present work was to study the direct connections between these two structures by using anterograde and retrograde transport methods. A mixture of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase and free horseradish peroxidase or Fluorogold was injected into either the parabrachial nucleius (PBN) or the subfornical organ (SFO). The results indicated that the parabrachial nucleus sends a substantial projection to the entirety of the subfornical organ, and this input appears to be distributed to both the central and peripheral regions of this structure. Neurons that give origin to this projection are mainly located in the outer layer of the lateral division of the parabrachial nucleus, including the superior, internal, dorsal, and external lateral subnuclei. These findings suggest that, besides the already known connections, there is an additional parabrachio-subfornical pathway that may be involved in the central integration of cardiovascular function and drinking behavior.
The subiculum may be the key structure in the transfer of relevant processed information from the hippocampal formation to cortical areas. We investigated the location of the serotonin 1B receptor (5-HT1B) in the hippocampus with the specific ligand serotonin-O-carboxymethyl-glycyl[125I]tyrosinamide in rat brain sections using in vitro autoradiography. A high density of 5-HT1B binding sites was found in the dorsal subiculum (DS), in the lacunosum moleculare, and in the most dorsal layer of the stratum oriens of the CA1 field. CA1 pyramidal neurons that contain 5-HT1B mRNA project primarily to the DS. We interrupted the pyramidal CA1 axons unilaterally by a stereotaxic knife cut. Histological analysis showed that the lesion was restricted to a trial of cells lost between CA1 and DS. Specific 5-HT1B binding site density was decreased in the DS on the ipsilateral side of the lesion compared to the contralateral side. We conclude that 5-HT1B receptors are located on CA1 pyramidal axon terminals in the DS. Serotonin, acting on these receptors, should inhibit CA1 neurotransmitter release and, in this way, modulate subicular functions.
Fetal ventral mesencephalic grafts have been used as a tool to counteract the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. In this study human fetal ventral mesencephalic xenografts were implanted into the lateral ventricle of unilaterally dopamine-depleted immunosuppressed rats. Rotational behavior elicited by low doses of apomorphine, host striatal dopamine receptor binding, and mRNA levels were investigated. Rotational behavior was reduced beginning 2 months after grafting. After 4 months only a small number of rotations, lasting approximately 30 min, were recorded. Seven months after transplantation, the rotational behavior was completely eleminated. Dopamine D2 receptor binding revealed significantly increased levels in sham-operated 6-hydroxydopamine- (6-OHDA) lesioned control striata. These increased levels decreased, and although still significantly higher at 4 months, normalized at the survival time of 7 months postgrafting. Regional differences were still obvious at 7 months in the dorsolateral quadrant of dorsal striatum. Dopamine D2 receptor mRNA revealed significantly increased levels in the lateral aspects of 6-OHDA-lesioned control striata, reversing by 4 months postgrafting. The D1 receptor binding revealed a moderately reduced signal in striata of lesioned animals. After grafting, this reduction became significantly lower than that seen in the control side, with a continous decrease over time. The same pattern was detected using in situ hybridization for dopamine D1 receptor mRNA, that is, moderate decreases after dopamine depletion and a significant decrease in the dorsomedial part of dorsal striatum 7 months postgrafting. Dopamine D3 receptor binding was increased after dopamine depletion, but reversed already by 4 months postgrafting. Taken together, human ventral mesencephalic xenografts are able to completely reverse apomorphine-induced rotational behavior, provided the grafts are left in vivo for a sufficient time. The increased striatal D2 receptors are reversed after grafting, but the human xenograft further suppressed the D1 receptor subtype both at binding and at mRNA levels. There was no strict correlation in the time courses of dopamine receptor changes and reduction of rotational behavior.
By combining immunocytochemistry for ChAT and in situ hybridization for dopamine D1 or D2 receptor mRNA in the striatum, it was found that (1) the percentage of ChAT/D2 mRNA co-localization is higher in the caudate-putamen than in the shell and core of the nucleus accumbens, (2) in the shell the degree of ChAT/D2 mRNA co-localization is higher rostrally than caudally, and 3) no significant regional differences exist in the degree of co-localization of ChAT and D1 mRNA.

A series of deletions was made from the C-terminal end of actin by inserting termination codons into a full length cDNA of human alpha-skeletal muscle actin. These included deletions of 2, 3, 10, 20, 30, and 40 amino acids. The cDNA clones were transcribed and the resulting mRNAs were translated in vitro using 35S-labeled methionine. The 35S-labeled actin and actin mutants were then tested for the ability to coassemble with carrier actin, bind DNAse I, bind myosin S-1, bind a 27 kDa proteolytic fragment of alpha-actinin, and incorporate into myofibrils in vitro. Removal of the C-terminal two or three amino acids did not grossly alter the properties of actin tested. Deletion of an additional 7 amino acids (10 amino acids total) significantly decreased coassembly, binding to DNAse I, and incorporation into myofibrils, but did not dramatically reduce binding to myosin S-1 or the 27 kDa fragment of alpha-actinin. Deletion of 20 or more amino acids virtually abolished all normal actin function tested. By examining the structure of actin, we propose that the effect of removing residues 356-365 is due to the important role Trp356 plays in maintaining hydrophobic bonds between three non-contiguous segments of actin. We also suggest that removal of residues 366-372 adversely affected the structure or orientation of the DNAse I binding loop and that this change can account for defects in actin binding to DNAse I, coassembly with wild type actin, and incorporation into myofibrils.
Many investigators have recently used genetically modified primary fibroblasts of fibroblast cell lines (e.g., 3T3, 208F, or BHK cells) to deliver recombinant nerve growth factor (NGF) into the CNS. In the current study, SCT-1 cells, a Schwannoma cell line derived from a transgenic mouse, were transfected with a human NGF (hNGF) cDNA. After selection, these cells were encased within a polymer capsule and implanted into the ventricles of fimbria-fornix lesioned rats. Encapsulated, non-transfected cells served as controls. Results demonstrated that the hNGF transgene is expressed for at least 3 weeks after implantation. Moreover, the cells did not overgrow the capsule. Recombinant hNGF was able to save &gt; 70% of lesioned cholinergic neurons, as assessed by NGF-receptor (NGFr) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunohistochemistry, from cell death. The number of cholinergic neurons in animals that received control capsules (i.e., nontransfected SCT-1 cells) was similar to lesion only animals (i.e., approximately 27% and approximately 33% for NGFr- and ChAT-positive neurons, respectively. These results show that SCT-1 cells can be used to deliver biologically active hNGF into the lesioned rat brain.
We measured the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 11 healthy volunteers with PET (positron emission tomography). The main purpose was to map the areas of the human brain that changed rCBF during (1) the storage, (2) retrieval from long-term memory, and (3) recognition of complex visual geometrical patterns. A control measurement was done with subjects at rest. Perception and learning of the patterns increased rCBF in V1 and 17 cortical fields located in the cuneus, the lingual, fusiform, inferior temporal, occipital, and angular gyri, the precuneus, and the posterior part of superior parietal lobules. In addition, rCBF increased in the anterior hippocampus, anterior cingulate gyrus, and in several fields in the prefrontal cortex. Recognition of the patterns increased rCBF in 18 identically located fields overlapping those activated in learning. In addition, recognition provoked differentially localized increases in the pulvinar, posterior hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex. Learning and recognition of the patterns thus activated identical visual regions, but different extravisual regions. A surprising finding was that the hippocampus was also active in recognition. Recall of the patterns from long-term memory was associated with rCBF increases in yet different fields in the prefrontal cortex, and the anterior cingulate cortex. In addition, the posterior inferior temporal lobe, the precuneus, the angular gyrus, and the posterior superior parietal lobule were activated, but not any spot within the occipital cortex. Activation of V1 or immediate visual association areas is not a prerequisite for visual imagery for the patterns. The only four fields activated in storage recall and recognition were those in the posterior inferior temporal lobe, the precuneus, the angular gyrus, and the posterior superior parietal lobule. These might be the storage sites for such visual patterns. If this is true, storage, retrieval, and recognition of complex visual patterns are mediated by higher-level visual areas. Thus, visual learning and recognition of the same patterns make use of identical visual areas, whereas retrieval of this material from the storage sites activates only a subset of the visual areas. The extravisual networks mediating storage, retrieval, and recognition differ, indicating that the ways by which the brain accesses the storage sites are different.
Evidence is accumulating that decisions of cell fate and commitment to specific regional phenotypes in the cerebral cortex occur through cell interactions that likely begin early in development, perhaps in the proliferative zone. We have focused on the development of the limbic cortex in rats, which includes areas involved in both cognitive and autonomic functions and is marked by expression of the limbic system-associated membrane protein. Transplantation studies show that precursor cells are sensitive to environmental cues which can control expression of area-specific phenotypes, including limbic system-associated protein synthesis and connectivity patterns, but early postmitotic neurons faithfully express traits based on their origin in the donor. We have studied this sensitive period of decision making in vitro. Molecules from the epidermal growth factor family influence dramatically the fate of precursor cells, but only in the presence of matrix molecules. In vivo, both the epidermal growth factor receptor and collagen type IV are expressed in the progenitor cell pool indicating that they can directly affect the initial decisions in differentiation. We suggest that early patterns of gene expression, influenced by environmental cues, are likely to provide a specific framework for subsequent decisions that lead to establishing cortical areas.
The patterning of the cerebral cortex into functionally distinct domains relies on the formation of appropriate connections between the thalamus and the cortex during development. To identify the mechanisms that underlie cortical target selection by thalamic axons, we have examined the role of cellular interactions in the formation of connections between the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and the visual cortex during development of the cat visual system. The morphology of LGN axons as they grow towards the visual cortex suggests that interactions within the subplate zone may be important in the development of geniculocortical connections. The requirement for subplate neurons in this process was examined by ablating subplate neurons underlying the visual cortex at various developmental stages. When subplate cells are deleted between E38 and E42, prior to target innervation by LGN axons, these axons fail to select the visual cortex as their correct target and instead grow past it, staying restricted to the white matter. Deletion of subplate cells at later stages, between P2 and P7, does not affect target selection, but instead it prevents the segregation of LGN axons into ocular dominance columns within layer IV of the cortex. The effects of subplate neuron ablation suggest that interactions between thalamic axons and subplate cells are of critical importance in the specification of thalamocortical connections during development.
Spiral patterns of intracellular Ca2+ release demonstrate a direct relationship between increasing wavefront curvature and increasing propagation velocity. An equally important phenomenon is the annihilation of colliding Ca2+ waves, which reveals an underlying refractory period during which further Ca2+ release is temporarily inhibited. Treatment of intracellular Ca2+ release as an excitable medium accounts for both observations. This theoretical framework is analogous to the more familiar concept of electrical excitability in neuronal membranes. In this analogy, the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor ion channel plays a role analogous to that of Na+ channels while Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release provides the mechanism for excitation. Furthermore, Ca(2+)-ATPases play a role similar to that of the K+ channels in neuronal excitation, that is, they return the system to rest. We demonstrated that overexpression of a sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase increases the frequency of Ca2+ wave activity. More recent experiments reveal a strong dependence of the propagation velocity on wavelength as predicted by the dispersion relation of excitability. This important result accounts for an observed correlation between wave frequency and spatial dominance of Ca2+ foci and suggests a new mechanism for the encoding of signal information.
Oscillations in the cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) have been described in a variety of cells. In some cases, [Ca2+]i oscillations reflect cycles of membrane depolarization and voltage-dependent Ca2+ entry. In others, they are caused by periodic Ca2+ uptake and release by internal stores, with little immediate requirement for external Ca2+. A third type of [Ca2+]i oscillation is typified by caffeine-induced oscillations in sympathetic neurons. Here, the oscillations depend on the interplay between Ca2+ transport across the plasma membrane and transport by a caffeine-sensitive store. These oscillations can occur at a steady membrane potential and are blocked by ryanodine (1 microM), indicating that they do not result from voltage-dependent changes in Ca2+ entry but do require Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release. Entry of Ca2+ from the external medium is important during all phases of the oscillatory cycle except the rapid upstroke, which is dominated by Ca2+ release from an internal store. It is proposed that caffeine-induced [Ca2+]i oscillations are cyclic perturbations of [Ca2+]i caused by exchange of Ca2+ between the cytosol and the caffeine-sensitive store: net Ca2+ loss from the store increases [Ca2+]i transiently above its steady-state value ([Ca2+]ss), whereas net accumulation of Ca2+ by the store transiently depresses [Ca2+]i below [Ca2+]ss. The effects of rapid removal of Ca2+ and caffeine on the rate of change of [Ca2+]i (d[Ca2+]i/dt) provide estimates of the rates of net Ca2+ entry and (caffeine-sensitive) Ca2+ release and information on the way these rates vary during the oscillatory cycle.
A survey of U.S. departments of anatomy, physiology, and biochemistry shows that 39% of the respondent anatomy departments reported declines in the numbers of graduate students taking the human gross anatomy course. Similarly, 42% of the departments reported decreases in the numbers of graduate students teaching human gross anatomy. These decreases were greater in anatomy than in physiology and in biochemistry. The percentages of departments reporting increases in students taking or teaching their courses was 6% for human gross anatomy and 0% to 19% for physiology and biochemistry courses. To reverse this trend the establishment of specific programs for the training of gross anatomy teachers is advocated. These new teachers will be available as the need for them is increasingly recognized in the future.
We investigated the cardiovascular responses in anesthetized ventilated rats to agmatine (decarboxylated arginine), an amine which is an endogenous clonidine-displacing substance (CDS) synthesized in brain. Intracisternal agmatine dose-dependently increased sympathetic nerve activity and arterial pressure (at 400 nmol by 8.7 +/- 2.1 microV and 28.6 +/- 2.7 mmHg, respectively) and blocked arterial baroreflex reflexes. Microinjection of agmatine into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) had no effect on arterial pressure or sympathetic nerve activity while iontophoresis of agmatine onto defined vasomotor neurons of RVL was also without effect. Agmatine (i.v.) decreased sympathetic nerve activity and arterial pressure probably by blocking the transmission through sympathetic ganglia and by direct dilation of vascular smooth muscles. Despite binding like clonidine to alpha 2-adrenergic receptors and imidazoline (I)-receptors of both classes, agmatine does not replicate the central or peripheral actions of clonidine. The results suggest that earlier cardiovascular actions of partially purified CDS were either attributable to contaminating molecules and/or that CDS may be a family of molecules.
In vitro immune responses to Legionella pneumophila were investigated. When human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) from healthy volunteers were stimulated with formalin-killed L. pneumophila for 7 days in vitro, strong proliferative responses were observed. The responding cells were shown to be a CD4 T cell subset. It was also found that the CD4 T cells secreted significant amounts of IFN-gamma into the PBL culture supernatant. The production of IFN-gamma and IL-4 by PBL was measured semiquantitatively by reverse transcriptase-assisted polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) methods. Formalin-killed or live L. pneumophila-stimulated PBL expressed the mRNA for IFN-gamma but not the mRNA for IL-4. The results suggest that the whole bacterium, as opposed to the supernatant, predominantly stimulates Th1 type helper T cells. The cloned T cells specific for L. pneumophila expressed the mRNA for IFN-gamma but not for IL-4. In contrast to formalin-killed or live L. pneumophila stimulation, when PBL were stimulated with the bacterial culture supernatant, the proliferating T cells produced the mRNA for IL-4 as well as for IFN-gamma. A significant correlation between the proliferative response to formalin-killed L. pneumophila and IFN-gamma release in culture was observed (r = 0.6932, P &lt; 0.001) in PBL from 30 healthy volunteers. From these in vitro studies, it is suggested that the whole L. pneumophila bacterium and their soluble antigens stimulate T cells in a manner which results in a different pattern of cytokine production.
With a view to identify the relevant antigens of Cysticercus cellulosae, recognized within human central nervous system, immunocytochemical localization of antigens on the cestode larva has been carried out using cerebrospinal fluid of patients as the source of primary antibody. CSF from nine proven cases of neurocysticercosis, two cases of culture proven tuberculous meningitis and two cases of spinal disc prolapse with no other infective or neurological disorder were used in this study. The CSF from all the cases of neurocysticercosis intensely reacted with the glycocalyx over the integument of the cyst bladder wall. The other structures recognised by the CSF antibodies were cytoplasm of the tegumentary cytons, stroma and the ductular system of the bladder wall. The cells, stroma and calcareous corpuscles of the scolex reacted variably with the CSF. Tegument of the spiral canal and sucker muscles in the scolex were not immunoreactive. We strongly suggest that the glycocalyx is the most antigenic anatomical structure of the Cysticercus cellulosae and the patients develop antibodies to it.
Recent advances in stem cell biology, molecular neurobiology, and gene transfer in combination with our understanding of neurotrophic actions in vivo have provided refined procedures for the gene transfer of bioactive molecules to the mammalian brain with the ability to interfere with neurodegenerative processes or stimulate repair. These new methodologies, when combined with behavioral in vivo studies to assess functional recovery, provide the framework for the development and characterization of gene transfer procedures that might be relevant for the design of future therapies to counteract degeneration in the mammalian brain. In this review we summarize recent evidence demonstrating the usefulness of immortalized neural stem cell lines for long-term and localized gene transfer to the brain, in particular in relation to the cellular and functional effects of gene transfer to trophic factors. Recent experimental evidence demonstrates that localized nerve growth factor supplements to discrete cholinergic nuclei can counteract age-associated cognitive impairments.
Efficient methods to introduce and express therapeutic genes in the central and peripheral nervous system will find applications in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases caused by single gene mutations or degeneration with a mechanical, metabolic, or immunological origin. The goal of our research is to develop experimental gene therapy, based on in vivo gene delivery with viral vectors, to promote neuroregeneration in the peripheral and central nervous system. This paper provides an overview of work to determine the capacity of herpes simplex and adenoviral vectors, encoding members of the neurotrophin gene family or the intraneuronal growth-associated protein B-50/GAP-43, to stimulate neurite outgrowth. Initial results demonstrate that viral vector-mediated transfer of genes encoding these neurite growth promoting molecules could be an effective strategy to enhance the growth potential of injured neurons. A number of biological and technical hurdles that have to be settled in order to move closer to future clinical applications will be discussed briefly.
Gene transfer is a potential means of treating chronic neurologic disorders and injury related neural degeneration. One approach for transferring genes to the CNS is to genetically modify cells in vitro and then transplant the cells to the CNS. For example, fibroblasts can be infected with a replication-defective retrovirus expressing a transgene, and can then be transplanted into the brain or spinal cord, thereby providing neurotrophic factors and substrates for axonal growth and elongation. In this review we discuss the grafting of neurotrophic factor secreting autologous fibroblasts in the rat and primate CNS. NGF secreting grafts have been shown to prevent degeneration of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain of primates and to induce sprouting of sensory, motor, and noradrenergic neurites after spinal cord injury. These results suggest the potential usefulness of ex vivo gene transfer for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and spinal cord injury.
The integration of gene transfer techniques with neuroscience provides new opportunities to study the cellular and molecular aspects of neuron survival, dysfunction, and degeneration. A variety of viral vectors have been used to probe the effects of new gene expression in neurons, glial cells, and progenitor cells. These vectors provide an avenue to deliver genes with potential therapeutic value as shown by neuroprotective effects in animal models subsequent to the transduction of selected cell types. In addition, basic research in this field provides insight into the signalling mechanisms that dictate cell survival and programmed cell death and helps shape future strategies for gene therapy in the central nervous system. New generations of viral vectors will offer improved gene expression and move the field of gene delivery/therapy closer to clinical reality for the prevalent neurodegenerative conditions that include Alzheimer's and Parkinson's.
One difficulty in reproducing the core neurobiological features of schizophrenia in experimental animals is that most neurobiological data about the illness are inclusive: neither the inducing conditions nor the neurobiological mechanisms have been made clear. We review the advantages and limitations of animal models of schizophrenia based on neurodevelopmental hypotheses that implicate early, probably prenatal age, as the time at which the fundamental disease process occurs. These models, although principally founded on circumstantial clinical evidence of early developmental neuropathology, seem to reproduce a surprisingly broad spectrum of prominent neurobiological aspects of the disorder, and may help explain mechanisms that underlie the pathophysiology of this illness. In particular, the model based on neonatal excitotoxic hippocampal damage has provided data indicating the neurobiological plausibility of the notion that a developmental cortical defect has a delayed effect on cortical function and dopamine regulation (i.e., the neurodevelopmental hypothesis).
Advances in psychopharmacology and neuroscience have brought into view a wide field of competing mechanisms for the etiology of schizophrenia including, but not limited to, deficits in one or more neurotransmitters (dopamine, serotonin, GABA, glutamate, and noradrenaline systems), neurodevelopmental defects in cortical connectivity, and viral infection. Genetic studies suggest heterogeneity in the illness, with multifactorial inheritance. Since cerebral metabolic activity reflects regional brain work for all neurotransmitter systems, imaging studies can provide information on the functional neuroanatomy of a deficit in the individual patient, allowing the grouping of patients for more intensive investigation in more homogeneous groups. Metabolic imaging studies allow psychopharmacological response to be regionally assessed and clinical responders to be identified, even for medications that affect more than one neurotransmitter system or have clinical effects that derive from changes in activity one synapse or more removed from the site of primary action.
Interest in the role of monoaminergic mechanisms in schizophrenia has stimulated the development of specific radioligands that allow PET analysis of quantitative aspects of monoamine receptor subtypes in the living human brain. Clinical studies with such ligands have not consistently demonstrated specific alterations of the total populations of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the caudate putamen complex of drug-naive schizophrenic patients. However, recent studies using [11C]SCH 23390, a specific D1 dopamine receptor ligand, disclosed a highly significant reduction of ligand binding in pixel elements of the basal ganglia that normally contain high activity. This finding may be related to reduced D1 dopamine regulated transmission in subsets of neuronal pathways within the basal ganglia. D3, D4, and D5 receptor subtypes constitute minor fractions of the total number of dopamine receptors in the human brain. However, efforts to find selective ligands for D3 and D4 subtypes also show promise. Radioligands for monoamine receptors have also been used to follow drug effects on receptor subtypes in schizophrenic patients treated with different types of antipsychotic drugs. Such studies have allowed the analysis of relationships between occupancy of dopamine receptor subtypes and some clinical manifestations of drug treatment. Such studies with the selective D2 antagonist raclopride indicated quantitative relationships between the degree of D2 dopamine receptor occupancy in the basal ganglia and the extrapyramidal manifestations, as well as the antipsychotic action. Some of the currently available antipsychotic drugs also induced significant occupancy of D1 dopamine receptors. However, the selective D1 antagonist SCH 39166 in doses inducing a more than 70% occupancy of D1 dopamine receptors in the caudate putamen failed to induce an antipsychotic action. This indicates that, in contrast to D2 blockade, selective antagonism of D1-regulated pathways does not mediate antipsychotic action in schizophrenia. Some but not all antipsychotic drugs also induced high occupancy of neocortical 5HT2A receptors. Because selective 5HT2A antagonism does not appear to be an efficient treatment for schizophrenia, it seems most likely that 5HT2A receptors and, perhaps, D1 receptors act in concert to modify aspects of the mandatory D2 blockade to induce antipsychotic actions. Computer graphic methods for image analysis add new dimensions to brain imaging research, allowing three-dimensional visualization of receptor populations computed from molecular PET data. This will make possible further exploration of the detailed molecular compartmentalization of the human brain using radioligand binding.
Intra-operative neurophysiologic monitoring is here to stay. Future improvements of technique will allow neurophysiologists to monitor many brain and CN functions not reliably monitored at present. It is expected that such monitoring will become a routine part of all complex neurosurgical operations, despite the current pressure to reduce the cost of health care.
Intra-operative neurophysiologic monitoring is now a well established adjunct to many different kinds of operations in which neural tissue is being manipulated. Its main benefit is to reduce the incidence of permanent postoperative neurologic deficits, but there are also other advantages in using intra-operative monitoring, e.g., it helps to identify neural tissue that is not directly visible; in some cases it can identify the anatomic location of a pathology; and in a few operations it ensures that the therapeutic goal of the operation has been achieved before the operation is completed. The value of the techniques involved in intra-operative neurophysiologic monitoring differs from operation to operation, and surgeons with different degrees of experience in a particular operation may benefit by different degrees from the use of intra-operative monitoring.

Hydroxymetabolites of the antidepressants nortriptyline and desipramine, like the parent drugs, inhibit neuronal uptake of noradrenaline (norepinephrine). In both plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), the concentrations of the 10-hydroxymetabolites of nortriptyline (10-OH-NT) are usually higher than those of the parent drugs, but there is a pronounced interindividual variation in the plasma concentrations. This shows that during treatment with nortriptyline, hydroxymetabolites exert, at least in some patients, major effects on brain noradrenaline neurons. Hydroxymetabolites of antidepressants are formed by the polymorphic cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2D6. Nortriptyline is hydroxylated by this enzyme in a highly stereospecific way to the (-)-enantiomer of E-10-OH-NT. Among Caucasians, 7% are poor metabolisers of the CYP2D6 probe drug debrisoquine. These patients will form very little hydroxymetabolite. The affinity of E-10-OH-NT for muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vitro was only one-eighteenth of the affinity of nortriptyline for these receptors. In healthy individuals, nortriptyline decreased saliva flow to a significantly greater extent than either E-10-OH-NT or placebo. In an ultrarapid hydroxylator of nortriptyline treated with very high doses of nortriptyline, the plasma concentration of unconjugated 10-OH-NT was very high without any sign of anticholinergic adverse effects. These results show that hydroxymetabolites of nortriptyline have much less anticholinergic effect than the parent drug. When racemic E-10-OH-NT per se was given to healthy individuals, the plasma concentration of the (-)-enantiomer was 5-fold higher than that of (+)-E-10-OH-NT. The 2 enantiomers were eliminated in parallel with an elimination half-life of 8 to 10 hours. A combined in vitro and in vivo investigation showed that a mean of 64% of (+)-E-10-OH-NT was glucuronidated in the liver and subsequently eliminated in urine. Of the administered (-)-enantiomer, a mean of 36% was eliminated as glucuronide formed in the intestine and 35% was actively secreted as unchanged form in urine. Plasma protein binding, determined by ultrafiltration, of the (+)- and (-)-enantiomers of E-10-OH-NT was 54 and 69%, respectively, which is less than that of nortriptyline (92%). The concentration of E-10-OH-NT in CSF was 50% of the concentration of unbound in plasma. There seems to be a stereoselective active transport of E-10-OH-NT from the CSF to blood. We administered racemic E-10-OH-NT to 5 patients during a major depressive episode.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)








This paper outlines the historical development of the idea that the cerebral cortex is responsible for the integration of sensory information and the co-ordination of complex movement patterns. The concept of a functional compartmentalisation of the cortex was developed in the 19th century, based on electrophysiological experiments. In spite of conceptual frameworks like those of Meynert and Wernicke, neuroanatomy did not contribute significantly to the conceptual development of neurobiology during the end of the 19th century. For electrophysiologists, an analysis of neuronal connections in the cortex was of minor interest. Data about the fine texture of the brain did not significantly influence the development of early 20th century neurobiology.



Virulence is defined as the relative capacity of a microorganism to overcome the defense mechanisms of the host organism and thereby cause disease. Virally induced virulence is usually quantitated by measuring the mean time to death or appearance of symptoms following viral inoculation. In this review we make a distinction between general virulence and neurovirulence. We define neurovirulence as the degree of pathogenesis in the nervous system, but intend it to be more encompassing than the simple ability of the virus to grow in the central nervous system (CNS). This distinction is made possible by recent advances that permit an integrated assessment of the degree of pathology, reactive gliosis, and inflammatory response to infection in the intact organism with specific antisera and molecular probes.
Although a large and still increasing number of neuroactive peptides have been discovered in the mammalian brain over the years, it has been difficult to link most of these molecules with specific brain functions and/or brain diseases. A lack of pharmacological tools has hampered the study of brain peptide systems and the elucidation of which among these systems have retained important physiological functions through phylogenesis. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one the most abundant neuropeptides in the mammalian brain. A combination of basic and clinical studies has made it possible to circumvent some of these difficulties and provides evidence for a role of NPY in the control of endocrine hypothalamic and pituitary functions, in hypothalamic control of food intake and circadian rhythm, and in limbic emotional integration. Of particular interest is NPY's unique action as an endogenous anxiolytic and its possible role in clinical states of anxiety and depression. Here, we review the biology, anatomy, and physiology of central NPY systems and studies of these systems in various disease states.

It was not until the time of the anatomist Vesal (1514-64) that the function of the spinal facet-joints was understood. First with the effective anatomical studies of the Danish anatomist J.B. Winslv (1669-1760) in Paris and of the German anatomist Josias Weitbrecht (17th and 18th century) in St. Petersburg, the building and function of the spinal disk were described. Texts and illustrations in the incunabels (last part of the 15th century) tells of the rather slow development of understanding of the spine's anatomy and movability. X-ray and MR scanning from the 20th century have produced far better methods for studying the normal and abnormal building and function of the spine - but Winslw and Weitbrecht's investigations were really epoch-making.
Mechanisms regulating the expression of intercellular coupling, development of membrane excitability, and cellular responsiveness to neurotransmitters during neuronal ontogeny are largely unknown. To define the temporal relationship among these properties during neurogenesis, murine embryonic hippocampal progenitor cells immortalized with a temperature-sensitive allele of the SV40 large T-antigen were examined during successive stages of neuronal differentiation in vitro using patch clamp, dye coupling, and Ca2+ imaging techniques. Electrotonic and dye coupling between untreated neuroblasts were frequent in cells maintained at the temperature (39 degrees C) nonpermissive for T-antigen expression. However, as neuroblasts differentiated into neurons under the influence of interleukin-7 added alone or concurrently with transforming growth factor-alpha after basic fibroblast growth factor, both junctional conductance and the extent of dye coupling progressively decreased. Voltage-dependent inward currents were present within 2 to 6 days after differentiating treatments began. During intermediate developmental stages (3 to 5 days in culture), cells became responsive to GABA (&gt; or = 100 microM) but not to glutamate, glycine, or to acetylcholine (&lt; or = 1 mM), as indicated by [Ca2+]i measurements and patch clamp recordings. In contrast, voltage- and ligand-gated responses but not electronic coupling were frequently observed in mature neuronal primary cultures. Together, these results indicate that certain cytokines may orchestrate the progressive expression of functional neuronal phenotypes in vitro, in which the gradual disappearance of intercellular coupling parallels the onset of voltage-dependent responses and both of which precede the expression of neurotransmitter chemosensitivity.
Sympathetic neurons innervating sweat glands undergo a target-directed developmental switch in neurotransmitter properties. Using cultured sympathetic neurons as a bioassay for cholinergic differentiation factors, we and others found that extracts containing soluble proteins from developing and adult footpads caused the same changes in transmitter properties in sympathetic neurons in vitro that the target does in vivo. In the present studies, using footpads from Tabby mutant mice that lack sweat glands, we found that the presence of sweat glands is correlated with the presence of cholinergic differentiation activity in footpad extracts. We examined the conditions necessary for secretion of differentiation activity from primary cultures of sweat gland cells. Surprisingly, sweat gland cells cultured alone do not produce or secrete cholinergic differentiation activity. When grown in the presence of sympathetic neurons, however, gland cells induce cholinergic function, increase vasoactive intestinal peptide content, and reduce catecholamine production in the neurons. Medium conditioned by sweat gland/neuron cocultures has a similar effect on the transmitter properties of cultured sympathetic neurons, indicating that the target influence on phenotype is mediated by a secreted factor(s). The innervation-dependence of cholinergic differentiation factor production provides evidence that reciprocal interactions between neurons and sweat glands are necessary for acquisition of the mature transmitter phenotype.
Adult zebrafish stripes are formed from stripes of gold iridophores alternating with stripes of black melanocytes lying beneath silver stripes. Analysis of defects in pigment pattern development caused by sparse (spa, rose (ros), and leopard (leo) single and double mutant combinations suggests that spa+ and ros+ functions are required for development of separate populations of pigment cells in the adult and that leo+ functions to control assembly of melanocytes into stripes. Thus, between 2 and 3 weeks of zebrafish development, spa-dependent melanocytes differentiate throughout the flank, followed by leo-dependent assembly of these cells into stripes. Beginning at 3 weeks of development, a distinct ros-dependent population of melanocytes differentiates in the stripe. Both early and late differentiating melanocytes then affect the formation of the silver stripes, ensuring registration of melanocyte and iridophore stripes.
Staining with the Griffonia simplicifolia II lectin (GSL II), a marker for adult rat oligodendrocytes, was studied in rat brain at embryonic (E) days E14, E16, E18, and E20. At E14, only two regions of the CNS showed labeling--the hippocampal primordium and the ventromedial floor of the mesencephalic aqueduct and fourth ventricle. Labeling in these areas was confined to cells with bipolar processes which spanned from the ventricular lumen to the pial surface. At E16, GSL II+ radial glia were present in the hippocampus, septal area, cerebral peduncle, thalamus, tegmentum, and throughout much of the midbrain. At E16, E18, and E20, GSL II strongly labeled two midline radial glial raphes--dorsal to the mesencephalic aqueduct and ventral to the mesencephalic aqueduct and fourth ventricle. Comparison of GSL II lectin labeling with nestin immunostaining, using Rat-401, showed that GSL II labeled a distinct population of radial cells different from nestin-positive radial glia. GSL II also labeled a group of neurons at E16 and E18 in the hypothalamus and basal striatum. We suggest that GSL II+ radial glia represent a population of oligodendroglial precursors present in the embryonic brain, and that GSL II reactivity could serve as a differentiation marker for cells committed to the oligodendroglial lineage. This work supports the possibility that some oligodendroglia, like astrocytes, are derived from radial glial precursors.
The reeler genetic mutation, occurring spontaneously in mice, affects migration of neuroblasts in the central nervous system at its last stage, causing severe cytoarchitectonic abnormalities in laminated structures, such as the cerebral and cerebellar cortex. In the reeler mouse, corticospinal (CS) neurons are malpositioned in association with the deranged laminar cytoarchitecture. To examine whether CS projections in the reeler mouse and their collaterals terminating with subcortical nuclei are normal or not, 5% biocytin was injected into the sensorimotor cortex of 2-month-old normal and reeler mice. Anterogradely labeled CS fibers of normal and reeler mice exited from the cortex and entered the internal capsule and the cerebral peduncle. They penetrated the basal pontine gray matter as longitudinal pontine fibers and entered the medullary pyramid. They continued caudally as a compact bundle along the ventral surface of the medulla, passed through the pyramidal decussation at the spinomedullary junction and entered the contralateral dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord. Both in normal and reeler mice, collaterals arising from these CS fibers projected to the ipsilateral red nucleus, basal pontine gray matter, inferior olivary complex, and the contralateral gracile nucleus. Thus, in the reeler mouse, the course and termination of CS fibers and their collaterals are identical to their normal counterparts, suggesting that radially malpositioned CS neurons in the sensorimotor cortex project to the subcortical nuclei in a manner similar to normal CS neurons.
Specific neuronal circuits within the vertebrate nervous system express high levels of steroid receptors and are sensitive to the effects of steroid hormones. The mechanisms by which these neuronal circuits develop their unique steroid sensitivity are unknown. One intriguing hypothesis is that retrograde influences during early postnatal life play a role in determining which central nervous system (CNS) neurons become sensitive to steroids. We now present evidence that during a critical period in early postnatal development, axonal injury disrupts the normal development of steroid sensitivity. The spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) is a neuromuscular system that is highly androgen-sensitive at the level of both the motoneurons and their target muscles. Testosterone levels regulate the size of SNB motoneurons and their muscles in adult rats. Cutting the axons of SNB motoneurons on postnatal day 14 (P14) caused permanent decreases in SNB motoneuronal soma size, as well as in SNB target muscle weight. Interestingly, SNB motoneurons that survived axotomy on P14 failed to develop their normal ability to respond to testosterone in adulthood. That is, they did not respond to changes in testosterone levels with changes in soma size. The same effect was not seen after axotomy 1 week later in development, suggesting a critical period for this effect. Thus, separation from the target muscles during an early critical period in development blocked the differentiation of androgen sensitivity by SNB motoneurons, consistent with a role for the target in the normal development of steroid sensitivity by CNS neurons.


This paper describes, for the first time, changes in steady-state visually evoked potential (SSVEP) topography associated with the performance of a computerised version of the Wisconsin card sort test (WCS). The SSVEP was recorded from 64 scalp sites and was elicited by a 13 Hz spatially uniform visual flicker presented continuously while 16 subjects performed the WCS. in the WCS, the sort criterion was automatically changed after subjects had sorted 10 cards correctly. Feedback on the 11th card always constituted a cue for a change in the sort criterion. It was found that in the 1-2 sec interval after the occurrence of the cue to change sort criterion, the prefrontal, central and right parieto-temporal regions showed a pronounced attenuation in SSVEP amplitude and an increase in phase lag. These changes, interpreted as an increase in regional cortical activity, are not apparent in the equivalent portions of the WCS when the sort criterion does not need to be changed. These results indicate that the levels of prefrontal and right parieto-temporal activity varied during the performance of the WCS, peaking at the times a change in sort criterion was required.


Consciousness offers a major challenge to the neurosciences. Even though consciousness is by definition subjective and private to the organism concerned, we consider it to be an intrinsic feature of biological processes in the brain. As such, it should be viewed in the Darwinian perspective of natural selection which implies that the conscious brain function does have survival value and cannot be a mere epiphenomenon. We attempted a neurophysiological approach by assessing perceptual processing of simple somatic sensory inputs in humans. We found that short-latency cortical potentials evoked by a target finger stimulus attended by the subject are strongly enhanced, thus manifesting a remarkable potentiation of the cognitive representations in primary parietal cortex. About 80 msec later, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex discloses enhanced electrogeneses which we believe to reflect activation of somatic representations in 'working memory'. A functional 'binding' between these critical areas has been revealed by the transient and selective synchrony of 40 Hz oscillations recorded in the cortical areas of the parietal and prefrontal cortices. We consider these re-entrant interactions at 40 Hz to be an essential part of the conscious brain mechanisms that achieve the identification of an object (in this example, a finger) and the decision to release a motor behavioral response.

A single dose of ethanol increases cellular levels of the mRNA encoding thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), but blocks the cold-induced increase in the levels of this mRNA. Because the thyrotropic response to cold is dependent upon TRH secretion, we hypothesized that ethanol uncouples the stimulus-induced regulation of TRH secretion from the stimulus-induced regulation of TRH expression. We employed two complementary strategies to test this hypothesis. The first was to determine whether ethanol alters pituitary sensitivity to TRH. Animals given a single intraperitoneal injection of ethanol (3 g/kg) that produced a blood alcohol concentration of nearly 300 mg/100 mL exhibited the same increase in circulating levels of TSH following an intravenous infusion of TRH. Thus, ethanol does not appear to alter pituitary sensitivity to TRH. Second, we tested whether ethanol blocks the cold induction of c-fos expression in TRH neurons of the PVN. Both cold exposure and ethanol induced the expression of c-fos in the PVN and in TRH neurons; the effects of cold and ethanol on c-fos expression were additive. Thus, ethanol clearly does not block the cold activation of TRH neurons.
In the present study the inhibitory effects of a panel of 21 monoclonal antibodies (moabs) to rat interleukin 1 beta (rIL-1 beta) on the binding of 125I-labeled rIL-1 beta to murine type I IL-1 receptors on EL4 cells were investigated. Furthermore, the epitopes of these moabs were determined by the use of the pepscan technique, and these epitopes were visualized on a three-dimensional model of rIL-1 beta. Some moabs (SILK 3, 4, 5, 6, and 22) inhibited receptor binding of radioiodinated rIL-1 beta at concentrations that are similar to the dissociation constant values of antibody-rIL-1 beta binding. Another group of moabs (SILK 7, 11, 20, 21, and 23) also inhibited receptor binding but only at concentrations that are 10-150 times higher than their dissociation constants. A large group of moabs did not affect receptor binding in the concentration range tested, and two moabs enhanced the binding of rIL-1 beta to type I receptors. The result of pepscan analysis shows that the moabs bound to one or more of the amino acid sequences 35-49, 66-85, 78-97, 106-124, and 123-143 of mature rIL-1 beta. Modeling of rIL-1 beta shows that the binding domains of SILK 4, 5, 6, and 22 (sequence 123-143) is located at the closed end of the molecule, indicating that this part of rIL-1 beta harbors domains that are crucial for type I receptor binding. The binding domain of SILK 3 (sequence 66-85) is also located at this end of the molecule. In contrast, the binding domains of SILK 7, 11, 20, 21, and 23 (sequence 78-97) are located at the open end of the molecule, which is at the same face as the amino- and carboxy-terminals. The binding domain of SILK 16 (sequence 106-124) is positioned at the center of the molecule. It is concluded that the closed end of rIL-1 beta contains sequences that are crucial for its binding to type I receptors on murine EL4 cells. Because of the high concentrations of antibodies to residues 78-97 of rIL-1 beta that are needed to interfere with receptor binding, the importance of these domains in binding to type I receptors remains uncertain.
Tiagabine (TGB) hydrochloride is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) that is a potent and specific inhibitor of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) uptake into glial and neuronal elements. In accordance with medical and regulatory standards, the clinical development program for TGB as an AED has assessed the value of TGB in add-on treatment, focusing mainly on partial seizures, including secondarily generalized seizures. Five add-on, placebo-controlled trials and six noncomparative, open-label, long-term multicenter trials have been or are being conducted in Australia, Europe, and the U.S.A. The results of these trials, involving 2,261 patients, indicate that TGB has efficacy as add-on therapy in patients with epilepsy difficult to control with existing AEDs. Efficacy of TGB is also sustained with long-term treatment. A clear dose-response has been demonstrated, and the minimal effective dose level is 30 mg. TGB is also tolerated, and with long-term therapy no new or more severe types of adverse events develop. These studies have included a wide age range of patients, including adolescents and the elderly.
The aim of this study was to examine the neuronographic findings of electrical and transcranial magnetic stimulation of the facial nerve and to compare their ability to predict clinical recovery from idiopathic facial nerve palsy (Bell's palsy). Eighty-six patients were examined clinically and neurophysiologically immediately on presentation to Tampere University Hospital. Electroneuronography (ENoG) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) were performed 1-6 times for each patient. The time interval between each examination varied from 2 to 7 days. Seventy-eight patients were followed for a median period of 13 months after the onset of palsy. Facial nerve function was graded according to the House-Brackmann grading system. Relative amplitude differences of ENoG and TMS during the acute phase were then correlated with clinical outcome. Statistical analysis of the results showed that a TMS response elicitable during the first 5 days of the palsy was correlatable with a good prognosis. ENoG results correlated with clinical outcome at a later time from onset of symptoms. TMS was well tolerated and no adverse effects were seen. These results indicate that TMS is a useful method for the early prediction of outcome in patients with Bell's palsy.
A set of schizophrenic male monozygotic triplets is described. At age 20 years, within 8 months the three men independently developed acute fulminant schizophrenic disorders (DSM-III-R) with auditory hallucinations, bizarre delusions, and thought disturbances. There were also great similarities between the triplets with regard to the chronic intermittent course of the disorder, impairment of social adjustment, and loss of working ability. The psychoses responded rapidly to conventional neuroleptic treatment. Neuropsychological assessment demonstrated similar marked reductions of attentional, mnestic, and executive functions. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed similar borderline ventricular enlargement and widened subarachnoid spaces over frontoparietal and basal regions as well as around the pituitary gland (empty sella). All the boys also had a right-sided hearing defect with a marked reduction of the ossicular bones on the right side. Possible clues as to etiological mechanisms were the lack of reported family history for the disorder and a possible influenza infection in the mother during the first trimester. It is suggested that a DNA aberration being present or occurring at conception initiated a precise time-programmed series of events that produced the very similar schizophrenic phenotypes. Such an aberration might have been induced by an external agent, occurred spontaneously, or been inherited by a recessive mechanism. It seems possible that the psychoses, the reductions of neuropsychological functions, the morphological MRI changes, and the right-sided ossicular reductions may all be related to such a DNA alteration.
Objective parameters are needed to quantify cerebral dysfunction following cardiac surgery in outcome and comparative studies. In this investigation we assessed the value of the late auditory evoked potentials N100 and P300 to measure the neuropsychological deficit after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). N100, an exogenous potential is influenced by the stimulus pattern (frequency, intensity and stimulus presentation rate). P300, an endogenous potential, depends on the cognitive processing invoked by the stimulus. With approval of the Human Investigation Committee and the patients' consents, 52 subjects undergoing elective CABG were enrolled. Operation, extracorporal circulation, anesthesia and postoperative intensive care were standardized. Twenty-channel recordings of N100 and P300 were obtained for off-line analysis. P300 was elicited using an oddball paradigm with rare target tones interspersed among frequent non-target tones. Additionally, neuropsychological tests (syndrome short test SKT and letter cancellation test) were carried out. Neurological examination and all tests were compared preoperatively and one week postoperatively. A significant deterioration in cerebral function was documented by the SKT score (P = 0.04), an increase in P300 latency (P = 0.004) and an increase of mistake rate in counting the P300 target tone (P = 0.02). No differences between preoperative and postoperative testing were found for letter cancellation, P300 amplitude and any N100 parameter. No correlation was found between the preoperative/postoperative changes in SKT score and P300 latency. P300 was proved to be an objective neurophysiological parameter that allows for the quantification of cerebral function after CABG.

Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), a neurodegenerative disease with frontal lobe-like features, shows brain hypometabolism which predominates in frontal cortex, although the most severe histopathological lesions are subcortical. To test the hypothesis of the subcortical origin of the metabolic dysfunction in frontal cortex, we used previously obtained data measured using positron emission tomography (PET) in PSP patients and controls to examine the metabolic links between cortical and subcortical brain regions. We calculated interregional correlations of metabolic values in PSP patients and we compared these values to those obtained in controls. Compared to 20 age-matched controls, the 20 PSP patients studied showed an increase in positive metabolic coupling between frontal and non-frontal cortical regions. There was an abnormal linkage between frontal cortex and thalamus hypometabolism, the latter partly coupled to caudate nucleus hypometabolism. This study suggests a subcortical origin for frontal cortex hypometabolism in which thalamic activity appears to play a pivotal role.
In the CNS of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis, Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-amide (FMRFamide)-like and additional novel neuropeptides are encoded by a common, multi-exon gene. This complex locus, comprising at least five exons, is subject to post-transcriptional regulation at the level of alternative RNA splicing. Our aim was first to analyse the pattern by which exons of this neuropeptide locus combine during splicing of the primary RNA transcript, and second to investigate the functional significance of splicing by mapping the expression and neuronal localization in the CNS of the alternative mRNA transcripts, in the context of defined neuronal networks and single identified neurons. The approach was a combination of comparative in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry, using a battery of exon-specific oligonucleotides and anti-peptide antisera. The analysis illustrated that exons III, IV and V were always coexpressed and colocalized whereas the expression of exon II was always differential and mutually exclusive. Both sets of exons were, however, coexpressed with exon I: the total number of exon I-expressing neurons was equal to the combined number of neurons expressing exon III/IV/V and neurons expressing exon II. In addition, it was revealed that the extreme 5' of exon II, encoding a potential hydrophobic leader signal, was not expressed in the CNS of Lymnaea but was apparently spliced out during RNA processing. Both mRNA transcripts of the FMRFamide locus, type 1 (exons I/II) and type 2 (exons I/III/IV/V), were translated in the CNS and the resulting protein precursors were also expressed in a mutually exclusive fashion, as were their respective transcripts. The expression of alternative transcripts within identified networks or neuronal clusters was heterogeneous, as exemplified by the cardiorespiratory network. On the basis of this work and a previous cDNA analysis, we put forward a revised model of differential splicing and expression of the FMRFamide gene in the CNS of Lymnaea.
We investigated the effect of long-term treatment of essential tremor (ET) with flunarizine (Fz) (10 mg/day) in 17 subjects who had a favorable response to 1 month of treatment. Side effects (dystonia, parkinsonism, weight gain and depression) occurred in 29.4% (5/17) of patients, leading to drug discontinuation. Fz was still effective at the end of 30 months of treatment in 41% (7/17) of patients. Loss of efficacy was observed in 29.4% (5/17) of patients. It is concluded that Fz is an alternative for long-term treatment of patients with ET; however, loss of efficacy and side effects are common.
Plasma and CSF concentrations of methylprednisolone (MP), after a high-dose intravenous administration (1,500 mg) prescribed to patients presenting acute exacerbation of multiple sclerosis, were measured. A plasma pharmacokinetic study with 1 CSF sample was performed in 9 patients and 4 other patients had a single plasma sample at the time of lumbar puncture. MP plasma kinetics were similar between patients. Pharmacokinetic parameters were very close to previous published values obtained in normal volunteers or patients with rheumatoid disease. Passage of MP into the CSF was delayed since mean plasma/CSF ratio dropped dramatically from 150 at the 2nd h to 25 at the 3rd h after starting infusion. CSF concentrations of MP were high with a mean reaching 522 micrograms/l at the 6th h. The high levels of CSF concentrations suggest that MP may have powerful pharmacological effects within the CNS. No correlation was found between CSF concentration and the clinical response to steroid therapy. The issues related to previous data on clinical, biological and radiological effects of high-dose intravenous MP are discussed in the light of our results.
The model of sleep deprivation in rats by the platform method has been extensively studied in our laboratory as a possible animal model of mania. At the end of the period of sleep deprivation, the rat does not fall asleep as soon as it is returned to its home cage, but shows a period of wakefulness of about 30 min, during which the animal presents a cohort of symptoms that appear to mimic those present in idiopathic mania. In particular, during this period the animal displays insomnia, a high degree of hyperactivity, irritability, aggressiveness, hypersexuality and stereotypy. Haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg) was effective in reducing latency to sleep, while L-sulpiride was much weaker (&lt; 50 mg/kg). The dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 exhibited an extremely high potency and efficacy in reducing sleep latency, a significant effect being observed with 3 micrograms/kg. The administration of the specific D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 markedly prolonged the period of insomnia with the correlated behavioral syndrome. When lithium was added to the diet and consumed during the sleep deprivation period in adequate amounts to produce serum lithium levels of 0.7-1.0 mEq/l, sleep latency and locomotor activity were significantly reduced. The administration of naloxone (1-10 mg/kg) reduced the latency to sleep in a dose-related manner. By contrast, morphine (1 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.), beta-endorphin and [D-Ala2,D-Leu5]enkephalin (i.c.v., 2 and 1 micrograms, respectively) markedly prolonged the insomnia. The model not only represents a confirmation in the rat that sleep loss often precedes and may trigger a manic episode in man, but suggests that an opioid-dopamine interaction may play a pathogenetic role in mania.
Among the brain imaging techniques developed during the past two decades positron emission tomography has the highest sensitivity, allowing the analysis of specific neurotransmitter mechanisms in the living human brain. By using a combination of selective ligands labelled with positron emitting isotopes, D1 and D2 dopamine, serotonin 5HT2 and benzodiazepine receptors were examined in schizophrenic patients (DSM-IIIR) and healthy control subjects. With this technique receptor populations could be excellently visualized and quantified with regard to number and binding characteristics in several brain regions. The characteristics of total D1 and D2 dopamine receptor populations in the caudate and putamen did not differ significantly in young drug naive schizophrenic patients and age matched control subjects. On the other hand, there was a highly significant reduction of the D1 signal in high intensity regions of the basal ganglia when [11C]SCH 23390, a selective D1 dopamine receptor antagonist, was used. These results suggest the possibility of a reduced D1 dopamine receptor density in the patch compartment of the basal ganglia in schizophrenia. For 5HT2 and benzodiazepine receptors no major alteration of receptor characteristics was observed in several neocortical and limbic brain regions.
An extracellular microstimulation technique has been used to investigate and compare the properties of group I primary afferent myelinated fibres in the dorsal column and group Ia unmyelinated terminations in the lumbar spinal cord of cats anaesthetised with pentobarbitone sodium. Fibres were distinguished from terminations on the basis of location, anodic blocking factor and sensitivity to GABAA mimetics. The recovery curves of threshold following an orthodromic impulse provided an estimate of both action potential duration and rate of repolarization. The action potentials of group Ia terminations were of briefer duration (by a factor of approximately 2) with more rapid rates of repolarization (factor of approximately 3) than those of the myelinated fibres. The prolongation of termination but not fibre action potentials by microelectrophoretic tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine indicated the presence of voltage-activated potassium channels in the termination membrane. Differences in the effects on Ia termination action potentials of depolarizations (reductions in threshold) associated with a preceding action potential, synaptically released GABA, microelectrophoretic piperidine-4-sulphonic acid or DL-homocysteic acid suggest that an increase in termination membrane conductance is the major factor in the reduction of transmitter release during the activation of presynaptic GABAA receptors.
Stabilogram-diffusion analysis was used to examine how prolonged periods in microgravity affect the open-loop and closed-loop postural control mechanisms. It was hypothesized that following spaceflight: (1) the effective stochastic activity of the open-loop postural control schemes in astronauts is increased; (2) the effective stochastic activity and uncorrelated behavior, respectively, of the closed-loop postural control mechanisms in astronauts are increased; and (3) astronauts utilized open-loop postural controls schemes for shorter time intervals and smaller displacements. Four crew members and two alternates from the 14-day Spacelab Life Sciences 2 Mission were included in the study. Each subject was tested under eyes-open, quiet-standing conditions on multiple preflight and postflight days. The subjects' center-of-pressure trajectories were measured with a force platform and analyzed according to stabilogram-diffusion analysis. It was found that the effective stochastic activity of the open-loop postural control schemes in three of the four crew members was increased following spaceflight. This result is interpreted as an indication that there may be in-flight adaptations to higher-level descending postural control pathways, e.g., a postflight increase in the tonic activation of postural muscles. This change may also be the consequence of a compensatory (e.g., &quot;stiffening&quot;) postural control strategy that is adopted by astronauts to account for general feeling of postflight unsteadiness. The crew members, as a group, did not exhibit any consistent preflight/postflight differences in the steady-state behavior of their closed-loop postural control mechanisms or in the functional interaction of their open-loop and closed-loop postural control mechanisms. These results are interpreted as indications that although there may be in-flight adaptations to the vestibular system and/or proprioceptive system, input from the visual system can compensate for such changes during undisturbed stance.
Using electrophysiological techniques in the in vitro rat auditory cortex, we have examined how spontaneous acetylcholine (ACh) release modifies synaptic potentials mediated by glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Single stimulus pulses to lower layer VI elicited in layer III a four-component (A-D) extracellular field response involving synaptic potentials mediated by glutamate and GABA. The cholinesterases inhibitor eserine (10-20 microM) or the cholinergic agonist carbachol (25-50 microM) depressed by 10-50% the glutamatergic components A and C, and the GABAergic components B and D. Atropine reversed the depressive effects of eserine and carbachol. A novel finding was that the degree of depression of component A varied inversely with stimulus intensity. However, during partial pharmacological antagonism of GABAA receptors, depression of A varied directly, not inversely, with stimulus intensity. Normally, then, depression of A is offset by reduced GABAergic inhibition of A. We also tested for differential depression of responses mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) versus non-NMDA glutamate receptors. Following physiological and pharmacological isolation of the responses, eserine depressed the non-NMDA, but not the NMDA, receptor-mediated potential. Since the isolated NMDA potential still could be depressed by carbachol, the data suggested that activation of NMDA receptors may reduce spontaneous ACh release. In support of this, preincubation of slices in NMDA (10-20 microM) largely prevented eserine's, but not carbachol's, depression of components A and B. These results permit three conclusions of relevance to cortical information processing: (1) spontaneous ACh release tonically depresses synaptic potentials mediated by glutamate and GABA; (2) ACh depresses responses to weak inputs to a greater degree than responses to strong inputs: (3) activation of NMDA receptors may &quot;feedback&quot; to reduce ACh release, a mechanism that could place regulation of local ACh release under glutamatergic afferent control.
The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of chronic activation of dopamine D2 receptors on the development of grafted fetal rat mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. Therefore, unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine - lesioned rats received intrastriatal mesencephalic cell suspension grafts and were subsequently chronically treated with the selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist LY 171555 (Quinpirole). After treatment for 6 consecutive weeks, the rats were processed for tyrosine-hydroxylase immunocytochemistry to assess the survival and outgrowth from grafted dopaminergic neurons. morphological analysis revealed that, like the volume and morphology of the graft, neither the number nor the cell area of grafted dopaminergic neurons was significantly different between vehicle- and LY 171555-treated animals. To obtain a quantitative estimate of the graft-derived dopaminergic reinnervation, a computerized image analysis system was used. Using this procedure, which was based on the densitometric measurement of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the area adjacent to the grafted tissue, it was found that the extent of graft-derived outgrowth also appeared to be unaffected upon chronic treatment with LY 171555. It is concluded that long-term concurrent administration of a dopamine D2 receptor agonist for 6 consecutive weeks does not impair the survival and outgrowth of grafted rat fetal mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons.
Event-related potentials were recorded in a reaction time (RT) paradigm, where the duration of a learned interval (either 0.7 s or 2.5 s) delimited by two brief button-presses was to be accurately controlled. A preparatory signal (PS) either did not give or gave prior information concerning the duration of the following response (neutral condition or primed conditions, respectively). In the latter case, the information was either validated (valid condition) or invalidated (invalid condition) by the response signal (RS). When duration was not known in advance (invalid and neutral conditions), RTs were longer before a response of short than long duration. This difference was not found under the valid condition. During the preparatory period (PP), the amplitude of the contingent negative variation (CNV) was larger when the duration was primed than when it was not. A larger CNV appeared when the PS primed a short rather than a long duration. This effect occurred in the early part of the PP over the supplementary motor area (SMA) and in its latest part over the primary motor area (MI). The RT and the electrophysiological pattern were interpreted as revealing the occurrence of programming operations regarding the temporal dimension of the response. The time course of the CNV over the SMA and MI suggested that these two areas were hierarchically organized. Between the RS and the onset of the response, differences probably related to programming effects were still found over MI: the activities were larger under the valid than under the neutral condition. However, no sign of deprogramming (expected in the invalid condition) was observed: similar amplitudes were found under the neutral and invalid conditions. Deprogramming operations seemed to be postponed during response execution where the invalid condition evoked larger activities than the two other conditions over the SMA. Finally, MI but not the SMA yielded a Bereitschaftpotential before the second press ending the response (i.e., during response execution). These results suggest that the duration of a motor response can be a part of the motor program and that the SMA plays a major role in programming processes but not in response execution, contrary to MI.
Model simulations of the squirrel monkey vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) are presented for two motion paradigms: constant velocity eccentric rotation and roll tilt about a naso-occipital axis. The model represents the implementation of three hypotheses: the &quot;internal model&quot; hypothesis, the &quot;gravito-inertial force (GIF) resolution&quot; hypothesis, and the &quot;compensatory VOR&quot; hypothesis. The internal model hypothesis is based on the idea that the nervous system knows the dynamics of the sensory systems and implements this knowledge as an internal dynamic model. The GIF resolution hypothesis is based on the idea that the nervous system knows that gravity minus linear acceleration equals GIF and implements this knowledge by resolving the otolith measurement of GIF into central estimates of gravity and linear acceleration, such that the central estimate of gravity minus the central estimate of acceleration equals the otolith measurement of GIF. The compensatory VOR hypothesis is based on the idea that the VOR compensates for the central estimates of angular velocity and linear velocity, which sum in a near-linear manner. During constant velocity eccentric rotation, the model correctly predicts that: (1) the peak horizontal response is greater while &quot;facing-motion&quot; than with &quot;back-to-motion&quot;; (2) the axis of eye rotation shifts toward alignment with GIF; and (3) a continuous vertical response, slow phase downward, exists prior to deceleration. The model also correctly predicts that a torsional response during the roll rotation is the only velocity response observed during roll rotations about a naso-occipital axis. The success of this model in predicting the observed experimental responses suggests that the model captures the essence of the complex sensory interactions engendered by eccentric rotation and roll tilt.
The vestibulo-ocular reflexes (VOR) are determined not only by angular acceleration, but also by the presence of gravity and linear acceleration. This phenomenon was studied by measuring three-dimensional nystagmic eye movements, with implanted search coils, in six male squirrel monkeys during eccentric rotation. Monkeys were rotated in the dark at a constant velocity of 200 degrees/s (centrally or 79 cm off axis) with the axis of rotation always aligned with gravity and the spinal axis of the upright monkeys. The monkey's orientation (facing-motion or back-to-motion) had a dramatic influence on the VOR. These experiments show that: (a) the axis of eye rotation always shifted toward alignment with gravito-inertial force; (b) the peak value of horizontal slow phase eye velocity was greater with the monkey facing-motion than with back-to-motion; and (c) the time constant of horizontal eye movement decay was smaller with the monkey facing-motion than with back-to-motion. All of these findings were statistically significant and consistent across monkeys. In another set of tests, the same monkeys were rapidly tilted about their naso-occipital (roll) axis. Tilted orientations of 45 degrees and 90 degrees were maintained for 1 min. Other than a compensatory angular VOR during the angular rotation, no consistent eye velocity response was observed during or following the tilt for any of the six monkeys. The absence of any eye movement response following tilt weighs against the possibility that translational linear VOR responses are due to simple high-pass filtering of the otolith signals. The VOR response during eccentric rotation was divided into the more familiar angular VOR and linear VOR components. The angular component is known to depend upon semicircular canal dynamics and central influences. The linear component of the response decays rapidly with a mean duration of only 6.6 s, while the axis of eye rotation rapidly aligns (&lt; 10 s) with gravito-inertial force. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the measurement of gravito-inertial force by the otolith organs is resolved into central estimates of linear acceleration and gravity, such that the central estimate of gravitational force minus the central estimate of linear acceleration approximately equals the otolith measurement of gravito-inertial force.
Haptic information is critically important in complex sensory-motor tasks such as manipulating objects. Its comparable importance in spatial orientation is only beginning to be recognized. We have shown that postural sway in humans is significantly reduced by lightly touching a stable surface with a fingertip at contact force levels far below those physically necessary to stabilize the body. To investigate further the functional relationship between contact forces at the hand and postural equilibrium, we had subjects stand in the tandem Romberg stance while being allowed physically supportive (force contact) and non-physically supportive (touch contact) amounts of index fingertip force on surfaces with different frictional characteristics. Mean sway amplitude (MSA) was reduced by over 50% with both touch and force contact of the fingertip, compared to standing without fingertip contact. No differences in MSA were observed when touching rough or slippery surfaces. The amplitude of EMG activity in the peroneal muscles and the timing relationships between fingertip forces, body sway and EMG activity suggested that with touch contact of the finger or with force contact on a slippery surface long-loop &quot;reflexes&quot; involving postural muscles were stabilizing sway. With force contact of the fingertip on a rough surface, MSA reduction was achieved primarily through physical support of the body. This pattern of results indicates that light touch contact cues from the fingertip in conjunction with proprioceptive signals about arm configuration are providing information about body sway that can be used to reduce MSA through postural muscle activation.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, promotes the survival, morphological differentiation, and high-affinity dopamine (DA) uptake of cultured nigral DA neurons. In order to test potential methodology for peptide delivery in vivo, GDNF-containing fibrin glue balls (8 micrograms/ball) were incorporated with pieces of fetal ventral mesencephalon (E15) and transplanted into the anterior chambers of sympathetically denervated adult rats. Five weeks after grafting, the numbers of TH-positive neurons and the nerve fiber density were significantly higher in the ventral mesencephalic grafts treated with GDNF-containing glue balls than in those treated with vehicle. In addition, the laminin and GFAP immunoreactivities were similar between the two groups. These data support the concept that GDNF is a potent trophic factor for DA neurons in vivo and suggest that fibrin glue may provide a unique and safe means to permit prolonged delivery of trophic molecules to CNS tissues.
We studied the relations between arm posture and hand location as monkeys performed tasks involving three-dimensional arm movements. Two specific questions were addressed: how reliable are these relations from trial to trial and from day to day, and are the arm postures dictated only by the location of the hand or are the postures also dependent on the task being performed? Based on the variable errors in linear regressions, we found that monkeys performed the tasks in a very stereotypic fashion from trial-to-trial: for a given monkey and task, knowing the position of the hand was sufficient to determine the posture of the arm. These relations did not change from day to day; the relation between hand location and posture was stable over the course of the experiments. In some of the tasks, the postures employed by the monkeys were strikingly similar to those observed in human psychophysical studies. The relations between hand location and arm posture exhibited a large degree of task dependence. Changing the required orientation of the hand resulted in changes in the arm posture.
Group I afferents in nerves innervating the lateral gastrocnemius-soleus (LG-Sol), plantaris (Pl), and vastus lateralis/intermedius (VL/VI) muscles were stimulated during walking in decerebrate cats. The stimulus trains were triggered at a fixed delay following the onset of bursts in the medial gastrocnemius muscle. Stimulation of all three nerves with long stimulus trains (&gt; 600 ms) prolonged the extensor bursts and delayed the onset of flexor burst activity. LG-Sol nerve stimulation had the strongest effect; often delaying the onset of flex- or burst activity until the stimulus train was ended. By contrast, flexor bursts were usually initiated before the end of the stimulus train to the Pl and VL/VI nerves. The minimum stimulus strength required to increase the cycle period was between 1.3 x threshold and 1.6 x threshold for all three nerves. Simultaneous stimulation of the Pl and VL/VI nerves produced a larger effect on the cycle period than stimulation of either nerve alone. The spatial summation of inputs from knee and ankle muscles suggests that the excitatory action of the group I afferents during the stance phase is distributed to all leg extensor muscles. Stimulation of the group I afferents in extensor nerves generally produced an increase in the amplitude of the heteronymous extensor EMG towards the end of the stance phase. This increase in amplitude occurred even though there were only weak monosynaptic connections between the stimulated afferents and the motoneurones that innervated these heteronymous muscles. This suggests that the excitation was produced via oligosynaptic projections onto the extensor motoneuronal pool. Stimulation with 300 ms trains during the early part of flexion resulted in abrupt termination of the swing phase and reinitiation of the stance phase of the step cycle. The swing phase resumed coincidently with the stimulus offset. Usually, stimulation of two extensor nerves at group I strengths was required to elicit this effect. We were unable to establish the relative contributions of input from the group Ia and group Ib afferents to prolonging the stance phase. However, we consider it likely that group Ib afferents contribute significantly, since their activation has been shown to prolong extensor burst activity in reduced spinal preparations. Thus, our results add support to the hypothesis that unloading of the hindlimb during late stance is a necessary condition for the initiation of the swing phase in walking animals.
This paper reports two experiments which examined the effects of Parkinson's disease (PD) upon the sensorimotor mechanisms used to control prehension movements. Transport and grasp kinematics for visually-guided and memory-guided prehension movements were examined in healthy control subjects and compared against those of patients with idiopathic PD. Two research questions were addressed: (1) Are patients with PD particularly susceptible to distraction by non-relevant objects? (2) Are patients with PD especially reliant on external feedback when executing goal-directed actions? The results indicated that the patient group were no more susceptible to distraction by non-relevant objects than the control group. In contrast, the patients with PD were shown to be significantly impaired when executing memory-guided reaches. Furthermore, the deficits exhibited by the PD group on memory-guided reaches were confined solely to those markers associated with the transport component of the prehension movement. That is, while both controls and patients with PD widened their grip aperture on memory-guided trials, the magnitude of this adjustment was comparable across the two groups. The implications of these findings for theories of visuomotor processing in sufferers of PD and the control of prehension movements more generally are discussed.
The purpose of this study was to determine the contribution of visual, vestibular, and somatosensory cues to the maintenance of stance in humans. Postural sway was induced by full-field, sinusoidal visual surround rotations about an axis at the level of the ankle joints. The influences of vestibular and somatosensory cues were characterized by comparing postural sway in normal and bilateral vestibular absent subjects in conditions that provided either accurate or inaccurate somatosensory orientation information. In normal subjects, the amplitude of visually induced sway reached a saturation level as stimulus amplitude increased. The saturation amplitude decreased with increasing stimulus frequency. No saturation phenomena were observed in subjects with vestibular loss, implying that vestibular cues were responsible for the saturation phenomenon. For visually induced sways below the saturation level, the stimulus-response curves for both normal subjects and subjects experiencing vestibular loss were nearly identical, implying (1) that normal subjects were not using vestibular information to attenuate their visually induced sway, possibly because sway was below a vestibular-related threshold level, and (2) that subjects with vestibular loss did not utilize visual cues to a greater extent than normal subjects; that is, a fundamental change in visual system &quot;gain&quot; was not used to compensate for a vestibular deficit. An unexpected finding was that the amplitude of body sway induced by visual surround motion could be almost 3 times greater than the amplitude of the visual stimulus in normal subjects and subjects with vestibular loss. This occurred in conditions where somatosensory cues were inaccurate and at low stimulus amplitudes. A control system model of visually induced postural sway was developed to explain this finding. For both subject groups, the amplitude of visually induced sway was smaller by a factor of about 4 in tests where somatosensory cues provided accurate versus inaccurate orientation information. This implied (1) that the subjects experiencing vestibular loss did not utilize somatosensory cues to a greater extent than normal subjects; that is, changes in somatosensory system &quot;gain&quot; were not used to compensate for a vestibular deficit, and (2) that the threshold for the use of vestibular cues in normal subjects was apparently lower in test conditions where somatosensory cues were providing accurate orientation information.
Rat lumbar dorsal root ganglion neurones projecting to the nucleus gracilis in the brainstem were retrogradely labelled with Fluoro-Gold and analysed immunocytochemically for their expression of substance P-, calcitonin gene-related peptide-, galanin-, galanin message-associated peptide-, neuropeptide Y-, nitric oxide synthase- and carbonic anhydrase-like immunoreactivity as well as affinity to Griffonia (bandeiraea) simplicifolia lectin I--isolectin B4, RT97 and to choleragenoid. The analysis was made both in uninjured rats and in rats which had been subjected to unilateral sciatic nerve transection and partial resection 3 weeks earlier. The data showed that 6% of the L4 and L5 lumbar dorsal root ganglion cells that projected to the nucleus gracilis showed substance P-like immunoreactivity. Following nerve injury, none of the nucleus gracilis-projecting dorsal root ganglion cells showed substance P-like immunoreactivity. Nineteen per cent of the investigated cell population showed calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in uninjured rats, but no nucleus gracilis-projecting calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive cells were found after nerve injury. Galanin- and galanin message-associated peptide-like immunoreactivity were found in 2% and 3%, respectively, of the Fluoro-Gold-labelled cell population normally and in 22% and 14%, respectively, after injury. No neuropeptide Y-positive cells were found in the Fluoro-Gold-labelled cell population normally, but after nerve injury, 96% of this population became neuropeptide Y-positive. Nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity was found in 2% of the Fluoro-Gold-labelled cells normally and in 10% after injury. Two per cent of the Fluoro-Gold-labelled cells in the normal cases were stained by Griffonia (bandeiraea) simplicifolia lectin I--isolectin B4. After injury, however, no such double labelling was found. Thirty-four per cent of the Fluoro-Gold-labelled cell population was carbonic anhydrase positive normally, and 42% after injury. Seventy-five per cent of the Fluoro-Gold-labelled cells showed RT97 immunoreactivity normally and 12% after injury. Choleragenoid-like immunoreactivity was found in 99% of the Fluoro-Gold-labelled dorsal root ganglion cells normally and 81% after injury. Immunohistochemical visualisation of choleragenoid transganglionically transported from the injured sciatic nerve combined with neuropeptide Y immunocytochemistry showed that primary afferent fibres and terminals in the nucleus gracilis contain neuropeptide Y following peripheral nerve transection. Taken together, the results indicate that peripherally axotomised nucleus gracilis-projecting neurones undergo marked alterations in their cytochemical characteristics, which may be significant for the structural and functional plasticity of this system after injury.
The present study was designed to determine the relative contribution of the gastrocnemius muscle to isometric plantar flexor torque production at varying knee angles, while investigating the activation of the gastrocnemius muscle at standardised non-optimal lengths. Voluntary plantar flexor torque, supramaximally stimulated twitch torque and myoelectric activity (EMG) from the triceps surae were measured at different knee angles. Surface and intra-muscular EMG were recorded from the soleus muscle and the medial and lateral heads of the gastrocnemius muscle in 10 male subjects. With the ankle angle held constant, knee angle was changed in steps of 30 degrees ranging from 180 degrees (extended) to 60 degrees (extreme flexion), while voluntary torque from a 5-s contraction was determined at 10 different levels of voluntary effort, ranging from 10% of maximal effort to maximal effort. To assess effort, supramaximal twitches were superimposed on all voluntary contractions, and additionally during rest. Maximal plantar flexor torque and resting twitch torque decreased significantly in a sigmoidal fashion with increasing knee flexion to 60% of the maximum torque at 180 degrees knee angle. For similar levels of voluntary effort, the EMG root mean square (RMS) of gastrocnemius was less with increased knee flexion, whereas soleus RMS remained unchanged. From these data, it is concluded that the contribution of gastrocnemius to plantar flexor torque is at least 40% of the total torque in the straight leg position. The decrease of gastrocnemius EMG RMS with decreasing muscle length may be brought about by a decrease in the number of fibres within the EMG electrode recording volume and/or impaired neuromuscular transmission.
Macaque monkeys were trained to determine whether shapes or colors of two visual stimuli were the same or different (matched/non-matched). Two stimuli were presented at different locations while the monkey fixated a small spot. In one paradigm, two timuli were presented simultaneously for 0.5 s (Sml-SO task). In the other paradigm, one of the stimuli was turned on 0.5 s before the onset of another stimulus, then the two stimuli were present for the following 0.5 s (Scc-SO task). The aim of the later task was to analyze the responses of TE neurons to a single presentation of each stimulus and the effects of successive onsets of two stimuli. Of 232 responsive neurons tested in both tasks, 143 showed a significant selectivity between paired stimuli (termed 'selective neurons'). During the Sml-SO task, some selective neurons showed a larger response to the different (non-matched) stimuli than to the double optimal stimuli (matched), even though one of the different stimuli was inhibitory. This effect was more prominent in neurons that showed a smaller response to the double presentations of the optimal stimulus than to the single presentation. Since another group of selective neurons showed smaller responses for the different stimuli, the average response amplitudes were similar between the identical and the different stimuli. During the Scc-SO task, when the optimal stimulus was turned on after the non-optimal stimulus (non-matched), the response to the second stimulus was mostly enhanced above the response level to the single presentation of the first stimulus. Since the responses to the second stimulus identical to the first stimulus tended to decrease, the difference in the responses between the matched and non-matched stimuli became significantly larger in the Scc-SO task. The reaction times of the monkeys were shorter during the Scc-SO task than the Sml-SO task. These changes in response amplitude between the different and the identical stimuli were not prominent in the non-selective neurons. These results suggest that non-linear interactions between two different stimuli play an important role in the discrimination of groups of visual stimuli, particularly in successive analysis.
Ca2+ influx triggered by antigen binding to T cell receptors (TCR) is an early event in T cell activation. An additional Ca2+ influx induced by depletion of intracellular Ca2+ (CDCI) has been characterized in human Jurkat T cells that is both temporally and mechanistically distinct from TCR-mediated Ca2+ influx (TCRCI). Both TCRCI and CDCI were insensitive to voltage-gated Ca2+ channel antagonists (e.g., nifedipine, verapamil, and omega-conotoxin G) and pertussis toxin, yet were voltage-sensitive and inhibited by SKF 96365 (a receptor-gated Ca2+ channel blocker) and cholera toxin. However, TCRCI but not CDCI was associated with a significant increase in inositol phosphate (IP chi) levels and inhibited by phorbol ester, while CDCI but not TCRCI was inhibited by Sr2+, forskolin (FSK), and 1,9-dideoxy FSK in a cAMP-independent fashion. Moreover, TCR stimulation did not deplete thapsigargin-sensitive Ca2+ stores, suggesting that TCRCI is not merely a consequence of Ca2+ depletion. These results indicate that Ca2+ entry following the depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores or TCR stimulation occur through distinct cellular mechanisms coexisting in Jurkat T cells.
The aim of the study was to describe the Greenwich Grading System, a simple method developed for assessing the value of a clinical investigation, and to investigate its application to electrodiagnostic testing (EDT) in ophthalmology patients. This was done by means of a retrospective case analysis carried out on 95 unselected, consecutive patients referred from a district ophthalmology department for electrophysiological investigation at a regional neurosciences centre. The classification was developed to quantify the effect of EDT on the diagnosis, investigation and treatment in each case. From this, an overall value of EDT in management could be assessed for different groups of patients. It was found that the classification was easy to apply and analyse. EDT was valuable in 80% of patients referred, and was classified as essential or important in 53 (56%) patients. In no patient did EDT adversely affect the clinical outcome. The diagnosis was changed in 7 (7%) patients, and made in 5 (5%). Diagnostic certainty was increased in a further 62 (65%) patients. Other investigations were avoided by performing electrophysiology in 28 (29%) cases. Treatment was initiated in 6 (6%) cases and altered in 8 (8%). It is concluded that the Greenwich Grading System, as applied to EDT in ophthalmology, demonstrated the value of electrophysiological investigation in ophthalmology patients and identified the patient groups which benefit most from testing.
Recent work in our laboratory has revealed that enucleated patients produce large lateral and vertical head movements during visually guided grasping. These movements may allow them to maximise the use of retinal motion cues in planning and controlling their grasp. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the tendency to produce these adaptive head movements increases as a function of time since enucleation. We tested a group of 12 enucleated patients in whom the time between surgery and testing varied from 2 weeks to 35 years (mean = 11.2 years). These patients were required to reach out and grasp oblong blocks of different sizes at different distances. Correlational tests revealed an increase in the proportion of self-generated lateral and vertical head movements versus forward head movements as a function of post-enucleation time (r(s)(12) = 0.68, p &lt; 0.025 and r(s)(12) = 0.65, p &lt; 0.025, respectively). This suggests that enucleated patients may be adapting to living with one eye by learning to increase the proportion of their lateral and vertical head movements during the performance of skilled motor acts.

Transport proteins have essential functions in the uptake of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. We have mapped the gene encoding the taurine transporter, Taut, to the central region of mouse chromosome 6. Analysis of a cross segregating the neurological mutant mnd2 excluded Taut as a candidate gene for this closely linked mutation. To map the human taurine transporter gene, TAUT, a sequence-tagged site (STS) corresponding to the 3' untranslated region of the human cDNA was developed. TAUT was assigned to human chromosome 3 by typing this STS on a panel of somatic cell hybrids. Further analysis of a hybrid panel containing defined deletions of chromosome 3 suggested that TAUT maps to 3p21-p25. These data extend a conserved linkage group on mouse chromosome 6 and human chromosome 3p. Deletion of TAUT might contribute to some phenotypic features of the 3p- syndrome.
We isolated cDNA clones from Xenopus larvae, which encode a protein highly homologous to the mammalian beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), and analyzed developmental change of Xenopus APP gene expression. The maternal APP mRNA is accumulated from early oogenesis, but after fertilization, this mRNA is degraded reaching a minimum level around the gastrula stage. Zygotic transcription appears to start after the gastrula stage and to continue during subsequent embryonic and larval stages. These results suggest some fundamental roles of the APP molecule in Xenopus early development.
Dissociated hippocampal and cerebral cortical neurons from rat embryonic brain form many synapses in culture. The neuronal networks in culture fire spontaneously in synchronous oscillation and can be maintained for long periods of up to 6 months. To establish the relevance of this long-term culture to aging and neurodegenerative diseases, effects of long-term exposure to aluminum, a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, on the cultured cortical neurons were investigated. It appeared that aluminium promoted the aggregation of amyloid beta-protein and enhanced its neurotoxicity.
Serum relaxin levels were analysed in 12 healthy women every other day during the menstrual cycle and during a second cycle on oral contraceptives. Relaxin levels in 7 women with posterior pelvic and lumbar pain were also measured. Relaxin was detected during both the follicular and luteal phases of the menstrual cycle in some of the healthy women. Serum levels were further increased during the use of oral contraceptives. Oestradiol levels in the untreated women correlated to the relaxin levels. Women with posterior pelvic and lumbar pain had higher relaxin levels than did healthy women, a finding that needs to be further explored. Our data indicate the existence of sources for relaxin production other than the corpus luteum in the non-pregnant woman. Endogenous and exogenous oestrogens may stimulate the production of relaxin.
Immunocytochemical techniques were employed in order to examine the distribution and relative intensity of the AMPA receptor subunits GluR1 and GluR2/3 within the hippocampal formation of normal controls and Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases. Throughout our investigation we examined cases exhibiting a wide range of pathologic severity, thus allowing us to correlate our immunohistochemical data with the extent of pathology. Specifically, we investigated the distribution of these receptor subunits in hippocampal sectors that are particularly vulnerable to AD pathology (i.e., CA1 and subiculum) and compared these findings with those obtained following examination of sectors that are generally resistant to pathologic change (i.e., CA2/3, dentate gyrus). Within vulnerable sectors we observed a variable loss of GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunolabeling. The degree to which these proteins were reduced appeared to correlate with the extent of neurofibrillary pathology and cell loss. Despite the loss of labeled cells, the intensity of immunolabeling within the remaining neurons was comparable with, and in many instances even greater than, that observed in control cases. Within resistant sectors, the distribution of immunoreactive elements was comparable in both case groups yet the intensity of immunolabeling was markedly increased in AD cases, particularly in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and in the stratum lucidum of CA3 (i.e., the termination zones of perforant pathway and mossy fibers). In addition, within AD cases dramatic increases were observed within the supragranular and polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus (i.e., the terminal zones of sprouting mossy fiber collaterals). The increase in GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunolabeling is hypothesized to occur in response to the deafferentation of selected glutamatergic pathways. Moreover, our data support that hippocampal plasticity is preserved, even in severe AD cases, and suggest a critical role for AMPA receptor subunits in this plasticity and in maintaining hippocampal functioning.
In the present report, we describe a morphological and quantitative analysis of subicular synapses in layer V of the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEA) of the rat. Projections from the dorsal subiculum were labeled anterogradely, and areas in LEA showing high terminal density were randomly selected for ultrathin sectioning. More than 400 terminals in LEA were photographed in the electron microscope, and synapse types and postsynaptic targets were identified and, subsequently, quantified with the unbiased disector method. Most subicular terminals appeared to form asymmetrical synapses. A majority of asymmetrical synapses terminated on spines (67.5%), whereas a smaller fraction of asymmetrical synapses (23.5%) terminated on dendritic shafts. A small fraction of the terminals (7%) had symmetrical features. These symmetrical synapses had an almost equal percentage of spines and dendritic shafts as postsynaptic elements. Labeled synapses on somata or axons were never observed. The findings of this study in conjunction with relevant electrophysiological observations (Jones [1987] Neurosci Left 81:209-214) leads to the conclusion that the subiculo-entorhinal pathway comprises a large excitatory and a smaller inhibitory projection, both making synaptic contacts with presumed principal neurons and interneurons in the entorhinal cortex.

Normal rats rapidly acquire and remember associations between nonspatial stimuli as expressed in the social transmission of food preferences. In the present study, rats with selective neurotoxic lesions including all subdivisions of the hippocampal region (hippocampus proper, dentate gyrus, and subiculum) normally acquired and briefly retained the food odor association as demonstrated by intact memory immediately after social training. However, long-term memory in these animals was severely impaired in contrast to strong 24-h retention by intact rats. More selective lesions to the hippocampus proper plus dentate gyrus alone, or the subiculum alone had no effect on memory at either test interval. These findings indicate that the hippocampal region is required for long-term retention of a nonspatial form of natural memory.
The cellular-synaptic generation of rhythmic slow activity (RSA or theta) in the hippocampus has been investigated by intracellular recording from principal cells and basket cells in anesthetized rats. In addition, the voltage-, coherence-, and phase versus depth profiles were examined by simultaneously recording field activity at 16 sites in the intact rat, during urethane anesthesia, and after bilateral entorhinal cortex lesion. In the extracellular experiments the large peak of theta at the hippocampal fissure was attenuated by urethane anesthesia and abolished by entorhinal cortex lesion. The phase versus depth profiles were similar during urethane anesthesia and following entorhinal cortex lesion but distinctly different in the intact, awake rat. These observations suggest that dendritic currents underlying theta in the awake rat may not be revealed under urethane anesthesia. The frequency of theta-related membrane potential oscillation was voltage-independent in pyramidal neurons, granule cells, and basket cells. On the other hand, the phase and amplitude of intracellular theta were voltage-dependent in all three cell types with an almost complete phase reversal at chloride equilibrium potential in pyramidal cells and basket cells. At strong depolarization levels (less than 30 mV) pyramidal cells emitted calcium spike oscillations, phase-locked to theta. Basket cells possessed the most regular membrane oscillations of the three cell types. All neurons of this study were verified by intracellular injection of biocytin. The observations provide direct evidence that theta-related rhythmic hyper-polarization of principal cells is brought about by the rhythmically discharging basket neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We investigated the functional and behavioral implications of chronic corticosteroid removal in young and middle-aged rats. Prepubertal and 13-month-old rats were adrenalectomized (ADX) or sham operated (SHAM). The young ADX rats were divided further into three groups: ADX with no hormone replacement, ADX given corticosterone chronically, (chCORT), and ADX given corticosterone acutely at the time of Morris water maze testing (acCORT). All rats were run on the Morris water maze 12 weeks after surgery. They were then sacrificed and the brains were removed for histological analysis. The results showed that prolonged corticosteroid absence caused major damage to the dentate gyrus and learning impairment on the Morris water maze. The chCORT rats had little dentate gyrus cell loss and were as efficient as the controls in Morris water maze performance, whereas the acCORT rats had dentate gyrus cell loss and were impaired in the spatial acquisition task. Furthermore, exogenously administered corticosterone had an interactive effect on ADX rats. Water maze performance was improved in dentate gyrus damaged rats (acCORT) compared to ADX rats not given corticosterone, whereas ADX rats with very little dentate gyrus damage (chCORT) did not exhibit better water maze performance relative to controls. Middle-aged ADX rats lost cells only in the dorsal blade of the dentate gyrus but they did not show a learning impairment in the Morris water maze relative to the middle-aged controls. These results indicate that corticosteroids are trophic for the dentate gyrus, that mature granule cells are less affected by adrenalectomy, that corticosteroid absence is responsible for some water maze impairment in ADX rats, but that in addition to corticosteroid absence, a substantial amount of dentate gyrus damage is necessary to impair spatial learning.


The various hypothalamic nuclei show very different patterns of change in ageing. These patterns are a basis for changes in biological rhythms, hormones, autonomous functions or behavior. The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) coordinates circadian and circannual rhythms. A marked seasonal and circadian variation in the vasopressin (AVP) cell number of the SCN was observed in relation to the variation in photoperiod. During normal ageing, the circadian variation and number of AVP-expressing neurons in the SCN decreases. The sexually dimorphic nucleus (SDN), intermediate nucleus or INAH-1 is localized between the supraoptic and paraventricular nucleus (PVN). In adult men the SDN is twice as large as in adult women. In girls, the SDN shows a first period of decreasing cell numbers during prepubertal development, leading to sexual dimorphism. During ageing a decrease in cell number is found in both sexes. The cells of the supraoptic nucleus and PVN produce AVP or oxytocin and coexpress tyrosine hydroxylase. These nuclei are examples of neuron populations that seem to stay perfectly intact in ageing. Parvicellular corticotropin-releasing-hormone (CRH)-containing neurons are found throughout the PVN. CRH neurons in the PVN are activated in the course of ageing, as indicated by their increase in number and AVP coexpression. Part of the infundibular (or arcuate) nucleus, the subventricular nucleus, contains hypertrophic neurons in postmenopausal women. The hypertrophied neurons contain neurokinin-B (NKB), substance P and estrogen receptors and probably act on LHRH neurons as interneurons. The NKB neurons may also be involved in the initiation of menopausal flushes. The nucleus tuberalis lateralis might be involved in feeding behavior and metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs) are classified into a few groups, namely, those comprising of dystroglycan complex, sarcoglycan complex, syntrophin complex and others. Subsarcolemmal actin filaments are connected to laminin in the basement membrane through dystrophin and the dystroglycan complex. This system may function to protect muscle fibers from mechanical damage. Furthermore, the sarcoglycan complex is associated with the system. Defects in the components of the protection system or the sarcoglycan complex or both are characteristically found in various muscular dystrophies. The roles of the syntrophin complex are meagerly understood. In this review, the possible roles of laminin, DAPs and dystrophin in each dystrophy are explained.

Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is expressed specifically in the central nervous system (CNS) by myelinating glial cells, the oligodendrocytes. The external location of MOG on myelin sheaths and its late expression during myelinogenesis argue for a role of MOG in the completion of myelin and maintenance of its integrity. MOG is a target autoantigen in demyelinating diseases, such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in animals and multiple sclerosis (MS) in humans. We previously located the gene encoding MOG to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), both in human, by cytogenetics, and in mouse, by analysis of recombinants. To refine the position, we have now selected yeast artificial chromosome clones (YAC) which contain the MOG gene. Physical mapping of the human MOG and the mouse Mog genes by characterization of these YAC clones indicated that the gene is located at the distal end of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class Ib region in both species. The human MOG gene lies 60 kilobases (kb) telomeric to HLA-F in a head-to-head orientation; the mouse Mog gene lies 25 (kb) telomeric to H2-M5 in a tail-to-head orientation. These orthologous genes provide markers for comparative analysis of the evolution of the MHC in the two species. The physical mapping of MOG should facilitate analysis of its role in hereditary neurological diseases, and the YAC clones identified here will permit the identification of new genes in the region.
A case is reported of diazepam - induced amelioration of prominent auditory hallucinations experienced by a female paranoid schizophrenic. With the assumption that subvocal speech may be primary to such hallucinations, it is proposed that diazepam may have acted by exerting a relaxant effect on speech musculature. This is a hypothesis testable in future research.
The aim of the study was to compare once-daily with divided dosage lithium treatment in acute mania. In 79 retrospectively studied subjects who met the DSMIII-R criteria for mania, 26 independent and dependent variables were analyzed. The two groups of patients (categorized according to dosage schedule) were broadly comparable with respect to demographic and clinical characteristics. The two groups also did not differ on the outcome measures of lithium efficacy and lithium adverse effects. It is concluded that single dose lithium therapy is clinically comparable with divided dose lithium therapy in acute mania. Possible advantages of switching over to once-daily lithium regimes are discussed.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) are progressive neurodegenerative disorders involving motor neurones. The aetiology of the non-familiar forms is still unknown but it has been suggested that long-term exposure to heavy metals such as lead and mercury may play a role in the pathogenesis of these diseases. In 53 patients suffering from ALS (n = 42) and SMA (n = 9) the oral administration of dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA, 20 mg/kg) did not result in a greater mobilization of lead and mercury from peripheral depots than in control subjects. Although it cannot be excluded that the amount of lead or mercury excreted after DMSA administration may not be a reflection of the amount accumulated in the motor neurons, this study does not provide support for the hypothesis that heavy metals play a significant role in the occurrence of motor neurone diseases.
In many places in the world community care facilities for chronic schizophrenic patients are insufficient, leading to a series of complications which can even be fatal. The lack of facilities contributes to a decrease in patients' compliance. The establishing of a good community care programme for the whole disease period will also considerably increase the efficacy of relapse prevention and give the patient an acceptable quality of life, and hopefully increase the patient's compliance. There is urgent need for therapy standards to be assured and monitored according to strict evaluation criteria to produce a better interplay between the schizophrenic patient and psychiatric staff.

Immune parameters were assessed in 22 women before chemotherapy for ovarian cancer and compared with assessment made at home 2 days earlier. In the hospital, as compared to home measures, patients had a lower percentage of lymphocytes and monocytes and a higher percentage of granulocytes. Absolute numbers of lymphocytes were lower at the hospital as compared to at home. T-cell proliferative responses to concanavalin A were elevated for cells isolated from hospital blood samples as compared to home samples. The observed changes in immune parameters were not related to levels o r state anxiety at home or at the hospital. The results show anticipatory immune changes in a group of patients receiving chemotherapy that did not include cyclophosphamide.
This paper focuses on conceptual and empirical issues relevant to defining the neural bases of visual selective attention. At the most general level, it is held that the integration of human and monkey research is essential to developing a generally applicable, yet precise, understanding of attentional mechanisms. More specific issues that are considered here include: 1) the general definition of attention (as a process, state, etc.) and the operational definition of attention in experimental work, 2) the possibility that different forms of attention use distinctive neural circuits, 3) the levels of the system at which attention may modulate sensory inflow, 4) the degree to which circuits and levels addressed by attentional modulation depend on task (sensory and behavioral) variables and 5) the nature of cellular processes that may underlie attentional modulation. The available techniques for examining neural processes in humans and monkeys are considered in light of these issues and the need for direct comparability between human and monkey experiments.
The effects of attentional shifts following peripheral cues were studied in humans using event-related potentials (ERPs) and reaction times. Subjects released a key following the presentation of a target preceded by a predictive cue in the same (valid) or the opposite (invalid) visual field, or a bilateral, non-predictive cue. The stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) separating cue and target was either 200 or 600 ms. Subjects were faster and more accurate when responding to validly cued targets. Attentional modulation of the ERP was manifested as an enhancement of P1-N1 amplitude at posterior electrode sites following a validly cued target. Furthermore, the latencies of P1, N1 and P3 were significantly shorter in valid trials than in invalid trials. These results only reached significance with the longer SOA, since ERP refractoriness distorted the response evoked by the target when the SOA was only 200 ms. The findings are discussed in the context of previous behavioral and ERP cueing studies.
This study examined event-related potentials (ERPs) and behavioral measures, considered to be sensitive to the selective processing of black versus white letter and non-letter patterns, in a group of seventy-four randomly selected 6 to 8 year old children. Results demonstrated faster and more accurate behavioral performance on the experimental task for the letter than for the non-letter patterns. The ERP measures provided complementary information regarding this letter facilitation effect, indicating that the selective neural processing of letter as compared to non-letter patterns was present in the electrophysiological waveform within the initial 100-140 ms after stimulus presentation. Later ERP measures (200-260 and 500-600 ms post-stimulus) in response to the letter stimuli showed greater differences as a function of task relevance over the left than over the right hemisphere. The results from the present study indicate a remarkably early facilitative influence of stimulus type (letter versus non-letter patterns) on the luminance discrimination of these stimuli and are consistent with an overlap of linguistic and perceptual processing.
An electrophysiological probe technique was used to ascertain whether the same attentional mechanisms are employed for both the detection of simple visual features and the discrimination of conjunctions of features. Visual search arrays containing 14 grey items and 2 colored items were presented; one color was designated relevant for each trial block. Subjects were required to report the presence or absence of the relevant color (feature detection condition) or the shape of the relevantly-colored item (conjunction discrimination condition). Shortly after the onset of the search array, a task-irrelevant probe stimulus was flashed at the location of the relevant or irrelevant color and the event-related potential (ERP) produced by this stimulus was used to assess sensory processing at the probed location. Probes presented at the location of the relevant color were found to elicit enhanced ERP components and probes presented on the opposite side of the display from the relevant color elicited suppressed components. These effects were observed in both the detection and discrimination conditions, indicating that spatially restricted attentional processes are used for both the detection of simple features and the discrimination of conjunctions. However, one ERP component (the PI wave) exhibited these effects in the discrimination condition but not in the detection condition, indicating that conjunction discrimination utilizes additional attentional processes beyond those required for feature detection.
Frequent associations have been found between family interaction and anorectic behaviour. Family theorists have viewed anorexia as a manifestation of a dysfunctional family system. We report three families of cases of anorexia (one male and two female) where the symptom was a reflection of family pathology and was being maintained by it. The cases emphasize the need to assess families of anorectics in detail and view them in the cultural context of eating.
The main physiological and morphological features of the synapses in the superior cervical ganglia of mammals and the last two abdominal ganglia of the frog sympathetic chain are summarized. The effects of axotomy on structure and function of ganglionic synapses are then reviewed, as well as various changes in neuronal metabolism in mammals and in the frog, in which the parallel between electrophysiological and morphological data leads to the conclusion that a certain amount of synaptic transmission occurs at &quot;simple contacts.&quot; The effects of deafferentation on synaptic transmission and ultrastructure in the mammalian ganglia are reviewed: most synapses disappear, but a number of postsynaptic thickenings remain unchanged. Moreover, intrinsic synapses persist after total deafferentation and their number is strongly increased if axotomy is added to deafferentation. In the frog ganglia, the physiological and morphological evolution of synaptic areas is comparable to that of mammals, but no intrinsic synapses are observed. The reinnervation of deafferented sympathetic ganglia by foreign nerves, motor or sensory, is reported in mammals, with different degrees of efficiency. In the frog, the reinnervation of sympathetic ganglia with somatic motor nerve fibers is obtained in only 20% of the operated animals. The possible reasons for the high specificity of ganglionic connections in the frog are discussed.



Among the brain imaging techniques developed during the past two decades, positron emission tomography (PET) has the highest sensitivity allowing the analysis of specific neurotransmitter mechanisms in the living human brain. By using a combination of selective ligands labeled with positron emitting isotopes D1- and D2 dopamine, serotonin 5HT2, and benzodiazepine receptors were examined in schizophrenic patients (DSM-III-R) and healthy control subjects. With this technique receptor populations could be excellently visualized and quantified with regard to number and binding characteristics in several brain regions. The characteristics of the total D1 and D2 dopamine receptor populations in the caudate and putamen did not differ in young drug-naive schizophrenic patients and age-matched control subjects. Also for 5HT2 and benzodiazepine receptors no major alteration of receptor characteristics was observed in several neocortical and limbic brain regions. However, in schizophrenic patients treated with chemically different types of antipsychotic drugs major reductions of ligand binding was observed indicating specific induction of neuroreceptor occupancy. Thus, all chemically different types of antipsychotic drugs examined induced a substantial occupancy of D2 dopamine receptors. Clozapine in high doses induced a significantly lower degree of D2 dopamine receptor occupancy than the conventional drugs. Some but not all antipsychotics also induced a significant D1 dopamine receptor occupancy. In spite of the fact that the selective D1 antagonist SCH 39166 induced a substantial D1 occupancy, this drug did not exhibit an antipsychotic effect in schizophrenic patients. A very high degree of 5HT2 occupancy in neocortical regions was observed after clinical treatment with antipsychotic drugs as clozapine, risperidone and thioridazine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

30 healthy elderly males (mean age 77.4 +/- 4.3 yrs) were subjects in this study. Equal number of young males (mean age 22 +/- 3.5 years) and middle aged subjects (mean age 46 +/- 3.2 years) served as control. P300 wave was estimated using a Neuropack 4 model of Nihon Kohden EMG machine. We observed a significantly increased latency, poorly defined and non reproducible P300 wave in 90% old subjects while in young the latency was in normal limits and the wave was well defined and reproducible. We presume P300 could serve as a future potential marker of the neurophysiological basis of aging.
Our previous research and clinical tests of a self-contained powered above-knee prosthesis (AKP) showed that a knee joint with one degree of freedom (DOF) increases the energy cost of walking with respect to able-bodied subjects. Better symmetry of the gait can improve performance, so we suggest here the integration of a second powered DOF into the knee joint mechanism to control the internal-external rotation of the shank-foot complex. The control for the AKP with two DOFs is based on a method of optimal tracking. The data used for analysis were collected in able-bodied subjects braced with an ankle splint to experimentally duplicate a gait like that of amputees using a two-DOF prosthesis. The simulation showed the following: (1) the technique of optimal programming can be used for simulation of the artificial leg during locomotion; (2) the optimal tracking method is an efficient tool for selection of actuators for the above-knee prosthesis, ensuring that the tracking remains within limits. Limitation of joint torque is desirable in order to reduce the size of the motor, but beyond a certain point limiting maximal torques lead to tracking errors that are associated with higher energy costs and hence the need for a larger power source. The errors are also associated with higher forces at the interface between the socket and the prosthesis. The optimal tracking method allows the optimization of tracking with constraints on the size of the motor used and its energy cost.
We investigated the endothelin (ET) receptor subtypes that mediate vasoconstriction in human and rat pulmonary resistance arteries and the effect of pulmonary hypertension on endothelin (ET)-induced contractile responses in rat vessels. In human vessels, sarafotoxin S6c (SXS6c) was more potent than ET-1, but its maximal contractile response was only 20-30% of that to ET-1. Responses to ET-1 were resistant to the ETA antagonist FR 139317, and another, BMS 182874, inhibited responses only to high concentrations of ET-1. In all rat vessels, ET-1, ET-3, and the ETB receptor agonist SXS6c showed the following order of potency: SXS6c = ET-3 &gt; ET-1, and responses to SXS6c were inhibited by the ETB receptor antagonist BQ 788 (1 microM). Maximal responses to ET-1 were greatest in chronic hypoxic (CH) pulmonary-hypertensive rats. In control rats, responses to ET-1 were unaffected by FR 139317 (1 microM) and were potentiated by BMS 182874 (1 microM) and by the mixed ETA/ETB receptor antagonist bosentan (1 microM). A combination of BMS 182874 (10 microM) and the ETB receptor antagonist BQ 788 (1 microM) had no effect on responses to ET-1. In the CH rats, responses to ET-1 were unaffected by FR 139317, BMS 182874, or bosentan. The results suggest the presence of an inhibitory ETA receptor in these vessels that may inhibit ET-1 activation of ETB receptors, and also suggest that the influence of this inhibitory ETA receptor is reduced in CH rat vessels. The results indicate a role for ETB receptors in ET-1-mediated vasoconstriction in both human and rat pulmonary resistance arteries.

Both soluble and integral membrane forms of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) are expressed in the rat anterior pituitary, making it an ideal model system for studying the routing of proteins into secretory granules. To identify the subcellular compartments involved in the routing of integral membrane PAM, we used subcellular fractionation, metabolic labeling and immunoblot analysis. Mature secretory granules were found to contain full-length integral membrane PAM along with a significant amount of soluble PAM generated by endoproteolytic cleavage. PAM proteins were not co-distributed with tyrosylprotein sulfotransferase activity during sucrose gradient centrifugation, indicating that the trans-Golgi/TGN is not a major PAM-containing compartment at steady state. Fractionation of the 4,000 g and 10,000 g pellets obtained by differential centrifugation identified a significant amount of integral membrane PAM in a light fraction lacking soluble secretory granule proteins. Metabolic labeling experiments with primary anterior pituitary cells demonstrated that integral membrane PAM enters a light compartment with similar properties only after exit from the trans-Golgi/TGN. Comparison of the metabolic labeling and immunoblot analyses suggests that PAM in this post-trans-Golgi/TGN compartment is in organelles involved in the intracellular recycling of integral membrane PAM. Small amounts of full-length integral membrane PAM were also recovered in fractions containing internalized transferrin and may be in an endosomal compartment following retrieval from the cell surface.
The effect of peripherally administered angiotensin II (AII) on blood flow to choroid plexuses was examined in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. The indicator fractionation method with 123I- or 125I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine as the marker was employed to measure blood flow. Basal blood flow to choroid plexus of the lateral cerebral ventricle (LVCP) (3.19 +/- 0.23 ml g-1 min-1) was lower than that to choroid plexuses of the third (3VCP) and fourth (4VCP) ventricles (3.90 +/- 0.38 and 3.95 +/- 0.36 ml g-1 min-1, respectively). The effect of AII on choroidal blood flow varied depending on peptide dose and anatomical location of the choroidal tissue. AII infused intravenously at rates of 30 and 50 ng kg-1 min-1 decreased blood flow to both LVCP and 4VCP by 12-20%. Both lower (10 ng kg-1 min-1) and higher (100 and 300 ng kg-1 min-1) AII doses did not alter blood flow to LVCP and 4VCP. Blood flow to the 3VCP was not affected by any dose of the peptide used. In comparison, blood flow to cerebral cortex increased by 33% during intravenous AII infusion at a rate of 300 ng kg-1 min-1. The choroidal blood flow-lowering effect of moderate AII doses was abolished by both AT1 (losartan) and AT2 (PD 123319) receptor subtype antagonists (3 mg kg-1 i.v.). To determine whether the hemodynamic changes observed in choroid plexuses with moderate AII doses influence CSF formation, the ventriculocisternal perfusion was performed in rats (under the experimental conditions described) with Blue Dextran 2000 as the indicator.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An 8-year-old girl with propionic acidemia had acute and rapidly fatal symmetric necrosis of the caudate, globus pallidus, and putamen. Clinical presentation was with acute aphasia, generalized hypotonia, and muscle weakness. There was no evidence of metabolic decompensation, and analysis of the organic acids of the urine indicated good metabolic control. Organic acids in the cerebrospinal fluid were unremarkable. These observations indicate that the pathophysiology of &quot;metabolic stroke&quot; is more complicated than previously thought.
The cardiovascular oscillations during orthostasis were analyzed by time-frequency mapping in 23 patients with history of vasodepressor (VD) syncope and in 10 control subjects. Syncope was induced by head-up tilt (80 degrees, 25 min) alone in 11 patients (VD-1). Twelve patients remained asymptomatic (VD-2) during this tilt, but presented VD syncope or presyncope during tilt with an isoproterenol infusion. Data from the first tilt without isoproterenol infusion are presented here. Amplitude of sympathetically-mediated nonrespiratory fluctuations [0.01 Hz-respiratory frequency (Rf)] in blood pressure was greater at the beginning of the tilt in both (VD-1 and VD-2) groups compared to controls. Nonrespiratory oscillations were present throughout the tilt and their amplitude increased toward its end (p &lt; 0.001) in VD-2 and control groups. In contrast, in the VD-1 group, the amplitude of 0.01-0.05 Hz rhythm in blood pressure diminished shortly after the beginning of tilt and continued to decline toward the syncope. Nonrespiratory fluctuations in R-R intervals were greatest in VD-1 group. The slow blood pressure rhythms reflect an integrity of feedback loops, and their disappearance is an early sign of an impending syncope.

In vitro and in vivo studies were undertaken utilizing an established rat glioma cell line (C6) to compare the phototoxicity characteristics of aluminium tetrasulfonated phthalocyanine (AlSPc), zinc tetrasulfonated phthalocyanine (ZnSPc) and haematoporphyrin derivative (HpD). AlSPc and ZnSPc were inherently less cytotoxic in the dark compared to HpD with 50% colony survival at 275, 355 and 14 mug/ml respectively. An in vitro phototoxicity study at equimolar concentrations demonstrated a 50% reduction of colony survival after exposure to white light at 1 minute for HpD, 10 minutes for AlSPc and 12 minutes for ZnSPc. The presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS) in the medium resulted in reduced in vitro uptake of AlSPc and increased cellular retention which was determined quantitatively by a fluorescence assay following extraction. This assay was also used to determine the in vivo uptake of AlSPc, which was maximal in the intracerebral C6 glioma model at 6 hours (12.3 mug/g tissue) post-intravenous administration of a 1 mg/kg dose of AlSPc, corresponding to a tumour: normal brain ratio of 22:1.
Despite population-based declines in stroke mortality, the individual mortality rate in ischaemic stroke approaches 20%, with substantial morbidity in the majority of survivors. Reduction of this rate will depend on the advent of effective acute tissue rescue therapy. Based on improved understanding of the pathophysiology of acute ischaemia, it is now recognised that the time window for therapeutic intervention is only a few hours after stroke onset. The major therapeutic strategies currently being investigated include firstly approaches to improve reperfusion after ischaemia, such as thrombolysis, haemorheological and antithrombotic therapies, and secondly strategies for neuronal protection such as calcium channel and NMDA antagonists and free radical inhibitors. Based on promising animal and early human studies, the results of large randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials are expected in the near future and should have a profound effect on acute stroke management.

Manduca sexta molts several times as a larva (caterpillar) before becoming a pupa and then an adult moth. Each molt culminates in ecdysis behavior, during which the old cuticle is shed. Prior to each larval ecdysis, the old cuticle is loosened by pre-ecdysis behavior, which includes rhythmic, synchronous compressions of the abdomen. A previous study indicated that motor neuron activity during pre-ecdysis compression behavior is driven by an ascending neural pathway from the terminal abdominal ganglion. The present study describes a pair of interneurons, designated IN-402, that are located in the terminal ganglion and belong to the ascending pathway. Each IN-402 is synchronously active with pre-ecdysis compression motor bursts, and bilaterally excites compression motor neurons throughout the abdominal nerve cord via apparently monosynaptic connections. The pair of IN-402s appears to be the sole source of rhythmic synaptic drive to the motor neurons during the pre-ecdysis compression motor pattern. These interneurons play a key role in the production of larval pre-ecdysis behavior, and are candidates for contributing to the developmental weakening of pre-ecdysis behavior at pupation.
Although the literature provides a general description of various techniques of reconstruction of the cranium with autogenous bone grafts, no classification exists outlining the options in an orderly fashion. A classification of autogenous skull grafts in cranial reconstruction is hereby presented. These grafts include bone dust, shave, sliding, transpositional, full-thickness split, and vascularized pedicle. The uses of each graft and its advantages and disadvantages are discussed. The location of the defect, the size, and the thickness of the skull are variables that must be considered in utilizing these grafts. Often a combination of grafts is required to provide the best cranial contour. Understanding the characteristics of these types of grafts provides the surgeon with the versatility necessary in reconstructing cranial defects.
Dendritic cells marked by protein S-100 (S-100) antiserum in the suprabasal layers of the epidermis have previously been identified to be Langerhans' cells. In this study, S-100 immunoreactive cells have been investigated in psoriatic lesioned skin during and after peptide T treatment. Peptide T is an octapeptide with affinity for the CD4 receptor. Nine patients were intravenously infused with peptide T, 2 mg in 500 ml saline per day for 28 days. Sections from involved skin before, every week during, and after the treatment were processed by indirect immunofluorescence using S-100 antiserum. Before the treatment the epidermal Langerhans' cells were numerically decreased or even completely gone in the involved skin of psoriasis as compared to skin from normal healthy controls, while the dermal dendritic cells instead were increased and gathered in cell clusters around vascular structures. Four of the nine patients had histopathological improvements after the peptide T treatment, and, in those cases, the dendritic cells in the dermis were reduced in number, and the Langerhans' cells in the epidermis were numerically increased as well as even reversed to normal position and morphology. These changes in the distribution and density of Langerhans' cells represent their rearrangement during the course of psoriasis and/or the remission after peptide T treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the present investigation, we examined the influence of both genetic background and sex factors in the rat hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function under both basal and post adrenalectomy (ADX) conditions. For these purposes adult female and male rats, from Sprague-Dawley (S-D), Fischer (F344/N), Lewis (LEW/N) and Buffalo (BUF) strains, were decapitated in basal condition or several (2, 7 and 14) days after ADX. Plasma stress hormones levels and adrenal corticosterone (B) concentration as well as peptide (ACTH, CRH and vasopressin, AVP) content in different tissues (anterior pituitary, AP; medial basal hypothalamus, MBH), were then evaluated by specific assays. Our results indicate that: a) despite no sex- and strain-related differences in AP ACTH and MBH ACTH secretagogues in basal condition, there exits a clear sexual dimorphism in plasma ACTH levels as well as in both plasma and adrenal B concentrations, with values significantly higher in females than in males, regardless the strain; b) ADX abolished plasma B levels and increased AP ACTH output in a time-dependent fashion up to the 14th day post surgery; c) AP ACTH content decreased 2 days after ADX, except in BUF female rats, thereafter tending to either recover or increase sham values by two weeks post ADX; d) ADX decreased MBH CRH at all periods studied, except in BUF female animals on day 14; e) ADX clearly diminished MBH AVP only in S-D rats, and f) a sexual dimorphism was also found in AP ACTH in 7-day-ADX S-D rats and in 14-day-ADX S-D and F344/N animals; also, a dimorphic pattern in MBH CRH was found in 7-day-ADX S-D as well as in 14-day-ADX F344/N and LEW/N rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
During the metabolism of ethanol, the metabolic conversion of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) is altered, and, as a consequence, the ratio of 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) to 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HIAA) excreted in urine increases appreciably. The ratio of metabolites remains elevated for several hours after ethanol is no longer detectable. In the present study, urine specimens were supplemented with glucose and Candida albicans, a common human pathogenic yeast, and the formation of ethanol and the changes in the 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio were examined during one week of storage. Despite the production of high concentrations of ethanol (peak level 171 mmol/L, or 788 mg/dL), the 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio remained constant. The urinary 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio was also compared with urinary and blood ethanol levels in specimens selected at random during forensic autopsies. Elevated 5HTOL/5HIAA ratios were found in all specimens with detectable urinary ethanol. Some specimens showed elevated ratios of serotonin metabolites even though no ethanol was detected, indicating that these subjects had consumed ethanol prior to death but that the concentration had already returned to zero or was below the detection limit. In one case, postmortem ethanol formation was suspected, because blood ethanol concentration was 16.8 mmol/L (77 mg/dL) whereas urinary ethanol was zero. The urinary 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio fell within normal limits, which confirmed the suspicion of postmortem ethanol synthesis in the blood specimen. The present results indicate that the 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio in urine provides a useful method to distinguish between ethanol that might have been synthesized postmortem, or generated in vitro, from ethanol excreted in urine as a result of drinking.
In many eukaryotic cell types, receptor activation leads to the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) which causes calcium ions (Ca) to be released from internal stores. Ca release was observed in response to the muscarinic agonist carbachol by fura-2 imaging of N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells. Ca release followed receptor activation after a latency of 0.4 to 20 s. Latency was not caused by Ca feedback on IP3 receptors, but rather by IP3 accumulation to a threshold for release. The dependence of latency on carbachol dose was fitted to a model in which IP3 synthesis and degradation compete, resulting in gradual accumulation to a threshold level at which Ca release becomes regenerative. This analysis gave degradation rate constants of IP3 in single cells ranging from 0 to 0.284 s-1 (0.058 +/- 0.067 s-1 SD, 53 cells) and a mean IP3 lifetime of 9.2 +/- 2.2 s. IP3 degradation was also measured directly with biochemical methods. This gave a half life of 9 +/- 2 s. The rate of IP3 degradation sets the time frame over which IP3 accumulations are integrated as input signals. IP3 levels are also filtered over time, and on average, large-amplitude oscillations in IP3 in these cells cannot occur with period &lt; 10 s.
To determine whether bradykinesia in patients with Alzheimer's disease is different from the slowing of movement seen in normal aging, 25 patients with mild to moderately severe Alzheimer's disease and 25 normal controls, matched for age and sex, were studied. The measures of motor performance included two computerized tests of finger tapping, one test of point-to-point arm movements, and one test of gait cadence. Patients performed significantly more slowly than controls on all three types of motor speed measurements, with average decrements of 9% to 19%. Right index finger tapping, right arm point-to-point, and left arm point-to-point tests produced the most significant discrimination of patients from controls. One month test-retest reliability in patients was high for these measures. Bradykinesia measured by these tests was correlated with cognitive tests requiring concentration and executive functions, suggesting a relationship to frontal lobe disease. Bradykinesia in Alzheimer's disease differs quantitatively from the effects of normal aging on movement. Motor function can be reliably measured in Alzheimer's disease patients by simple and rapid tests of tapping speed, which may be useful as functional parameters in studying disease progression and response to pharmacologic intervention.
Eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) is an important tool in the study of learning, memory, and aging, but few longitudinal data have been collected on EBCC in humans of any age. Our aim was to determine if EBCC would remain stable across time. Fifteen subjects with an initial mean age of 83.2 years (&quot;old-old&quot;) were tested three times in just over 2 years, and a subset of 8 of these subjects were tested a fourth time after the third year. Fifteen additional subjects with a mean age of 69.1 years (&quot;young-old&quot;) were tested two times in just over one year. Subjects were tested with identical procedures in the 400 msec delay EBCC paradigm. Cognitively normal young-old and old-old adults showed stability in EBCC. In the old-old group, poor EBCC (&lt; 25% conditioned responses; CRs) predicted significantly poorer Blessed Information Memory Concentration scores. Old-old subjects with poor initial EBCC were more likely to become demented or die than were old-old subjects producing over 25% CRs.
The distribution of vasopressin (VP)-like and oxytocin (OX)-like immunoreactivities was investigated in the chameleon brain with antisera specific for either peptide. VP-like and OX-like neurons are found only in two nuclei: in the supraoptic and in the paraventricular nuclei, whereas both peptidergic innervations are restricted to some ventral areas, especially to the hypothalamus. However, in these areas, OX-like innervation is less dense than the VP-like innervation. Even though, no sex differences were noted for the two systems, differences are present between the normal female and the preoviposit one concerning VP-like system. In the latter female, numerous VPergic-like cell bodies occurred in the ependymal layer, making likely direct contact with the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the third ventricle. In addition, some VP-like nerve fibers seem to be in supraependymal position at the septal wall, probably also in contact with CSF.


To prove the existence of human intraepidermal nerve fibers at the electron microscopic level, we used both conventional and immunohistochemical ultrastructural techniques. Specimens were obtained from skin of the back, one of the most densely innervated areas of the human epidermis. The immunohistochemical marker protein gene product 9.5 was chosen because it is highly potent in labeling nerves. Thin nerve fibers were found in the basal, spinous, and granular layers of the epidermis with both techniques used, although it was more difficult to identify the nervous structures with the conventional method. The nerves appeared in the intercellular spaces and contacted keratinocyte cell bodies or cilia by membrane-membrane apposition, but without any specialized structures. Nerve fibers in the very superficial part of the vital human epidermis have not been described before at the ultrastructural level.
Machado Joseph disease (MJD) is an autosomal dominantly inherited neuro-degenerative disorder primarily affecting the motor system. It can be divided into three phenotypes based on the variable combination of a range of clinical symptoms including pyramidal and extra-pyramidal features, cerebellar deficits, and distal muscle atrophy. MJD is thought to be caused by mutation of a single gene which has recently been mapped, using genetic linkage analysis, to a 29 cM region on chromosome 14q24.3-q32 in five Japanese families. A second disorder, spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3), which has clinical symptoms similar to MJD, has also been linked to the same region of chromosome 14q in two French families. In order to narrow down the region of chromosome 14 which contains the MJD locus and to determine if this region overlaps with the predisposing locus for SCA3, we have performed genetic linkage analysis in seven MJD families, six of Portuguese/Azorean origin and one of Brazilian origin, using nine microsatellite markers mapped to 14q24.3-q32. Our results localise the MJD locus in these families to an 11 cM interval flanked by the markers D14S68 and AFM343vf1. In addition we show that this 11 cM interval maps within the 15 cM interval containing the SCA3 locus, suggesting that these diseases are allelic.
The transport of (3)H-histamine by the endocrine-specific (VMAT1) and neuronal (VMAT2) isoforms of the vesicular monoamine transporter has been evaluated in digitonin-permeabilized fibroblasts transfected with either VMAT1 or VMAT2. Transport of (3)H-histamine by both VMAT1 and VMAT2 was reserpine-sensitive but only transport by VMAT2 was inhibited by tetrabenazine. Maximal equilibrated levels of (3)H-histamine accumulation by VMAT2 (K(m) 300 mu M) were approximately three times greater than that mediated by VMAT1 when using a subsaturating concentration of exogenous (3)H-histamine (50 mu M). The expression of VMAT2 in histaminergic neurons in the rat brain was examined with polyclonal antipeptide antibodies specific for VMAT1 or VMAT2. VMAT2-positive and tyrosine hydroxylase-negative immunoreactive cell bodies were localized to the ventral part of the posterior hypothalamus in the region of the mamillary nuclei. The transport properties of VMAT2 and the distribution of VMAT2 in cell bodies in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the posterior hypothalamus reported here and the apparent absence of VMAT1 and VMAT2 in tissue mast cells support previous findings of reserpine-sensitive and reserpine-resistant pools of histamine in brain and peripheral tissues.
Familial Dysautonomia (FD) is an autosomal recessive Ashkenazi Jewish genetic disease, of unknown etiology, involving deficits in both autonomic and sensory functions. Previously, we found statistically significant increases in globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) in FD fibroblasts and lymphoblasts, and a decrease in ganglioside levels. FD fibroblasts exhibited pleiomorphic changes at the light microscopy level, suggestive of changes in the plasma membrane. We described an increase in Gb3 on the surface of synchronized cells at the G1/S boundary of the cell cycle, based on Gb3-verotoxin (derived from E. coli) interactions. Using D-glucosamine-1-14C as an in vitro precursor, we herein report a marked decrease in the rate of incorporation of D-glucosamine into the sialic acid and the N-acetylgalacto/glucosamine moieties of gangliosides and neutral glycosphingolipids in intact FD compared to control lymphoblasts. The total ganglioside content of FD cells (primarily GM3, measured as incorporation of 3H from NaB3H4) was also decreased. These data indicate differences in the turnover of sialic acid and N-acetylated sugar constituents in FD vs normal cells.
To study the role of the protein B-50/GAP-43 in NGF-induced neurite outgrowth, a number of stable PC12 subclones with either very low or considerably enhanced expression levels of the protein were selected. Cell bodies of subclones with suppressed B-50 expression (-B2, -B5, or -B12) possessed a relative small spherical shape and, on NGF-treatment for 7 d, developed processes that were virtually devoid of branches and that mostly bore short or blunt-ended growth cones. Cells of subclones with overexpression of B-50 (+B3, +B4, or +B11), on NGF treatment, acquired a flattened, spiky appearance with highly branched neurites possessing extended and complex growth cones. Confocal microscopy with immunofluorescence for B-50 and F-actin revealed that in neurites and growth cones of the B-50-deficient subclone -B2, no detectable B-50 and reduced amounts of filamentous F-actin were present, whereas in overexpressing +B3 cells, cell membranes, neurites, and complex growth cones were intensively stained for B-50 and exhibited numerous spikes, in which B-50 was strikingly colocalized with F-actin. These data suggest that, under normal conditions of neuritogenesis, the expression level of B-50 in PC12 cells is decisive for the complexity of neurites and growth cones.
A significant proportion of patients with schizophrenia have increased homocysteine levels that are unrelated to psychopharmacological medication or nutrient deficiency in folate or cobalamin. This supports the hypothesis that inherent methylation deficiency is involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
An in vitro receptor binding and in vivo microdialysis study was performed to further investigate the modulation of dopamine (DA) D2 receptors by neurotensin (NT) peptides. Saturation experiments with the D2 agonist [3H]NPA (N-propylnorapomorphine) showed that 10 nM of NT, 10 nM of neuromedin N (NN) and 1 nM of the C-terminal NT-(8-13) fragment significantly increased the KD values by 125%, 181%, and 194%, respectively without significantly affecting the Bmax value of the [3H]NPA binding sites in coronal sections of rat ventral forebrain mainly containing the nucleus accumbens (Acb) and the olfactory tubercle. In line with the previous findings that NT can increase GABA release in the Acb and that NT receptors are not found on DA terminals in this brain region, the present in vivo microdialysis study demonstrated that local perfusion of NT (1 nM) counteracted the D2 agonist pergolide (2 mu M) induced inhibition of GABA, but not of DA release in the rat Acb. This result indicates that NT counteracts the D2 agonist induced inhibition of GABA release in the rat Acb, via an antagonistic postsynaptic NT/D2 receptor interaction as also suggested by the inhibitory regulation of D2 receptor affinity in the Acb by the NT peptides demonstrated in the present receptor binding experiments. Thus, the neuroleptic and potential antipsychotic profile of the NT peptides may involve an antagonistic NT/D2 receptor regulation in the ventral striatum.
Serotonin (5-HT)-2 receptor-mediated cGMP generation was investigated in comparison with calcium (Ca2+) mobilization in C6 glioma cells. 5-HT enhanced cGMP generation, and risperidone and ketanserin potently blocked the response. These results indicate that 5-HT-2 receptors are responsible for the cGMP generation. 5-HT-induced cGMP production was completely abolished by BAPTA, an intracellular Ca2+ chelating agent, or NG-mono-methyl-L-arginine(NMMA), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, suggesting that 5-HT-induced cGMP generation was through nitric oxide (NO)-dependent pathway. 5-HT (10 microM)-elicited Ca2+ mobilization and cGMP generation were reduced to 40 and 15% after pretreatment with 10 microM 5-HT for 4 hours. NMMA did not modify 5-HT-induced desensitization of either Ca2+ mobilization or cGMP generation, suggesting that NO pathway is independent of the desensitization. The present study has demonstrated the nature of 5-HT-2 receptor-mediated cGMP generation in C6 glioma cells.
The general anesthetic urethane (ethyl carbamate) is widely used in electrophysiological in vivo experiments. However, its pharmacological effects are poorly understood. Here, the effects of urethane on in vitro contractile responses of the rat thoracic aortic ring preparation were investigated. Bath application of 5-HT produced a concentration-dependent contractile response (EC50 = 4.3 x 10(-6) M). Urethane (11.2 mM = 1 mg/ml) shifted the concentration-response curve (CRC) for 5-HT to the right (EC50 = 1.7 x 10(-5) M) and decreased the maximal contraction by 30.8%. The CRC for NA (EC50 = 7.2 X 10(-9)M) was also shifted to the right by urethane (EC50 = 1.4 X 10(-8)M), but the shift of the 5-HT-CRC was twice that of the NA-CRC (3.95 vs. 1.95). The CRC to KCl was shifted rightwards only slightly by urethane (ratio 1.27) and the maximal contraction to KCl was not affected. The CRC to replacement of CaCl2 (0.1-10 mM) to KCl-depolarized vessels in a Ca(2+)-free Krebs solution was unaffected by urethane. Ketanserin (10(-9)M) antagonized the contraction to 5-HT, and a combination of ketanserin and urethane was markedly more effective than either drug alone, decreasing the maximal contraction by 58%. Antagonism of NA contraction by prazosin (5 X 10(-8)M) was not increased by addition of urethane. The urethane dose used here approximates blood and brain concentrations required to produce anesthetic effects in mammals. It is possible that reductions in 5-HT transmission and, to a lesser extent, in NA transmission, but not blockade of Ca2+ or K+ channels, may contribute to the anesthetic effect of urethane. In addition, the action of the selective 5-HT2 antagonist ketanserin is clearly altered by urethane. These findings are important to consider when urethane is used for in vivo neurophysiological investigations, particularly when 5-HT mechanisms are involved.
Though depletion of CSF homovanillic acid (HVA) concentration has often been regarded as a direct indicator of dopamine (DA) deficiency in Parkinson's Disease (PD), CSF HVA is normal in mildly affected patients. To explore why, we measured DA and its metabolites in striatum and CSF in rabbits receiving reserpine for 5 days. Reserpine, which depletes striatal DA by disrupting vesicular storage of the neurotransmitter, results in a compensatory increase of DA turnover. In response to a 96% depletion of striatal DA, its catabolic intermediates 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) decreased 64% and 92% in striatum, although the endproduct, HVA, was unchanged. In contrast, CSF concentrations of HVA and DOPAC increased significantly, though 3-MT and levodopa (LD) were unaltered. A 5-fold rise in striatal LD concentration after reserpine-induced DA depletion provided evidence for enhanced DA synthesis. As in PD, the compensatory increase of DA synthesis after reserpine administration confounds the ability of CSF HVA to reflect DA depletion.
The role of dopamine transmission on striatal acetylcholine release was investigated by using brain microdialysis. Blockade of dopamine D2 receptors with (-)-sulpiride or haloperidol increased acetylcholine release to a maximum of 80% (after 50 and 0.5 mg/kg, respectively). This effect was prevented by blockade of dopamine D1 receptors with 0.5 mg/kg SCH 39166 or by depletion of dopamine stores after 5 mg/kg reserpine + 150 mg/kg alpha-methyltyrosine. Treatment with SCH 39166 or reserpine + alpha-methyltyrosine reduced acetylcholine release by about a maximum of 30%. Stimulation of dopamine D2 receptors with LY 171555 (quinpirole) at a low, sedative dose (0.05 mg/kg), reduced acetylcholine release by about 30% with no further reduction at higher doses up to 1 mg/kg. Moreover, LY 171555 (0.1 mg/kg) given to SCH 39166 (0.5 mg/kg) or SKF 38393 (20 mg/kg)-pretreated rats did not decrease acetylcholine release, suggesting that its effect is through a dopamine D1 receptor-mediated mechanism. In contrast, in dopamine depleted rats, LY 171555 0.1 mg/kg became more effective in decreasing acetylcholine release (about 70%) also after SCH 39166 (0.5 mg/kg) pretreatment (about 80%), thus acting independently of dopamine D1 receptor mechanisms. These results indicate that, in normal circumstances, endogenous dopamine facilitates striatal acetylcholine release through dopamine D1 receptors. The results argue against the commonly accepted view that dopamine D2 receptors exert a tonic inhibitory control on acetylcholine release. Moreover, they suggest that dopamine D2 receptors, in circumstances of dopamine depletion, may exert an inhibitory control on acetylcholine release independent of dopamine D1 receptor mechanisms.
The diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is essentially clinical and is reached by exclusion. An akinetic rigid syndrome frequently means PD, although a number of other neurodegenerative diseases can share bradykinesia, rigidity, postural instability, and sometimes tremor. Parkinsonism can be classified as follows: degenerative, metabolic, vascular, iatrogenic, toxic, infectious, traumatic, and secondary to mass effect. The diagnostic approach are discussed.
Trophic factors play an important role in the development of neurons and glia. In order to study the involvement of neurotrophins in human cortical development, human fetal parietal cortical tissue, obtained after early elective abortions, was transplanted to cortical cavities in immunosuppressed rats. Using in situ hybridization it was demonstrated that nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 mRNAs are expressed in developing human cortical xenografts. We conclude that neurotrophins may play a role in human cortical development and rat-derived astroglial cells could be involved in establishing reciprocal &quot;permissive sites&quot;.
One of the limitations of many bridging experiments in neural transplantation is that the CNS tissues cannot be sutured. Fibrin glue is a two-component system derived from whole blood which, when mixed, reproduces the final stage of blood coagulation and solidifies. Many experimental studies of humans and animals show that fibrin glue repair of peripheral nerves is almost equivalent to microsurgical sutures. In this study, we attempted to extend its use to CNS tissues and transplants. Two techniques were tried: (1) Bilateral parietal knife cuts were performed by stereotaxic technique in six rats. Fibrin glue was applied in the right-side cortical lesion. Immunohistochemistry using antisera to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), laminin and neurofilament (NF) was essentially similar between the control and treatment groups. The immunoreactivity of each marker revealed no significant differences between the two groups on days 1, 7 and 30. There was no difference in terms of gliosis or microvascular proliferation. (2) Embryonic day 16 fetal locus coeruleus was grafted together with E16 cortex to the anterior chamber of sympathectomized eyes. In the six eyes of the glue treatment group, the parietal cortical piece and the locus coeruleus piece were joined together before grafting by immersing them in the solution of fibrin glue. In the eight eyes of the control group, pieces of parietal cortex and locus coeruleus were introduced individually and approximated by gently pressing the cornea. The sizes of double grafts showed no significant difference between group during six weeks postgrafting. The immunohistochemical pictures using antisera against TH, GFAP and laminin were similar in both groups. Catecholaminergic fibers from the grafted locus coeruleus were found bridging over into the parietal cortical piece in both the control and treatment groups. There was no significant difference in TH-positive nerve fiber density between tissue glue-joined and control double intraocular grafts. In conclusion, fibrin glue can be used as an adhesive agent in CNS tissues without hampering the outgrowth of neurites or causing adverse tissue reactions in fetal or adult nervous tissues.
A series of in vivo and in vitro experiments were conducted to determine the influence of prenatally administered ethanol on several aspects of the developing chick embryo spinal cord motor system. Specifically, we examined: (1) the effect of chronic ethanol administration during the natural cell death period on spinal cord motoneuron numbers; (2) the influence of ethanol on ongoing embryonic motility; (3) the effect of ethanol exposure on neurotrophic activity in motoneuron target tissue (limb bud); and (4) the responsiveness of cultured spinal cord neurons to ethanol, and the potential of target-derived neurotrophic factors to ameliorate ethanol neurotoxicity. These studies revealed the following: Chronic prenatal ethanol exposure reduces the number of motoneurons present in the lateral motor column after the cell death period [embryonic day 12 (E12)]. Ethanol tends to inhibit embryonic motility, particularly during the later stages viewed (E9-E11). Chronic ethanol exposure reduces the neurotrophic activity contained in target muscle tissue. Such diminished support could contribute to the observed motoneuron loss. Direct exposure of spinal cord neurons to ethanol decreases neuronal survival and process outgrowth in a dose-dependent manner, but the addition of target muscle extract to ethanol-containing cultures can ameliorate this ethanol neurotoxicity. These studies demonstrate ethanol toxicity in a population not previously viewed in this regard and suggest a mechanism that may be related to this cell loss (i.e., decreased neurotrophic support).

Alterations in glutamatergic transmission are postulated to be important in kindling and epilepsy. The levels of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy- 5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits (GluR1, 2, and 4) were compared in amygdala-kindled and sham-operated animals using subunit-specific antibodies and quantitative western blotting. Four limbic regions were examined: limbic forebrain, piriform cortex/amygdala, hippocampus, and entorhinal cortex. When subunit levels were examined 24 h after the last stage 5 seizure, levels of GluR2 were found to be selectively reduced in limbic forebrain (30%) and piriform cortex/amygdala (25%), with no changes in other regions examined. In addition, no changes in the other subunits were observed in any region. The decrease in GluR2 that was observed in kindled animals at 24 h was no longer present at 1 week and 1 month after the last stage 5 seizure. Because the GluR2 subunit uniquely determines the calcium permeability of these receptors and because the piriform cortex has been implicated as a source of excitatory drive for limbic seizures, reduced GluR2 expression may be important in increasing neuronal excitability in kindling-induced epilepsy, or may reflect a compensatory mechanism resulting from kindling.
In this study we have identified specific binding sites for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in human Y-79 retinoblastoma cell membranes by using 125I-Tyr-ovine CRH (125I-oCRH) as radioligand. Binding at 19 degrees C was rapid with steady state being reached within 20 min, reversible and linear with membrane protein concentration. The 125I-oCRH binding was enhanced by Mg2+ and inhibited by the GTP analogue guanosine 5'-O-(3'-thiotriphosphate). Y-79 cell membranes exhibited two populations of binding sites, a high-affinity site with an apparent dissociation constant (KD) of 1 nM and a low-affinity site with an apparent KD of 500 nM. 125I-oCRH binding was completely antagonized by human/rat CRH, [Met(O)21]oCRH, alpha-helical CRH9-41, urotensin I, and sauvagine with a rank order of potency similar to that displayed by CRH receptors of other tissues. These data describe for the first time the presence of specific CRH-binding sites in retinal cells. The Y-79 cell line may therefore constitute a valuable model in which to study CRH action on retinal cells.
In human Y-79 retinoblastoma cells, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) stimulates adenylyl cyclase activity and increases cyclic AMP accumulation. Different CRH analogues mimic the CRH stimulation of adenylyl cyclase and show similar sensitivity to the CRH receptor antagonist alpha-helical CRH9-41. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) also increases the enzyme activity but less potently than CRH, and its effect is counteracted by the VIP receptor antagonist [D-p-Cl-Phe6,Leu17]VIP. The VIP antagonist does not affect the response to CRH. The CRH-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity is amplified by Mg2+, is inhibited by submicromolar concentrations of Ca2+, and requires GTP. Moreover, the CRH stimulation is reduced by pretreatment of cells with cholera toxin and by incubation of membranes with the RM/1 antibody, which recognizes the C-terminus of the alpha subunit of Gs. In immunoblots, the RM/1 antibody identifies a doublet of 45 and 52 kDa. Two proteins of similar molecular weights are ADP-ribosylated by cholera toxin. These data demonstrate that in human Y-79 retinoblastoma cells, specific CRH receptors stimulate cyclic AMP formation by interacting with Gs and by affecting a Ca(2+)-inhibitable form of adenylyl cyclase.
Ligand-gated ion channels are oligomeric transmembrane proteins that usually contain more than one kind of monomer. The variety of monomers available to participate in oligomer formation and the apparent latitude in acceptable monomer combinations allows considerable diversity. Mechanisms for identifying the monomers comprising specific receptors are needed. We have generated affinity-purified polyclonal antisera that recognize the extracellular domain of nine neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits and distinguish between them. We prepared these antisera by immunizing rabbits with bacterially expressed recombinant protein representing the N-terminal extracellular domain of each neuronal nAChR subunit followed by affinity purification of antibodies against synthetic peptides corresponding to residues 68-81 of the alpha 1 subunit. We demonstrate subunit specificity of each affinity-purified antisera by western blots of the bacterially expressed protein and immunoblot against peptide. We further used these antibodies to demonstrate expression of neuronal nAChR subunits on the surface of transiently transfected simian kidney (COS-7) cells.

Two female infants who developed normally during infancy began to have progressive muscle hypotonia and weakness from 2 years 10 months and 2 years 3 months of ages, respectively. Both patients had rapidly progressive muscle weakness with death from respiratory failure at 4 years 11 months and 3 years 9 months, respectively. In addition to mild inflammation in their muscle biopsies, the most striking finding was the presence of numerous reducing bodies (RB) in almost all degenerating fibers. By electron microscopy, these bodies consisted of fine granular material, usually located around the degenerating nucleus. These bodies showed no immunohistochemical reaction to antibodies against structural, cytoskeletal and membrane proteins and a histone-specific antibody against nuclei and chromosomes. They were occasionally positively stained with a ubiquitin antibody. Although the origin of these bodies remains unknown, they appeared to be related to active myofibrillar degeneration, probably resulting from primary nuclear degeneration.
Sixteen consecutive patients (8 men; 8 women; age range 6-63 years, median 40 years) with leptomeningeal metastasis were found by radionuclide ventriculography to have cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow interruption at the following sites: cisterna magna/basal cisterns (6); cervical (5) and thoracic (3) spinal subarachnoid space. Two additional patients had no evidence of interruption of CSF flow. All patients underwent intralumbar injection of 111Indium-DTPA and imaging of spinal ascent of radionuclide, corroborating sites of CSF flow disruption seen by radionuclide ventriculography. Median (range) time to appearance in lumbar, thoracic and cervical spinal subarachnoid compartments were 1 (1), 22.5 (20-25) and 32.5 (30-35) minutes respectively. Appearance of radionuclide in the cisterna magna/basal cisterns, sylvian cisterns, ventricular system and high cerebral convexity was 37.5 (35-40), 65 (60-70), 1440 (1440) and 1440 (1440) minutes respectively. Only 1 of 8 patients with interruption of CSF flow within the spinal subarachnoid space shown by intralumbar radionuclide flow study, was seen by either CT myelography or contrast enhanced spine MR to have CSF flow block. No patient with base of brain block (0/6) shown by radionuclide CSF flow studies demonstrated CSF flow disruption by either cranial contrast enhanced CT or MR. In conclusion, spinal 111In-DTPA CSF flow studies confirmed sites of CSF flow block shown by radionuclide ventriculography and demonstrate the feasibility of assessing CSF compartmentalization by intralumbar radionuclide administration. Furthermore, radionuclide CSF flow studies when compared to conventional neuroradiographic imaging are more sensitive in demonstrating interruption of CSF flow.
Cerebral ganglia of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis were incubated in vitro in 10 microM Taxol for 8 and 24 h. Cremophor EL (0.1%) was used as a diluant. The tissue was processed for electron microscopy. Various ultrastructural parameters were assessed quantitatively. Cremophor EL appeared to seriously affect the cell somata of the multipeptidergic caudodorsal cells. In the Cremophor-controls the mean area of Golgi zones, the percentage dense material (neuropeptides) in these zones, the number of large electron dense granules (these are involved in neuropeptide processing) and the mean nuclear heterochromatin clump size, were significantly smaller than in the Ringer-controls, whereas the number of lipid droplets was higher. All these parameters, except for the lipid droplets, were not different in the Cremophor-controls and the Taxol-treated specimens. After 24 h treatment, but not after 8 h, Cremophor EL furthermore induced an increase in the number of axonal microtubules. It is argued that the results might signify activation of the neurons by Cremophor EL. Taxol induced a significant increase in the number of microtubules in axons and cell somata. Furthermore an increase in the number of Golgi zones was observed, suggesting activated neuropeptide synthesis. In all groups immunostaining with antibodies to neuropeptides produced by the caudodorsal cells was normal. Release of neuropeptide (exocytosis) from axon endings was elevated after Taxol treatment, and exceptionally high in specimens cotreated with Taxol and Org 2766 (incubation time 22 h). The effect of Org 2766 and Taxol on the number of microtubules was cumulative.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Malignant astrocytomas are frequently resistant to cytotoxic chemotherapy. A possible mechanism of chemoresistance is drug inactivation within malignant astrocytes by detoxifying enzymes (glutathione transferases (GST) and cytochrome P450's). The aim of this study was to assess whether there was differential expression of these detoxifying enzymes in the central nervous system and any relationship to histological grade (WHO) of the tumours. Immunostaining was performed in 30 consecutive glioma samples, using class specific polyclonal antibodies to subtypes of GST (pi, alpha, mu) and to human cytochrome P450 reductase. GST immunostaining was evident in astrocytes and endothelium but not neurones or oligodendrocytes in normal brain. Immunostaining for GST increased in intensity from well differentiated tumours to glioblastoma. Staining was least evident in surrounding normal brain, strong in reactive astrocytes and astrocytic tumour cells and very intense in gemistocytic and giant tumour cells. Small anaplastic tumour cells had very little GST staining. Where endothelial proliferation was evident, GST staining in endothelial cells was increased. Pi was always the predominant subclass, although GST alpha and mu were also expressed in some tumours. Cytochrome P450 reductase immunostaining was present in normal neurones and malignant astrocytes. Gemistocytic astrocytic tumour cells stained intensely. Further work is necessary to see if there is any correlation between immunostaining intensity survival or response to chemotherapy.
Sixty-one patients (34 men; 27 women) ranging in age from 1-74, median 40 years with leptomeningeal metastases (LM) as defined by either positive CSF cytology (85%) or a clinical syndrome and compatible neuroradiographic findings (15%) underwent CT-myelographic (CT-M), spine MR (S-MR) and 111Indium-DTPA CSF flow studies (FS). Each patient underwent sequential spine imaging (CT-M, S-MR and FS) over a median of 5 days. In 57% of patients, all 3 spine imaging modalities were normal. 43% of patients demonstrated abnormalities on spine imaging; 33% had abnormal FS, 34% showed abnormalities on S-MR and 33% had abnormalities by CT-M. FS were most sensitive for detecting interruption of CSF flow whereas CT-M and S-MR better demonstrated nerve root thickening (CT-M approximately S-MR), cord enlargement (CT-M &gt; S-MR), subarachnoid nodules (S-MR &gt; CT-M), intraparenchymal cord tumor (S-MR &gt; CT-M) and epidural spinal cord compression (S-MR = CT-M). In conclusion, patients with LM frequently require spine imaging and the results of this study suggest both S-MR and FS provide the best radiographic assessment wherein S-MR is superior for detecting bulky disease and FS best demonstrates interruption of CSF flow.
1. Pulse inputs (similar to tendon jerks) were applied to the human ankle joint with the use of a hydraulic actuator. Inputs of only 1-2 degrees could elicit large responses (&gt; 20% of maximum voluntary contraction). The magnitude of the response depended nonlinearly on a number of factors: the amplitude, direction, and duration of the pulse; the angle of the ankle; and the level of voluntary activation of the ankle muscles. 2. Pulses that flexed or extended the ankle could both produce reflex torques in the same direction (extensor torque). Although an extension of the ankle did not itself produce a response, it could affect the response to a subsequent flexion for up to 1 s. 3. The influence of random perturbations on the stretch reflex at the ankle was assessed. Responses to pulse displacements alone and to pulses superimposed on random perturbations were compared at the same level of voluntary activity. Reflex responses decreased in a graded manner with increasing amplitude or bandwidth of the random perturbations. 4. These results demonstrate that stretch reflexes can generate substantial torques, but in a highly nonlinear manner. In particular, passive joint movements markedly alter stretch reflex gain, and these changes must be considered in interpreting the functional significance of reflex actions.
1. We studied the spatial distributions of amplitude tuning (monotonicity of rate-level functions) and response threshold of single neurons along the dorsoventral extent of cat primary auditory cortex (AI). To pool data across animals, we used the multiple-unit map of monotonicity as a frame of reference. Amplitude selectivity of multiple units is known to vary systematically along isofrequency contours, which run roughly in the dorsoventral direction. Clusters sharply tuned for intensity (i.e., &quot;nonmonotonic&quot; clusters) are located near the center of the contour. A second nonmonotonic region can be found several millimeters dorsal to the center. We used the locations of these two nonmonotonic regions as reference points to normalize data across animals. Additionally, to compare this study to sharpness of frequency tuning results, we also used multiple-unit bandwidth (BW) maps as references to pool data. 2. The multiple-unit amplitude-related topographies recorded in previous studies were confirmed. Pooled multiple-unit maps closely approximated the previously reported individual case maps when the multiple-unit monotonicity or the map of bandwidth (in octaves) of pure tones to which a cell responds 40 dB above minimum threshold were used as the pooling reference. When the map of bandwidth (in octaves) of pure tones to which a cell responds 10 dB above minimum threshold map was used as part of the measure, the pooled spatial pattern of multiple-unit activity was degraded. 3. Single neurons exhibited nonmonotonic rate-level functions more frequently than multiple units. Although common in single-neuron recordings (28%), strongly nonmonotonic recordings (firing rates reduced by &gt; 50% at high intensities) were uncommon (8%) in multiple-unit recordings. Intermediately nonmonotonic neurons (firing rates reduced between 20% and 50% at high intensities) occurred with nearly equal probability in single-neuron (28%) and multiple-unit (26%) recordings. The remaining recordings for multiple units (66%) and single units (44%) were monotonic (firing rates within 20% of the maximum at the highest tested intensity). 4. In ventral AI (AIv), the topography of monotonicity for single units was qualitatively similar to multiple units, although single units were on average more intensity selective. In dorsal AI (AId) we consistently found a spatial gradient for sharpness of intensity tuning for multiple units; however, for pooled single units in Aid there was no clear topographic gradient. 5. Response (intensity) thresholds of single neurons were not uniformly distributed across the dorsoventral extent of AI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We used intracellular recording techniques to examine the role of a novel type of protraction phase interneuron, the lateral N1 (N1L) in the feeding system of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. 2. The N1Ls are a bilaterally symmetrical pair of electrotonically coupled interneurons located in the buccal ganglia. Each N1L sends a single axon to the contralateral buccal ganglia. Their neurite processes are confined to the buccal neuropile. 3. In the isolated CNS, depolarization of an N1L is capable of driving a full (N1--&gt;N2--&gt;N3), fast (1 cycle every 5 s) fictive feeding rhythm. This was unlike the previously described N1 medial (N1M) central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons that were only capable of driving a slow, irregular rhythm. Attempts to control the frequency of the fictive feeding rhythm by injecting varying amounts of steady current into the N1Ls were unsuccessful. This contrasts with a modulatory neuron, the slow oscillator (SO), that has very similar firing patterns to the N1Ls, but where the frequency of the rhythm depends on the level of injected current. 4. The N1Ls' ability to drive a fictive feeding rhythm in the isolated preparation was due to their strong, monosynaptic excitatory chemical connection with the N1M CPG interneurons. Bursts of spikes in the N1Ls generated summating excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in the N1Ms to drive them to firing. The SO excited the N1M cells in a similar way, but the EPSPs are strongly facilitatory, unlike the N1L--&gt;N1M connection. 5. Fast (1 cycle every 5 s) fictive feeding rhythms driven by the N1L occurred in the absence of spike activity in the SO modulatory neuron. In contrast, the N1L was usually active in SO-driven rhythms. 6. The ability of the SO to drive the N1L was due to strong electrotonic coupling, SO--&gt;N1L. The weaker coupling in the opposite direction, N1L--&gt;SO, did not allow the N1L to drive the SO. 7. Experiments on semintact lip-brain preparations allowed fictive feeding to be evoked by application of 0.1 M sucrose to the lips (mimicking the normal sensory input) rather than by injection of depolarizing current. Rhythmic bursting, characteristic of fictive feeding, began in both the SO and N1L at exactly the same time, indicating that these two cell types are activated in &quot;parallel&quot; to drive the feeding rhythm. 8. The N1L is also part of the CPG network. It Excited the N2s and inhibited the N3 phasic (N3p) and N3 tonic (N3t) CPG interneurons like the N1Ms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The cellular localization and neurochemical phenotype of cells expressing the GAT-1 GABA transporter was investigated in the adult rat dorsal striatum using single and dual in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical techniques. Cellular sites of GAT-1, GAD67, and parvalbumin mRNAs were visualized using a combination of radioactive and alkaline phosphatase-labeled oligonucleotides and emulsion autoradiography; GAD67 immunoreactivity was detected using a polyclonal antibody (K2) and 3'3&quot;-diaminobenzidine. Two types of GAT-1-positive striatal cells were detected: (1) those expressing an abundance of GAT-1 mRNA, and (2) those expressing low/undetectable amounts of message. This study focused on the striatal cells expressing an abundance of GAT-1 mRNA; these cells accounted for approximately 3-5% of all striatal neurons and were detected scattered sparsely throughout the striatal complex. Dual in situ hybridization and immunocytochemical studies established that all cells enriched in GAT-1 mRNA also expressed high levels of GAD67 mRNA and were strongly GAD67 immunopositive; the converse was also found to be the case, the two hybridization signals having identical distribution patterns. Further dual in situ hybridization studies established that approximately 60% of these high GAD67/GAT-1 cells expressed parvalbumin mRNA, a marker of one population of striatal interneurons, and had an average cross-sectional area of 152.40 microns 2. The chemical phenotype of the remaining 40% of high GAD67/GAT-1 cells was not determined, although the average cross-sectional area of these cells (102.48 microns 2) was significantly smaller than GAT-1/GAD67/parvalbumin cells; these cells were detected in all striatal regions and are likely to correspond to another population of striatal GABAergic interneuron.
Regenerated synaptic connections in the damaged mammalian visual system were studied in adult hamsters in which retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) regrew their axons through autologous peripheral nerve grafts directed from the stump of the transected optic nerve to the superior colliculus (SC). Unitary responses to illumination of small areas of the visual field were recorded within the superficial laminae of the reinnervated SC 23 to 60 weeks after grafting. Each element of a typical bursting response to light consisted of a terminal potential (TP) (half width 164 +/- 25 microseconds, amplitude up to 171 microV) arising from a regenerated RGC axon terminal arborization, followed at a latency of 268 +/- 63 microseconds by a longer duration negative focal synaptic potential (FSP) (half width 938 +/- 396 msec, amplitude up to 188 microV) reflecting EPSPs in neurons within the terminal field of the regenerated RGC axon. The FSP but not the TP was attenuated in a dose-dependent manner by iontophoretic application of GABA. In some cases spikes arose from FSPs after the first two or three impulses of a train, presumably reflecting summation of EPSPs to threshold for excitation in SC neurons contacted by the regenerated RGC axon terminals. Up to one-third of the area of the SC can be infiltrated by arborizations of the regenerated RGC axons that enter the SC through a nerve graft inserted in the lateral aspect of the SC. These experiments indicate that terminal arborizations of individual regenerated RGC axons can synapse with multiple neurons in the SC and that convergence of inputs from regenerated RGC axons is not required for activation of SC neurons in response to light.
Using molecular cloning techniques, human homologs of the known members of the trk family of neurotrophin receptors have been cloned and sequenced. Overall, there is a high degree of similarity between the human sequences and those from other mammals; however, there are differences in splicing patterns. There are two spliced forms of the extracellular domain of trkC in the human, a finding that has not been described in other species. In contrast, fewer spliced forms were detected of the intracellular domains of human trkB and trkC than has been described in other mammals. Northern analysis and in situ hybridization experiments indicate that the human trks are expressed in a similar pattern to that described in other mammals. Expression of the trk extracellular domains as fusion proteins with IgG heavy chain yields soluble molecules that mimic intact trks in their binding specificity and affinity. These soluble chimeras block the biological activity of their cognate neurotrophin(s) in vitro.
The cellular generation and spatial distribution of gamma frequency (40-100 Hz) activity was examined in the hippocampus of the awake rat. Field potentials and unit activity were recorded by multiple site silicon probes (5- and 16-site shanks) and wire electrode arrays. Gamma waves were highly coherent along the long axis of the dentate hilus, but average coherence decreased rapidly in the CA3 and CA1 directions. Analysis of short epochs revealed large fluctuations in coherence values between the dentate and CA1 gamma waves. Current source density analysis revealed large sinks and sources in the dentate gyrus with spatial distribution similar to the dipoles evoked by stimulation of the perforant path. The frequency changes of gamma and theta waves positively correlated (40-100 Hz and 5-10 Hz, respectively). Putative interneurons in the dentate gyrus discharged at gamma frequency and were phase-locked to the ascending part of the gamma waves recorded from the hilus. Following bilateral lesion of the entorhinal cortex the power and frequency of hilar gamma activity significantly decreased or disappeared. Instead, a large amplitude but slower gamma pattern (25-50 Hz) emerged in the CA3-CA1 network. We suggest that gamma oscillation emerges from an interaction between intrinsic oscillatory properties of interneurons and the network properties of the dentate gyrus. We also hypothesize that under physiological conditions the hilar gamma oscillation may be entrained by the entorhinal rhythm and that gamma oscillation in the CA3-CA1 circuitry is suppressed by either the hilar region or the entorhinal cortex.
Two types of monopolar cell interneurons, each with a single representative in every unit cartridge of the first optic neuropil, or lamina, of the housefly's optic lobe, have axons that undergo cyclical changes in diameter. The axons are largest during the beginning of day in a normal LD light cycle and smallest during the middle of the night, changes that were however significant only for one of the cells (L2). The axon cross-sectional area and its cyclical change for both L1 and L2 were both larger in the proximal lamina. The changes are not a simple consequence of relative osmotic change. Dehydration paradoxically increases axon size, and also fails to alter the day/night rhythm of axon size changes. Under conditions of constant darkness, both axons decrease in size, and one of the cells (L2) retains its cyclical size changes, being larger in the subjective day than in the subjective night. Under conditions of constant light, both axons increase in size, and L2 again shows a cyclical size change, just as under conditions of constant darkness. These changes seen under constant conditions are, by definition, circadian in origin. The effects of exposure to light or darkness can partially reset these circadian changes. One extra hour of light during the day increases the size of L1 and L2, whereas 1 hr of extra dark during the night does not decrease their size. It takes 13 hr of light to reverse the rhythm in size. The mechanism for all these changes is unclear but may involve ionic fluxes, possibly that are secondary to osmotic shifts and probably that involve at least two independent processes.
Although the cAMP and phosphoinositide (PI) second messenger systems are involved in olfactory signal transduction, aspects of their roles remain unclear. We have further examined the rapid kinetics of cAMP fluctuations in response to odorants in rat olfactory cilia isolated by calcium shock. Odorants cause a rapid and transient subsecond elevation of cAMP levels, as well as a more sustained signal lasting 5-10 sec. Basal cAMP levels demonstrate a biphasic calcium dependence; calcium enhanced both adenylyl cyclase (AC) and phosphodiesterase (PDE) activities. The odorant-induced cAMP response also demonstrated a biphasic dependence on calcium, with peak activity at 10 microM free calcium. All odorants tested were found to stimulate cAMP accumulation, and the dose-response curves were multiphasic, with less stimulation seen at higher concentrations. Dose-response curves performed for isovaleric acid at two free calcium concentrations demonstrated that calcium can influence cellular responsiveness to odorants and may be involved with signal potentiation as well as desensitization.
Sharp wave bursts, induced by a cooperative discharge of CA3 pyramidal cells, are the most synchronous physiological pattern in the hippocampus. In conjunction with sharp wave bursts, CA1 pyramidal cells display a high-frequency (200 Hz) network oscillation (ripple). In the present study extracellular field and unit activity was recorded simultaneously from 16 closely spaces sites in the awake rat and the intracellular activity of CA1 pyramidal cells during the network oscillation was studied under anesthesia. Current source density analysis of the high-frequency oscillation revealed circumscribed sinks and sources in the vicinity of the pyramidal layer. Single pyramidal cells discharged at a low frequency but were phase locked to the negative peak of the locally derived field oscillation. Approximately 10% of the simultaneously recorded pyramidal cells fired during a given oscillatory event. Putative interneurons increased their discharge rates during the field ripples severalfold and often maintained a 200 Hz frequency during the oscillatory event. Under urethane and ketamine anesthesia the frequency of ripples was slower (100-120 Hz) than in the awake rat (180-200 Hz). Halothane anesthesia prevented the occurrence of high-frequency field oscillations in the CA1 region. Both the amplitude (1-4 mV) and phase of the intracellular ripple, but not its frequency, were voltage dependent. The amplitude of intracellular ripple was smallest between -70 and -80 mV. The phase of intracellular oscillation relative to the extracellular ripple reversed when the membrane was hyperpolarized more than -80 mV. A histologically verified CA1 basket cell increased its firing rate during the network oscillation and discharged at the frequency of the extracellular ripple. These findings indicate that the intracellularly recorded fast oscillatory rhythm is not solely dependent on membrane currents intrinsic to the CA1 pyramidal cells but it is a network driven phenomenon dependent upon the participation of inhibitory interneurons. We hypothesize that fast field oscillation (200 Hz) in the CA1 region reflects summed IPSPs in pyramidal cells as a result of high-frequency barrage of interneurons. The sharp wave associated synchronous discharge of pyramidal cells in the millisecond range can exert a powerful influence on retrohippocampal targets and may facilitate the transfer of transiently stored memory traces from the hippocampus to the entorhinal cortex.
Following peripheral nerve injury, Schwann cells undergo a series of cellular alterations that are thought to assist the regenerative process. Some of these changes are stimulated by the local release of cytokines and mitogenic factors. To test the hypothesis that cytokine regulation of gap junctional communication between cells helps to coordinate Schwann cell responses, cultured rat Schwann cells, from sciatic nerve, were utilized to study phasic changes induced by transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF beta 1), a cytokine released after nerve injury, or forskolin in combination with bovine pituitary extract (F-BPE), known for its mitogenic effects in vitro. In mitotically quiescent cultures, TGF beta 1 significantly decreased both electrical and dye coupling mediated by gap junctions. Single-channel analysis revealed that cultured Schwann cells expressed gap junctions with two distinct channel sizes of about 26 pS and 44 pS. TGF beta 1 treatment reduced coupling due to both populations of channels. Exposure to TGF beta 1 had a minimal effect on proliferation but significantly altered cellular morphology; cell bodies became flattened with multipolar processes within 72 hr. Additionally, immunolabeling for both low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (L-NGFR) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were reduced, suggesting increased differentiation. In contrast, treatment with F-BPE significantly enhanced both electrical and dye coupling and stimulated Schwann cell proliferation. Additionally, cell bodies became more rounded with polarized, cytoplasmic processes contiguously aligned with adjacent cells. F-BPE reduced immunolabeling for L-NGFR but increased expression of both GFAP and the major peripheral myelin protein, P0. These data indicate that TGF beta 1 and/or F-BPE induce phenotypic changes in Schwann cells, including the coordinated regulation of proliferation and modulation of intercellular communication via gap junctions. Such mechanisms may underlie phasic responses that orchestrate recovery from nerve injury, indicating that Schwann cell gap junctions may be critical for peripheral nerve function.
Frequency-specific, i.e., narrow-band brain, activity is traditionally analyzed on the basis of either a time- or frequency-domain representation of the signal. Here we demonstrate an alternative method based on Gabor functions which are well known for their optimal concentration in time and frequency. Using Gabor filtering, amplitude and frequency information can be separated clearly from one another and certain novel approaches to averaging become possible.
Neurons in the central and peripheral nervous system vary widely in their dendritic branching patterns. Quantification of the morphological characteristics used to identify different classes of neurons and relate neural structure to function requires that accurate metric and non-metric data be obtained from neural images obtained by camera-lucida drawing or from digitized video images made with transmitted, fluorescence or confocal microscopy. This paper describes a largely automated procedure for determining the dendritic tree structure of largely planar cells (such as retinal ganglion cells or cells in tissue culture monolayers) from an initial pictorial representation or digitized image. From this structure, non-metric data (such as the ordered 'tree' of branches) and metric information (such as total dendritic length and dendritic field area) can be automatically computed. The use of this method is specifically illustrated in the capture of the dendritic tree structure of retinal ganglion cells from the rabbit retina.
In the present study we report a neuroanatomical procedure that provides direct histological verification of the extent of neuron loss following cytotoxic lesions of the lateral subdivision of the habenular complex (Lhb). Following kainic acid-induced lesions of Lhb neurons, the fluorescent retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold was injected into the ventral midbrain where many medial habenula (Mhb) and Lhb neurons project. The absence of retrogradely labeled neurons in the Lhb indicated the extent of neuron loss there, and the presence of Fluoro-Gold-labeled neurons in the Mhb indicated that its neurons were intact. The extent of neuron loss in the Lhb was significantly correlated with behavioral data. Retrograde tract tracing can be used as an effective histological tool to verify the extent of neuron loss following a lesion procedure.
Acute isolation of vertebrate neurons has been used extensively to characterize membrane properties in the absence of circuit connections or extensive dendritic arborizations. We describe a technique that allows cells to be dissociated from anatomically defined regions of a tissue slice at a resolution beyond that attainable by micro-dissection. Dissociation is performed by using a fire-polished electrode with a tip diameter of 40-100 microns connected by tubing to a micrometer syringe that allows graded levels of positive or negative pressure to be applied at the electrode tip. The electrode tip is placed under microscopic observation upon a cell group within an enzymatically treated slice and negative pressure is applied to dissociate cells into the electrode shaft. Positive pressure is used to eject the cells onto the surface of poly-L-lysine-coated glass coverslips. We have used this technique to dissociate and culture cells from specific laminae of separate sensory maps in a medullary nucleus of adult weakly electric fish. Isolated cells were viable, could be identified by morphological criteria, and exhibited process extension within 2 h of plating. This technique greatly increases the probability of isolating morphologically identifiable vertebrate neurons for electrophysiological analysis or for the reconstruction of neural circuits in vitro.
There are many reasons for wishing to determine the rate of uptake of a drug from blood into brain parenchyma. However, when faced with doing so for the first time, choosing a method can be a formidable task. There are at least 7 methods from which to choose: indicator dilution, brain uptake index, microdialysis, external registration, PET scanning, in situ perfusion, and compartmental modeling. Each method has advantages and disadvantages. Some methods require very little equipment while others require equipment that can cost millions of dollars. Some methods require very little technical experience whereas others require complex surgical manipulation. The mathematics alone for the various methods range from simple algebra to complex integral calculus and differential equations. Like most things in science, as the complexity of the technique increases, so does the quantity of information it provides. This review is meant to serve as a starting point for the researcher who wishes to study transport and uptake across the blood-brain barrier in animal models. An overview of the mathematical theory, as well as an introduction to the techniques, is presented.
Nerve growth factor (NGF), which has been shown to act as a morphological and neurochemical differentiating factor in PC12 cells, also protects PC12 cells from the toxicity of serum withdrawal and ischemia. By using a previously established in vitro model of ischemia, which incorporates the combination of anoxia with glucose deprivation (Boniece and Wagner: J Neurosci 13:4220-4228, 1993), we have been able to study the signal transduction pathways upon which NGF-induced survival is dependent. Here we demonstrate that inhibitors of the N-kinase and NGF-induced neuritogenesis, 6-thioguanine and 2-aminopurine, prevent the protective effects of NGF, while they have little, if any, effect on the protection conferred by epidermal growth factor (EGF) or dbcAMP. This suggests that only NGF acts by a mechanism that depends strongly on the N-kinase. Furthermore, the methyltransferase inhibitor 5'-deoxy-5'-methylthioadenosine (MTA), which also inhibits NGF-induced neuritogenesis, inhibits the protective effect of NGF but not the protective effects of EGF or dbcAMP. Thus, the neuroprotective effect of NGF requires some of the same signal transduction steps used by NGF to promote differentiation and neurite formation. Furthermore, we found that exposure of PC12 cells to retinoic acid, which promotes the differentiation and inhibits the growth of PC12 cells, also improves cell survival during ischemia. In addition, a combination of NGF and retinoic acid was more effective than either agent alone. It is likely that these two agents confer protection by independent pathways.
A case of cerebral abscess caused by Fonsecaea pedrosoi is reported in a nonimmunocompromised 15-year-old boy. In the absence of a primary cutaneous lesion, this fungus was considered to be a primary neuropathogen. The fungus was cultured and characterized from the abscess material obtained at surgery. Prompt therapy using amphotericin B and 5-flucytosine helped in the successful recovery of this patient.
1. We investigated the role of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors in mediating hypoxic excitation of the reticulospinal vasomotor neurones of the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) of the medulla oblongata in paralysed ventilated rats. 2. Unilateral close arterial injection of sodium cyanide (100 nmol) into the carotid sinus region or ventilation with 100% N2 for 12 s rapidly, reversibly and reproducibly excited the RVL-spinal vasomotor neurones, followed about 1-2 s later by increases in sympathetic nerve activity and arterial pressure, effects abolished by denervation of the ipsilateral carotid sinus nerve. 3. Ionophoresis onto the RVL-spinal vasomotor neurones of kynurenate (a wide-spectrum antagonist of the excitatory amino acid receptors) or of 2-amino-5-monophosphovaleric acid (APV; a selective NMDA receptor antagonist), but not of xanthurenate (an inactive analogue of kynurenate), blocked the excitation elicited by intracarotid cyanide or 12 s of hypoxia. Kynurenate completely and APV partially blocked the excitatory responses to ionophoretically applied L-glutamate. APV, however, did not alter the excitatory responses of the vasomotor neurones to ionophoreses of kainate and quisqualate. 4. Bilateral microinjection of kynurenate (10 nmol, 50 nl per site) or APV (5 nmol, 50 nl per site) into the RVL blocked the increases in arterial pressure elicited by intracarotid cyanide or 12 s of 100% N2 ventilation. 5. Twenty seconds of intratracheal administration of 100% N2 resulted in complex and prolonged elevations of arterial pressure, the late component of which was affected neither by sinus denervation nor by microinjections of kynurenate or APV into the RVL. 6. We conclude that the sympathetic and cardiovascular responses to stimulation of arterial chemoreceptors result from excitation of RVL-spinal vasomotor neurones via activation of the NMDA subtypes of the excitatory amino acid receptors of the neurones. In contrast, the failure of these antagonists to influence the delayed excitation of the RVL-spinal vasomotor neurons by more prolonged exposure to N2 inhalation further supports the view that these neurones are directly stimulated by hypoxia.
This paper first briefly describes rhythmic bioelectric oscillations that can be recorded from the neocortex (particularly in cats). This descriptive section is followed by a review of the mechanisms whereby these rhythms are generated, and a section in which we try to go beyond the purely correlative aspect and discuss the possible functional role of synchronized oscillations in thalamo-neocortical channels. Based on the literature data, it seems that two distinct and opposite roles can be attributed to these oscillations: either to lower the level of awareness, such as in slow wave sleep, when these oscillations are widespread on the neocortex; or to contribute to perceptual processing, when these rhythms are more localized and possibly of a higher frequency. Electrocortical (ECoG) rhythmical activities have been known and described since the early days of electrophysiological explorations of the human and animal brain. Surprisingly though, little importance has generally been attached to these oscillatory activities, except as indicators of sleep stages in animals and humans and, in the case of the alpha rhythms (the first rhythm to be discovered in the thirties by Hans Berger), of a certain state of 'relaxation' in humans. Despite the well-accepted fact that the human alpha rhythm evidently occurs during waking (even if it is in a 'relaxed' state), the idea has curiously prevailed that the waking ('aroused') state in general is mostly characterized by low voltage fast ('desynchronized') activity. It is only more recently that some studies have suggested a functional importance of a variety of regular oscillatory activities that can be recorded from the neocortex and/or from a variety of thalamic nuclei not only in the sleeping but also on the waking, behaving animal. This review considers possible reasons indicating that these rhythmical activities are more than just epiphenomena. Our analysis is essentially restricted to the cat, with only a very quick glance at other species.
The time course for the calcium entry that triggers release was studied at the squid giant synapse by imaging light emission from n-aequorin-J intracellularly injected into the presynaptic terminal. The imaging utilized a video system capable of acquiring 4000 frames per second. The results indicate that the calcium entry triggered by action potentials reaches a peak within 200 microseconds and has an overall duration of close to 800 microseconds, closely matching the duration of the presynaptic calcium current determined by voltage clamp results under similar conditions.
We have investigated the signals between identified leech neurons during the formation of specific synapses in culture. At an inhibitory serotonergic synapse between two well-studied neurons, the postsynaptic cell has an additional (extrasynaptic) excitatory response to 5-HT which may underly a form of activity-dependent modulation. Thus, the presynaptic neuron must select which 5-HT response will be activated and which will be excluded at its synapses. The selection of these responses preceded synapse formation and was specifically induced at sites of contact with the presynaptic neuron, this not being observed for other cell pairings. Aldehyde-fixed presynaptic cells were equally effective, unless pre-treated with trypsin or wheat germ agglutinin, suggesting that contact with a specific cell-surface glycoprotein induced this physiological change in 5-HT sensitivity. The mechanism underlying the selective loss of the extrasynaptic response has been examined by single channel recording. Cation channels in the postsynaptic neuron were modulated by protein kinase C (PKC) upon binding of 5-HT to a 5-HT2 receptor. However, at sites of contact with the presynaptic neuron, the channels were no longer sensitive to PKC. Furthermore, when cation channels from uncontacted neurons were inserted or 'crammed' into contacted neurons, they were rapidly rendered insensitive to PKC, demonstrating a cytoplasmic signal for the uncoupling of channel modulation. Interestingly, the cytoplasm of contacted postsynaptic neurons showed immunoreactivity for tyrosine phosphorylation: exposure of the neurons to specific inhibitors of tyrosine kinases prevented tyrosine phosphorylation, the loss of cation channel modulation and synapse formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The dynamics of presynaptic transmitter release are often matched to the physiological properties and function of the postsynaptic cell. Evidence in organisms as diverse as the cricket central nervous system and the cat spinal cord suggests that retrograde signaling is essential for matching presynaptic release properties to the postsynaptic cell. The cricket central nervous system is favorably organized for analysis of synaptic function in the central nervous system. Several lines of independent evidence suggest that it is possible to reliably estimate the size of single quantal release events at the sensory to interneuron synapses of the cricket. A quantal analysis suggests that a retrograde influence on the probability of presynaptic release is responsible for matching presynaptic dynamic properties to postsynaptic targets. This retrograde interaction is hypothesized to be a long-term modification on the basal probability of presynaptic release.
We reported recently that transgenic mice overexpressing human neurofilament heavy (NF-H) proteins develop a progressive neurological disorder with pathological features resembling those found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) (Ct et al 1993). A simple behavioral test, the grasping ability, has been used here for evaluating the motor dysfunction during aging of NF-H transgenic mice. Transgenic mice overexpressing NF-H proteins are normal at birth but they progressively fail to uphold their weight when tested for their grasping ability. The deficits in motor function during aging correlate with a progressive disruption of peripheral nerve function as evidenced by the atrophy and degeneration of distal axons.


Buspirone is a novel anxiolytic which does not share the muscle relaxant, anticonvulsant and sedative properties of classical anxiolytics such as the benzodiazepines. Its effects on behavioural tests of anxiolytic action generally match those of classical anxiolytics provided a low dose is used. However, in a previous experiment, buspirone appeared to affect fixed interval responding in a way which differed qualitatively as well as quantitatively from the classical anxiolytic chlordiazepoxide. It takes as much as 2 weeks for the clinical effects of anxiolytics to develop, during which time the side effects of benzodiazepines undergo tolerance. We, therefore, decided to compare long-term pre-administration (60 days, three injections/day) of buspirone and chlordiazepoxide on learning of a fixed interval 60-s schedule. The doses were based on previous acute dose-response tests of hippocampal theta rhythm in freely moving animals. Buspirone (0.1 mg/ kg i.p.) and chlordiazepoxide (0.4 mg/kg i.p.) produced similar increases in responding, especially in the middle of acquisition of the fixed interval schedule. Consistent with our acute electrophysiological tests, the effects of 0.4 mg/kg chlordiazepoxide were somewhat larger than those of 0.1 mg/kg buspirone. These results suggest that the acute effects of buspirone, but probably not chlordiazepoxide, on fixed interval responding are contaminated by side effects which do not seriously affect the results with long-term administration. The effects of both novel and classical anxiolytics on control of hippocampal theta rhythm appear to predict the magnitude of their common anxiolytic effects and to be unrelated to their different side effects.
We describe a novel instrument which is capable of measuring the uptake of radioligand in human organs in vivo with the administration of very small doses of positron-emitting radioligands. This technique readily detects the displacement or reduced uptake of radioligand when a competitive agonist or antagonist is administered. This system provides no tomographic information, but the small radioactive doses involved mean that investigations can be repeated at regular intervals and that female volunteers can also participate. We administered [(11) C]flumazenil, [(11)C]diprenorphine, [(11)C]meta -hydroxyephedrine (MHED) and [(11)C]RTI 55 to healthy male volunteers and performed control, pre-loading and displacement experiments. These demonstrate the feasibility of using this technique to investigate benzodiazepine and opiate receptor occupancy, as well as occupancy at dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin (5-HT) re-uptake sites. This method is likely to be useful in pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic experiments, in drug development and discovery and in the development of novel imaging radioligands.
We investigated the effects of serotonergic drugs on working memory (WM) in a delayed conditional discrimination task. The 5-HT(1A) receptor full agonist flesinoxan (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) dose- and delay-dependently impaired performance, indicating a specific effect on WM. The 5-HT(1A) receptor partial agonist ipsapirone, the 5-HT( 1B/1D/2C) agonist TFMPP, the 5-HT(1A) antagonist NAN190 and the serotonin re-uptake inhibitor fluvoxamine dose-dependently impaired performance, in a delay-independent manner, indicating no specific effect on WM. The 5-HT( 2) receptor antagonist ketanserin and the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist ondansetron did not affect performance. It is suggested that the role of central serotonin receptors in WM may be restricted to 5-HT(1A) receptors.
The D2 dopamine receptor is known to be functionally coupled to the inhibition of adenylate cyclase when expressed in a number of mammalian cell lines. However, functional coupling of the recently discovered D3 and D4 dopamine receptor subtypes has been more difficult to demonstrate. In this study, human D2, D3 and D4 receptors were stably expressed separately in human embryonic kidney cells (HEK 293). In these cells, activation of D2, D3 or D4 receptors resulted in the inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in a dose responsive manner. This activation was prevented by pre-incubation of the cells expressing these receptors with the dopaminergic antagonist haloperidol. Radioligand binding studies using [3H]spiperone confirmed that the atypical neuroleptic clozapine has higher affinity for the human D4 receptor than the D3 or D4 receptors, although only 6-fold higher than the D2 receptor in this study. In addition, ribonuclease protection studies demonstrated the presence of D4 dopamine receptor mRNA in human brain regions.
The pharmacology of native and recombinant GABA-A receptors containing either gamma1, gamma2 or gamma3 subunits has been investigated. The pharmacology of native receptors has been investigated by immunoprecipitating receptors from solubilised preparations of rat brain with antisera specific for individual gamma-subunits and analysing their radioligand binding characteristics. Receptors containing a gamma1-subunit do not bind benzodiazepine radioligands with high affinity. Those containing either a gamma2 or gamma3 subunit bind [3H]flumazenil with high affinity. Some compounds compete for these binding sites with multiple affinities, reflecting the presence of populations of receptors containing several different types of alpha-subunit. Photoaffinity-labelling of GABA-A receptors from a cell line stably expressing GABA-A receptors of composition alpha1beta3gamma2 followed by immunoprecipitation of individual subunits revealed that the alpha and gamma but not the beta-subunit could be irreversibly labelled by [3H]flunitrazepam. The properties of recombinant receptors have been investigated in oocytes expressing gamma1, gamma2, or gamma3 subunits in combination with an alpha and a beta-subunit. Some compounds such as zolpidem, DMCM and flunitrazepam show selectivity for receptors containing different gamma-subunits. Others such as CL 218,872 show no selectivity between receptors containing different gamma-subunits but exhibit selectivity for receptors containing different alpha-subunits. These data taken together suggest that the benzodiazepine site of the GABA-A receptor is formed with contributions from both the alpha and gamma-subunits.
Although there is general agreement that a high degree of variability exists between subjects in their autonomic nervous system responses to motion sickness stimulation, very little evidence exists that examines the reproducibility of autonomic responses within subjects during motion sickness stimulation. Our objectives were to examine the reliability of autonomic responses and symptom levels across five testing occasions using the (1) final minute of testing, (2) change in autonomic response and the change in symptom level, and (3) strength of the relationship between the change in symptom level and the change in autonomic responses across the entire motion sickness test. The results indicate that, based on the final minute of testing, the autonomic responses of heart rate, blood volume pulse, and respiration rate are moderately stable across multiple tests. Changes in heart rate, blood volume pulse, respiration rate, and symptoms throughout the test duration are less stable across the tests. Finally, autonomic responses and symptom levels are significantly related across the entire motion sickness test.
We examined the effect of mental stress on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) by microneurographically measuring the MSNA of the tibial nerve while subjects read aloud. A delayed auditory feedback task (DAF) was employed with a delay interval of 200 ms and these performances were compared to those in the absence of DAF in five healthy men (28 +/- 2 years). The mean blood pressure was significantly elevated during reading both in the presence of DAF and in its absence, and the pressor response was more exaggerated in the presence of DAF than its absence. MSNA and plasma norepinephrine levels were significantly increased during reading in the presence of DAF but not in its absence, whereas heart rate was mildly increased at the same extent during reading in both the presence and absence of DAF. The results suggest that mental stress produces elevation in blood pressure and mediates the activation of sympathetic nerve activity.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether static biceps brachii contraction by handcurling enhances the muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in the resting muscle. In six healthy men (age: 19-23 years), we measured MSNA in the tibial nerve microneurographically, with heart rate, blood pressure, biceps electromyogram (EMG), and the intensity of local fatigue sensation in the working muscle. Subjects performed static biceps brachii contraction for 2 min (short exercise) at 30% of maximal voluntary contraction, and then they made fatiguing exercise to exhaustion (long exercise). During the short exercise, the heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure increased significantly (p &lt; 0.05). In the last 30s of the short exercise, the MSNA burst rate and total MSNA increased significantly but integrated EMG did not increase. In long exercise, MSNA burst rate, total MSNA, mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate, EMG activity, and local fatigue sensation increased progressively with advancing exercising time. There was a significant correlation between integrated EMG and total MSNA (r = 0.64, n = 63, p &lt; 0.001), and local fatigue sensation and total MSNA (r = 0.41, n = 63, p &lt; 0.001) during the long exercise. Post-exercise recovery of the MSNA response to static handcurling was more prompt in short exercise than that in long exercise. We conclude that MSNA is enhanced during submaximal static handcurling, and the magnitude of enhancement correlates with EMG activity and subjective fatigue sensation in the biceps brachii, which might be attributed to the stimulation of metaboreceptors in the working muscle.
To clarify the effects of manual acupuncture on the autonomic nervous system, we measured efferent muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the right peroneal nerve while simultaneously recording blood pressure and heart rate both during the resting period and after manual acupuncture applied to the Tsusanli acupoint of the same limb. The needle was rotated intermittently for 30 s at 5-min intervals. MSNA increased transiently with the suppression of heart rate during rotation of the acupuncture needle. No consistent change in blood pressure was found throughout the acupuncture session. After removal of the needle, both the MSNA and heart rate returned to the initial control values, and the mean blood pressure showed an increase over the resting value. MSNA showed a negative correlation with heart rate in four out of five subjects who received acupuncture. These results suggest that the coactivation of cardiac vagal and muscle sympathetic nerves is evoked by the acupuncture maneuver.

In membranes of rat olfactory bulb, muscarinic receptor agonists stimulate basal adenylyl cyclase activity . This response is inhibited by a number of muscarinic receptor antagonists with a rank order of potency suggesting the involvement of the M4 muscarinic receptor subtype. The stimulatory effect does not require Ca2+ and occurs independently of activation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin completely prevents the muscarinic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase, indicating the participation of G proteins of the Gi/Go family. Immunological impairment of the G protein, Gs, also reduces the muscarinic response, whereas concomitant activation of Gs-coupled receptors by CRH or VIP results in a synergistic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. Although these data suggest a role for Gs, a body of evidence indicates that the muscarinic receptors do not interact directly with this G protein. Moreover, the Ca2+/calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM)- and forskolin-stimulated enzyme activities are inhibited by muscarinic receptor activation in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner and with a pharmacological profile similar to that observed for the stimulatory response. These data indicate that in rat olfactory bulb M4 muscarinic receptors exert a bimodal control on cyclic AMP formation through a sequence of events that may involve activation of Gi/Go proteins, synergistic interaction with Gs and differential modulation of Ca2+/CaM-independent and -dependent forms of adenylyl cyclase.
The present study investigated the interaction between glycine and ethanol on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-stimulated neurotransmitter release in hippocampal, cerebrocortical, and striatal slices from rat brain. Some, but not all, previous studies have shown that glycine may reverse the inhibitory effect of ethanol on NMDA receptors. Hippocampal or cortical slices were prepared and prelabelled with [3H]norepinephrine, and striatal slices were labelled with [3H]dopamine. Stimulation of the slices with 500 microM NMDA for two minutes caused a significant release of [3H]neurotransmitter in each brain region above basal. Ethanol (60 mM) significantly inhibited the NMDA-stimulated release of neurotransmitter from all brain regions. Addition of glycine (0.3-3 microM) to the buffer bathing the slices had no effect on the inhibitory effect of ethanol in hippocampus or cortex. However, in striatal slices, 0.3 and 1.0 microM glycine added to the buffer reversed the inhibitory effect of ethanol on NMDA-stimulated [3H]dopamine release without having any effect on either basal or NMDA-stimulated release by itself. These results show that the interaction between ethanol and glycine varies in different brain regions. Therefore interpretation of the potential inhibitory effect of ethanol on NMDA receptor function in vivo should consider brain region and local concentrations of glycine.
The time-course of 5-HT-induced intracellular Ca2+ mobilization in platelets displays biphasic curves; a rapid peak occurs within 10 sec, followed by a prolonged plateau phase. In platelets of patients with affective disorders, many reports have suggested that there is an increase in the rapid peak in intracellular Ca2+ mobilization, but there is no report concerning the plateau phase in intracellular Ca2+ mobilization. We, then, assessed the time course of 5-HT-induced Ca2+ mobilization to compare untreated manic patients with euthymic bipolar disorders and normal subjects. Not only peak amplitude but also plateau phase were more significantly enhanced in the platelets of untreated manic patients than in those of normal controls. These results suggest that the serotonergic neural transmission by means of intracellular Ca2+ was enhanced by the prolonged plateau phase as well as by increased peak amplitude in platelets of mania. The enhanced rapid peak and plateau phase in untreated bipolar mania were restored to their control levels in treated euthymic bipolar disorders. These findings suggest that the reduction of the enhancement in Ca2+ mobilization might be related to either the effects of chronic treatment with lithium or the affective states of the patients.
The influence of metaphit, a phencyclidine derivative, on the amplitude of Long-Term Potentiation (LTP) in the mouse hippocampus was investigated. Mice (C57BL/6) of both sexes were injected with metaphit (80 mg/kg) and hippocampal slices were prepared at 3, 24, 48 hrs and 6 days following injection. The extracellular evoked potentials were recorded from the pyramidal cell layer following Schaffer collateral stimulation. The threshold value, defined as the minimum strength of the stimuli to evoke a 0.1 mV potential, was about 5 fold greater in metaphit slices than in control slices 3 hr following injection, and then declined to the control value within 6 days. The magnitude of LTP was also amplified by metaphit in a time-dependent fashion. The effect was visible three hours after injection, reached its maximum at 48 hr and then declined to a level slightly higher than control at 6 days following injection. These results demonstrate that metaphit, a compound known to induce audiogenic seizures, is able to modify synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Presented results are also in agreement with our previous data which demonstrated an interaction between the mechanisms of LTP and audiogenic seizure.
We sought to determine whether agmatine (decarboxylated arginine), a bacterial product recently discovered for the first time in mammalian brain, was contained in other organs. A method was developed for isolation of agmatine from tissue and detection by RP-HPLC following solid-liquid extraction and derivatization with o-phthalaldehyde and mercaptoethanol. Recovery was about 80% and the limit of fluorometric detection was about 10 pg on column. In male Sprague-Dawley rats agmatine was unevenly and widely distributed in many tissues confirming its presence in mammals. The highest concentration (approximately 71 ng/mg net weight) was found in stomach, with aorta and small intestine next, followed by smaller levels in spleen, adrenal, aorta, and skeletal muscle and brain. Serum concentrations were high. Agmatine in male Long Evans rats of 3, 12, and 24 months of age demonstrated similar but not identical tissue distribution without any effect of aging. Since agmatine binds to alpha 2-adrenergic and imidazoline receptors, is bioactive in a number of tissues, is contained in neurons and is found in serum and tissues, the findings are consistent with a potential role for agmatine as a neurotransmitter and/or hormone. It also raises the possibility that agmatine may, as in bacteria, serve as a polyamine precursor along metabolic pathways previously not detected in mammals.
It is well-established that dopamine facilitates motor responsiveness. However, neuroleptics--drugs that block dopaminergic transmission--do not affect equally motor responses to environmental stimuli: responses to some stimuli seem completely preserved while responses to other stimuli are greatly disturbed. For example, escape responses to a noxious stimulus are typically preserved, even when avoidance to a cue predicting the noxious stimulus is absent. In this paper, we propose a connectionist account of this differential effect. We assume that dopamine determines the &quot;gain&quot; of the function relating the activation of a neural ensemble to its excitatory or inhibitory input. Because such a function is necessarily non-linear, we show that the influence of gain on whether a neural ensemble reaches a &quot;threshold&quot; of activation is critically different for low and high excitatory drives. This analysis makes specific predictions about the effect of neuroleptics on motor responses at different stages of training.
The distribution of free and conjugated forms of the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) metabolite 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) in human urine was determined. 5HTOL was analyzed using a sensitive and specific gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric method. The sulfate and glucuronide conjugated forms were measured indirectly following enzymatic hydrolysis. Total 5HTOL levels in control samples ranged between 98-301 nM, in samples collected following ingestion of bananas, a food rich in serotonin, between 450-3292 nM, following alcohol consumption between 863-13326 nM, and in samples obtained from patients with serotonin producing carcinoid tumors between 1695-3793 nM. Free 5HTOL accounted for less than 4% of total 5HTOL in all samples. Sulfate conjugated 5HTOL was calculated to comprise about 17% of total 5HTOL in the control samples and 15% in the alcohol samples, whereas the mean proportion was significantly increased to 33% and 27% in the samples collected after ingestion of bananas and from patients with carcinoid tumors, respectively. The results show that conjugation with glucuronic acid followed by urinary excretion is normally the predominant route for elimination of 5HTOL in man. However, in situations of elevated levels of total 5-hydroxyindoles originating from dietary sources or serotonin producing tumors in the gut, sulfate conjugation becomes more important.
The effect of GABA receptor agonists on release in vitro of radiolabeled GABA and glutamate was studied using a crude preparation of isolated nerve terminals (neurosomes). GABA agonists were incubated (2 min, 37 degrees C) with neurosomes prepared from hypothalamus, preoptic area (POA) and frontal cortex tissues. Under these conditions, GABA and the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol, but not the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen, stimulated 3H-GABA and 3H-glutamate release from POA but not hypothalamic or cortical neurosomes of gonadally intact male rats. These effects were inhibited by the GABAA receptor antagonists picrotoxin, bicuculline and SR-95531. Significant efflux of 3H-glutamate could be elicited from cortical neurosomes following longer (5 min) incubations with 500 microM GABA and 400 microM muscimol. Muscimol-induced release of 3H-glutamate and 3H-GABA was dependent on extracellular calcium. Muscimol and GABA failed to release 3H-GABA or 3H-glutamate from POA neurosomes of ovariectomized female rats. However, administration of estradiol and progesterone to ovariectomized females prior to sacrifice caused the appearance of muscimol induced-release of amino acids from POA neurosomes comparable to that obtained in male rats. GABA-induced release of 3H-glutamate was similarly dependent on pretreatment of ovariectomized rats with ovarian steroids. GABAA receptor-induced release of amino acids is therefore brain region-specific and modified by hormonal status.
The effects of the brain-penetrating H2 antagonist zolantidine (ZOL, 3 mg/kg, s.c.) were studied on morphine (MOR, 4 mg/kg, s.c.) antinociception (tail flick test) in the presence and absence of previous restraint stress. Animals were handled for 3 days (to reduce handling stress), restrained for 1 hr or handled on day 4, and tested 24 hrs later. As found previously, restraint enhanced the intensity and duration of MOR antinociception. ZOL potentiated MOR antinociception in handled, non-restrained animals, but inhibited MOR action in restrained animals. In contrast, ZOL had no effects on nociceptive responses in either handled or stressed subjects in the absence of MOR. The data suggest that, in the absence of restraint, brain HA acts at the H2 receptor to inhibit MOR antinociception. In contrast, when an animal has been previously restrained, HA enhances MOR antinociception. Thus, brain HA appears to mediate the restraint-induced potentiation of MOR antinociception. Taken with previous results, the present findings suggest that in the presence of MOR, brain HA can provide bidirectional modulation of nociception. The direction of the modulation seems to depend upon the stress experience of the animal.
Proteolytic processing of prodynorphin-derived peptides in rat brain was studied with the help of high performance size exclusion chromatography (SEC) connected to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Extracts from rat striatum were incubated with individual synthetic dynorphin peptides. Dynorphin A was the most resistant to proteolytic cleavage, converting slowly to Leu-enkephalin (0.3 pmol/min), whereas dynorphin B was processed to this pentapeptide at a 10(4)-fold higher rate. Minor cleavage was also observed between Arg6-Arg7. Alphaneoendorphin was also rapidly metabolized to Leu-enkephalin (6 nmol/min) and, to a lesser extent, to Leu-enkephalinArg6. This new strategy for studying peptidases can easily be adapted to identification of components present in body fluids.


The biology of deception suggests that denial-like processes are at the core of the cognitive coping. In this regard, with cognitive ability, one associates or assumes that this process occurs by way of a 'rational' mind. Such a detailed cognitive process as being rational would also lead, counter intuitively, to inactivity and or major delays in conclusion reaching. Thus, our perceived rationality may also be a deceptive behavioral response. Of equal noteworthyness, man is also 'emotional'. We surmise that emotion represents the pre-cognitive short-cut to overcome this potential for excessive rationality. In this light, we may explain certain psychiatric disorders such as obsessive-compulsive behavior as emotional extremes dealing with cognitive habits used to bind anxiety operating most probably at the pre-cognitive level. Given recent discoveries in neuroimmunology and an understanding of naturally occurring morphine as both an immune and neurological down-regulatory substance we hypothesize that abnormalities associated with emotional extremes may be due, in part, to morphinergic imbalances.


1. INTRODUCTION. The main purpose of our work was to create the informational expert system of psychovegetative syndrome diagnosis by applying clinical data and estimating the functioning of the central and peripheral part of regulatory apparatus of the human organism, taking into consideration parallel and consecutive sensory, motor, associative, emotional drive systems, and internal body state. We used automatized psychophysiological investigation and mathematical models. For this purpose the following principal tasks have been prepared: the creation of database of quantifiable estimation patient state; the definition and automation of psychophysiological investigation; mathematical modeling of vegetative functions using a non-invasive sample and its connection with real psychophysiological experiment; mathematical modeling of organisms inner medium homeostasis; and the creation of an informational-expert system of psychovegetative syndrome diagnosis. 2. DATABASE OF ESTIMATION OF PATIENTS STATE. The medical records of the DB &quot;PATIENT&quot; contain data on patient psychic and somatoneurological status. 3. AUTOMATED PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. Psychophysiological investigation enables estimation of the functioning of several subsystems of the human organism and establishes an interrelationship between them by means of electrophysiological data and performance parameters. The study of psychophysiological provision of behavior by psychophysiological investigation enables us to get information about adaptational mechanisms of the patient under certain environmental loads. By means of special mathematical provision, the mathematical elaboration of biosignals as performance parameters has been realized; also realized were the formation of received parameters in the database, the estimation of separated parameters in the view of informativity, and the establishment of diagnostic patterns. 4. MATHEMATICAL MODELS FOR ESTIMATION INTERNAL BODY STATE. The proposed mathematical models allow investigation of homeostatic regulation in various intensities of the metabolic processes and external load. This approach in mathematical models allows us to characterize the relations between the central and peripheral parts of the regulatory mechanisms, using non-invasive samples under psychophysiological investigation and the simulation of different surroundings for brain cells functioning. 5. INFORMATION-EXPERT SYSTEM. Proceeding from the principle of psychoneural unity, we characterized the functioning mechanisms of CNS by means of automatized EEG analysis, visually evoked potential analysis, estimated psychic status, and the characteristics of neural system biochemical processes received by mathematical modeling. By using the indices of the viscero-vegetative and somatolocomotor system (as well as parameters received by automatized analysis of ECG), the EEG respiratory signal--from mathematical models of vegetative functions decision support system applied in estimation of a peripheral block of the regulatory system--is reflected in diagnosis of certain syndromes. The informational expert system, proceeding from the functioning of the human organism's regulatory apparatus, diagnosed psychovegetative syndrome and described the mechanisms of its development. 6. CONCLUSION. The informational expert system enables estimation of the functioning of a human organism as a whole and can be introduced in the sphere of practical medicine and professional orientation as well as in laboratories of experimental psychology and neurosciences.
Sophisticated network-based informatics support will increasingly be required for collaborating biomedical laboratories located in different geographic locations, both to accommodate the massive amount of data being generated in certain fields, and to allow different types of data produced at different laboratories to be analyzed in an integrated fashion. The paper describes the experience of the Yale Center for Medical Informatics in providing informatics support for collaborative projects in gene mapping (as part of the national Human Genome Project) and neuroscience (as part of the national Human Brain Project). The paper describes the informatics needs of the two projects and the solutions being developed, describes certain lessons learned, and discusses certain broader issues that arise.
From the prospective multi-center evaluation study of the decision support system KANDID, significant variations were revealed in local epidemiology, local examination techniques, local preferred examination protocols, and local diagnostic criteria among seven European EMG laboratories. A clinical network of eight Electromyographic (EMG) centers has, due to this study, harmonized terminology and the interpretation of EMG examinations. The ESTEEM project has, based on these specifications, developed the EMG-Platform for the local data acquisition, storage, interpretation, and telecommunication between the clinical ESTEEM centers. On this basis, a medical audit and consensus process across Europe is being carried out on a daily basis. This process has shown an impact on diagnostic criteria within the clinical group. This study has illustrates informatics as a necessary prerequisite for the quality assurance of clinical EMG practice.
A relational database system was developed to store electrophysiological signals recorded with different Evoked Potentials (EP) recording equipment produced by the Cuban Neurosciences Center. The system has several functions such as storage of EP recording parameters, data retrieval with a flexible query mechanism, database backup, and data transfer from one database to other. A complete set of functions facilitates EP analysis, either for clinical or research purposes. It is also useful as a clinical information management tool.
A software development kit (SDK) for electrophysiological signal processing (hardware control, storage, and graphic visualization) is presented. Its architecture is described, and emphasis is made on the underlying technology. Results obtained in continuous EEG and Evoked Potential monitoring at Cuban Neuroscience Center are presented.






The mechanochemical ATPase kinesin is thought to move membrane-bounded organelles along microtubules in fast axonal transport. However, fast transport includes several classes of organelles moving at rates that differ by an order of magnitude. Further, the fact that cytoplasmic forms of kinesin exist suggests that kinesins might move cytoplasmic structures such as the cytoskeleton. To define cellular roles for kinesin, the axonal transport of kinesin was characterized. Retinal proteins were pulse-labeled, and movement of radiolabeled kinesin through optic nerve and tract into the terminals was monitored by immunoprecipitation. Heavy and light chains of kinesin appeared in nerve and tract at times consistent with fast transport. Little or no kinesin moved with slow axonal transport indicating that effectively all axonal kinesin is associated with membranous organelles. Both kinesin heavy chain molecular weight variants of 130,000 and 124,000 M(r) (KHC-A and KHC-B) moved in fast anterograde transport, but KHC-A moved at 5-6 times the rate of KHC-B. KHC-A cotransported with the synaptic vesicle marker synaptophysin, while a portion of KHC-B cotransported with the mitochondrial marker hexokinase. These results suggest that KHC-A is enriched on small tubulovesicular structures like synaptic vesicles and that at least one form of KHC-B is predominantly on mitochondria. Biochemical specialization may target kinesins to appropriate organelles and facilitate differential regulation of transport.
Individuals with germ line mutations in the p53 gene, such as Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS), have an increased occurrence of many types of cancer, including an unusually high incidence of breast cancer. This report documents that normal breast epithelial cells obtained from a patient with LFS (with a mutation at codon 133 of the p53 gene) spontaneously immortalized in cell culture while the breast stromal fibroblasts from this same patient did not. Spontaneous immortalization of human cells in vitro is an extremely rare event. This is the first documented case of the spontaneous immortalization of breast epithelial cells from a patient with LFS in culture. LFS patient breast stromal fibroblasts infected with a retroviral vector containing human papillomavirus type 16 E7 alone were able to immortalize, whereas stromal cells obtained from patients with wild-type p53, similarly infected with human papillomavirus type 16 E7, did not. The present results indicate a protective role of normal pRb-like functions in breast stromal fibroblasts but not in breast epithelial cells and reinforces an important role of wild-type p53 in the regulation of the normal growth and development of breast epithelial tissue.
In a previous study, we found immunoreactivity for complement factors C3, C3d, and C4d, as well as endogenous IgG in the hypoglossal nucleus following hypoglossal nerve transection, suggesting that activation of the complement cascade had taken place in the vicinity of the axotomized motorneurons. In the present study, we found increased immunoreactivity for complement factor C1 and C1q in reactive microglia, indicating an increased potential for initiation of the classical pathway by binding of IgG to C1q. Furthermore, we found immunoreactivity for C9, which contributes to the formation of C5b-9, the final lytic product of the complement cascade close to the axotomized neurons and perineuronal glia. In addition, immunoreactivity and mRNA labeling of sulfated glycoprotein (SGP-2), a putative complement inhibitor, was increased in a subpopulation of the axotomized motorneurons. SGP-2 immunoreactivity was also increased in astroglial cells ipsilateral to the nerve injury. The results lend further support to the hypothesis that the complement cascade is activated in the vicinity of axotomized neurons, which in turn may be protected by complement inhibitors. The balance between activation of complement and complement inhibitors might have an impact on the degenerative components of the axon reaction and, in particular, the events leading to nerve cell death.
A highly conserved ten amino acid proregion separates the peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) domain of the bifunctional peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) protein from the NH2-terminal signal peptide; propeptides with amino acid sequences similar to the PAM proregion have been identified in other secreted proteins. In AtT-20 cells, but not in human embryonic kidney (hEK)-293 cells, an endogenous endoprotease acting at a site distal to the trans-Golgi network efficiently removes the propeptide from stably transfected monofunctional PHM (PHMs). We constructed a mutant PHM protein (delta ProPHMs) in which the proregion was deleted and the signal peptide joined directly to the monooxygenase domain. Newly synthesized, enzymatically active delta ProPHMs was secreted from both AtT-20 cells and hEK-293 cells more slowly than PHMs. In endocrine cells, the proregion was not required for storage in regulated secretory granules. We transferred the PAM proregion to prohormone convertase 2 (PC2), another soluble constituent of secretory granules, to determine whether the effect of the proregion were transferrable. In both AtT-20 cells and hEK-293 cells, the PAM/PC2 fusion molecule was able to exit the endoplasmic reticulum more rapidly than PC2.
Vibratory inhibition, the homonymous recovery curve and the ratio of the maximal H-reflex to direct muscle potential (H/M ratio) of the soleus H-reflex were assessed in 10 patients with leg dystonia and in six patients with arm or neck dystonia. The results were compared with those obtained in 48 healthy control subjects. H-reflex variables most helpful for the discrimination of patients and healthy subjects were identified. In patients with leg dystonia, vibratory inhibition was less marked than in control subjects, whereas late facilitation of the recovery curve was increased. In patients with leg dystonia, area values of test reflexes in the late facilitatory phase of the recovery curve exceeded peak-peak values, in contrast to findings in control subjects. This finding may be attributable to less synchronization of enhanced test reflexes in dystonia than in the control condition. In differentiating patients with leg dystonia from control subjects, a combination of parameters of vibratory inhibition and the late facilitatory phase of the recovery curve appeared most useful. In patients with arm or neck dystonia and in the unaffected legs of hemidystonic patients, soleus H-reflex test results were in the normal range. Abnormalities in the results of the soleus H-reflex tests we used appear to be related to the presence of clinical signs in the extremity under examination and not to the severity of features.

To investigate the nature of the inflammatory response in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD), we analyzed mononuclear cells in muscle sections obtained from 18 FSHD patients and 8 controls. Monoclonal antibodies reactive for T cells, T cell subsets, B cells, and NK cells were used for cell typing. Macrophages were identified by acid phosphatase reaction. The localization of perforin, granzyme A, MHC-I and -II, dystrophin, and alpha-actinin antigens was also examined. We found that all FSHD patients, both familiar and sporadic cases, had greater amounts of mononuclear cellular infiltrates in muscle than controls, in whose specimens only few extra vascular mononuclear cells were counted. Seventy-two percent (13 of 18) of the patients had more than 50 inflammatory mononuclear cells per 1000 muscle fibers, and 33% (6 of 18) patients had numerous inflammatory cells exceeding 600 per 1000 muscle fibers (1835 +/- 482 SE). Nonnecrotic fibers invaded by mononuclear cells with either T8+, perforin+, or granzyme A+ were not observed in FSHD, while a few degenerating fibers were superficially invaded by T cells and macrophages. Occasional T cells were observed moving through the blood vessel wall. The increased number of necrotic fibers was paralleled by an increased number of inflammatory cells (r = 0.783, P = 0.0001). Genetic analysis, using the probes p13E11, pFR-1, D4S139, and D4S163, was done in 6 patients (3 familiar, 3 sporadic) who had numerous inflammatory infiltrates. These 6 patients had small (&lt;28 kb) EcoRI fragments associated with the disease, and the disease was linked to 4q35. These results suggest that, in chromosome 4-linked FSHD: (1) inflammatory changes in muscle are a common histological feature; (2) mononuclear cellular infiltrates may enhance muscle fiber damage; but (3) T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity directed against muscle fibers is unlikely. We speculate that the immune effector mechanism in FSHD is different from that in previously reported inflammatory myopathies and Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a dominantly inherited muscular disorder and the gene for FSHD has been mapped to chromosome 4q35. Recently, the DNA rearrangements associated with the disease were found in the EcoRI fragment detected by the probes p13E-11 and pFR-1, and deletions of the 3.3-kb Kpnl repeat units within the EcoRI fragment are thought to cause the disease. In this study, we cloned the FSHD-associated EcoRI fragments (the shortest fragments identified to date: 10 kb) from 2 severely affected patients (unrelated). Restriction enzyme maps of the genomic fragments in the 2 patients revealed that the 10 kb fragments were identical and contained only one 3.3-kb Kpnl repeat unit. These results suggest that deletions of the 3.3-kb Kpnl repeat units are likely to associate with FSHD, and that the 10 kb fragments may provide a means of understanding the molecular details involved at the site of the chromosomal rearrangements in FSHD.
A 3.3-kb Kpnl repeat unit within the tandem repeat locus (D4Z4) and its upstream 2.5-kb Hincll/Kpnl fragment of the facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) gene region at 4q35-qter were sequenced and characterized. The 3.3-kb Kpnl unit was 3303 bp in length and contained two homeodomain sequences, one LSau-like sequence, and several microsatellites. The GC content in the 3.3-kb unit was very high (73%), while it was only 35% in the nonrepeated region of the 2.5-kb fragment. We identified 99% homologous sequences (918 bp) in the 3' end of the 3.3- and 2.5-kb fragments. These findings suggested that the repeated sequences at the D4Z4 start from 918 bp upstream to the first Kpnl site.

A 3.3-kb KpnI repeat unit within the tandem repeat locus (D4Z4) and its upstream 2.5-kb HincII/KpnI fragment of the facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) gene region at 4q35-qter were sequenced and characterized. The 3.3-kb KpnI unit was 3303 bp in length and contained two homeodomain sequences, one LSau-like sequence, and several microsatellites. The GC content in the 3.3-kb unit was very high (73%), while it was only 35% in the nonrepeated region of the 2.5-kb fragment. We identified 99% homologous sequences (918 bp) in the 3' end of the 3.3- and 2.5-kb fragments. These findings suggested that the repeated sequences at the D4Z4 start from 918 bp upstream to the first KpnI site.
To investigate the nature of the inflammatory response in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD), we analyzed mononuclear cells in muscle sections obtained from 18 FSHD patients and 8 controls. Monoclonal antibodies reactive for T cells, T cell subsets, B cells, and NK cells were used for cell typing. Macrophages were identified by acid phosphatase reaction. The localization of perforin, granzyme A, MHC-I and -II, dystrophin, and alpha-actinin antigens was also examined. We found that all FSHD patients, both familiar and sporadic cases, had greater amounts of mononuclear cellular infiltrates in muscle than controls, in whose specimens only few extra vascular mononuclear cells were counted. Seventy-two percent (13 of 18) of the patients had more than 50 inflammatory mononuclear cells per 1000 muscle fibers, and 33% (6 of 18) patients had numerous inflammatory cells exceeding 600 per 1000 muscle fibers (1835 +/- 482 SE). Nonnecrotic fibers invaded by mononuclear cells with either T8+, perforin+, or granzyme A+ were not observed in FSHD, while a few degenerating fibers were superficially invaded by T cells and macrophages. Occasional T cells were observed moving through the blood vessel wall. The increased number of necrotic fibers was paralleled by an increased number of inflammatory cells (r = 0.783, P = 0.0001). Genetic analysis, using the probes p13E-11, pFR-1, D4S139, and D4S163, was done in 6 patients (3 familiar, 3 sporadic) who had numerous inflammatory infiltrates. These 6 patients had small (&lt; 28 kb) EcoRI fragments associated with the disease, and the disease was linked to 4q35. These results suggest that, in chromosome 4-linked FSHD: (1) inflammatory changes in muscle are a common histological feature; (2) mononuclear cellular infiltrates may enhance muscle fiber damage; but (3) T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity directed against muscle fibers is unlikely. We speculate that the immune effector mechanism in FSHD is different from that in previously reported inflammatory myopathies and Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a dominantly inherited muscular disorder and the gene for FSHD has been mapped to chromosome 4q35. Recently, the DNA rearrangements associated with the disease were found in the EcoRI fragment detected by the probes p13E-11 and pFR-1, and deletions of the 3.3-kb KpnI repeat units within the EcoRI fragment are thought to cause the disease. In this study, we cloned the FSHD-associated EcoRI fragments (the shortest fragments identified to date: 10 kb) from 2 severely affected patients (unrelated). Restriction enzyme maps of the genomic fragments in the 2 patients revealed that the 10 kb fragments were identical and contained only one 3.3-kb KpnI repeat unit. These results suggest that deletions of the 3.3-kb KpnI repeat units are likely to associate with FSHD, and that the 10 kb fragments may provide a means of understanding the molecular details involved at the site of the chromosomal rearrangements in FSHD.
MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes) is a distinct disorder characterized clinically by repeated strokelike attacks mostly beginning in childhood. We have paid special attention to the blood vessel abnormality seen in most biopsied muscle, in terms of the strokelike episodes in MELAS. The 3243 mutation in 80% of the typical MELAS patients has also been found in patients differing from the MELAS phenotype. Because we have examined muscle biopsies in 94 MELAS or 3243-positive patients, it is worthwhile to summarize the clinical and pathological findings and to prove the discrepancy between phenotype and genotype. This may be a starting point for further discussion of the pathomechanism and so toward further understanding of the disease itself.
The clinical use of fetal neural grafts as an intracerebral source of dopamine for patients with Parkinson's disease has met with limited success. Since basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) enhances the survival and growth of dopaminergic neurons in vitro, we explored whether cells genetically modified to produce bFGF would improve the functional efficacy of dopaminergic neurons implanted into rats with experimental Parkinson's disease. Results show that bFGF-producing cells grafted together with fetal dopamine neurons have potent growth-promoting effects on the implanted neurons in vivo. Moreover, rats implanted with such co-grafts display the most pronounced behavioural improvements post-grafting. These findings not only provide insight into the function of bFGF in situ, but also suggest an approach for enhancing the survival and function of dopamine neurons grafted into the damaged brain.
The search for immunosuppressant drugs to increase the success of organ transplantation led to the discovery of the immunophilins, proteins that interface with a range of signal transduction systems inside cells, especially in the nervous and immune systems. Here we review how these interesting molecules work and consider their therapeutic potential.

The total number of immunocytochemically identified vasopressin (AVP) cells was determined morphometrically in the paraventricular (PVN) and dorsolateral part of the supraoptic nucleus (dl-SON) of the human hypothalamus in 30 subjects ranging in age from 15 to 97 years, including 10 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis that the increased activity of AVP neurons reported earlier is accompanied by an absence of cell loss in these nuclei in senescence and AD. The results show that numbers of immunoreactive AVP cells in the PVN and dl-SON do not decline during aging or in AD. During aging, the number of neurons expressing AVP even increased in the PVN of control subjects. The nuclear diameter of the AVP cells in the PVN and dl-SON showed an increase in old AD patients. It is concluded that no cell loss occurs in the AVP cell population in the PVN and dl-SON during aging and in AD, and that AVP expression increases in the PVN during normal aging, but not in AD.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus and long-term depression (LTD) in the cerebellum are two forms of long-lasting synaptic plasticity that currently serve as our primary experimental models of learning and memory formation in mammals. In recent years, there have been considerable advances in our understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of these and other forms of synaptic plasticity. This article presents an overview of these developments, considers the relationship of long-term synaptic plasticity mechanisms to learning and memory in view of these developments, and suggests future directions for research in this rapidly growing area of neuroscience.

To explore the possible robust changes in neuronal activity in dopamine-poor brain regions after an indirect dopamine agonist, methamphetamine, we have investigated its effects on c-fos expression in rat brain using immunocytochemistry of c-Fos. Intraperitoneal injection of methamphetamine (1.6-4.8 mg/kg), but not of saline, induced a widespread nuclear c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in the pyriform cortex and olfactory tubercle with greatest density followed by the II-VI layers of the neocortex, amygdala, hypothalamus, thalamus, nucleus accumbens and striatum. These expression patterns resemble those elicited by amphetamine and suggest that not only the dopamine-rich subcortical regions but also the cerebral cortex may play a crucial role in behavioral abnormality induced by methamphetamine.
Thiamine phosphate esters (thiamine monophosphate-TMP; thiamine diphosphate-TDP and thiamine triphosphate-TTP) were measured as their thiochrome derivatives by High Performance Liquid Chromatography in the brains of pyrithiamine-treated rats at various stages during the development of thiamine deficiency encephalopathy. Severe encephalopathy was accompanied by significant reductions of all three thiamine phosphate esters in brain. Neurological symptoms of thiamine deficiency appeared when brain levels of TMP and TDP fell below 15% of normal values. Activities of the TDP-dependent enzyme alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase were more severely reduced in thalamus compared to cerebral cortex, a less vulnerable brain structure. On the other hand, reductions of TTP, the non-cofactor form of thiamine, occurred to a greater extent in cerebral cortex than thalamus. Early reductions of TDP-dependent enzymes and the ensuing metabolic pertubations such as lactic acidosis impaired brain energy metabolism, and NMDA-receptor mediated excitotoxicity offer rational explanations for the selective vulnerability of brain structures such as thalamus to the deleterious effects of thiamine deficiency.
Hyperammonemia and changes in brain monoamine metabolism have been proposed to contribute to the pathogenesis of the neuropsychiatric symptoms characteristic of human portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) resulting from chronic liver disease. Portacaval anastomosis (PCA) in the rat leads to sustained hyperammonemia and mild encephalopathy. In order to evaluate the role of dopamine (DA) metabolism in PSE, levels of DA and its metabolites were measured by HPLC with electrochemical detection in brain regions of rats with PCA at various stages of encephalopathy precipitated by ammonium acetate administration. Following ammonium acetate administration, rats with PCA rapidly develop severe neurological signs of encephalopathy progressing through loss of righting reflex to coma; sham-operated control animals administered ammonium acetate showed no such neurological deterioration. Concentrations of the DA metabolites DOPAC and HVA as well as [DA metabolites]/[DA] ratios, an indirect measure of DA turnover in brain, were increased in caudate-putamen, in cingulate and pyriform entorhinal cortices as well as in raphe nucleus and locus coeruleus. Increased DA metabolites, however, did not worsen at coma stages of PSE. Increased DA turnover thus appears to relate to early neuropsychiatric and extrapyramidal symptoms of PSE.
The neuroleptic drug, chlorpromazine (CPZ) has been shown to exert its antipsychotic effect by blocking post synaptic dopamine receptors. However, its effect on steady state levels of monoamines is still in discrepancy. In the present study, CPZ (4 mg/kg body weight) was administered intraperitoneally to adult Wistar rats chronically for 75 days and the levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) were assayed in various brain regions by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). After the experimental period body and brain weights were not statistically different from controls. NE and 5-HT levels were increased only in hippocampus by 15% (p &lt; 0.01) and 16% (p &lt; 0.01) respectively. DA levels were consistently increased in cortex by 39% (p &lt; 0.001), striatum-accumbens by 18% (p &lt; 0.01), hippocampus by 27% (p &lt; 0.01), hypothalamus by 34% (p &lt; 0.001), cerebellum by 36% (p &lt; 0.001) and brainstem by 40% (p &lt; 0.001) in CPZ treated rats compared to controls. The results suggest that chronic CPZ administration increases DA levels in almost all regions of brain and reflect the ability of CPZ to preferentially interfere with synaptic transmission mediated by DA in brain. It also suggests that this increase in DA might be responsible for certain side effects seen in patients after chronic CPZ treatment.
In order to investigate changes in energy metabolism, neurotransmitters, and membrane disorder accompanying incomplete cerebral ischemia, a bilateral common carotid artery occlusion model of spontaneously hypertensive rats was utilized. We measured concentrations of ATP, phosphocreatine (PCr), lactate (Lac), glucose (Glu), acetylcholine (ACh), choline (Ch), and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in both the cerebral cortex and the subcortical regions after 1 h ischemia, 2 h ischemia, and 2 h reflow following 2 h ischemia, and then examined changes in concentrations of these substances during and after incomplete cerebral ischemia. Also, examined were interrelations of changes in these substance levels during ischemia. In the cerebral cortex, levels of ATP, PCr, Glu, and ACh decreased, and levels of Lac, Ch, and GABA increased during ischemia. After recirculation, levels of ATP, PCr, Ch, and GABA tended to return to the normal range. On the other hand, the Lac level remained in the ischemic range and the Glu level rose and greatly exceeded the normal range. With regard to ACh, most animals showed normal levels but some exceeded the normal range. Changes in the subcortical regions were qualitatively the same as those in the cerebral cortex during and after ischemia (except with Glu), but only smaller in degrees. Glu levels remained unchanged during ischemia. Correlation of the levels of these substances in the cerebral cortex was examined using normal and ischemic values. A high correlation was generally observed between ATP and other substance levels. The relations between ATP and either PCr or Glu levels were linear. The relation between ATP and ACh levels was logarithmic.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate the relationship between the immune system and convulsions in an animal model, we examined the effects of repeated administration with the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A on pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced convulsions and the changes in the mRNA expression of its binding protein cyclophilin in the rat brain. The consecutive administration of cyclosporin A (5 mg/kg, s.c., 14 days) significantly aggravated the severity of convulsions induced with PTZ 75 mg/kg, i.p. Furthermore, it down-regulated the levels of cyclophilin mRNA in several brain regions and inhibited the PTZ-induced increase of hippocampal cyclophilin mRNA. Compared with the group without PTZ pretreatment or the group treated with chronic vehicle administration after the PTZ-preinjection, chronic cyclosporin A administration after the initial injection of PTZ apparently aggravated convulsions after the second PTZ injection. Interestingly, the increase in hippocampal cyclophilin mRNA observed after a single PTZ injection was not found after the second PTZ injection in the group with PTZ pretreatment. Therefore, these findings suggest that cyclosporin A administered peripherally can affect the central nervous system, and that an immune response associated with the first convulsive episode plays a key role in severity during subsequent attacks.
Familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) is an autosomal dominant, adult onset, neurological disorder caused by the degeneration of motor neurons of the cortex, brainstem and spinal cord. Recently, the defective gene in some FALS families was identified as the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene. However, SOD1 mutations are present in approximately 20% of patients with FALS. We have tested the genes of two more free radical detoxifying enzymes, Mn superoxide dismutase (SOD2) and catalase by single strand conformation analysis (SSCA) for mutations in the remaining FALS cases. No mutations were found in the catalase enzyme in 73 unrelated FALS cases; mutations were not detected in the 66% of the SOD2 gene analyzed. FALS does not appear to be caused by mutations in the SOD2 nor the catalase genes.
The existence of an interaction between bradykinin (Bk) receptors and the alpha 2-adrenoceptors were evaluated by means of quantitative receptor autoradiography in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of the rat. In competition experiments using L-noradrenaline (0.1 nM to 10 microM) against [3H]p-aminoclonidine ([3H]PAC) (10 nM) it was observed that Bk produced an increase in the IC50 value of L-noradrenaline in a concentration response manner, which reached a maximum of about 100% with 10 nM of the peptide associated with a small decrease in the B0 value (15%). In saturation experiments Bk promoted a significant increase in the KD value of [3H]PAC (60%) and a decrease in the Bmax value (36%). The specific Bk B2 receptor antagonist HOE-140 fully counteracted the effect of Bk on the alpha 2-adrenoceptors as analyzed by the competition experiments. Furthermore, des-Arg9-Bk, a Bk analog which exhibits selective agonist activity to the Bk B1 receptor subtype did not produce any effect on the alpha 2-adrenoceptors, suggesting that the Bk B2 receptor subtype may be mediating the Bk action on the alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the NTS. The effect of Bk (10 nM) was analyzed together with GTP (0.1 nM) in competition experiments and no change in the ability of L-noradrenaline to compete for [3H]PAC binding sites was observed in the presence of GTP, suggesting that the receptor interaction between the Bk B2 receptors and the alpha 2-adrenoceptors may be a G-protein dependent mechanism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Stimulus-dependent cortical and precortical responses to visual stimulation are substantially unaffected by vigilance shifts and reflect functional characteristics (related to the physical properties of stimulus) of information processing in the CNS. These can be independently activated and selectively affected by drug action; stimulus/response functions allow in experimental conditions a control of spontaneous variability. Chemically specified subsystems of the visual system are identified and a functional (micro)-dissection of cortical and precortical (retinal) circuits is possible based on the effects of pharmacological activation/inactivation, with segregation of components of the evoked response. Practicable hypotheses exist about the functional roles of dopaminergic, GABAergic and cholinergic transmission in the visual system. Comparable responses to stimuli conveying similar information can be obtained with limited inter-species differences from animals and man in experimental conditions varying from in vitro basic research to clinical studies, to the use of neuroactive drugs as test condition in man.
We examined the effect of sodium valproate (VPA) on monoamine synthesis in the mouse cerebral cortex by measuring the accumulation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine and 5-hydroxytryptophan following inhibition of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase. Treatment with VPA decreased catecholamine synthesis, in a dose-dependent manner, with maximum inhibition 60 min following treatment. Muscimol, a GABAA receptor agonist, also decreased catecholamine synthesis, although baclofen, a GABAB receptor agonist, did not. Picrotoxin, a GABAA receptor antagonist, inhibited the VPA-induced decrease in catecholamine synthesis. However, serotonin synthesis was not significantly changed by VPA. These results suggest that acute treatment with VPA reduces the synthesis of catecholamines via GABAA receptors.
The effects of a single or repeated treatment with electroconvulsive shock (ECS) or imipramine on the central serotonin (5-HT) uptake binding sites were studied in the rat frontal cortex and hippocampus. The selective 5-HT uptake inhibitor citalopram and clomipramine potently inhibited the binding for [3H]paroxetine (5-HT uptake binding sites) in the frontal cortex. The antidepressant drugs imipramine and desipramine inhibited the binding moderately, but the 5-HT-related agents, 5-HT, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), mianserin and ketanserin inhibited it weakly. A single ECS increased the density of [3H]paroxetine binding sites, but did not alter the affinity, after 1 or 24 h, in the frontal cortex. Repeated treatment with ECS, but not with imipramine, increased the density of [3H]paroxetine binding sites in the same region. The hippocampal [3H]paroxetine binding did not change after any of these treatments. These results suggest that a single treatment with ECS causes a rapid increase in the neuronal 5-HT transporter complex and the increase lasts for 14 days in the frontal cortex.
Understanding the physiology of learning and memory is one of the great challenges of neuroscience. The discovery in recent years of long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission and the elaboration of the mechanisms involved, in particular the NMDA receptor, offers the prospect not only of improving our understanding of normal memory storage and retrieval, but may also yield insights about various neurological and psychiatric clinical disorders. In this review, we begin by examining the different forms, properties, and methods of inducing LTP, followed by a description of molecular mechanisms thought to underlie the phenomenon. Molecular structure of the receptor is discussed, along with the roles of Ca2+ second messenger systems, synaptic morphology changes, and retrograde messengers in LTP. Finally, implications of the NMDA receptor and LTP in learning, memory, and certain clinical conditions such as epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, and schizophrenia are discussed.
The time course and dose dependence of acetylcholinesterase inhibition in three regions of brain were measured for the long-acting physostigmine derivative, heptylphysostigmine (HP). Behavioral studies were performed on rats lesioned with ibotenic acid in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (nBM) using doses of HP that inhibit cholinesterase activity 20%, 40%, and 60% 2 h after injection. Spatially-cued learning and memory were tested in the water maze. Lesioned animals that received higher doses of HP showed a trend towards improvement in the acquisition of this task, but this was not statistically significant. Swimming speed was reduced in the group receiving the highest dose of HP in comparison with a lower dose. The acoustic startle response was diminished in all groups given HP in comparison with both lesioned and sham-lesioned saline-injected controls. Open field activity was slightly enhanced by the presence of the nBM lesion. HP reduced the hyperactivity in a dose-dependent manner. Deficiencies in limb strength or coordination were not detected. These results suggest that HP may decrease spontaneous, stressed, or reflexive activity, although an effect on the spatial learning deficit produced by an ibotenic acid lesion of the nucleus basalis was not detected.
We previously reported that the gamma gamma-isozyme of enolase, NSE), one of the glycolytic enzymes, promoted the survival of embryonic rat neocortical neurons in culture, but alpha alpha-isozyme (non-neuronal enolase) had no effect. In the present study, the neurotrophic effects of NSE on cultured mesencephalic and spinal neurons from rat embryo were examined. NSE promoted the survival of neurons not only in neocortical cultures but also in mesencephalic and spinal cord cultures. Furthermore, NSE showed neuroprotective action on cultured neocortical neurons in a low-oxygen atmosphere. By contrast, non-neuronal enolase did not show any neurotrophic or neuroprotective activities. To clarify the mechanism of the neurotrophic effect of NSE, the binding of NSE to cultured neurons was determined by radio-receptor assay using 125I-labelled NSE. The specific binding, which was dose-dependent, saturable, and calcium-dependent, could be detected. These results suggest that NSE has neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects on rather a broad spectrum of neurons in the central nervous system. The existence of specific binding of NSE to cultured neurons suggests the possibility that receptor-like or carrier-like molecules on the neuronal surface are involved in the neurotrophic activity of NSE.
While N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists have been shown to attenuate neuronal damage in focal cerebral ischemia, few studies have examined whether continuous or multiple dose treatment is necessary for maximum efficacy. We studied the effect of a loading dose only or load plus maintenance infusion using several non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists (dextromethorphan, dextrorphan, MK-801) and the levorotatory enantiomer of dextromethorphan (levomethorphan) in a rabbit model of focal cerebral ischemia. Forty-seven anesthetized rabbits underwent occlusion of the left internal carotid, anterior cerebral and middle cerebral arteries for 2 h followed by 4 h of reperfusion. Drugs were administered 10 min after occlusion. Dextromethorphan and dextrorphan protected against ischemic edema only when given as load plus maintenance (29% and 31% reduction, respectively), while both load only and load plus maintenance of MK-801 protected against edema (26% and 31% reduction, respectively). Levomethorphan load plus maintenance also protected against ischemic edema (25% reduction). However, dextromethorphan and dextrorphan both required maintenance infusion to protect against ischemic neuronal damage (24% and 27% reduction in area of ischemic neuronal damage, respectively), while levomethorphan failed to protect against neuronal injury even when given as load plus maintenance. Administration of MK-801 as load plus maintenance reduced ischemic neuronal damage by 23%, but this difference was not quite statistically significant. These results suggest that processes of ischemic damage, such as excitotoxic injury, continue for several hours beyond the initial period of focal ischemia, and that non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists require more prolonged administration to achieve neuroprotection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neuronal cell death during impaired energy metabolism is often attributed to increased activity at glutamate receptors, but this increase has not been directly demonstrated. We recorded responses to glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate in hippocampal slice CA1 neurons and glia while inhibiting mitochondrial complex II with 3-nitropropionic acid. As the period of inhibition increased, neuronal depolarization following bath application of glutamate (5 mM) or N-methyl-D-aspartate (50 microM) increased dramatically. However, depolarization upon iontophoresis of glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate decreased with time. A transient hyperpolarization, reflecting electrogenic sodium pump activity, was present immediately after responses to iontophoretic glutamate agonists. In the presence of the inhibitor, this hyperpolarization decreased and eventually disappeared. Even the repolarization seen upon washing of the iontophoretic or bath application of glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate was incomplete. Glial depolarization upon bath application of glutamate increased during inhibition, while glial depolarization upon application of N-methyl-D-aspartate decreased. Application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists aminophosphonovaleric acid (100 microM) or MK-801 (20 microM) resulted in a delay of further depolarization when applied early during the terminal decay of membrane potential following metabolic inhibition. We conclude that during impaired oxidative phosphorylation the failure of repolarizing mechanisms, not potentiated neuronal depolarization by excitants, is the primary cause of the terminal depolarization. Large glial depolarization increases the demand for neuronal ion exchange which cannot be met in situations of reduced energy metabolism. Our results provide further evidence that acute and chronic blockade of energy metabolism have different effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of transient bilateral carotid occlusion on the physical state of synaptosomal membrane proteins and lipids were studied in adult and aged gerbils employing electron paramagnetic resonance. Transient ischemia was produced in adult and aged gerbils by bilateral occlusion of the common carotid arteries with reperfusion times ranging from 0 to 24 h. Synaptosomes of the cerebral cortices were isolated and labeled with a protein-specific spin probe (2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-maleimido-piperidine-1-oxyl) and a lipid-specific spin probe (5-doxylstearic acid). Changes in the physical state of the protein peaked at 60 min reperfusion for both adult and aged gerbil models, with a more intense change in aged, but did not return to control values by 24 h. A biphasic change occurred with the lipid-specific label in both the aged and adult models. The onset of the first phase of change occurred at an earlier time (30 min reperfusion) for aged gerbil tissue than for adult tissue (between 3 and 6 h reperfusion), while the second phase of change occurred at 12 h reperfusion for both adult and aged. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation are direct results of free radicals produced during the reperfusion following ischemia and that protein oxidation may be intensified by peroxidation of the surrounding lipids. Phospholipase A2 activation is implicated to cause changes in membrane phospholipid organization as seen in these studies.
We have detected scattered brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA-producing neurons in the medial septal nucleus, which contains cholinergic neurons that are responsive to brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor. In the brainstem, many adrenergic neurons showed a positive signal for brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. Several hypothalamic nuclei contain brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA-positive neurons, among them paraventricular, median preoptic, vetromedial and dorsomedial nuclei. Osmotic stimulus, which activates vasopressin-producing neurons increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in the paraventricular nucleus demonstrating that this factor is regulated by neuronal activity not only in the hippocampus and cortex but also in the hypothalamus.
Investigations were undertaken to determine whether fetal histaminergic neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus of the posterior hypothalamus survive intracranial transplantation to adult hosts. Two methods of transplantation were utilized. Grafts were placed either into the delayed cavity of a fimbria-fornix lesion or directly into the hippocampus using stereotaxic techniques. The tissue was taken from rat fetuses at embryonic days 16-17 and grafted into adult rats of either the Sprague-Dawley or the Fischer 344 strain. Routine histology and immunohistochemistry were used to evaluate the grafts. All transplants to Sprague-Dawley rats showed signs of rejection, while no signs of rejection were seen in any of the Fischer 344 rats. Transplants placed directly into the delayed fimbria-fornix cavity did not grow as well or contain as many surviving neurons as the intraparenchymal grafts. The largest number of surviving histamine-positive neurons was obtained with grafts of posterolateral blocks of hypothalamus from fetal day 17 placed directly into the CA1 region of the rostral hippocampal formation of Fischer 344 hosts. Histamine-immunoreactive cell bodies with neuritic outgrowth were found in all Fischer 344 rats that received hypothalamic grafts. Cell bodies exhibited histamine immunoreactivity evenly throughout the cytoplasm and had morphological characteristics resembling histaminergic neurons in situ. Axonal outgrowth extended throughout the grafted hypothalamic tissue, and was sometimes seen in the host hippocampal tissue as well. It is concluded that fetal histaminergic neurons survive transplantation to the adult hippocampal formation, and that this allograft procedure can supplement current strategies to investigate the function of histaminergic tuberomamillary neurons in the central nervous system.
Inactivation of Gi and G(o) proteins in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus by pertussis toxin did not affect memory retention of a one-way passive avoidance learning task in rats. Interference of normal Gs activity in the dentate gyrus by cholera toxin impaired retention performance dose-dependently. Cholera toxin also antagonized the memory-enhancing effect of corticotropin-releasing factor in the hippocampus. However, although Gi and G(o) proteins are probably not involved in the memory consolidation process per se, in animals showing a full retention score there was a significant and long-lasting increase of G(o) concentration in the dentate gyrus. Results of ADP-ribosylation experiments have shown that there was a dose-dependent decrease of ADP-ribosylation in vitro as the concentration of in vivo pertussis toxin and cholera toxin increased. These results together suggest that Gs protein is probably involved in the initiation of the memory consolidation process, while enhanced G(o) expression is the ultimate result upon memory formation. These results provide the first in vivo evidence relating the functions of hippocampal G proteins to the memory process of mammals.
Transplantation of fetal cortical tissue into the motor cortex of adult rats was used as an experimental model to examine the functional integration of homotopic fetal neocortical grafts into the motor pathways of adult host brain. We have employed the [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose method to analyse the metabolic activity of the transplant and host sensorimotor cortex: (i) in animals solicited to perform specific lever-pressing movements with the limb contralateral to the transplant (experimental group); and (ii) in non-solicited animals or in animals using the limb ipsilateral to the transplant (control group). Grafts in the control group displayed homogeneous uptake of 2-deoxy-D-glucose throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the transplant. The local cerebral glucose utilization levels were low as compared to those of the surrounding cortex but were at least two-times higher than in the corpus callosum. Increase in 2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake by the transplant cells was found only in the experimental group. In this group, 2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake was higher in the caudal (AP: +3.0 to +1.7 mm, relative to Bregma) than in the rostral sectors of the transplants suggesting the existence of a topographic organization within the transplant. In addition, except in the rostral part, glucose utilization was higher in the transplant of the experimental group than in the sensorimotor areas of the non-activated cortex in the control group. Moreover, glucose utilization of the transplant cells was systematically higher in the experimental than in the control group. The transplants appear to display a certain level of metabolic integration with the host sensorimotor cortex since, in the experimental group, there was no significant differences in local cerebral glucose utilization values in the caudal sector of the transplant and in the surrounding sensorimotor cortical areas of the host. The 2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake was even higher in the caudal sector of the transplant than in some of the subfields of the contralateral sensorimotor cortex. The present findings indicate for the first time that motor activation of the contralateral forelimb produces an increase in metabolic activity in distinct transplant sectors, the topographic distribution of which matches the normal topographic organization of the forelimb somatomotor map. This suggests that transplants of embryonic frontal neocortex placed in the frontal cortex of adult hosts become functionally integrated with the host motor system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The phenotypic characteristics of identified graft neurons in intrastriatal striatal transplants which give rise to efferent projections innervating the host brain were examined using a combination of in situ hybridization histochemistry and fluorescent retrograde tracing. Cell suspension grafts of embryonic day 14-15 rat striatal primordia (including both the medial and lateral ganglionic eminences) were implanted into the previously excitotoxically lesioned striatum of adult rats, and after longer than one year the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold was injected bilaterally into either the globus pallidus or the substantia nigra. Injections into the globus pallidus resulted in significant retrograde labelling of graft neurons within most of the experimental animals, whereas very few graft cells were labelled after the nigral injections. The vast majority of the neurons retrogradely labelled from the globus pallidus occurred in clusters or patches in the caudal half of the transplants, which corresponded well with DARPP-32 messenger RNA expressing (i.e. striatal) regions of the grafts. Indeed, within these Fluoro-Gold-labelled graft patches, the proportion of retrogradely labelled cells found to contain DARPP-32 messenger RNA was identical to that observed in the intact striatum after similar pallidal injections (93%). In addition, some Fluoro-Gold-labelled cells were found scattered outside the DARPP-32-positive cell clusters; these cells were overall larger and rarely (c. 9%) DARPP-32 messenger RNA-positive. Messenger RNA encoding for glutamate decarboxylase (which was found in 95% of Fluoro-Gold-labelled neurons in the intact striatum) was detected in almost all retrogradely labelled graft neurons located in both the DARPP-32-positive patches of retrograde labelling (93%) and in the DARPP-32-negative regions (82%). In the intact striatum, neurons labelled after pallidal injections of Fluoro-Gold were observed to express preproenkephalin messenger RNA to a greater extent than preprotachykinin messenger RNA (81% vs 21%). Conversely, within the grafts, retrogradely labelled neurons in the patches of Fluoro-Gold-labelled cells were more often found to contain preprotachykinin messenger RNA (50%) than preproenkephalin messenger RNA (21%). The Fluoro-Gold-labelled cells scattered outside the patches of retrograde labelling rarely expressed either preproenkephalin or preprotachykinin messenger RNA. Fluoro-Gold injections into the host substantia nigra resulted in very few retrogradely labelled graft neurons; however, many (85%) of these cells were observed to express glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA, while only rarely were they observed to contain either DARPP-32, preproenkephalin or preprotachykinin messenger RNAs (c. 10%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recently in the pig hypothalamus a vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing nucleus was identified which, like the supraoptic nucleus, becomes sexually dimorphic after puberty. Following the increase in circulating steroids at puberty, the vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing nucleus becomes twice as large in both males and females. In adulthood, the vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing nucleus of females is approximately twice as large as that in males. Because these alterations are possibly due to an influence of gonadal steroids, i.e. estrogens, the vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing nucleus cells were tested for the presence of estrogen receptors. In addition to the area of the vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing nucleus, the present study documented the distribution of estrogen receptors in the septal area and other parts of the hypothalamus of intact post-pubertal male and female pigs, by utilizing immunocytochemical methodology. Intense nuclear estrogen receptor staining was found in a number of areas, i.e. the medial preoptic area, the oxytocin-containing dorsomedial extension of the supraoptic nucleus, a possible homologue of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area, the median preoptic nucleus, the medial and lateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventromedial hypothalamus and the arcuate nucleus. In the ventral part of the lateral septum, the septohypothalamic nucleus, the nucleus subfornicalis and the stigmoid nucleus estrogen receptor immunoreactivity was less intense. Dorsolaterally of the vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing nucleus, estrogen receptor positive cells were observed, but the vasopressin- and oxytocin-containing nucleus itself lacked such receptors. In the magnocellular supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus no nuclear estrogen receptor staining was found. However, a weak cytoplasmic staining was present in all cells. There was a clear sex difference in the estrogen receptor-immunoreactive cell number in a possible homologue of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area. Compared to male pigs, in female pigs the number of cells showing estrogen receptor immunoreactivity in this area, which is known to be sexually dimorphic in various species, was twice as high. In other areas, such as the medial part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the medial preoptic area, the arcuate and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, a similar sex difference was found. In addition estrogen receptor immunoreactivity was generally more intense in females. No sex differences were noted in the overall distribution of estrogen receptor cells in the areas studied.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation increases Na-K ATPase activity and decreases aminergic neuronal firing rate as well as norepinephrine degrading enzyme, monoamine oxidase, activity. On the other hand, norepinephrine is known to increase Na-K ATPase activity. Hence, this study was conducted to find if the deprivation induced increase in Na-K ATPase activity is mediated by norepinephrine. Rapid eye movement sleep deprived rats were injected with either alpha-1 or beta adrenoceptor antagonist or alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist and after 8 h the Na-K ATPase activity of the brain was estimated. In an attempt to simulate in vivo conditions, norepinephrine was added to an in vitro brain homogenate preparation in the presence or absence of alpha or beta adrenoceptor blockers and the enzyme activity was estimated. The results showed that the enzyme activity was decreased by alpha-1 antagonist as well as by alpha-2 agonist treatment in in vivo preparations. Norepinephrine increased enzyme activity in the in vitro preparation and the increase was prevented by the alpha-1 antagonist. The results of this study suggest that rapid eye movement sleep deprivation induced increase in Na-K ATPase activity may be mediated by norepinephrine acting on either alpha-1 and/or alpha-2 receptors.
In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to study the distribution and possible co-expression of the messenger RNA of the somatostatin receptor subtypes SSTR-4 and SSTR-3 in rat brain. Our results demonstrate that SSTR-3 messenger RNA is widely expressed within the rat brain, while expression of SSTR-4 messenger RNA is restricted to the telencephalon, diencephalon and granular layer of the cerebellum. It is also shown that single neurons can co-express both SSTR-4 and SSTR-3 receptor messenger RNAs. The highest density of SSTR-4 messenger RNA was found in the pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus, especially in the CA1 and CA2 areas, anterior olfactory nuclei, amygdala, and in layers IV and VI of the cerebral cortex. SSTR-3 messenger RNA displayed a homogeneous distribution in the cerebral cortex and was expressed in the olfactory bulb, pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus, motor and sensory metencephalic nuclei, and the granular and Purkinje cell layers of the cerebellum. Whether SSTR-3 and SSTR-4 messenger RNA can be expressed by the same cell was assessed by the simultaneous use of digoxigenin (SSTR-3)- and isotopic (SSTR-4)-labelled oligoprobes. Co-expression of SSTR-3 and SSTR-4 messenger RNAs was found in neurons of the CA1 and CA2 regions of the hippocampus, in the subiculum and in layer IV of the cerebral cortex. The expression of two receptor subtypes of the same neurotransmitter in a single cell, if confirmed functionally, raises questions about the consequences of the simultaneous activation of these different receptors.
Dystonia is a relatively common syndrome of sustained muscle contractions, frequently causing twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures. The most frequent type of dystonia is idiopathic generalized dystonia, whose pathophysiology is largely unknown. In this respect, mutant animal strains with inborn dystonia may be helpful to elucidate the pathophysiological defects involved in idiopathic dystonia. The genetically dystonic (dtsz) hamster is an animal model of paroxysmal dystonia that displays attacks of generalized dystonia either spontaneously or in response to mild environmental stimuli. In the present study, a quantitative autoradiographic analysis of ligand binding to different sites of the GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor-chloride ionophore complex was carried out in 123 brain areas from genetically dystonic mutant hamsters and age-matched control hamsters. Animals were killed 2 weeks after their last dystonic attack. Analysis of the GABA-binding site of the receptor complex, using the ligand [3H]muscimol, and the benzodiazepine site labelled with [3H]flunitrazepam revealed no significant alterations in the binding of either ligand in any of the brain regions examined. In contrast, widespread changes were observed in binding densities of [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate), which labels the picrotoxinin site of the GABAA receptor-chloride ionophore complex. Significantly increased [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate binding was found in several parts of the thalamus, cortex, and hippocampus as well as in the red nucleus, the subthalamic nucleus, and the granular layer of the cerebellum. Since high-affinity [35S]TBPS binding is thought to represent the closed conformation of the GABA-gated chloride ionophore, increased TBPS binding would indicate an impaired GABAergic function. The study is consistent with the concept that dystonia is caused by impaired connections between the basal ganglia, the thalamus, and frontal association areas. The data on increased [35S]TBPS binding are the first evidence implicating alterations in the GABA-gated chloride ion channel function in a movement disorder, i.e. idiopathic generalized dystonia.
An extruding wire knife was used to give adult male CFHB rats a minimally traumatic unilateral mechanical lesion of the medial forebrain bundle. In addition, some rats received bilateral intrastriatal injections of one of three fluorescent retrograde tracers either eight days before or eight days after the lesion. Injections made after the lesion revealed that about half of the animals had complete lesions of the nigrostriatal tract, while the other half were incompletely lesioned, the mean proportion of non-axotomized neurons being 23%. Over the 10 weeks following the lesions, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the lesioned substantia nigra fell linearly, reaching a mean of 29% of that of the control substantia nigra. In the animals which were completely lesioned, neuronal survival at 10 weeks varied between 6 and 12%. That the disappearance of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons was due to cell death rather than the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase itself was confirmed by labelling the cells with Fluoro Gold before axotomy; the tracer was seen in survival neurons, microglia and in a few involuted neurons which continued to be tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive. This percentage of neurons surviving axotomy corresponds to the proportion of substantia nigra neurons which project to the contralateral striatum, and these neurons were in the region of the substantia nigra from which the contralateral projection originated. It is concluded that following mechanical transection of the nigrostriatal tract, all truly axotomized substantia nigra neurons die over a period of about 10 weeks.
The speed of progression of Alzheimer's disease-related neurofibrillary changes is unknown. One reason for this is the impossibility to histopathologically follow-up one and the same individual over decades of their life. The present approach takes advantage of a recently introduced classification system which allows for a ranking of Alzheimer's disease-related neurofibrillary changes into six stages [Braak and Braak Acta Neuropath (1991) 82, 239-259] and analyses a staged sample of 887 brains obtained from routine autopsy. It sets out to interpret these cross-sectional data in dynamic longitudinal terms, in order to estimate the rate of passing through the various stages. The time needed to attain respective stages of pathology for 5% of a given cumulative sample is determined. The resulting fifth centiles are a measure of the average rate by which the disease-related changes progress assuming that the underlying stages represent a sequence of events and do not independently emerge. Advancing age and the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease-related changes of a given stage show a nonlinear positive correlation with only slight acceleration above the age of 65 years. Statistically, it takes at least 16 years from stage I to stage II, about 14 years pass by from stage II to III, 13 years from stage III to IV and five years from stage IV to V (= Alzheimer's disease) for 5% of a given cumulative sample. Thus, the deep roots of Alzheimer's disease-related neurofibrillary changes can be traced about 50 years back and may even extend into adolescence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Glutamate is considered to be a major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. The presence of glutamate-like immunoreactive neurons in the rodent locus coeruleus has been reported previously. In this study we used both immunohistochemical and electrophysiological techniques to answer two major questions: (1) Is there any glutamate-like immunoreactivity in the catecholaminergic coeruleospinal system of the cat? (2) What is the physiological role, if any, of glutamate in descending locus coeruleus control of spinal motoneurons? Following injections of rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres or Fast Blue into the seventh lumbar segment of the spinal cord of the cat, retrogradely labeled cells were found throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum. They were primarily observed in the nucleus locus coeruleus and the Kolliker-Fuse nucleus. Some labeled cells were also present in the nucleus subcoeruleus and, to a lesser extent, in the parabrachial nuclei. Data from immunohistochemical studies indicate that 86% of all dorsolateral pontine tegmentum neurons that project to the spinal cord contain glutamate-like immunoreactivity, and 77% co-contain both glutamate- and tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity. Electrical stimulation (four pulses of 500 microseconds duration at 500 Hz; intensity = 50-200 microA) of the locus coeruleus, in decerebrate cats, consistently induced lumbar motoneuron discharges recordable ipsilaterally as ventral root responses. These motoneuronal responses were reversibly antagonized following chemical inactivation of noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons by local infusion of the alpha 2-adrenergic agonist clonidine, suggesting the locus coeruleus neurons to be the main source of evoked ventral root responses. Additionally, the evoked ventral root responses were reversibly reduced by 34.20 +/- 4.45% (mean +/- S.E.M.) upon intraspinal injections of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, into the ventral horn of seventh lumbar spinal cord segment (three to four injections, 20 nmol in 0.2 microliter of 0.1 M Tris-buffered saline for each injection). Similar volumes of vehicle injections had no significant effect on the locus coeruleus-evoked ventral root responses. These ventral root responses were also partially blocked (62.30 +/- 11.76%) by intravenous administration of the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin (20 micrograms/kg). In the light of several anatomical reports of noradrenergic and glutamatergic terminals in close contact with spinal motoneurons, our present findings suggest that the locus coeruleus-evoked ventral root response probably involves the synaptic release of both norepinephrine and glutamate onto lumbar motoneurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Applying quantitative microscopic histochemistry, the activity of the mitochondrial glutamate dehydrogenase which is localized in astrocytes was determined in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus. This hippocampal region contains the important terminations of the glutamatergic perforant path. For comparison, determinations of the mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase were performed, which is localized preferentially in terminals and dendrites. Two age groups of animals were examined: young adults (three months old) and aged subjects (24 months old). Both age groups were divided into controls, and animals killed three, 21 and 90 days following unilateral electrolytic lesion of the entorhinal cortex. The post-lesional shrinkage of the terminal field of the perforant path, ipsilateral to the lesion side, was determined and considered in the evaluation of enzymatic data. Statistic analysis revealed that ipsilateral to the lesion side there was a significant decrease of glutamate and succinate dehydrogenase activities in the terminal field of the perforant path three, 21 and 90 days following lesion. It is reasonable to assume that the decrease of succinate dehydrogenase activity (50-60%) was caused by the loss of mitochondria localized in degenerating terminals, whereas the decrease of glutamate dehydrogenase activity (20-30%) was related to the decrease of glutamatergic transmission following lesion. In the terminal field of the perforant path contralateral to the lesion side both significant increases and decreases of enzyme activities were measured following lesion. From these results it is concluded that the hippocampus contralateral to the lesion side cannot be considered as an appropriate intraindividual control. The comparison between young and aged animals showed no differences in the demonstration of glutamate dehydrogenase and only restricted differences in the activity level of succinate dehydrogenase post-lesion. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that the post-lesional reactivity of the enzymes studied was very similar in both age groups.
In the present study, we have re-examined the heterogeneous nature of intrastriatal striatal transplants derived from embryonic day 14-15 rat striatal primordia implanted into the previously excitotoxically lesioned striatum of adult rats, using in situ hybridization histochemistry to localize neurotransmitter-related messenger RNAs. These grafts are characterized by discrete patches of DARPP-32 messenger RNA expression, which cover approximately one-third of the cross-sectional graft area. The messenger RNAs encoding for preproenkephalin (the enkephalin precursor), preprotachykinin (precursor to substance P), choline acetyltransferase, as well as the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, which are abundant in the normal striatum, were all present in the striatal grafts and were expressed almost exclusively in the DARPP-32-positive graft regions. In these graft regions, the expression of the neurotransmitter-related messenger RNAs was generally similar to that seen in the intact striatum, although the level of expression of preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin messenger RNAs varied notably among the patches of expression. Cellular analysis performed on individual patches showed that the expression per cell of preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin messenger RNAs was inversely related, such that patches with higher than normal preproenkephalin messenger RNA levels displayed lower than normal preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels, and vice versa. Moreover, messenger RNA expression for the dopamine D2 receptor was overall lower than that for the dopamine D1 receptor, both with respect to the level per cell and the number of positive cells within the DARPP-32 patches. Glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA was expressed throughout the grafts, in 98% of all neurons located in the DARPP-32-positive regions and in 75% of all neurons in the non-DARPP-32 regions of the graft. Interestingly, the cellular expression of glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA was considerably higher in the non-DARPP-32 expressing regions than that in the DARPP-32 messenger RNA-rich areas, where it approximated that of the intact striatum. Furthermore, grafted neurons located outside the DARPP-32-expressing regions displayed similar levels of expression to those found in the overlying cortex and in the closely adjacent globus pallidus. To further characterize the DARPP and non-DARPP graft compartments, messenger RNAs encoding the alpha 1 and beta 2 subunits of the GABAA receptor were studied. These receptor subunits, which exhibit a high expression in the host cortex and pallidum but little in the intact striatum, were found in discrete patches situated outside, but often closely associated with, the DARPP-32-rich areas of the graft.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
GABA is predominantly an inhibitory transmitter. Mediated by GABAA receptors, GABA opens chloride channels, induces a passive flux of chloride ions, which is usually directed from extracellular to intracellular space, and hyperpolarizes postsynaptic neurons. Recent electrophysiological data suggested that GABA may also depolarize neurons and exert excitatory actions. However, it remained unclear whether excitatory GABA effects are based on reversed transmembrane chloride gradient due to modifications in extracellular or intracellular chloride concentrations. Here, the first histochemical evidence is provided for local redistribution of chloride in the CNS of healthy adult rats. Olfactory bulbs were examined using freeze substitution, silver trapping of chloride and intensification techniques at light and electron microscopic level. The chloride content of precipitates was evidenced by electron spectroscopic imaging using a CEM 902 (Zeiss) electron microscope. Chloride concentration was high in a subpopulation of some periglomerular cell bodies and isolated dendritic profiles, while it seemed to be very low in certain parts of the glomerular neuropil including intercellular clefts. Data suggest that reversed chloride gradients can be demonstrated by cytochemical methods, and may be responsible for excitatory GABA effects on selected periglomerular neurons and dendrites in the olfactory glomeruli. Conditions leading to chloride redistribution in the CNS of normal adult rats remain to be determined.
Whole cell voltage and current clamp recordings were obtained from third order neurons isolated from the salamander retina. Using cross desensitization, the structure-function relationship of short chain amino acids on the glycine receptor were examined. L-Serine, L-alanine, beta-alanine and taurine all cross desensitized with glycine, but did not show significant cross desensitization with GABA. This indicates that these amino acids act at the glycine receptor. The order of potency was glycine &gt; beta-alanine &gt; taurine &gt; L-alanine &gt; L-serine. TAG, a reputed selective taurine antagonist, was equally effective in blocking taurine and glycine currents. There is no evidence for distinct receptors for taurine. Amino acids with larger moieties at the alpha carbon, such as threonine and valine, produced inactive ligands. Placing a methyl group on the amine of glycine or esterification of the carboxyl group also greatly reduced activity. Based on these modifications of the glycine molecule, it appears that selectivity at the glycine receptor results in part from steric restrictions at all three sites in the glycine chain. The steric interference is most critical at the carboxyl and amino ends, and less limiting at the alpha carbon. Doses of L-serine that had only slight effects in voltage clamp experiments, nevertheless produced large effects in current clamp experiments. This indicates that several endogenous amino acids can have significant effects on membrane voltage, even when their shunting activity may be small. High concentrations of agonists produced desensitization in the voltage clamp records, but there was little evidence of desensitization in the current clamp experiments. These results indicate that several endogenous amino acids can activate the glycine receptor, but there is no evidence for a discrete receptor for taurine, beta-alanine, L-alanine or L-serine. Since all these endogenous amino acids have similar amino and acid terminals, reduction in potency results from steric interference around the alpha carbon. This graded potency may have functional significance in mediating inhibition.
Inward rectifier potassium currents and calcium-dependent potassium currents have been studied in cultured embryonic mouse motoneurons. Sustained unitary inward rectifier potassium currents were recorded from cell-attached patches and the channel conductance was dependent on external K+ concentration with a value of 25 pS when external K+ was 140 mM. The channel open probability exhibited a sigmoidal dependence on potential with the largest values (near 0.7) at depolarizing patch potentials. Inactivating inward rectifier potassium currents were also recorded in some cell-attached patches following voltage steps to hyperpolarizing potentials with the rate of inactivation faster with larger hyperpolarizing steps. Whole-cell inward rectifier potassium currents increased from an initial level to a steady-state level with hyperpolarizing steps to -120 mV from a holding potential of -60 mV; with larger hyperpolarizing commands the peak currents decayed to the steady-state. The steady-state current-voltage relation exhibited a region of negative slope resistance. External Cs+ (0.5-1 mM) reduced the amplitudes of macroscopic currents and diminished the open times of unitary currents consistent with block of open rectifying channels with an estimated KD for channel block of 1 mM. A large conductance calcium-dependent potassium channel was isolated in inside-out patches with a conductance of 240 pS with symmetrical 140 mM K+ across the patches and a conductance of 110 pS when the external K+ was reduced to 5 mM. With symmetrical K+ the channel open probability exhibited a sigmoid dependence on potential with the largest values, in excess of 0.8, associated with patch depolarization. The dependence of open probability on potential was dependent on the concentrations of internal Ca2+ and external K+. Properties of inward rectifier and calcium-dependent K+ channels, such as the voltage dependence of open probability, are involved in the establishment of cellular excitability in motoneurons. Future studies will be useful to investigate whether channel properties of motoneurons are altered after cell treatment with neurotoxic agents including oxygen radicals or excitotoxic amino acids.
We have compared the effect of calcium channel blockers on the potassium-evoked release of tritium-labeled acetylcholine and on preganglionic spike-evoked synaptic transmission in the rat superior cervical ganglion. Transmitter release at the nerve terminals is mediated by the influx of calcium through voltage-gated calcium channels. While four types of voltage-gated calcium channels (T, L, N and P) have been identified in neurons, it is not clear which may actually be involved in excitation-secretion coupling. Release of tritiated acetylcholine evoked by sustained depolarization in high (40 mM) extracellular potassium decreased markedly in the absence of calcium or the presence of cadmium. High potassium-evoked release was substantially inhibited by the P-type channel blockers, purified from funnel-web spider toxin, and omega-agatoxin-IVA, and by the N-type channel blocker omega-conotoxin-GVIA, but was unaffected by the L-type channel blocker nitrendipine. In contrast, postganglionic compound action potentials synaptically triggered by preganglionic stimulation were strongly blocked by funnel-web spider toxin and slightly blocked by a high concentration of omega-agatoxin-IVA, but were unaffected by either omega-conotoxin-GVIA, nitrendipine or a low concentration of omega-agatoxin-IVA. Thus, at the superior cervical ganglion, funnel-web spider toxin-sensitive calcium channels play a dominant role in transmitter release evoked by transient, spike-mediated depolarization, but other types of voltage-gated calcium channels in addition to the funnel-web spider toxin-sensitive channel mediate the transmitter release that is evoked by sustained high potassium depolarization.
Paralysis of the soleus muscle in newborn rats causes a large proportion of motoneurons to die by 10 weeks of age. However, all of these neurons are still present at three to four weeks of age. We have previously shown that although nerve injury at five days does not result in any motoneuron death, it does render these neurons susceptible to the toxic effects of the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate. Using retrograde labelling of soleus motoneurons, in this study we show that an increased susceptibility to glutamate also plays a role in the eventual death of those motoneurons which survive for three weeks after interruption of neuromuscular transmission at birth but die by 10 weeks. Treatment with dizocilpine maleate an antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor increased the survival of motoneurons to alpha-bungarotoxin-treated soleus muscles. By 10 weeks of age the size of motoneurons to alpha-bungarotoxin-treated soleus muscles is smaller than that of controls, but after treatment with dizocilpine maleate the sizes of motoneurons to control and treated muscles are similar. Moreover, only 55 +/- 2.7% of motoneurons to the soleus muscle paralysed at birth with alpha-bungarotoxin survive for three weeks after a single injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate at 12 days of age. This motoneuron death is due to the application of N-methyl-D-aspartate since treatment with alpha-bungarotoxin alone causes no loss of neurons at this age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Synaptic plasticity in the CNS is thought to be an important component of learning and memory. Kindling is an animal model of synaptic plasticity in which repetitive local electrical stimulation eventually leads to a generalized motor seizure. Once established, the sensitivity of kindled animals to this epileptic condition is long-lasting. An increase in synaptic efficacy appears to underlie the plastic changes observed in kindling but the molecular mechanisms involved remain unknown. Here we demonstrate that the phosphorylation state of synapsin I, a synaptic vesicle-associated protein which has been implicated in the regulation of neurotransmitter release, is significantly increased in hippocampus and parietal cortex of rats two weeks after the establishment of septal kindling. Furthermore, K(+)-evoked release of L-glutamate is significantly increased in synaptosomes prepared from cerebral cortex of kindled animals. Thus, changes within the presynaptic nerve terminal may contribute, at least in part, to the long-lasting modification in neuronal function induced by kindling.
Neurofilaments accumulated in perikarya and dendrites of anterior horn cells and Purkinje cells of rabbit treated by aluminum chloride were analysed with a variety of techniques. Four different monoclonal antibodies against phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated epitopes on neurofilament H subunit were used to compare phosphorylation state of these accumulated neurofilaments with that of axonal neurofilaments. Although immunoblotting revealed no significant difference in phosphorylation between control and aluminum-treated brains, accumulated neurofilaments were immunocytochemically more phosphorylated than control perikaryal or dendritic neurofilaments. With detailed analysis of cryothin-section immunogold labeling, accumulated neurofilaments were, however, significantly less phosphorylated than axonal neurofilaments. With quick-freeze deep etching, core filaments of accumulated neurofilaments are as dense as axonal neurofilaments but much less regularly aligned. Cross-bridges of accumulated neurofilaments were less frequent and more branched than those of axonal neurofilaments, and when examined with combined immunocytochemistry and deep etching, were less phosphorylated. These results suggest that there is a relationship between the phosphorylation and the structural organization of neurofilaments. The phosphorylation of neurofilament H subunit may be necessary for formation of frequent and straight cross-bridges and resulting regular alignment of core filaments.
The ATP responses in ciliary neurons acutely dissociated from chick ciliary ganglia were investigated using the nystatin perforated patch recording mode. ATP induced a transient inward current at a holding potential of -50 mV in a concentration-dependent manner. The half-maximum effective concentration of ATP was 8.2 microM and the Hill coefficient was 0.9. The current-voltage relationship of the ATP response revealed a strong inward rectification at potentials more positive than -30 mV and the reversal potential was near 0 mV. The relative potencies of purinoceptor agonists were in the order of ATP &gt; 2-methylthio-ATP &gt; ADP. Neither adenosine, AMP nor alpha, beta-methylene-ATP induced any response. The ATP-induced inward current was blocked by suramin, a selective P2 purinoceptor antagonist, in a concentration-dependent manner. The half-maximum inhibitory concentration was 4.5 microM. The cytosolic Ca2+ concentration was increased by ATP and suramin inhibited the increase in a concentration-dependent manner. These results suggest that ATP operates non-selective cation channels by acting on P2y purinoceptors and has a role in the excitation of ciliary neurons.
In a rat model of peripheral mononeuropathy produced by moderate constriction of the sciatic nerve, we have shown that various i.v. doses of morphine and selective opioid agonists produce potent and long-lasting antinociceptive effects on the vocalization threshold to paw pressure. For all the opioids, the antinociceptive effects were more marked for the paw on the nerve-injured side (nerve-injured paw) than for the sham-operated paw. One contributory mechanism could be a peripheral action of the opioid agonists in the nerve-injured paw. This hypothesis was tested in the present study, using systemic morphine and low doses of local naloxone or its quaternary salt naloxone methiodide, exhibiting peripherally acting antagonist properties. The effects of escalating doses of naloxone (0.5-2 microgram injected i.v. or intraplantar into the nerve-injured paw) or naloxone methiodide (5-30 micrograms into the nerve-injured paw) on the antinociceptive effect of morphine (1 mg/kg i.v.) were evaluated using the vocalization threshold to paw pressure in neuropathic rats at two weeks after placing ligatures, a time when the behavioural pain-related disorders have reached a maximum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
High-affinity transporters mediate the removal of released neurotransmitters from synapses, thereby terminating their synaptic action. A novel glycine transporter has recently been cloned from a rat brain complementary DNA library. In this study we examined, by means of in situ hybridization with 35S-labelled oligodeoxynucleotide probes, the distribution of messenger RNAs encoding glycine transporter 2 in the rat CNS. Moreover, adjacent series of sections were labelled with [3H]strychnine to reveal the regional distribution of strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors. A very discrete pattern of distribution of the transcripts was found exclusively at the level of the brainstem/cerebellum and spinal cord. In the cerebellum, Golgi cells in the granule cell layer as well as a subpopulation of neurons in the interposed nuclei were consistently labelled. In the brainstem, where the bulk of the labelling was concentrated, several nuclei showed a high level of transcript expression, including the superior olivary complex, nucleus of the trapezoid body and the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. In the spinal cord, many neurons throughout all layers were labelled, including putative Renshaw cells and a few large neurons at the border of layers 7 and 9. No labelled cells were detected at the levels of the fore- and midbrain. The distribution of glycine transporter 2 messenger RNA-containing cell bodies was very different to that of other glycine transporter messenger RNAs (glycine transporter 1a and glycine transporter 1b), but similar to that of known glycine-immunoreactive neurons and correlated very well with that of strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors in most CNS regions except cerebellum. Our results show that glycine transporter 2 (but not glycine transporter 1) in the brainstem, spinal cord and cerebellum is probably involved in the reuptake of glycine from synapses containing classical strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors. Our findings also suggest that glycine acts as a neurotransmitter in cerebellar Golgi neurons. Whether the synaptic concentration of glycine, as co-agonist at NMDA receptors, is regulated (if at all) by transaminase activity or by a glycine transporter (GLYT1a?) distinct from that described here is not yet known.
Midbrain neuronal activity that correlated with the initiation of locomotion produced by hypothalamic stimulation was studied. Locomotion was elicited by electrical stimulation in the perifornical hypothalamus of 59 rats anesthetized with Nembutal. The first hindlimb extension indexed stepping onset. Single and multiple neurons were recorded ipsilateral to the stimulation site at 2230 sites in the anterior and posterior midbrain. To classify responses, activity patterns averaged around stimulation onset and around the extension onset were examined. Responses with specific correlations to extension onset were Type I; responses not specifically related to the extension onset were Type II. In the anterior midbrain, 6% of sites were Type I and 8% were Type II. The larger Type I responses were frequent in the anterior tegmentum near the central gray. The relative frequency of Type I patterns in the posterior ventrolateral tegmentum was similar. Other regions showed relatively more Type II responses; they included the ventral tegmental area, and the regions near the superior cerebellar peduncle and the posterior central gray. Regional population profiles showed that during the initiation of locomotion, neurons in the posterior peribrachial region responded early and neurons in the anterior dorsal and the posterior ventrolateral tegmentum responded later. The initiation-related activity of Type I neurons in the anterior and posterior midbrain tegmentum suggest that they warrant further study for a role in locomotor initiation.
The pattern and time course of brain activation in response to acute swim and restraint stress were examined in the rat by in situ hybridization using complementary RNA probes specific for transcripts encoding the products of the immediate early genes c-fos, c-jun and zif/268. A widespread pattern of c-fos messenger RNA expression was detected in response to these stressors; surprisingly, the expression patterns were substantially similar following both swim and restraint stress. A dramatic induction of c-fos messenger RNA was observed in numerous neo- and allocortical regions, the lateral septal nucleus, the hypothalamic paraventricular and dorsomedial nuclei, the anterior hypothalamic area, the lateral portion of the retrochiasmatic area, the medial and cortical amygdaloid nuclei, the periaqueductal gray, and the locus coeruleus; however, a prominent induction of c-fos was also seen in numerous additional subcortical and brainstem regions. Although not as widely expressed in response to stress as c-fos, induction of zif/268 messenger RNA was also detected throughout many brain areas; these regions were largely similar to those in which c-fos was induced, although in a number of regions zif/268 was expressed in regions devoid of c-fos messenger RNA. Few brain areas showed increased expression of c-jun following stress; these regions also showed induction of c-fos and/or zif/268. The time courses of expression of all three immediate early genes were similar, with peak levels observed at the 30 or 60 min time point, and a markedly reduced signal evident at 120 min post-stress. However, in a number of cases a delayed and/or prolonged induction was noted that may be indicative of secondary neuronal activation. A number of recent studies have attempted to define neural pathways which convey stress-related information to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. The present results reveal a widespread pattern of neuronal activation in response to acute swim or restraint stress. These findings may aid in the identification of stress-specific neural circuits and are thus likely to have important implications for our understanding of neuronal regulation of the stress response.
Using radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry, we examined the topographical patterns of expression of the messenger RNA encoding a glutamate-binding protein (N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein in rat; NMDARgbs) in the central nervous system of the rat. Expression patterns of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein were compared with those of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 (NMDAR1) of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor on adjacent sections. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein is not expressed in glial cells. The expression of both N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 was observed in virtually all neurons throughout the central nervous system. The mean level of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 expression was higher than that of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein. Similar topographical patterns of expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor were observed in most regions, except in discrete thalamic, hypothalamic and brainstem nuclei. Concomitantly for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1, the highest expression levels were distributed in the mitral layer of main and accessory olfactory bulbs, granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, polymorphic and pyramidal layers of CA1-3 fields of Ammon's horn. A slightly less prominent expression was observed in the glomerular and granule cell layers of main and accessory olfactory bulbs, anterior olfactory nucleus, layer 2 of piriform cortex, olfactory tubercle and taenia tecta. In the cerebellum, the prominent level of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein expression was slightly higher in the Purkinje cell layer than in the granule cell layer, an opposite pattern being observed for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1. A moderately high expression level of both messenger RNAs was observed in the medial septal nucleus, nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca, dorsal part of the endopiriform nucleus, and in the anteroventral and anterolateral parts of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. In the neocortex, the mean expression level of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor glutamate-binding protein is moderate, while the mean level of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 expression is high. With both probes, layer IV is slightly less labeled than the other layers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The main purpose of this study was to investigate the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in host-graft synaptic transmission in the neocortex. The effects of low extracellular magnesium, the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists on the synaptic activation of connections between embryonic neocortical graft tissue and the surrounding host tissue were studied in 17 perfused slices of rat neocortex. In standard artificial cerebrospinal fluid, stimulation of the host white matter evoked field potentials in four of 17 grafts. However, in Mg(2+)-free medium, the same stimulation evoked field potentials in an additional six grafts, with significant increases in the mean duration of the evoked responses in the 10 responsive grafts. In five of these slices stimulation of the graft also evoked field potentials in the host tissue, suggesting reciprocal interaction between graft and host. Simultaneous extracellular recordings from graft and host tissues in Mg(2+)-free medium showed that spontaneous epileptiform discharges developed in the graft and host tissue synchronously. In Mg(2+)-free medium, application of N-methyl-D-aspartate induced a shift of the baseline with superimposed epileptiform discharges in both graft and host. Application of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist ketamine and the competitive antagonist D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid attenuated or reversibly blocked both the spontaneous epileptiform discharges and the evoked field potentials. Our data provides evidence that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are present at synapses created between fetal graft and host neocortex, and that the N-methyl-D-aspartate-activated receptor-channel complex plays an active role in mediating excitatory synaptic transmission in host-graft circuitry.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons in the motor cortex of an anaesthetized cat, together with iontophoretic application of excitatory amino acid receptor agonists and antagonists, in order to evaluate the role of such receptors in excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked from stimulation of afferent and recurrent pathways in vivo. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials which were evoked by stimulation of the ventrolateral thalamus were found to be largely insensitive to antagonism by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, although they were susceptible to blockade by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Increasing the ventrolateral thalamus stimulation frequency from 0.5 or 1 to 5 Hz caused an increase of evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitudes and number of action potentials. These augmented excitatory postsynaptic potentials remained insensitive to application of N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists. In contrast, recurrent excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulation of the pyramidal tract were found to be sensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists and/or non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists in some neurons. These results demonstrate the involvement of both N-methyl-D-aspartate- and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in synaptic responses of cat motor cortex neurons in vivo, and that the synaptic pharmacology of the thalamic input may differ from that of the local recurrent pathways.
The hemispheric content of dopamine and its metabolites in the frontal cortex, caudatus putamen and nucleus accumbens septi was evaluated in relation to behavioral lateralization assessed by paw preference. Three groups of C3H/He mice were selected on the basis of their performance in the paw preference test (left-handed, ambidextrous and right-handed) and levels of dopamine and its metabolites were measured in the two hemispheres of each group. Mice showed significant differences in hemispheric content of dopamine and 3-4 dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the nucleus accumbens septi depending on the behavioral lateralization as expressed by paw preference. The hemispheric dominance (right hemisphere/right hemisphere + left hemisphere content of dopamine and metabolites x 100) was also calculated for each mouse. Significant differences in hemispheric dominance for dopamine, 3-4 dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 3-methoxytyramine in the nucleus accumbens were found between right-handed and left-handed mice. This dominance was ipsilateral to the preferred paw: % right hemisphere/total content of dopamine and its metabolites were lowest in left-handed, highest in right-handed and intermediate in ambidextrous mice. Finally, individual % right hemisphere/total content for dopamine, 3-4 dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 3-methoxytyramine in the nucleus accumbens positively correlated with individual paw preference scores. The analysis of the other brain areas did not reveal any significant effect. These results suggest a strong relationship between mesoaccumbens dopamine asymmetries and both the direction and the intensity of behavioral lateralization as expressed by paw preference in mice.
We have recently cloned the neurotensin receptor from human substantia nigra. Using in situ hybridization techniques, with an 35S-labeled antisense RNA probe complementary to this receptor complementary DNA, we studied the expression of the human neurotensin receptor in the brain from control and Parkinson's disease subjects. We also performed an analogous study with rat brain. Neurotensin receptor messenger RNA was present in high levels in melanized neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta and the nucleus paranigralis (the ventral tegmental area for rat brain). Background levels of signals for neurotensin receptor messenger RNA were detected in the nucleus ruber, the colliculus inferior and the striatal subdivisions (the nucleus caudatus, the putamen and the nucleus accumbens) of both human and rat brain. All these areas, except the nucleus ruber and the collicus inferior, contain very high to high levels of neurotensin receptor binding sites. Additionally, Parkinson's disease brains had markedly fewer melanized (possibly dopaminergic) neurons, as expected, and correspondingly very low or background levels of messenger RNA for neurotensin receptor. We have also demonstrated heterogeneity among the melanized cells expressing messenger RNA encoding the neurotensin receptor in the substantia nigra and the nucleus paranigralis of human brain. The neurons in the nucleus paranigralis had lower melanin pigmentation and higher expression of neurotensin receptor messenger RNA. In general, the expression of the messenger RNA within the highly and evenly melanized neurons was lower than that found in low or unevenly pigmented neurons. The neurons in the nucleus paranigralis had lower melanin pigmentation and higher expression of neurotensin receptor messenger RNA. The low pigmented neurons in the ventral tier of the substantia nigra had relatively high expression. On the other hand, highly and evenly melanized neurons in these regions of the brain had low expression of neurotensin receptor messenger RNA. Together with the previous binding data, it is suggested that not only in rat brain, but also in human brain, melanized (possibly dopaminergic) neurons in the substantia nigra and the nucleus paranigralis (ventral tegmental area of rat brain) synthesize neurotensin receptors and express them in their perikarya and the terminal regions. Additionally, the heterogeneity of the melanized neurons in human brain may play a role in the normal function of dopaminergic systems and probably in the etiology of some neurological and psychiatric disorders.
High-affinity nicotine binding, considered to primarily reflect the presence of CNS alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic receptor subunits, was examined autoradiographically in brain regions most severely affected by Alzheimer and Parkinson types of pathology. In the midbrain, the high density of binding associated with the pars compacta of the substantia nigra was extensively reduced (65-75%, particularly in the lateral portion) in both Lewy body dementia and Parkinson's disease. Since loss of dopaminergic neurons in Lewy body dementia was only moderate (40%), loss or down-regulation of the nicotinic receptor may precede degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in this region. In the dorsolateral tegmentum, where diffuse cholinergic perikarya are located, nicotine binding was highly significantly decreased in both Lewy body dementia and Parkinson's disease with almost no overlap between the normal and disease groups, indicative of a major pathological involvement in or around the pedunculopontine cholinergic neurons. In the hippocampus, binding was decreased around the granular layer in Lewy body dementia and Alzheimer's disease, although unchanged in the stratum lacunosum moleculare, where binding was relatively higher. Dense bands of receptor binding in the presubiculum and parahippocampal gyrus--areas of highest binding in human cortex--were diminished in Alzheimer's disease but not Lewy body dementia. In temporal neocortex there were reductions in Alzheimer's disease throughout the cortical layers but in Lewy body dementia only in lower layers, in which Lewy bodies are concentrated. Abnormalities of the nicotinic receptor in the diseases examined appear to be closely associated with primary histopathological changes: dopaminergic cell loss in Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia, amyloid plaques and tangles in subicular and entorhinal areas in Alzheimer's disease. Loss or down-regulation of the receptor may precede neurodegeneration.
We studied a synatophysin-like immunoreactivity in the hippocampal formation of patients with definite Alzheimer's disease, multi-infarct dementia, patients with no evidence of clinical dementia with neuropathological findings fulfilling the criteria of possible Alzheimer's disease, and age-matched nondemented controls. Possible Alzheimer's disease cases were of special interest because they were considered to represent early Alzheimer's disease. We also studied the spatial relationship of synaptophysin-like immunopositivity with amyloid-beta-protein immunopositive senile plaques and anti-paired helical filament immunopositive degenerating neurons locally as well as considering the intrinsic circuits in the hippocampal formation. The synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity was decreased in the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex in patients with definite and possible Alzheimer's disease but not in multi-infarct dementia patients compared to controls. Equal loss of synapses in possible and definite Alzheimer's disease patients supports the hypothesis that synaptic loss is an early phenomenon in Alzheimer's disease. Unchanged synaptophysin-like immunopositivity in patients with multi-infarct dementia suggests that the loss of synapses is centrally involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and not dementia per se. There was no spatial correlation between loss of synapses and amyloid-beta-protein positive senile plaques. Moreover, we could not find a strict spatial relationship between senile plaques and degenerating neurons. Our results do not support the amyloid cascade hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease that local accumulation of amyloid-beta-protein leads to the loss of synapses.
The specific aim of this study was to evaluate whether the cholingeric innervation of the hippocampal formation is affected by chronic alcohol consumption in the rat. Choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres and neurons were analysed in both alcohol-fed and control rats using a monoclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase and quantitative methods. We found a global reduction in the cholinergic plexus, which was more pronounced in the hippocampus proper than in the dentate gyrus. The areal density of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive neurons was also reduced. Differences from controls in neuronal number were particularly striking in the stratum lacunosum moleculare of the regio superior, which is precisely the zone of the hippocampal formation where choline acetyltransferase immunoreactive neurons are more abundant in controls. In conclusion, our results show that prolonged ethanol consumption leads to a substantial reduction in the cholinergic innervation of the hippocampal formation, as there was a loss of cholinergic fibres and also an apparent loss of hippocampal cholingeric neurons. These findings may help to explain the cognitive dysfunctions observed after chronic alcohol consumption.
The distribution and extent of glutamate decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) mRNA-labeled neurons that coexpress pre-prosomatostatin mRNA were studied in the rat dentate gyrus of the dorsal and ventral hippocampal formation. The distribution of each group of neurons was determined initially by nonradioactive in situ hybridization experiments with digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes for GAD65 mRNA and pre-prosomatostatin mRNA. Double labeling experiments were then conducted with digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes for GAD65 mRNA and 35S-labeled riboprobes for pre-prosomatostatin mRNA. In the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus, GAD65 mRNA-containing neurons were highly concentrated in the hilus and in the innermost part of the granule cell layer whereas only a few labeled neurons were scattered in the molecular layer. Pre-prosomatostatin mRNA-containing neurons were primarily located in the hilus and were virtually absent from the molecular and granule cell layers. The simultaneous detection of GAD65 and pre-prosomatostatin mRNAs in the same sections showed that the vast majority of pre-prosomatostatin mRNA-containing neurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus were also labeled for GAD65 mRNA. In contrast many GAD65 mRNA-labeled neurons did not contain pre-prosomatostatin mRNA. These included all neurons in the molecular layer, neurons within the inner granule cell layer and neurons interspersed amongst double labeled neurons in the hilus. Quantitative analyses indicated that a very high percentage of hilar pre-prosomatostatin mRNA-containing neurons coexpressed GAD65 mRNA in the dorsal (96%) and ventral (92%) dentate gyrus. In contrast only a part of the total population of hilar GAD65 mRNA-containing neurons were also labeled for pre-prosomatostatin mRNA in the dorsal (43%) and ventral (53%) dentate gyrus. In the CA3c region, the percentages of neurons containing both mRNAs were similar to those observed in the hilus. The findings demonstrate that the vast majority of hilar somatostatin neurons, which have previously been shown to be extremely vulnerable to ischemia and seizure-induced damage, are GABA neurons. However, the total population of GAD65 mRNA-containing neurons in the hilus is substantially larger than the somatostatin-containing subgroup, and these findings reinforce the suggestion that GABA neurons are a major component of the diverse group of neurons in the hilus of the dentate gyrus.
Both central serotonergic dysfunction and glucocorticoid hypersecretion have been separately implicated in the aetiology of affective disorders. The hippocampus highly expresses receptors for 5-hydroxytryptamine and glucocorticoids, and adrenalectomy alters the responsivity of hippocampal neurons to 5-hydroxytryptamine. The hippocampus thus represents a prime locus for interactions between the two systems. In this study we examined the effects of glucocorticoid manipulations on neuronal expression of messenger RNA encoding corticosteroid receptor and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtypes in the hippocampus and 5-hydroxytryptamine1A messenger RNA expression in the dorsal raphe, in the rat. Interestingly, there was no effect of adrenalectomy on 5-hydroxytryptamine1A or 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor messenger RNA expression in the dorsal or ventral hippocampus at any time point measured. Furthermore, no changes in 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor gene expression were seen in the dorsal raphe (encoding autoreceptors) after adrenalectomy. However, 5-hydroxytryptamine2C (5-hydroxytryptamine1C) receptor messenger RNA expression was increased specifically in posterior CA1 and CA3 neurons following adrenalectomy, an effect that was reversed by glucocorticoid replacement. Following adrenalectomy, glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor messenger RNA expression increased in the dentate gyrus, CA1 and CA3 subfields of the hippocampus. These increases were apparent 6 h after adrenalectomy, were maintained at two days, but 14 days after adrenalectomy hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor and mineralocorticoid receptor gene expression had returned to control levels. These effects of adrenalectomy were abolished by dexamethasone, but not aldosterone administration, suggesting mediation by autoregulatory glucocorticoid receptors. Our results show that adrenalectomy only transiently increases corticosteroid receptor gene expression in the hippocampus, and selectively increases hippocampal 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor messenger RNA expression. The resulting change in 5-hydroxytryptamine2C receptor-mediated responses may produce the alterations in hippocampal neuronal activity in response to 5-hydroxytryptamine observed after adrenalectomy.
The CA3 bursting activity was compared in slices from two genetically closely related inbred mouse strains with divergent shuttle box performance (low level performing DBA/1 and high performing DBA/2 strains) and a control, behaviorally untested inbred strain, NMRI. Spontaneous population bursts of hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cells (measured extracellularly as field potentials) occurred more frequently in slices of the DBA/2 strain (in 62.5% of the slices in DBA/2 mice) than in the DBA/1 strain (in 33.3% of the slices in DBA/1 mice) and the control NMRI strain (in 33.3% of the slices), whereas the ratio of bursting and nonbursting cells was not different. The resting membrane potential of spontaneously bursting and nonbursting cells was hyperpolarized and the frequency of spontaneous cell bursts were higher in DBA/2 mice compared with both other strains. Slices from the high performing DBA/2 strain had significantly lower thresholds for population bursts evoked by mossy fiber (but not perforant path) stimulation. Electrophysiological properties and bursting patterns of CA3 pyramidal cells are shown to correlate with learning behavior in three different mouse strains. This result is in keeping with an important role of CA3 bursting in memory trace formation.
Spontaneously occurring spike-and-wave patterns were examined in seven to eight-month-old rats of the inbred Fischer 344 and Brown Norway strains and their F1 and F2 hybrids. Neocortical activity and movement were monitored for 12 night h. Spike-and-wave episodes were identified by a three-layer back-propagation neural network. The incidence, average duration and total duration of spike-and-wave episodes were significantly higher in F1 males and F2 hybrids than in the parental strains. Male rats of the Brown Norway strain had significantly more and longer episodes than females, whereas no sex differences were present in Fischer rats. The average intraepisodic frequency of spike-and-wave patterns was significantly lower in Fischer rats than in the other groups and significantly higher in males than females. Tremor (myoclonic movements) associated with spike-and-wave episodes was absent or of very small amplitude in Fischer rats but frequent and of large amplitude in Brown Norway rats and their F1 and F2 descendants. Most of the interstrain differences were limited to male rats. Spike-and-wave episodes recurred at predictable short-term (10-30 s) and long-term (15-30 min) periods. The long-term oscillation corresponded to a similar fluctuation of motor activity. The maximum probability of spike-and-wave patterns occurred at a relatively narrow range of delta power (0-3.1 Hz) of the background EEG activity. Systemic administration of the adrenergic alpha-2 agonist, clonidine, increased the incidence of spike-and-wave episodes several-fold. The total duration of spike-and-wave episodes in the clonidine sessions (15 min) and night sessions (12 h test) correlated significantly. We suggest that several genes interact with maturational, environmental and endocrine factors, resulting in sex differences, and produce the variety of EEG and behavioral findings encountered. In addition, we submit that the clonidine test may be useful in genetic investigations of human absence epilepsies. The findings of this work demonstrate that genetic manipulation of rodents is a promising method for producing analogous models for the various forms of human absence epilepsies.
Synaptic vesicles play the central role in synaptic transmission. They are regarded as key organelles involved in synaptic functions such as uptake, storage and stimulus-dependent release of neurotransmitter. In the last few years our knowledge concerning the molecular components involved in the functioning of synaptic vesicles has grown impressively. Combined biochemical and molecular genetic approaches characterize many constituents of synaptic vesicles in molecular detail and contribute to an elaborate understanding of the organelle responsible for fast neuronal signalling. By studying synaptic vesicles from the electric organ of electric rays and from the mammalian cerebral cortex several proteins have been characterized as functional carriers of vesicle function, including proteins involved in the molecular cascade of exocytosis. The synaptic vesicle specific proteins, their presumptive function and targets of synaptic vesicle proteins will be discussed. This paper focuses on the small synaptic vesicles responsible for fast neuronal transmission. Comparing synaptic vesicles from the peripheral and central nervous systems strengthens the view of a high conservation in the overall composition of synaptic vesicles with a unique set of proteins attributed to this cellular compartment. Synaptic vesicle proteins belong to gene families encoding multiple isoforms present in subpopulations of neurons. The overall architecture of synaptic vesicle proteins is highly conserved during evolution and homologues of these proteins govern the constitutive secretion in yeast. Neurotoxins from different sources helped to identify target proteins of synaptic vesicles and to elucidate the molecular machinery of docking and fusion. Synaptic vesicle proteins and their markers are useful tools for the understanding of the complex life cycle of synaptic vesicles.
Microglia were enriched in brain cell cultures from newborn mice as a result of supplementation with the growth factors macrophage colony-stimulating factor or granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor. When separately administered these two cytokines promote the outgrowth of loosely adherent cells with similar morphology which stained positive for CD11b and nonspecific esterase. Microglial cells isolated from both types of culture were electrophysiologically characterized using the whole cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique. Different resting membrane potentials were measured. In response to hyperpolarizing and depolarizing voltage commands 68 of 91 macrophage colony-stimulating factor-cultured microglial cells exhibited only an inward rectifying potassium current. By contrast, an outward potassium current was observed on 71 of 95 granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor-grown cells. Parallel testing of their capability for antigen presentation proved the activated functional state of these microglial cells. They induce antigen-specific T cell response without prior stimulus. In comparison, cells developed with macrophage colony-stimulating factor failed to present antigen. In such resting microglia a short-term treatment with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor or interferon-gamma provoked a strong appearance of outward potassium currents, however, only the interferon-gamma-trigger resulted in efficient antigen presentation. The differential induction of both functional parameters suggests the detection of outward potassium currents to provide an electrophysiological activation marker of microglia which is subjected to cytokine regulation but not compellingly linked to antigen presentation.
The total calcium content of secretory granules, Cag, was evaluated in isolated neurohypophysial nerve endings. The Cag in the resting state, as measured by X-ray microanalysis, is relatively high with an average of 7.4 +/- 0.6 mmol/kg wet weight. Following a depolarizing potassium challenge, a subpopulation of granules with even higher Cag could be detected, dispersed over a wider range of concentrations (up to 70 mmol/kg wet weight). After subsequent rinsing in physiological saline, Cag decreased to control values. This could have resulted from Ca2+ extrusion, or from preferential secretion of calcium-enriched granules. Our data can be interpreted in favor of the second explanation since no decrease in Cag was observed when secretion was blocked by a hyperosmotic saline. The effect of hyperosmotic conditions on isolated nerve endings was further studied by monitoring free cytoplasmic Ca2+ with the calcium-sensitive dye Fura-2 and by conventional electron microscopy. It was demonstrated that hyperosmotic treatment alone did not increase basal cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations but did significantly reduce the potassium-induced cytosolic rise in Ca2+. Electron microscopy of nerve endings in hyperosmotic conditions showed numerous exocytotic figures at various stages. The observed changes in Cag are in accord with a published hypothesis which proposes that intragranular calcium is a significant variable in regulated secretion.
The diverse biological effects of substance P and related peptides are mediated by multiple neurokinin receptors. The CNS sites of neurokinin receptor biosynthesis have not been fully elucidated and little is known about the regulation of neurokinin receptor gene expression. In the present study, the abundance of neurokinin-1, neurokinin-2 and neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNAs in various rat brain regions was quantitated using a sensitive solution hybridization assay. Midbrain neurokinin receptor gene expression was then examined in detail. In situ hybridization experiments localized high levels of neurokinin-3 receptor messenger RNA to presumptive dopamine neurons, as evidenced by sensitivity to 6-hydroxydopamine lesions and the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in serial sections. Lesions of nigral afferent (including substance P-containing) pathways from the caudate-putamen increased both nigral neurokinin-3 and neurokinin-1 receptor messenger RNA levels two- to three-fold. These data provide the anatomical substrate for physiological data suggesting that substance P (released from striatonigral neurons) may act on nigral cells through neurokinin-1 receptors, while the substance P co-transmitter neurokinin A may act preferentially on dopamine neurons through neurokinin-3 receptors. The magnitude of denervation-induced changes in neurokinin receptor messenger RNAs suggests significant plasticity of neurokinin receptor gene expression.
Previous studies have shown that in advanced cases of Huntington's disease, enkephalin-immunoreactive striatal projections to the external globus pallidus may be more affected than substance P-containing striatal projections to the inner segment of the pallidum [Reiner A. et al. (1988) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85, 5733-5737]. Other immunohistochemical [Ferrante R. J. et al. (1990) Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 16, 1120] and neurochemical observations [Storey E. and Beal M.F. (1993) Brain 116, 1201-1222] suggest no difference in the loss of these peptide-containing pathways in Huntington's disease. In view of the potential significance of this issue for understanding the neuropathological process in Huntington's disease, we examined the globus pallidus in control and Huntington's disease brains, using a quantitative approach which involved high resolution image analysis of 7 microns frozen sections to determine the overall density of peptide-immunoreactive terminals. Results showed that in the controls there was no significant difference between the density of enkephalin- and substance P-immunoreactive terminals in the external and internal globus pallidus, respectively. In all Huntington's disease brains, including grade 1 cases, enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals in the external globus pallidus were significantly reduced compared to substance P-positive boutons in the internal segment of the adjacent section. In comparison to controls, enkephalin immunoreactivity in all Huntington's disease cases was significantly lower; substance P-immunoreactive terminals in the internal globus pallidus were significantly lower than controls in some of the grade 2 cases and in the grade 3 cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ependymoblastoma is a malignant rarely reported neuroectodermal tumor. The authors describe a further case of cerebral ependymoblastoma and examine the clinical-prognostic aspects of this tumor in the light of the published data.
The authors report 5 cases of spinal tumor associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Histologically, the tumor was an ependymoma in 2 cases, a neurinoma in 2 cases and a hemangioblastoma in 1 case. The pathogenetic and diagnostic characteristics of these 5 cases are analyzed in the light of other published reports.

Drug abuse is of great public concern, and effective treatment strategies for opiate and cocaine dependence are urgently needed for the general addict population as well as for pregnant women and their infants. NIDA's effort to develop new pharmacotherapies as an adjunct to the treatment of opiate addiction has already led to the approval of LAAM and an NDA development program for buprenorphine. The momentum achieved by the new Medications Development Program's success with opiate addiction treatment must now be applied to the development of new treatments for cocaine addiction. With recent advances in neuroscience, imaging techniques, and pharmaceutical technology, the development of medications for significantly improving drug abuse treatment in a variety of directions holds real promise.


The nervous system of two larval stages (cercariae, metacercariae) of eye fluke Diplostomum spathaceum was investigated immunocytochemically by the application of antisera to the amino acid glutamate and to neuropeptides isolated from invertebrates (Mollusca) and from vertebrates to whole-mount preparations. In cercariae, positive immunoreactivity (IR) was observed with antisera raised against Catch-relaxing peptide (CARP), FMRFamide, alpha-caudodorsal cell peptide (alpha-CDCP), substance P, vasotocin, and vasopressin. In metacercariae, in addition to positive staining with these antisera, the ones raised against glutamate, APGWamide, caudodorsal cell hormone I (CDCH-I), and small cardiac peptide B (SCPB) also gave positive IR in the nervous system. In the two larval stages the most extensive pattern of IR was observed with anti-FMRFamide and anti-CARP. In the nervous system of metacercariae the same immunoreactive neurosubstances appeared to be present as in that of cercariae. The increase in the variety of immunoreactive neurosubstances in the more complex nervous system of metacercariae is discussed in relation to parasite development and to host adaptation.
Two opioid neuropeptides, methionine enkephalin (ME) and beta-endorphin (BE), and one tachykinin neuropeptide, substance P (SP), were quantified in 10 prolactin (PRL)-secreting human pituitary adenomas and in 10 control human pituitaries. Immunohistochemical techniques provided appropriate staining for PRL. Reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) was used to purify these three neuropeptides before their analysis, radioimmunoassay (RIA) was used for the quantification of SP-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI), and liquid secondary-ion mass spectrometry (LSIMS) was used for the qualitative and quantitative analysis of ME and a tryptic peptide of BE. This study shows that, for 90% of the cases studied here (excluding one hypothyroidism case), the tachykinin A neuropeptide SP-LI level is decreased, the POMC peptide BE level is not altered, and the proenkephalin A neuropeptide ME level is increased in these PRL-secreting tumors.
Locust abdominal ganglia are shown to colocalize Locusta-diuretic peptide-, leucokinin I-, and lysine vasopressin-like immunoreactivity in posterior lateral neurosecretory cells. Extracts of abdominal ganglia were partially purified by RP-HPLC then dot immunoassay screened with the same antisera used for immunocytochemistry. Locusta-diuretic peptide-like immunoreactive material coeluted with synthetic Locusta-diuretic peptide, and leucokinin-like immunoreactive material coeluted with locustakinin. Lysine vasopressin-like material eluted in fractions that also showed Locusta-diuretic peptide and leucokinin I immunoreactivity. The diuretic activity of synthetic Locusta-diuretic peptide and locustakinin is demonstrated, and they are shown to act at least additively to promote Malpighian tubule fluid secretion. The immunoreactive neurosecretory cells are assumed to express at least these two peptides, and a model for promoting fluid secretion is proposed.
ACTH-related peptides are promising neurotrophic and neuroprotective agents, as demonstrated in many in vivo and in vitro studies. They accelerate nerve repair after injury, improving both sensor and motor function. Furthermore, ACTH-related peptides have neuroprotective properties against cisplatin- and taxol-induced neurotoxicity, they improve neuronal function in animals with neuropathy due to experimental diabetes, and they prevent degeneration of myelinated axons in rats suffering from experimental allergic neuritis, a model of peripheral demyelinating neuropathy. Studies in neuronal cultures have corroborated these clinical observations and serve to investigate the mechanism of action of the ACTH-related peptide effects. This paper reviews both in vitro and in vivo effects and emphasizes the mechanism of action. Recent data on melanotrophic receptors and signal transduction systems will be discussed in this context.
