Expectations, positive or negative, are modulating factors influencing behavior. They are also thought to underlie placebo effects, impacting perceptions and biological processes. Using healthy human subjects, we examined the role of the nucleus accumbens (NAC), a region centrally involved in the encoding of reward expectation, in the formation of placebo responses. Employing functional molecular imaging, activation of NAC dopamine (DA) release was observed during placebo administration and related to its anticipated effects, perception-anticipation mismatches, and placebo effect development. In additional functional MRI studies, the expectation of monetary gain increased NAC synaptic activity in a manner proportional to placebo-induced DA release, anticipated effects, perception-anticipation differentials, and actual placebo effects. Individual variations in NAC response to reward expectation accounted for 28% of the variance in the formation of placebo analgesia.
Glutamate produces both fast excitation through activation of ionotropic receptors and slower actions through metabotropic receptors (mGluRs). To date, ionotropic but not metabotropic neurotransmission has been shown to undergo long-term synaptic potentiation and depression. Burst stimulation of parallel fibers releases glutamate, which activates perisynaptic mGluR1 in the dendritic spines of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Here, we show that the mGluR1-dependent slow EPSC and its coincident Ca transient were selectively and persistently depressed by repeated climbing fiber-evoked depolarization of Purkinje cells in brain slices. LTD(mGluR1) was also observed when slow synaptic current was evoked by exogenous application of a group I mGluR agonist, implying a postsynaptic expression mechanism. Ca imaging further revealed that LTD(mGluR1) was expressed as coincident attenuation of both limbs of mGluR1 signaling: the slow EPSC and PLC/IP3-mediated dendritic Ca mobilization. Thus, different patterns of neural activity can evoke LTD of either fast ionotropic or slow mGluR1-mediated synaptic signaling.
Agrin induces, whereas acetylcholine (ACh) disperses, ACh receptor (AChR) clusters during neuromuscular synaptogenesis. Such counteractive interaction leads to eventual dispersal of nonsynaptic AChR-rich sites and formation of receptor clusters at the postjunctional membrane. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. Here we show that calpain, a calcium-dependent protease, is activated by the cholinergic stimulation and is required for induced dispersion of AChR clusters. Interestingly, the AChR-associated protein rapsyn interacted with calpain in an agrin-dependent manner, and this interaction inhibited the protease activity of calpain. Disrupting the endogenous rapsyn/calpain interaction enhanced CCh-induced dispersion of AChR clusters. Moreover, the loss of AChR clusters in agrin mutant mice was partially rescued by the inhibition of calpain via overexpressing calpastatin, an endogenous calpain inhibitor, or injecting calpeptin, a cell-permeable calpain inhibitor. These results demonstrate that calpain participates in ACh-induced dispersion of AChR clusters, and rapsyn stabilizes AChR clusters by suppressing calpain activity.
The progression of progenitors to oligodendrocytes requires proliferative arrest and the activation of a transcriptional program of differentiation. While regulation of cell cycle exit has been extensively characterized, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the initiation of differentiation remain ill-defined. Here, we identify the transcription factor Yin Yang 1 (YY1) as a critical regulator of oligodendrocyte progenitor differentiation. Conditional ablation of yy1 in the oligodendrocyte lineage in vivo induces a phenotype characterized by defective myelination, ataxia, and tremor. At the cellular level, lack of yy1 arrests differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitors after they exit from the cell cycle. At the molecular level, YY1 acts as a lineage-specific repressor of transcriptional inhibitors of myelin gene expression (Tcf4 and Id4), by recruiting histone deacetylase-1 to their promoters during oligodendrocyte differentiation. Thus, we identify YY1 as an essential component of the transcriptional network regulating the transition of oligodendrocyte progenitors from cell cycle exit to differentiation.

Deprivation from normal sensory input has been shown to alter tonotopic organization of the human auditory cortex. In this context, cochlear implant subjects provide an interesting model in that profound deafness is made partially reversible by the cochlear implant. In restoring afferent activity, cochlear implantation may also reverse some of the central changes related to deafness. The purpose of the present study was to address whether the auditory cortex of cochlear implant subjects is tonotopically organized. The subjects were thirteen adults with at least 3 months of cochlear implant experience. Auditory event-related potentials were recorded in response to electrical stimulation delivered at different intracochlear electrodes. Topographic analysis of the auditory N1 component (approximately 85 ms latency) showed that the locations on the scalp and the relative amplitudes of the positive/negative extrema differ according to the stimulated electrode, suggesting that distinct sets of neural sources are activated. Dipole modeling confirmed electrode-dependent orientations of these sources in temporal areas, which can be explained by nearby, but distinct sites of activation in the auditory cortex. Although the cortical organization in cochlear implant users is similar to the tonotopy found in normal-hearing subjects, some differences exist. Nevertheless, a correlation was found between the N1 peak amplitude indexing cortical tonotopy and the values given by the subjects for a pitch scaling task. Hence, the pattern of N1 variation likely reflects how frequencies are coded in the brain.
Inhibitory GABAergic interneurons of the mouse neocortex are a highly heterogeneous population of neurons that originate from the ventral telencephalon and migrate tangentially up into the developing cortical plate. The majority of cortical interneurons arise from a transient embryonic structure known as the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE), but how the remarkable diversity is specified in this region is not known. We have taken a genetic fate mapping strategy to elucidate the temporal origins of cortical interneuron subtypes within the MGE. We used an inducible form of Cre under the regulation of Olig2, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor highly expressed in neural progenitors of the MGE. We observe that the physiological subtypes of cortical interneurons are, to a large degree, unique to their time point of generation.
The striatum receives prominent dopaminergic innervation that is integral to appetitive learning, performance, and motivation. Signaling through the dopamine D2 receptor is critical for all of these processes. For instance, drugs with high affinity for the D2 receptor potently alter timing of operant responses and modulate motivation. Recently, in an attempt to model a genetic abnormality encountered in schizophrenia, mice were generated that reversibly overexpress D2 receptors specifically in the striatum (Kellendonk et al., 2006). These mice have impairments in working memory and behavioral flexibility, components of the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia, that are not rescued when D2 overexpression is reversed in the adult. Here we report that overexpression of striatal D2 receptors also profoundly affects operant performance, a potential index of negative symptoms. Mice overexpressing D2 exhibited impairments in the ability to time food rewards in an operant interval timing task and reduced motivation to lever press for food reward in both the operant timing task and a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement. The motivational deficit, but not the timing deficit, was rescued in adult mice by reversing D2 overexpression with doxycycline. These results suggest that early D2 overexpression alters the organization of interval timing circuits and confirms that striatal D2 signaling in the adult regulates motivational process. Moreover, overexpression of D2 under pathological conditions such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease could give rise to motivational and timing deficits.
Axonal growth cones are responsible for the correct guidance of developing axons and the establishment of functional neural networks. They are highly motile because of fast and continuous rearrangements of their actin-rich cytoskeleton. Here we have used live imaging of axonal growth cones of hippocampal neurons in culture and quantified their motility with a temporal resolution of 2 s. Using novel methods of analysis of growth cone dynamics, we show that transient activation of kainate receptors by bath-applied kainate induced a fast and reversible growth cone stalling. This effect depends on electrical activity and can be mimicked by the transient discharge of action potentials elicited in the neuron by intracellular current injections at the somatic level through a patch pipette. Growth cone stalling induced by electrical stimulation is mediated by calcium entry from the extracellular medium as well as by calcium release from intracellular stores that define spatially restricted microdomains directly affecting cytoskeletal dynamics. We propose that growth cone motility is dynamically controlled by transient bursts of spontaneous electrical activity, which constitutes a prominent feature of developing neural networks in vivo.
Tumor overexpressed gene (TOG) protein, encoded by cytoskeleton-associated protein CKAP5, is a microtubule-associated protein that binds to heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2. hnRNP A2 is an RNA trafficking factor that associates with myelin basic protein (MBP) mRNA. In oligodendrocytes, TOG, hnRNP A2, and MBP mRNA colocalize in granules that assemble in the perikaryon and are transported to the peripheral network of processes that extends from it. MBP accumulates preferentially in the membrane of the medial and distal portions of these cellular processes. MBP expression was reduced when TOG level was lowered by short-hairpin (sh) RNA. The reduction in TOG did not affect overall cell morphology or the assembly, transport, localization, or number of MBP mRNA-containing granules. Reduced levels of TOG did not affect another oligodendrocyte-specific component, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, which is expressed at the same time as MBP but translated from mRNA localized in the cell body. Expression in a neural cell line of a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-MBP fusion protein derived from a construct containing GFP and the full-length cDNA for the rat 14 kDa MBP was reduced when TOG level was lowered by shRNA treatment. Expression of GFP, derived from GFP mRNA containing the hnRNP A2 binding element of MBP mRNA, was similarly reduced in cells with low TOG levels. These data indicate that TOG is necessary for efficient translation of MBP mRNA and suggest that this role is mediated by its interaction with hnRNP A2.
Drosophila has robust behavioral plasticity to avoid or prefer the odor that predicts punishment or food reward, respectively. Both types of plasticity are mediated by the mushroom body (MB) neurons in the brain, in which various signaling molecules play crucial roles. However, important yet unresolved molecules are the receptors that initiate aversive or appetitive learning cascades in the MB. We have shown previously that D1 dopamine receptor dDA1 is highly enriched in the MB neuropil. Here, we demonstrate that dDA1 is a key receptor that mediates both aversive and appetitive learning in pavlovian olfactory conditioning. We identified two mutants, dumb1 and dumb2, with abnormal dDA1 expression. When trained with the same conditioned stimuli, both dumb alleles showed negligible learning in electric shock-mediated conditioning while they exhibited moderately impaired learning in sugar-mediated conditioning. These phenotypes were not attributable to anomalous sensory modalities of dumb mutants because their olfactory acuity, shock reactivity, and sugar preference were comparable to those of control lines. Remarkably, the dumb mutant's impaired performance in both paradigms was fully rescued by reinstating dDA1 expression in the same subset of MB neurons, indicating the critical roles of the MB dDA1 in aversive as well as appetitive learning. Previous studies using dopamine receptor antagonists implicate the involvement of D1/D5 receptors in various pavlovian conditioning tasks in mammals; however, these have not been supported by the studies of D1- or D5-deficient animals. The findings described here unambiguously clarify the critical roles of D1 dopamine receptor in aversive and appetitive pavlovian conditioning.
There are conflicting data on the timescale for the representation of adult zebra finch song. Acoustic structure and perturbation studies suggest that song is divided into discrete vocal elements, or syllables, lasting 50-200 ms. However, recordings in premotor telencephalic nucleus HVC (used as proper name) and RA (robust nucleus of arcopallium) suggest that song is represented by sparse, fine-grained bursting on the 5-10 ms timescale. We previously found patterns of timing variability that distinguish individual syllables and repeat across multiple 500- to 1000-ms-long motifs (Glaze and Troyer, 2006). Here, we extend our methods to analyze whether this is attributable to a syllable-based code or representations on a finer timescale. We find evidence for the latter. First, identity-dependent timing is dominated by independent variability in notes, finer song segments that compose a syllable; for example, the length of a note is no more correlated with other notes in the same syllable than it is with notes in other syllables. For a subset of notes, clear modulation in spectral structure allowed for accurate timing measurements on the 5-10 ms timescale. Temporal independence holds at this scale as well: the length of an individual 5-10 ms song slice is correlated with the same slice repeated 500-1000 ms later, yet is independent of neighboring slices. We propose that such fine-grained, persistent changes in song tempo result from an interaction between slow modulatory factors and precisely timed, sparse bursting in HVC and RA.
Following learning, a memory is fragile and undergoes a protein synthesis-dependent consolidation process in order to become stable. Established memories can again become transiently sensitive to disruption if reactivated and require another protein synthesis-dependent process, known as reconsolidation, in order to persist. Here, we show that, in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), protein synthesis is necessary for both consolidation and reconsolidation of inhibitory avoidance (IA) memory, while the expression of the transcription factor CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPbeta) is essential only for the reconsolidation process. Moreover, the critical roles of both protein synthesis and C/EBPbeta following IA reactivation are temporally restricted, as they are necessary only for recent but not old IA memories. These results, together with previous findings showing that in the hippocampus both protein synthesis and C/EBPbeta expression are required for consolidation but not reconsolidation of IA indicate that the stabilization process that takes place either after training or memory retrieval engages distinct neural circuits. Within these circuits, the C/EBPbeta-dependent molecular pathway appears to be differentially recruited.
Psychiatric disorders are common in Parkinson's disease (PD) and hallucinations are observed in nearly 40% of PD patients. The involvement of dopaminergic system in the pathogenesis of psychosis has been sustained by most of the authors even if several evidences indicate that multiple neurochemical substrates might underlie psychosis in PD. In PD there is an extensive loss of serotoninergic raphe neurons and serotonin dysfunction had been implicated in the pathogenesis of many psychiatric disorders such as depression, schizophrenia, and in psychosis of patients with Alzheimer disease. The association of a serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) and the 5-HT2A receptor T102C polymorphism with psychosis in a group of patients with PD was investigated. No significant differences in the distribution of allele and genotype frequencies of the 5-HTTLPR (p&gt;0.01) and 5-HT2A T102C (p&gt;0.05) were found between patients and controls as well as between the patients' subgroups without and with psychosis. These data might suggest that 5-HTTLPR and 5-HT2A polymorphisms are not major susceptibility factors of psychotic symptoms in PD patients.
Aging and neurodegenerative diseases are associated with oxidative damage that may contribute to changes in neurosensory processing, including pain. The effects of neuronal oxidation on the opioid receptor system are poorly understood. Earlier, we have reported that 3-nitroproprionic acid (3-NPA)-induced oxidative stress and impairment of mitochondrial energy metabolism significantly reduced the function of mu but not delta opioid receptors [A. Raut, M. Iglewski, A. Ratka, Differential effects of impaired mitochondrial energy production on the function of mu and delta opioid receptors in neuronal SK-N-SH cells, Neurosci. Lett. 404 (2006) 242-246]. In the present study, we studied the effects of 3-NPA-induced oxidative stress on protein levels of the mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors (MOR, DOR, and KOR, respectively). The opioid-responsive differentiated SK-N-SH neuronal cells were used as an in vitro model. Cells were exposed to 0, 5, 10, and 20mM of 3-NPA for 0, 1, 2, 12, and 24h. After the 3-NPA treatments, plasma membrane preparations were made and used for the Western blot assay. There was a significant reduction in the level of the MOR protein while levels of DOR and KOR proteins remained unaffected after exposure to 3-NPA. These findings demonstrate for the first time that there is a selective impairment of the MOR protein under conditions of mitochondrial oxidative damage at the neuronal level. The reduction in the level of the MOR protein may contribute to the impairment of MOR function under oxidative damage conditions shown in our previous study.
People all over the world use their hands to communicate expressively. Autonomous gestures, also known as emblems, are highly social in nature, and convey conventionalized meaning without accompanying speech. To study the neural bases of cross-cultural social communication, we used single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to measure corticospinal excitability (CSE) during observation of culture-specific emblems. Foreign Nicaraguan and familiar American emblems as well as meaningless control gestures were performed by both a Euro-American and a Nicaraguan actor. Euro-American participants demonstrated higher CSE during observation of the American compared to the Nicaraguan actor. This motor resonance phenomenon may reflect ethnic and cultural ingroup familiarity effects. However, participants also demonstrated a nearly significant (p = 0.053) actor by emblem interaction whereby both Nicaraguan and American emblems performed by the American actor elicited similar CSE, whereas Nicaraguan emblems performed by the Nicaraguan actor yielded higher CSE than American emblems. The latter result cannot be interpreted simply as an effect of ethnic ingroup familiarity. Thus, a likely explanation of these findings is that motor resonance is modulated by interacting biological and cultural factors.
Neuroimaging studies have recently provided support for the existence of a human equivalent of the &quot;mirror-neuron&quot; system as first described in monkeys [1], involved in both the execution of movements as well as the observation and imitation of actions performed by others (e.g., [2-6]). A widely held conception concerning this system is that the understanding of observed actions is mediated by a covert simulation process [7]. In the present fMRI experiment, this simulation process was probed by asking subjects to discriminate between visually presented trajectories that either did or did not match previously performed but unseen continuous movement sequences. A specific network of learning-related premotor and parietal areas was found to be reactivated when participants were confronted with their movements' visual counterpart. Moreover, the strength of these reactivations was dependent on the observers' experience with executing the corresponding movement sequence. These findings provide further support for the emerging view that embodied simulations during action observation engage widespread activations in cortical motor regions beyond the classically defined mirror-neuron system. Furthermore, the obtained results extend previous work by showing experience-dependent perceptual modulations at the neural systems level based on nonvisual motor learning.
Perception of peripherally viewed shapes is impaired when surrounded by similar shapes. This phenomenon is commonly referred to as &quot;crowding&quot;. Although studied extensively for perception of characters (mainly letters) and, to a lesser extent, for orientation, little is known about whether and how crowding affects perception of other features. Nevertheless, current crowding models suggest that the effect should be rather general and thus not restricted to letters and orientation. Here, we report on a series of experiments investigating crowding in the following elementary feature dimensions: size, hue, and saturation. Crowding effects in these dimensions were benchmarked against those in the orientation domain. Our primary finding is that all features studied show clear signs of crowding. First, identification thresholds increase with decreasing mask spacing. Second, for all tested features, critical spacing appears to be roughly half the viewing eccentricity and independent of stimulus size, a property previously proposed as the hallmark of crowding. Interestingly, although critical spacings are highly comparable, crowding magnitude differs across features: Size crowding is almost as strong as orientation crowding, whereas the effect is much weaker for saturation and hue. We suggest that future theories and models of crowding should be able to accommodate these differences in crowding effects.
Presynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors are emerging as key players in the regulation of synaptic transmission. Here we identify GluR7, a kainate receptor (KAR) subunit with no known function in the brain, as an essential subunit of presynaptic autoreceptors that facilitate hippocampal mossy fiber synaptic transmission. GluR7(-/-) mice display markedly reduced short- and long-term synaptic potentiation. Our data suggest that presynaptic KARs are GluR6/GluR7 heteromers that coassemble and are localized within synapses. We show that recombinant GluR6/GluR7 KARs exhibit low sensitivity to glutamate, and we provide evidence that presynaptic KARs at mossy fiber synapses are likely activated by high concentrations of glutamate. Overall, from our data, we propose a model whereby presynaptic KARs are localized in the presynaptic active zone close to release sites, display low affinity for glutamate, are likely Ca(2+)-permeable, are activated by single release events, and operate within a short time window to facilitate the subsequent release of glutamate.
Functional neuroimaging is a vital element of neuroscience and cognitive research and, increasingly, is an important clinical tool. Diffuse optical imaging is an emerging, noninvasive technique with unique portability and hemodynamic contrast capabilities for mapping brain function in young subjects and subjects in enriched or clinical environments. We have developed a high-performance, high-density diffuse optical tomography (DOT) system that overcomes previous limitations and enables superior image quality. We show herein the utility of the DOT system by presenting functional hemodynamic maps of the adult human visual cortex. The functional brain images have a high contrast-to-noise ratio, allowing visualization of individual activations and highly repeatable mapping within and across subjects. With the improved spatial resolution and localization, we were able to image functional responses of 1.7 cm in extent and shifts of &lt;1 cm. Cortical maps of angle and eccentricity in the visual field are consistent with retinotopic studies using functional MRI and positron-emission tomography. These results demonstrate that high-density DOT is a practical and powerful tool for mapping function in the human cortex.
Hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide (HCNP), originally isolated from soluble fraction of young rat hippocampus and released from hippocampus by the stimulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, enhances the cholinergic phenotype development in vitro. HCNP precursor protein (HCNP-pp) has multiple functions, not only acting as the precursor of HCNP but also serving as an inhibitor of phosphorylation of Erk and contributing to neuronal growth and memory formation. In this study, the accumulation of HCNP and/or HCNP precursor in hippocampus was found to progress from 2 to 5 months of age in senescence-accelerated mouse-prone 8 (SAM P8). This HCNP surge in the hippocampus appears to correspond to the age of onset of memory deterioration, reduction of amount of NMDA-type receptor, and morphological aberration in this dementia model mouse, SAM P8. The present findings, together with our previously published results, suggest that the HCNP and/or HCNP precursor is involved in the dysfunction of the cholinergic neuronal system and memory deterioration in this model mouse via NMDA-type receptor signaling and the activation of the MAP cascade.
In order to gain insights on the function of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) sleep and the levels of the stress hormones corticosterone (CORT) and the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) before and after sleep deprivation (SD) were compared in two wild type (WT) mice strains and the following three PrP(C) transgenic lines: mice null for PrP(C) (mPrP(0/0)) and mice with specific and central expression of PrP in neurons (NSE-HPrP/mPrP(0/0)) or in glia cells (GFAP-HPrP/mPrP(0/0)). After SD mPrP(0/0) mice showed a larger degree of sleep fragmentation and of latency to enter rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM sleep (NREM) than WT. During sleep recovery, the amount of NREM sleep and the slow-wave activity (SWA) were reduced in mPrP(0/0) mice. After SD, CORT and ACTH levels have distinct patterns in WT and mPrP(0/0). The NREM and SWA deficit was restored in NSE-HPrP/mPrP(0/0) mice but not in GFAP-HPrP/mPrP(0/0). Hormonal profile was only partially restored in NSE-HPrP/mPrP(0/0) mice and was similar to that of mPrP(0/0) and GFAP-HPrP/mPrP(0/0) mice. These findings demonstrate that neuronal, but not non-neuronal, PrP(C) is involved in sleep homeostasis and sleep continuity. They also suggest that neuronal PrP(c)-dependent hormonal regulation of HPA axis may contribute to the sleep homeostasis.
Serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)R) agonists have emerged as valuable supplements to l-DOPA therapy, demonstrating that they can decrease side effects and enhance motor function in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and human PD patients. The precise mechanism by which these receptors act remains unknown and there is limited information on how 5-HT(1A)R stimulation impacts striatal dopamine (DA) D1 receptor (D1R) and D2 receptor (D2R) function. The current study examined the effects of 5-HT(1A)R stimulation on DA receptor-mediated behaviors. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were rendered hemiparkinsonian by unilateral 6-OHDA lesions and primed with the D1R agonist SKF81297 (0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) in order to sensitize DA receptors. Using a randomized within subjects design, rats received a first injection of: Vehicle (dH(2)O) or the 5-HT(1A)R agonist +/-8-OH-DPAT (0.1 or 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), followed by a second injection of: Vehicle (dimethyl sulfoxide), the D1R agonist SKF81297 (0.8 mg/kg, i.p.), the D2R agonist quinpirole (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.), or l-DOPA (12 mg/kg+benserazide, 15 mg/kg, i.p.). On test days, rats were monitored over a 2-h period immediately following the second injection for abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), analogous to dyskinesia observed in PD patients, and contralateral rotations. The present findings indicate that 5-HT(1A)R stimulation reduces AIMs induced by D1R, D2R and l-DOPA administration while its effects on DA agonist-induced rotations were receptor-dependent, suggesting that direct 5-HT(1A)R and DA receptor interactions may contribute to the unique profile of 5-HT(1A)R agonists for the improvement of PD treatment.
The phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) in DRG and dorsal horn neurons is induced by the C-fiber electrical stimulation to the peripheral nerve. The present study was designed to investigate the expression and modulation of pERK in the rat dorsal horn neurons produced by repetitive electrical stimulation, and its involvement in the electrophysiological activity of dorsal horn neurons. Electrical stimulation of C-fiber intensity at different frequencies was applied to the sciatic nerve; the stimuli-induced pERK expression and the activity in dorsal horn neurons were studied by immunohistochemistry and extracellular recording, respectively. Electrical stimulation of C-fibers (3 mA) induced pERK expression in dorsal horn neurons in a frequency-dependent manner, indicating that the frequency of electrical stimulation is an important factor which activates the intracellular signal pathway in the spinal cord. To demonstrate the underlying mechanism of this frequency-dependent pERK expression, an NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, and a voltage sensitive calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine, were administrated intrathecally before the stimulation. We found that high frequency (0.5 Hz and 10 Hz) but not low frequent (0.05 Hz) stimulus-evoked pERK was partially inhibited by MK-801. Both high and low frequency stimulus-evoked pERK were inhibited by the nifedipine treatment. The extracellular single unit activities were recorded from the laminae I-II and V of the L4-5 dorsal horn, and we found that blockage of the intracellular ERK signal suppressed the wind-up responses in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, any change in the mechanically evoked responses was not observed following the administration of ERK inhibitor. These observations indicate that ERK activation plays an important role in the induction of the wind-up responses in dorsal horn nociceptive neurons.
Sortilin 1 (SORL1) is a transmembrane sorting receptor that regulates the intracellular trafficking of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP). Interactions between SORL1 and betaAPP result in the decreased processing of betaAPP into toxic amyloid-beta42 (Abeta42) peptides that accumulate in Alzheimer's disease brain. Here, we report selectively decreased levels of SORL1 in limbic and occipital regions of Alzheimer brain that inversely correlate with amyloid plaque and neurofibrillary tangle density. Reduced SORL1, coupled to elevated beta-amyloid cleaving enzyme, presenilin-1 and increased Abeta42 peptide secretion, was observed after incubation of cultured human neural cells with the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta. The results suggest that SORL1 deficits may not only promote the pathogenic processing of betaAPP but may also contribute to Abeta42-mediated inflammatory signaling in stressed human brain cells.
The effects of myricetin on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced neurodegeneration in the substantia nigra-striatum system were investigated. By high-performance liquid chromatography electrochemical detection, we showed that the dopamine content in the striatum decreased after 6-OHDA treatment, which could be restored by myricetin. The immunohistochemistry and semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR studies showed that myricetin could prevent the 6-OHDA-induced decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons and the tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA expression in the substantia nigra. Perls' iron staining study further demonstrated that myricetin prevented the 6-OHDA-induced increase of iron-staining cells in the substantia nigra. These results suggested that the protective effects of myricetin on the toxicity of 6-OHDA could be attributed to the myricetin-suppressed iron toxicity.
Saccadic reaction time or latency reflects the operation of the largely cortical mechanisms that decide where to look. An unusual feature of latency is that it varies randomly from trial to trial. In the past, this variation has been regarded as a nuisance, but analysis of its statistical properties has turned out to provide much insight into the underlying cerebral decision mechanisms. Thanks to recent technological improvements, large number of data can be gathered quickly and noninvasively using miniature, portable devices, offering the possibility of using saccadometry as a biomarker to enhance the diagnosis and monitoring of neurological conditions. Here we show that this technique can robustly distinguish genetically identified presymptomatic and symptomatic Huntington's disease patients from age-matched controls, largely through an increase in the number of unusually early responses, which might reflect an impairment of the tonic suppression of the colliculus normally mediated by pathways through the basal ganglia.
Sulfation, catalysed by members of the cytosolic sulfotransferase (SULT) enzyme family, is important in xenobiotic detoxification and in the biosynthesis and homeostasis of many hormones and neurotransmitters. The major human phenol sulfotransferase SULT1A1 plays a key role in chemical defence, is widely expressed in the body and is subject to a common polymorphism that results in reduced protein levels. Study of these enzymes in vitro requires robust probe substrates, and we have previously shown measurement of activity with the widely used SULT1A1 substrate, 4-nitrophenol, does not accurately reflect protein expression. Additionally, the high degree of substrate inhibition observed with this compound further reduces its value as a probe for SULT1A1. Here we show that 2-aminophenol is a more suitable probe substrate for quantifying SULT1A1 activity in human liver. This compound is sulfated at a high rate (V(max) with purified recombinant SULT1A1=121nmol/(minmg) and shows strong affinity for the enzyme (K(m) with purified recombinant SULT1A1=9microM) and, importantly, is a very poor substrate for the other major SULT1 enzyme expressed in liver, SULT1B1 (with V(max) and K(m) values of 17nmol/(minmg) and 114microM, respectively). Experiments with purified recombinant human SULTs and a panel of 28 human liver cytosols demonstrated that 2-aminophenol shows limited substrate inhibition with SULT1A1, and V(max) values measured in liver cytosols correlated strongly with SULT1A1 enzyme protein levels measured by a quantitative immunoblot method. We therefore suggest that 2-aminophenol is a suitable substrate to use for quantifying SULT1A1 enzyme activity.
Structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies were conducted around early tetrazole-based leads 3 and 4. Replacements for the tetrazole core were investigated and the pendant benzyl substitution was reoptimized with a triazole isostere. Triazole-based P2X(7) antagonists were identified with similar potency to the lead compound 4 but with improved physiochemical properties. Compound 12 was active in a rat model of neuropathic pain.
Palladin and SPIN90 are widely expressed proteins, which participate in modulation of actin cytoskeleton by binding to a variety of scaffold and signaling molecules. Cytoskeletal reorganization can be induced by activation of signaling pathways, including the PDGF receptor and Src tyrosine kinase pathways. In this study we have analyzed the interplay between palladin, SPIN90 and Src and characterized the role of palladin and SPIN90 in PDGF and Src-induced cytoskeletal remodeling. We show that the SH3 domains of SPIN90 and Src directly bind palladin's poly-proline sequence and the interaction controls intracellular targeting of SPIN90. In PDGF-treated cells, palladin and SPIN90 co-localize in actin-rich membrane ruffles and lamellipodia. The effect of PDGF on the cytoskeleton is at least partly mediated by the Src kinase since PP2, a selective Src kinase family inhibitor, blocked PDGF-induced changes. Furthermore, expression of active Src kinase resulted in coordinated translocation of both palladin and SPIN90 to membrane protrusions. Knock-down of endogenous SPIN90 did not inhibit Src-induced cytoskeletal rearrangement, whereas knock-down of palladin resulted in cytoskeletal disorganization and inhibition of remodeling. Further studies showed that palladin is tyrosine phosphorylated in cells expressing active Src indicating bidirectional interplay between palladin and Src. These results may have implications in understanding the invasive and metastatic phenotype of neoplastic cells induced by Src.
The lack of neurofibromatosis 2 tumor suppressor protein merlin leads to the formation of nervous system tumors, specifically schwannomas and meningiomas. Merlin is considered to act as a tumor suppressor at the cell membrane, where it links transmembrane receptors to the actin cytoskeleton. Several tumor suppressors interact with another component of the cytoskeleton, the microtubules, in a regulated manner and control their dynamics. In this work, we identify merlin as a novel microtubule-organizing protein. We identify two tubulin-binding sites in merlin, one residing at the N-terminal FERM-domain and another at the C-terminal domain. Merlin's intramolecular association and phosphorylation of serine 518 regulate the interaction between merlin and tubulin. Analysis of cultured glioma cells indicates colocalization between merlin and microtubules especially during cell division. In primary mouse Schwann cells only minor colocalization at the cell periphery of interphase cells is seen. However, these cells drastically change their microtubule organization upon loss of merlin indicating a functional association of the proteins. Both in vitro assays and in vivo studies in Schwann cells indicate that merlin promotes tubulin polymerization. The results show that merlin plays a key role in the regulation of the Schwann cell microtubule cytoskeleton and suggest a mechanism by which loss of merlin leads to cytoskeletal defects observed in human schwannomas.
Autism is a heterogeneous condition that is likely to result from the combined effects of multiple genetic factors interacting with environmental factors. Given its complexity, the study of autism associated with Mendelian single gene disorders or known chromosomal etiologies provides an important perspective. We used microarray analysis to compare the mRNA expression profile in lymphoblastoid cells from males with autism due to a fragile X mutation (FMR1-FM), or a 15q11-q13 duplication (dup(15q)), and non-autistic controls. Gene expression profiles clearly distinguished autism from controls and separated individuals with autism based on their genetic etiology. We identified 68 genes that were dysregulated in common between autism with FMR1-FM and dup(15q). We also identified a potential molecular link between FMR1-FM and dup(15q), the cytoplasmic FMR1 interacting protein 1 (CYFIP1), which was up-regulated in dup(15q) patients. We were able to confirm this link in vitro by showing common regulation of two other dysregulated genes, JAKMIP1 and GPR155, downstream of FMR1 or CYFIP1. We also confirmed the reduction of the Jakmip1 protein in Fmr1 knock-out mice, demonstrating in vivo relevance. Finally, we showed independent confirmation of roles for JAKMIP1 and GPR155 in autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) by showing their differential expression in male sib pairs discordant for idiopathic ASD. These results provide evidence that blood derived lymphoblastoid cells gene expression is likely to be useful for identifying etiological subsets of autism and exploring its pathophysiology.
Abnormalities in microtubule-associated tau protein are a key neuropathological feature of both Alzheimer's disease and many frontotemporal dementias (FTDs), including hereditary FTD with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). In these disorders, tau becomes aberrantly phosphorylated, leading to the development of filamentous neurofibrillary tangles in the brain. Here we report, in a longitudinal ageing study, the sensorimotor and cognitive assessment of transgenic mice expressing the human tau(V337M) ('Seattle Family A') FTDP-17 mutation, which we have previously shown to demonstrate abnormalities in brain tau phosphorylation. The data indicated highly specific effects of transgene expression on the ability to withhold responding in a murine version of the 5-choice serial reaction time task, behaviour consistent with deficits in impulse control. Ageing exacerbated these effects. In young tau(V337M) mice, increased impulsivity was present under task conditions making inhibition of premature responding more difficult (longer inter-trial intervals) but not under baseline conditions. However, when older, the tau(V337M) mice showed further increases in premature responding, including under baseline conditions. These impulse control deficits were fully dissociable from sensorimotor or motivation effects on performance. The findings recapitulate core abnormalities in impulsive responding observed in both frontal variant FTD and FTDP-17 linked to the tau(V337M) mutation in humans.
Retroviral envelopes are pathogenic glycoproteins which cause neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration, and endoplasmic reticulum stress responses. The human endogenous retrovirus (HERV-W) envelope protein, Syncytin-1, is highly expressed in CNS glia of individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS). In this study, we investigated the mechanisms by which Syncytin-1 mediated neuroimmune activation and oligodendrocytes damage. In brain tissue from individuals with MS, ASCT1, a receptor for Syncytin-1 and a neutral amino acid transporter, was selectively suppressed in astrocytes (p &lt; 0.05). Syncytin-1 induced the expression of the endoplasmic reticulum stress sensor, old astrocyte specifically induced substance (OASIS), in cultured astrocytes, similar to findings in MS brains. Overexpression of OASIS in astrocytes increased inducible NO synthase expression but concurrently down-regulated ASCT1 (p &lt; 0.01). Treatment of astrocytes with a NO donor enhanced expression of early growth response 1, with an ensuing reduction in ASCT1 expression (p &lt; 0.05). Small-interfering RNA molecules targeting Syncytin-1 selectively down-regulated its expression, preventing the suppression of ASCT1 and the release of oligodendrocyte cytotoxins by astrocytes. A Syncytin-1-transgenic mouse expressing Syncytin-1 under the glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter demonstrated neuroinflammation, ASCT1 suppression, and diminished levels of myelin proteins in the corpus callosum, consistent with observations in CNS tissues from MS patients together with neurobehavioral abnormalities compared with wild-type littermates (p &lt; 0.05). Thus, Syncytin-1 initiated an OASIS-mediated suppression of ASCT1 in astrocytes through the induction of inducible NO synthase with ensuing oligodendrocyte injury. These studies provide new insights into the role of HERV-mediated neuroinflammation and its contribution to an autoimmune disease.
We report a case of a Parkinson's disease patient treated by bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus, who developed freezing and hypokinesia of gait induced by stimulation through a left-side misplaced electrode which was more antero-medial than the planned trajectory. Subsequently, correct repositioning of the left electrode afforded complete relief of gait disturbances. Freezing and hypokinesia of gait may be side effects of deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic region due to current spreading antero-medially to the subthalamic nucleus. These side effects are not subject to habituation and restrict any increase in stimulation parameters. We hypothesize that pallidal projections to the pedunculopontine nucleus could be responsible for these gait disturbances in our patient.



Mohr-Tranebjaerg syndrome (MTS) is an X-linked disorder characterized by childhood-onset progressive deafness, dystonia, spasticity, mental deterioration, and blindness. It is due to mutations in the deafness/dystonia peptide (DDP1) gene. We describe a sporadic 42-year-old man with MTS presenting with postlingual deafness, adult-onset progressive dystonia with marked arm tremor, mild spasticity of the legs, and visual disturbance due to a novel mutation (g to a transition at the invariant gt of the 5' splice donor site of exon 1) in the DDP1 gene. This case, and a review of previously reported cases, highlights a variety of potential diagnostic pitfalls in this condition.
Recent advances in gene transfer technology have led to promising new therapies for neurodegenerative disorders. This article will review methods of gene transfer therapy and applications of these techniques to both genetic and sporadic neurodegenerative illnesses. The article will focus on Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Several promising gene therapy approaches to these diseases are being pursued both in animal models and in early human trials. Initial safety-tolerability results from these trials appear promising. It is therefore likely that the number of human trials of gene therapy for neurodegenerative disorders will increase over the coming years.
In alphabetic scripts, letters and speech sounds are the basic elements of correspondence between spoken and written language. In two previous fMRI studies, we showed that the response to speech sounds in the auditory association cortex was enhanced by congruent letters and suppressed by incongruent letters. Interestingly, temporal synchrony was critical for this congruency effect to occur. We interpreted these results as a neural correlate of letter-sound integration, driven by the learned congruency of letter-sound pairs. The present event-related fMRI study was designed to address two questions that could not directly be addressed in the previous studies, due to their passive nature and blocked design. Specifically: (1) to examine whether the enhancement/suppression of auditory cortex are truly multisensory integration effects or can be explained by different attention levels during congruent/incongruent blocks, and (2) to examine the effect of top-down task demands on the neural integration of letter-sound pairs. Firstly, we replicated the previous results with random stimulus presentation, which rules out an explanation of the congruency effect in auditory cortex solely in terms of attention. Secondly, we showed that the effects of congruency and temporal asynchrony in the auditory association cortex were absent during active matching. This indicates that multisensory responses in the auditory association cortex heavily depend on task demands. Without task instructions, the auditory cortex is modulated to favor the processing of congruent and synchronous information. This modulation is overruled during explicit matching when all audiovisual stimuli are equally relevant, independent of congruency and temporal relation.
Odor-evoked activity in the olfactory bulb displays both spatial and temporal organization. The difficulty when assessing spatio-temporal dynamics of olfactory representation is to find a method that reconciles the appropriate resolution for both dimensions. Imaging methods based on optical recordings can reach high temporal and spatial resolution but are limited to the observation of the accessible dorsal surface. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) may be useful to overcome this limitation as it allows recording from the whole brain. In this study, we combined ultra fast imaging sequence and short stimulus duration to improve temporal resolution of odor-evoked BOLD responses. Short odor stimulations evoked high amplitude BOLD responses and patterns of activation were similar to those obtained in previous studies using longer stimulations. Moreover, short odor exposures prevented habituation processes. Analysis of the BOLD signal time course in the different areas of activation revealed that odorant response maps are not static entities but rather are temporally dynamic as reported by recent studies using optical imaging. These data demonstrated that fMRI is a non-invasive method which could represent a powerful tool to study not only the spatial dimension of odor representation but also the temporal dimension of information processing.
Tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons are spared in Parkinson's disease (PD), a disorder that causes degeneration of midbrain nigrostriatal dopamine (NSDA) and mesolimbic dopamine (MLDA) neurons. This pattern of susceptibility has been demonstrated in acute complex I inhibitor-induced models of PD, and extrinsic factors such as toxin distribution, bioactivation, entry into the cell and sequestration into vesicles are postulated to underlie the resistance of TIDA neurons. In the present experiments, direct exposure to rotenone or 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) had no effect on mediobasal hypothalamic TIDA neurons, but significantly increased the percentage of apoptag immunoreactive neurons in midbrain primary NSDA and MLDA cultures. In vivo 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) exposure caused an initial decrease (by 4 h) in dopamine (DA) in brain regions containing axon terminals of TIDA (median eminence [ME]), NSDA (striatum [ST]) and MLDA (nucleus accumbens [NA]) neurons. By 16 h after MPTP treatment, DA concentrations in ME returned to control levels, while ST and NA DA levels remained low up to 32 h after treatment with MPTP. When mice and rats were chronically treated with MPTP and rotenone, respectively, the same pattern of susceptibility emerged. TIDA neurons were unaffected while NSDA neurons suffered loss of cell bodies and axon terminal DA. These experiments demonstrate that the resistance of hypothalamic TIDA neurons is not likely to be due to extrinsic factors, and that further examination of the intrinsic properties of these neurons may elucidate mechanisms that can be translated into neuroprotective strategies in PD.
Glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) enhances dopamine (DA) cell survival and fiber outgrowth, and may be beneficial in enhancing cell restorative strategies for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, GDNF may have different roles for transplanted DA cell sub-types. The present in vitro study investigated the effect of GDNF on the survival of rat DA cells displaying a phenotype consistent with either the substantia nigra [A9 cells immunopositive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium channel subunit 2 (GIRK2)] or with the ventral tegmental area [A10 cells immunopositive for TH and calbindin]. It was found that a single exposure of GDNF enhanced the number of DA cells of an A9 phenotype, without affecting DA cells of an A10 phenotype. Conversely, repeated GDNF exposure did not alter the survival of A9 phenotypic cells, but doubled the percentage of A10 cells. It was concluded that GDNF administration may affect dopaminergic cells differently depending on time and degree of GDNF exposure. For cell transplantation in PD, long-term GDNF administration may result in detrimental effects for transplanted A9 TH+ cells as this may introduce competition with A10 TH+ cells for survival and fiber outgrowth into the host striatum. These results may have important implications for clinical neural transplantation in PD.
The subventricular zone (SVZ) is one of the neurogenic regions of the adult brain. We characterized the neurogenic response of the SVZ to the growth of brain tumors in the rat striatum. Abundant nestin positive cells, most likely representing reactive astrocytes, were found surrounding the tumor. However, we observed no substantial migration of nestin positive cells from the SVZ toward the tumor. Tumor growth resulted in decreased numbers of bromodeoxyuridine positive and Ki-67 positive proliferating cells and a concomitant increase in doublecortin and polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity within the SVZ. Neuroblasts were observed in high numbers in the area between the SVZ and the tumor, most likely pointing to the SVZ as the principal source of these cells. Neuroblasts located between the SVZ and the tumor expressed the transcription factor Pbx, a marker for immature striatal neurons. However, no evidence of neuroblast differentiation into fully mature neurons was found. This study thus demonstrates increased neuroblast immunoreactivity within the SVZ ipsilateral to a brain tumor in the striatum. SVZ-derived neuroblasts attracted by the tumor adopt an immature striatal phenotype indicating a region specific reparative mechanism in response to a malignant tumor.
The mechanism involved in neuronal apoptosis is largely unknown. Studies performed on neuronal cell cultures provide information about the pathways which orchestrate the process of neuronal loss and potential drugs for the treatment of neurological disorders. In the present study we select resveratrol, a natural antioxidant, as a potential drug for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. We evaluate the neuroprotective effects of resveratrol in two apoptotic models in rat cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs): the inhibition of mitochondrial complex I using 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) (an in vitro model of Parkinson's disease) and serum potassium withdrawal. We study the role of the mammalian silent information regulator 2 (SIRT1) in the process of neuroprotection mediated by resveratrol. Because recent studies have demonstrated that SIRT1 is involved in cell survival and has antiaging properties, we also measured changes in the expression of this protein after the addition of these two apoptotic stimuli. MPP(+)--induced loss of cell viability and apoptosis in CGNs was prevented by the addition of RESV (1 microM to 100 microM). However, the neuroprotective effects were not mediated by the activation of SIRT1, since sirtinol-an inhibitor of this enzyme--did not attenuate them. Furthermore MPP(+) decreases the protein expression of SIRT1. RESV did not prevent serum potassium withdrawal-induced apoptosis although it did completely attenuate oxidative stress production by these apoptotic stimuli. Furthermore, serum potassium withdrawal increases the expression of SIRT1. Our results indicate that the antiapoptotic effects of RESV in MPP(+) are independent of the stimulation of SIRT1 and depend on its antioxidant properties. Furthermore, because SIRT1 is involved in neuronal survival depending on the apoptotic stimuli, changes in the expression of SIRT1 could be involved in the regulation of the apoptotic route.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) are activated by various stimuli and are critical for neuronal development as well as for death following a stressful stimulus. Here, we have evaluated JNK activity in both healthy and dying motoneurons from developing chick embryos and found no apparent difference in overall JNK activity between the conditions, suggesting that this pathway maybe critical in both circumstances. Pharmacological inhibition of JNK in healthy motoneurons supplied with trophic support resulted in decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, neurite outgrowth, and phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein 1B. On the other hand, in motoneurons deprived of trophic support, inhibition of JNK attenuated caspase activation, and nuclear condensation. We also examined the role of JNK's downstream substrate c-Jun in mediating these events. While c-Jun expression and phosphorylation were greater in cells supplied with trophic support as compared with those deprived, inhibition of c-Jun had no effect on nuclear condensation in dying cells or neurite outgrowth in healthy cells, suggesting that JNK's role in these events is independent of c-Jun. Together, our data underscore the dualistic nature of JNK signaling that is critical for both survival and degenerative changes in motoneurons.
The establishment of the regional subdivisions of the vertebrate CNS is accomplished through the activity of different neuroepithelial organizing centers. The wingless/int (Wnt) family of secreted glycoproteins, among other factors, plays a crucial role in signaling from these centers. Wnt1 secreted from the boundary between the mid- and hindbrain, for instance, controls the development of this brain region and of associated neuronal populations. Different Wnts secreted from the caudomedial pallium, the cortical hem, pattern the adjacent hippocampal field. The first step in Wnt signal transduction is binding of the Wnt ligand to its receptors, the seven-pass transmembrane Frizzled proteins. Inactivation of different Frizzled genes in mice have revealed an extensive functional redundancy between these receptors. In order to discriminate between a possible participation of different Frizzled receptors in the transduction of Wnt signals at the mid-/hindbrain boundary and the cortical hem, we have performed a detailed expression study of the 10 known murine Frizzled genes at crucial stages of mouse embryonic development. Our analysis reveals a highly dynamic yet distinct expression pattern of individual Frizzled genes in the anterior neural tube of the developing mouse embryo. The overlapping spatio-temporal expression of at least two and up to six Frizzled genes in any region of the developing mouse brain, however, also suggests a vast functional redundancy of the murine Frizzled receptors. This redundancy has to be taken into consideration for future analyses of Frizzled receptor function at these signaling centers in the mouse.
It has been shown that Wallerian degeneration, an anterograde degeneration of transected axons, is markedly delayed in a mutant mouse called slow Wallerian degeneration (Wld(S)). These mice also show resistance to axonal degeneration caused by microtubule depolymerizing drugs, suggesting that axonal microtubules are stabilized. Here, we have focused on tubulin acetylation, a post-translational modification associated with microtubule stability. We found that the basal level of microtubule acetylation was increased in cultured cerebellar granule cells from Wld(S) mice. Nicotinamide but not 3-aminobenzamide, an inhibitor for poly(ADP)ribose polymerase, enhanced tubulin acetylation and resistance to axonal degeneration in cultured cerebellar granule cells from wild-type (WT) mice, suggesting that mammalian Sir2-related protein (SIRT) 2, a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)--dependent tubulin deacetylase, could modulate resistance to axonal degeneration. Indeed, the levels of NAD and SIRT2 were decreased in the cytoplasm from Wld(S) granule cells. Moreover, SIRT2 overexpression abrogated microtubule hyperacetylation and resistance to axonal degeneration in these cells. Conversely, SIRT2 knockdown by using a lentiviral vector expressing small interfering RNA, enhanced microtubule acetylation and resistance to axonal degeneration in WT granule cells. Taken together, these results suggest that SIRT2-mediated tubulin deacetylation is involved in both microtubule hyperacetylation and resistance to axonal degeneration in Wld(S) granule cells.
The involvement of nociceptin (N/OFQ) and the nociceptin/orphanin FQ peptide (NOP) receptor in behavior associated with stress and anxiety has been established but their role in the regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis under conditions of stress has not been fully investigated. We used the selective NOP receptor antagonist UFP-101 to examine the contribution of endogenous N/OFQ to HPA axis control under conditions of restraint stress in the morning and the evening. We found that in the morning during the HPA axis circadian nadir rats exposed to restraint stress in both the presence and absence of UFP-101 exhibited significantly elevated plasma corticosterone at 30 min post-i.c.v. injection compared to the home cage control group. Additionally, rats treated with UFP-101 and exposed to restraint had significantly elevated corticosterone levels at 60 min post-i.c.v. injection compared to all other treatment groups. Interestingly, while there was a significant increase in the expression of CRF mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of rats exposed to restraint stress only, there was no comparable increase in those co-treated with UFP-101. There was no change in the expression of AVP or POMC mRNA in any of the treatment groups. In contrast, when carried out in the evening we observed significantly elevated plasma corticosterone in the vehicle-treated restraint group only at 30 min post-i.c.v. injection. There was no significant difference between the UFP-101-treated restraint group and either of the home cage control groups or the vehicle-treated restraint group. Additionally, in contrast to the morning study, UFP-101 did not prolong glucocorticoid release at the 60 min time-point. These results demonstrate for the first time a differential effect of UFP-101 on restraint stress-induced HPA axis activity characterized by significant prolongation of stress-induced activity in the morning but no significant effect on the response to restraint in the evening.
Skilled movements, such as reaching and grasping, have classically been considered as originating in the primate lineage. For this reason, the use of rodents to investigate the genetic and molecular machinery of reaching and grasping has been limited in research. A few studies in rodents have now shown that these movements are not exclusive to primates. Here we present a new test, the Mouse Reaching and Grasping (MoRaG) performance scale, intended to help researchers in the characterization of these motor behaviors in the mouse. Within the MoRaG test battery we identified early phenotypes for the characterization of motor neurone (Tg[SOD1-G93A](dl)1Gur mice) and neurodegenerative (TgN(HD82Gln)81Dbo transgenic mice) disease models in addition to specific motor deficits associated with aging (C3H/HeH inbred strain). We conclude that the MoRaG test can be used to further investigate complex neuromuscular, neurological, neurodegenerative and behavioral disorders. Moreover, our study supports the validity of the mouse as a model for reaching and grasping studies.
A prolonged period of waking accumulates sleep pressure, increasing both the duration and the intensity of the subsequent sleep period. Delta power, which is calculated from the slow range electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillations (0.1-4 Hz), is regarded as the marker of sleep intensity. Recent findings indicate that not only the duration but also the quality of waking, determines the level of increase in the delta activity during the subsequent sleep period. Elevated levels of extracellular adenosine in the basal forebrain (BF) during prolonged waking have been proposed to act as the molecular signal of increased sleep pressure, but the role of BF neuronal activity in elevating adenosine has not been previously explored. We hypothesized that an increase in neuronal discharge in the BF would lead to increase in the extracellular adenosine and contribute to the increase in the subsequent sleep. To experimentally increase neuronal activity in the rat BF, we used 3 h in vivo microdialysis application of glutamate or its receptor agonists N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or AMPA. Samples for adenosine measurement were collected during the drug application and the EEG was recorded during and after the treatment, altogether for 24 h. All treatments increased the duration of the subsequent sleep following the application. In contrast, delta power was elevated only if both the waking EEG theta (5-9 Hz) power (which can be regarded as a marker of active waking) and the extracellular adenosine in the BF were increased during the application. These results indicate that increased neuronal activity in the BF, and particularly the type of neuronal activity coinciding with active waking, is one of the factors contributing to the buildup of the sleep pressure.
Acrolein, the most reactive of the alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes, is endogenously produced by lipid peroxidation, and has been found increased in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Although it is known that acrolein increases total protein carbonylation and impairs the function of selected proteins, no study has addressed which proteins are selectively carbonylated by this aldehyde. In this study we investigated the effect of increasing concentrations of acrolein (0, 0.005, 0.05, 0.5, 5, 50 microM) on protein carbonylation in gerbil synaptosomes. In addition, we applied proteomics to identify synaptosomal proteins that were selectively carbonylated by 0.5 microM acrolein. Acrolein increased total protein carbonylation in a dose-dependent manner. Proteomic analysis (two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by mass spectrometry) revealed that tropomyosin-3-gamma isoform 2, tropomyosin-5, beta-actin, mitochondrial Tu translation elongation factor (EF-Tu(mt)) and voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) were significantly carbonylated by acrolein. Consistent with the proteomics studies that have identified specifically oxidized proteins in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, the proteins identified in this study are involved in a wide variety of cellular functions including energy metabolism, neurotransmission, protein synthesis, and cytoskeletal integrity. Our results suggest that acrolein may significantly contribute to oxidative damage in AD brain.
A direct relation between the rate of adult hippocampal neurogenesis in mice and the immobility time in a forced swim test after living in an enriched environment has been suggested previously. In the present work, young adult mice living in an enriched environment for 2 months developed considerably more immature differentiating neurons (doublecortin-positive, DCX(+)) than control, non-enriched animals. Furthermore, we found that the more DCX(+) cells they possessed, the lower the immobility time they scored in the forced swim test. This DCX(+) subpopulation is composed of mostly differentiating dentate neurons independently of the birthdates of every individual cell. However, variations found in this subpopulation were not the result of a general effect on the survival of any newborn neuron in the granule cell layer, as 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled cells born during a narrow time window included in the longer lifetime period of DCX(+) cells, were not significantly modified after enrichment. In contrast, the survival of the mature population of neurons in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus in enriched animals increased, although this did not influence their performance in the Porsolt test, nor did it influence the dentate gyrus volume or granule neuronal nuclei size. These results indicate that the population of immature, differentiating neurons in the adult hippocampus is one factor directly related to the protective effect of an enriched environment against a highly stressful event.
The administration of methamphetamine (METH, 10 mg/kg, i.p.) to male ICR mice induced stereotyped behavior consisting of nail and/or wood chip biting (86.0%), continuous sniffing (12.0%), head bobbing (1.1%), and circling (1.0%) during the observation period of 1 h. Pretreatment of the mice with metoprine (2, 10, and 20 mg/kg, i.p.), a selective inhibitor of histamine N-methyltransferase (HMT), which metabolizes histamine in the brain, significantly increased and decreased METH-induced continuous sniffing (20.5, 51.3, and 80.3%) and nail and/or wood chip biting (77.4, 45.3, and 14.2%), respectively, in a dose-dependent manner. The hypothalamic contents of histamine and its metabolite N(tau)-methylhistamine were significantly increased and decreased by metoprine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), respectively. The metoprine action on METH-induced behavior was completely abolished by pyrilamine (10 and 20 mg/kg) and ketotifen (10 mg/kg), selective, centrally acting histamine H(1) receptor antagonists, but not by fexofenadine (20 mg/kg), zolantidine (10 mg/kg) and thioperamide (10 mg/kg), a peripherally acting histamine H(1) receptor antagonist and a selective, brain-penetrating antagonist for histamine H(2) and H(3) receptors, respectively. The metoprine action was mimicked by SKF 91488 (100 microg/animal, i.c.v.), another HMT inhibitor, and the action of SKF 91488 was also blocked by pyrilamine. The frequency of the expression of METH-induced total stereotypic patterns was unchanged after metoprine pretreatment. Mice pretreated with metoprine displayed no anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus maze test. These results suggest that brain histamine, increased by agents such as metoprine and SKF 91488, binds to histamine H(1) receptors in the brain, resulting in the modulation of dopaminergic transmission associated with stereotyped behavioral patterns induced by METH.
In grapheme-color synesthesia, the letter &quot;c&quot; printed in black may be experienced as red, but typically the color red does not trigger the experience of the letter &quot;c.&quot; Therefore, at the level of subjective experience, cross-activation is usually unidirectional. However, recent evidence from digit-color synesthesia suggests that at an implicit level bidirectional cross-activation can occur. Here we demonstrate that this finding is not restricted to this specific type of synesthesia. We introduce a new method that enables the investigation of bidirectionality in other types of synesthesia. We found that a group of grapheme-color synesthetes, but not a control group, showed a startle in response to a color-inducing grapheme after a startle response was conditioned to the specific corresponding color. These results implicate that when the startle response was associated with the real color an association between shock and the grapheme was also established. By this mechanism (i.e. implicit cross-activation) the conditioned response to the real color generalized to the synesthetic color. We suggest that parietal brain areas are responsible for this neural backfiring.
We tested the hypothesis that the effects of GABAergic agonists on behavior and the electroencephalogram (EEG) result from an increased regional synchronization in cortical circuits. The relationship between regional EEG topography, EEG synchronization and alteration of behavior was investigated by administering male C57BL/6 mice (n=7) a high, 3 mg/kg i.p. dose of muscimol, a selective GABA(A) agonist. Parietal and frontal cortical EEG, electromyogram, infrared and running wheel activity were recorded for 3 h before and 9 h after injection. Muscimol consistently elicited biphasic behavioral changes. Initially, it induced a catalepsy-like state lasting 96.0+/-12.4 min. This state was followed by a hyperactivity period of 49.7+/-5.4 min, during which the mice engaged in vigorous wheel running. During catalepsy, the EEG exhibited high amplitude waves which showed a consistent phase relationship between the frontal and parietal derivation. Moreover, the typical regional differences between the EEG spectra of the two derivations were abolished, and a redistribution of EEG power toward lower frequencies (&lt;3 Hz) occurred in both derivations. In contrast, during hyperactivity the parietal EEG was dominated by theta-activity (7-9 Hz), which is typical for running behavior, while high amplitude slow waves, resembling the normal non-rapid eye movement sleep EEG pattern, predominated in the frontal EEG. The data indicate that the GABAergic system is involved in the regulation of cortical synchronization of neuronal activity and suggest a link between regional EEG synchronization and behavioral states.
Thalamic connections of two premotor cortex areas, dorsal (PMD) and ventral (PMV), were revealed in New World owl monkeys by injections of fluorescent dyes or wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). The injections were placed in the forelimb and eye-movement representations of PMD and in the forelimb representation of PMV as determined by microstimulation mapping. For comparison, injections were also placed in the forelimb representation of primary motor cortex (M1) of two owl monkeys. The results indicate that both PMD and PMV receive dense projections from the ventral lateral (VL) and ventral anterior (VA) thalamus, and sparser projections from the ventromedial (VM), mediodorsal (MD) and intralaminar (IL) nuclei. Labeled neurons in VL were concentrated in the anterior (VLa) and the medial (VLx) nuclei, with only a few labeled cells in the dorsal (VLd) and posterior (VLp) nuclei. In VA, labeled neurons were concentrated in the parvocellular division (VApc) dorsomedial to VLa. Labeled neurons in MD were concentrated in the most lateral and posterior parts of the nucleus. VApc projected more densely to PMD than PMV, especially to rostral PMD, whereas caudal PMD received stronger projections from neurons in VLx and VLa. VLd projected exclusively to PMD, and not to PMV. In addition, neurons labeled by PMD injections tended to be more dorsal in VL, IL, and MD than those labeled by PMV injections. The results indicate that both premotor areas receive indirect inputs from the cerebellum (via VLx, VLd and IL) and globus pallidus (via VLa, VApc, and MD). Comparisons of thalamic projections to premotor and M1 indicate that both regions receive strong projections from VLx and VLa, with the populations of cells projecting to M1 located more laterally in these nuclei. VApc, VLd, and MD project mainly to premotor areas, while VLp projects mainly to M1. Overall, the thalamic connectivity patterns of premotor cortex in New World owl monkeys are similar to those reported for Old World monkeys.
Complex networks of pathways project from various structures in the brain to modulate spinal processing of sensory input in a top-down fashion. The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) in the brainstem is one major final common output of this endogenous modulatory system and is involved in the relay of sensory information between the spinal cord and brain. The net output of descending neurons that exert inhibitory and facilitatory effects will determine whether neuronal activity in the spinal cord is increased or decreased. By pharmacologically blocking RVM activity with the local anesthetic lignocaine, and then measuring evoked responses of dorsal horn neurons to a range of applied peripheral stimuli, our aim was to determine the prevailing descending influence operating in normal anesthetized animals and animals with experimental neuropathic pain. The injection of 0.8 microl 2% lignocaine into the RVM caused a reduction in deep dorsal horn neuronal responses to electrical and natural stimuli in 64% of normal animals and in 81% of spinal-nerve-ligated (SNL) animals. In normal animals, responses to noxious input were predominantly reduced, while in SNL animals, reductions in spinal cord activity induced by intra-RVM lignocaine further included responses to non-noxious stimuli. This suggests that in terms of activity at least, if not number, descending facilitations are the predominant RVM influence that impacts the spinal cord in normal animals. Moreover, the increase in the proportion of neurons showing a post-lignocaine reduction in dorsal horn activity in SNL rats suggests that the strength of these facilitatory influences increases after neuropathy. This predominant inhibitory spinal effect following the injection of lignocaine into the RVM may be due to blockade of facilitatory On cells.

We have reported that calretinin and calbindin staining of calyxes in the apical region of the cristae is reduced or absent in old gerbils (&gt;or=35 months) that had normal numbers of hair cells [Kevetter GA, Leonard RB (2002) Decreased expression of calretinin and calbindin in the labyrinth of old gerbils. Brain Res 957:362-365]. Here we examine the ability of primary afferents in aged gerbils to carry a tracer injected into the vestibular nuclear complex to their terminals in the cristae. Calyxes throughout the cristae were well labeled in a young animal with such an injection. In the aged animals, many calyxes were only partially filled or not filled at all. In some cases labeled axons were also missing from the stroma underlying the missing calyxes. There is a strong correspondence between the region where the calyxes were not filled and the absence of calretinin immunostaining. To determine if afferents from the cristae are functionally abnormal, we recorded from their axons and attempted to activate them with natural stimulation. Among afferents that could be activated, we encountered many afferents that had spontaneous activity but could not be modulated with natural stimulation. When tested, the firing rate of these afferents could be modulated with galvanic stimulation, and/or they could be activated by pulsed electrical stimulation. We also encountered afferents that had no spontaneous activity. The presence of these axons was revealed by an injury discharge that could not be modulated with natural stimulation. When tested, these axons could be activated with pulsed electrical stimulation. In some instances we encountered two or more such afferents in a row, an event we have not seen in young animals. We suggest that the simplest explanation for these observations is that calyxes are being lost in old animals.
For over 60 years, a distinction has been made between aerobic and anaerobic glycolysis based on their respective end products: pyruvate of the former, lactate of the latter. Recently we hypothesized that, in the brain, both aerobic and anaerobic glycolysis terminate with the formation of lactate from pyruvate by the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). If this hypothesis is correct, lactate must be the mitochondrial substrate for oxidative energy metabolism via its oxidation to pyruvate, plausibly by a mitochondrial LDH. Here we employed electrophysiology of the rat hippocampal slice preparation to test and monitor the effects of malonate and oxamate, two different LDH inhibitors, and glutamate, a neuronal activator, in experiments, the results of which support the hypothesis that lactate, at least in this in vitro setting, is indeed the principal end product of neuronal aerobic glycolysis.
We have assessed amyloid beta protein (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity, with and without added tunicamycin (TM), an inhibitor of N-glycosylation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), in rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHCs). In the rat OHCs cultured for 3 weeks, there was little neurotoxicity after treatment with Abeta(25-35) (25 microM) alone for 48 h. However, with TM alone, concentration-dependent neuronal death was observed at concentrations between 20 and 80 microg/mL. When amyloid-beta protein was combined with tunicamycin (Abeta+TM), cell death was more acute than with TM alone. Western blot analysis revealed that calpain activity and the active forms of caspase-12 and caspase-3 was increased after exposure to Abeta+TM as compared with exposure to TM alone. In contrast, the levels of glucose regulated protein (GRP)94, GRP78 and C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) were not changed in the presence of Abeta. Abeta potentiation of TM neurotoxicity was reversibly blocked by S-allyl-L-cysteine (SAC), an organosulfur compound purified from aged garlic extract, and the L-type calcium channel blocker, nifedipine, in a restricted neuronal area of the OHCs. Simultaneously applied SAC also reversed the increases in calpain activity and the active forms of caspase-12 and caspase-3 by Abeta+TM with no change in the increased levels of GRP94, GRP78 and CHOP. These data indicate that Abeta facilitates the calpain-caspase-12-caspase-3 pathway, thus potentiating TM-induced neuronal death in the hippocampus.
Warmth and heat are registered by different types of cutaneous receptors. To disentangle the cortical activation patterns of warming and heating, we analyzed the temporal evolution of the electroencephalographic 10 and 20 Hz oscillations with the time resolution of hundreds of milliseconds. Sixty heat (from 32 to 50.5 degrees C, rate of change 6 degrees C/s) and warm (from 32 to 42 degrees C, 6 degrees C/s) stimuli were applied on the right thenar using contact thermode. EEG was recorded from 111 scalp electrodes in 12 healthy subjects, and analyzed using event-related desynchronization and low-resolution electromagnetic tomography methods. During warming, the amplitudes of 10 and 20 Hz oscillations over the contralateral primary sensorimotor (SI/MI) and premotor cortices decreased, and the amplitude of 20 Hz oscillations in the anterior cingulate and ipsilateral premotor cortex increased. Heating was associated with additional profound amplitude decreases of 10 and 20 Hz oscillations over SI/MI and premotor cortex, and by amplitude increase of 20 Hz oscillations originating in the posterior cingulate cortex. Results suggest biphasic amplitude changes of the cortical oscillations during ramp increase of temperature attributable to the periods of warming and heating. The amplitude decreases of 10 and 20 Hz oscillations in SI/MI and premotor cortex possibly aid in preparation of motor withdrawal reaction in an event that temperature should reach intolerable pain. Synchronization of the 20 Hz oscillations in the anterior and especially in the posterior cingulate cortex may aid suppression of unwanted movements.
Dysregulation of hedonic processing, in which seeking of drug reward becomes more desirable than seeking natural rewards, like food, sex, and novelty, is a consequence of chronic drug exposure and potentially leads to escalating drug usage and addiction. Here, we investigated the effects of chronic cocaine treatment (10 days of escalating doses of cocaine, 10-30 mg/kg) and multiple forced abstinence periods (2, 3 or 5 weeks) on the acute rewarding properties of either cocaine (10 mg/kg) or novel-objects using the conditioned place preference procedure. Following all cocaine withdrawal periods, cocaine preference was significantly elevated while novel object preference was abolished compared with saline-treated rats. At the earliest withdrawal period, these behavioral changes were accompanied by elevations in FosB-like immunoreactive staining in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and nucleus accumbens shell (NAc-Sh) and core (NAc-C). FosB staining in all three brain areas correlated positively with cocaine preference, but negatively with novelty preference. After 5 weeks of withdrawal, FosB staining was only elevated in the NAc-Sh and again correlated positively with elevated cocaine preference but negatively with decreased novelty preference. These data indicate that alterations in the expression of FosB-like transcription factors in the NAc can predict the dysregulation of hedonic processing that occurs during protracted withdrawal from cocaine.
Several studies suggest a pivotal role of amyloid beta (Abeta)(1-42) and nitric oxide (NO) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. NO also possess central neuromodulatory properties. To study the soluble Abeta(1-42) effects on dopamine concentrations in rat prefrontal cortex, microdialysis technique was used. We showed that i.c.v. injection or retrodialysis Abeta(1-42) administration reduced basal and K(+)-stimulated dopamine levels, measured 2 and 48 h after peptide administration. Immunofluorescent experiments revealed that after 48 h from i.c.v. injection Abeta(1-42) was no longer detectable in the ventricular space. We then evaluated the role of NO on Abeta(1-42)-induced reduction in dopamine concentrations. Subchronic L-arginine administration decreased basal dopamine levels, measured either 2 h after i.c.v. Abeta(1-42) or on day 2 post-injection, whereas subchronic 7-nitroindazole administration increased basal dopamine concentrations, measured 2 h after i.c.v. Abeta(1-42) injection, and decreased them when measured on day 2 post-Abeta(1-42)-injection. No dopaminergic response activity was observed after K(+) stimulation in all groups. These results suggest that the dopaminergic system seems to be acutely vulnerable to soluble Abeta(1-42) effects. Finally, the opposite role of NO occurring at different phases might be regarded as a possible link between Abeta(1-42)-induced effects and dopaminergic dysfunction.
Endostatin/collagen XVIII is a specific inhibitor of endothelial proliferation and migration in vitro. It has also been shown to have anti-angiogenic activity and tumor growth inhibitory activity in vivo and in vitro. Here we studied expression of endostatin/collagen XVIII in a rat traumatic brain injury (TBI) model, focusing on the early phase. A significant up-regulation of endostatin/collagen XVIII in TBI began as early as 24 h post-TBI. Double-staining experiment revealed that the major resource of endostatin/collagen XVIII(+) cells in our TBI rat model was a subpopulation of reactivated microglia/macrophages. Our data further showed that dexamethasone attenuated up-regulation of endostatin/collagen XVIII expression at days 1 and 2, but not at day 4, post-TBI, indicating that dexamethasone might possess an early and transient influence to the angiogenesis following TBI.
A number of previous studies have shown that chronic but not acute treatment with antidepressant drugs targeting the central 5-HT system, enhances mRNA expression for a number of genes including, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the effector immediate early gene (IEG), activity-regulated, cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc). The present study investigated the effects of 5-HT(6)-receptor activation on hippocampal and cortical levels of mRNA expression of BDNF and Arc in the rat. The selective 5-HT(6)-receptor agonist LY-586713 was administered acutely (0.1-10 mg/kg, s.c.) and mRNA levels of BDNF and Arc were measured 18 h later. Administration of LY-586713 caused a bell-shaped dose response on hippocampal BDNF mRNA expression, having no effect at 0.1 mg/kg, a significant up-regulation at 1 mg/kg and no effect at 10 mg/kg. The up-regulation in BDNF expression observed at 1 mg/kg was completely blocked by pre-treatment with the selective 5-HT(6)-receptor antagonist SB-271046 (10 mg/kg, s.c.). The effective dose (1 mg/kg) of LY-586713 on the induction of BDNF expression was also tested on Arc expression. Acute administration of LY-586713 at this dose caused marked increases of the Arc mRNA levels in cortical and hippocampal regions. These increases were also attenuated by SB-271046 (10 mg/kg) in all regions of the hippocampus, as well as the parietal cortex. However, in frontal cortical regions there was no attenuation by the antagonist. Moreover, SB-271046 alone increased Arc expression in these regions. The results presented here provide the first evidence for the involvement of the 5-HT(6) receptor in regulating BDNF and Arc mRNA expression, suggesting that LY-586713 has potential effects on neuronal plasticity. Overall, these findings suggest that, as opposed to more general 5-HT receptor activation by, for example, antidepressants, direct 5-HT(6)-receptor activation results in a more rapid rise in BDNF and Arc mRNA expression which does not require repeated administration.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease of the CNS in which inflammation, demyelination and neurodegeneration contribute to its initiation and progression. A frequently employed model of MS is experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Here, to gain new insights into the disease process, an analysis of proteins in extracts of lumbar spinal cord from nave and EAE rats was undertaken. The data mainly confirm that inflammation and blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown are the major hallmarks of disease in this model. Given their importance in the BBB, junctional proteins were further investigated. Occludin, a protein localizing to tight junctions in brain endothelial cells, showed strikingly increased migration in EAE when analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). This increased migration was mimicked by in vitro phosphatase treatment, implying its dephosphorylation in EAE. Occludin dephosphorylation coincided with the onset of inflammation, slightly preceding visible signs of disease, and was just prior to apparent changes in BBB permeability. These findings suggest occludin is a target for signaling processes in EAE, perhaps regulating the response of the BBB to the inflammatory environment as seen in MS.
Nicotine, an alkaloid found in tobacco smoke, has been recognized as capable of inducing changes in taste functionality in conditions of chronic exposure. The mechanisms underlying these sensory alterations, however, are currently unknown. We addressed this issue by studying the long-term effects of nicotine on the anatomical features of taste buds, the peripheral end-organs of taste, in rat fungiform papillae. Nicotine was administered to rats via drinking water over a period of 3 weeks, which represents a standard method to achieve chronic drug exposure in laboratory animals. We found that prolonged administration of nicotine induced a significant reduction in the size of fungiform taste buds, without affecting their total number on the rat tongue. Morphometric measurements as well as evaluations of taste cell membrane capacitance suggested that the reduced size of taste organs was determined by a decrease in the number of cells per taste bud. In addition, chronic treatment with nicotine caused an increase in the relative density of cells expressing gustducin, a specific G protein alpha-subunit found in some taste cells and involved in bitter/sweet transduction. Interestingly, changes in the expression pattern of gustducin turned out to be more pronounced in periadolescent/adolescent than in adult rats. As a whole, our data indicate that long-term nicotine administration induces significant changes in the anatomical properties of taste buds in rat fungiform papillae. These changes could have a profound impact on the sensory information relayed to the brain; therefore, they may be responsible, at least in part, for the alterations in taste functionality observed during chronic nicotine exposure, a condition found in regular smokers.
Production of tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMPs), a family of secreted proteins with inhibitory actions on matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), is up-regulated following nerve injuries and is suggested to have protective effects against MMP-mediated tissue damages. To clarify the extracellular signals involved in TIMP production in the brain, the effects of endothelins (ETs), a family of vasoconstricting peptides, were examined. I.c.v. administration of 500 pmol/day Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1, an ET(B) receptor agonist, increased the level of TIMP-1 mRNA in rat hippocampus, caudate-putamen and cerebrum. Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1 increased the level of TIMP-3 mRNA in the cerebrum, but not in the hippocampus or caudate-putamen. TIMP-2 mRNA was not affected in these brain regions. Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1 also stimulated the production of TIMP-1 and TIMP-3 proteins in the cerebrum. Immunohistochemical observations in the hippocampi of Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1-infused rats showed that NeuN-positive neurons and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes were immunoreactive for TIMP-1. In the cerebrum, astrocytes had TIMP-1 and TIMP3 reactivity, but neurons did not. In rat cultured astrocytes, both 100 nM Ala(1,3,11,15)-ET-1 and ET-1 increased the mRNA levels and protein release of TIMP-1 and TIMP-3 mRNAs. The effects of ET-1 on astrocytic TIMP-1 and TIMP-3 mRNAs were inhibited by BQ788, an ET(B) antagonist. These findings indicate that activation of brain ET(B) receptors causes production of TIMP-1 and TIMP-3, and suggest the involvement of astrocytes in ET-induced TIMP production.
Lead (Pb(2+)) exposure in development induces impairments of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) area of the anesthetized rats in vivo. The common chelating agents have many adverse effects and are incapable of alleviating lead-induced neurotoxicity. Recently, CQ, clioquinol (5-chloro-7-iodo-8-hydroxy-quinoline), which is a transition metal ion chelator and/or ionophore with low affinity for metal ions, has yielded some promising results in animal models and clinical trials related to dysfunctions of metal ions. In addition, CQ-associated side effects are believed to be overcome with vitamin B12 (VB12) supplementation. To determine whether CQ treatment could rescue impairments of synaptic plasticity induced by chronic Pb(2+) exposure, we investigated the input/output functions (I/Os), paired-pulse reactions (PPRs) and long-term potentiation (LTP) of different treatment groups in hippocampal DG area of the anesthetized rat in vivo by recording field potentials and measured hippocampal Pb(2+) concentrations of different treatment groups by PlasmaQuad 3 inductive coupled plasma mass spectroscopy. The results show: CQ alone does not rescue the lead-induced impairments of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal DG area of the anesthetized rats in vivo; VB12 alone partly rescues the lead-induced impairments of LTP; however the co-administration of CQ and VB12 totally rescues these impairments of synaptic plasticity and moreover, the effects of CQ and VB12 co-administration are specific to the lead-exposed animals.
Without special examination the brain offers no clue that it is the organ of the mind. From the dawn of time man thus either ignored the problem as to the source of thought, or attributed it to a variety of anatomical structures, usually the heart. The brain held no place in such intuitions, and in most languages it is analogized to bone marrow. Furthermore, nothing in early medical systems claimed any intellectual capacity for the brain; and the Egyptians, so fastidious in care for their afterlife, heedlessly discarded the brain in funerary practice. It was thus a unique event in world history when Alkmaion of Kroton (Alcmaeon, ca. 500 bc), based on anatomical evidence, proposed that the brain was essential for perception. Although no writings of Alkmaion survived, it was probably via a fortuitous linkage that his idea of the mental primacy of the brain was transmitted to, and preserved within, the teachings of the Hippocratic school. Nothing, of course, was secure as to mechanism, two millennia unfolding until the search for mind passed from the ventricles to the cerebral cortex. Nonetheless, Alkmaion was the beginning, and the ensuing understanding that he initiated is still transforming humanity's perception of the natural world, and their place within it.
Whether memories can be suppressed has been a controversial issue in psychology and cognitive neuroscience for decades. We found evidence that emotional memories are suppressed via two time-differentiated neural mechanisms: (i) an initial suppression by the right inferior frontal gyrus over regions supporting sensory components of the memory representation (visual cortex, thalamus), followed by (ii) right medial frontal gyrus control over regions supporting multimodal and emotional components of the memory representation (hippocampus, amygdala), both of which are influenced by fronto-polar regions. These results indicate that memory suppression does occur and, at least in nonpsychiatric populations, is under the control of prefrontal regions.

The human 5-HT transporter (hSERT) has two binding sites for 5-HT and 5-HT uptake inhibitors: the orthosteric high-affinity site and a low-affinity allosteric site. Activation of the allosteric site increases the dissociation half-life for some uptake inhibitors. The objectives of this study were 1) to identify hSERT mutations that inactivate the high-affinity site without affecting the allosteric site and 2) to observe allosteric effects in which hSERT binds R-citalopram with higher affinity than S-citalopram. Wild-type and mutant (Y95F, I172M, and Y95F/I172M) hSERTs were expressed in COS-7 cells, and their 5-HT uptake and uptake inhibitor-binding abilities were studied. The hSERT mutations did not alter affinities for 5-HT or paroxetine, but high-affinity binding of S-citalopram was severely affected, particularly by the I172M, and Y95F/I172M mutations - K(i) respectively 4 nM (wild-type), 35 nM, 1000 nM, and 17.100 nM (mutants). The allosteric site however, in wild-type hSERT and the three mutants was unaffected by the mutations as attenuation of the dissociation rate of the [(3)H]-paroxetine:hSERT complex in the presence of S-citalopram or paroxetine was the same for wild-type hSERT and the three mutants. Further, R-citalopram previously thought of as an inactive enantiomer strongly attenuated dissociation of the wild-type [(3)H]-imipramine:hSERT complex, whereas S-citalopram had almost no effect on this complex. These results suggest that 1: The allosteric site on hSERT is distinct from the site to which S-citalopram binds with high affinity. 2: The allosteric effects of R-citalopram on the dissociation of [(3)H]-imipramine from hSERT indicate that R-citalopram introduces a conformational change in hSERT.
It has been shown that systemic administration of morphine induced a hyperalgesic response at an extremely low dose. We have examined the effect of nifedipine, as a calcium channel blocker, on morphine-induced hyperalgesia in intact and adrenalectomized rats and on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity induced by ultra-low dose of morphine. To determine the effect of nifedipine on hyperalgesic effect of morphine, nifedipine (2 mg/kg i.p. and 10 microg i.t.) that had no nociceptive effect, was injected concomitant with morphine (1 microg/kg i.p. and 0.01 microg i.t. respectively). The tail-flick test was used to assess the nociceptive threshold, before and 30, 60, 120, 180, 240 and 300 min after drug administration. The data showed that low dose morphine systemic administration could produce hyperalgesic effect in adrenalectomized rats equivalent to sham-operated animals while intrathecal injection of morphine only elicited hyperalgesia in sham-operated animals. Nifedipine could block morphine-induced hyperalgesia in sham and adrenalectomized rats and even a mild analgesic effect was observed in the adrenalectomized group which was reversed by corticosterone replacement. Systemic administration of low dose morphine produced significant increase in plasma level of corticosterone. Nifedipine has an inhibitory effect on morphine-induced corticosterone secretion. Thus, the data indicate that dihydropyridine calcium channels are involved in ultra-low dose morphine-induced hyperalgesia and that both the pattern of morphine hyperalgesia and the blockage of it by nifedipine are modulated by manipulation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis.


A progressive loss of neurons with age underlies a variety of debilitating neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), yet few effective treatments are currently available. The SIR2 gene promotes longevity in a variety of organisms and may underlie the health benefits of caloric restriction, a diet that delays aging and neurodegeneration in mammals. Here, we report that a human homologue of SIR2, SIRT1, is upregulated in mouse models for AD, ALS and in primary neurons challenged with neurotoxic insults. In cell-based models for AD/tauopathies and ALS, SIRT1 and resveratrol, a SIRT1-activating molecule, both promote neuronal survival. In the inducible p25 transgenic mouse, a model of AD and tauopathies, resveratrol reduced neurodegeneration in the hippocampus, prevented learning impairment, and decreased the acetylation of the known SIRT1 substrates PGC-1alpha and p53. Furthermore, injection of SIRT1 lentivirus in the hippocampus of p25 transgenic mice conferred significant protection against neurodegeneration. Thus, SIRT1 constitutes a unique molecular link between aging and human neurodegenerative disorders and provides a promising avenue for therapeutic intervention.
Head direction (HD) cells in the rodent limbic system are believed to correspond to a cognitive representation of directional heading in the environment. Lesions of vestibular hair cells disrupt the characteristic firing patterns of HD cells, and thus vestibular afference is a critical contributor to the HD signal. A subcortical pathway that may convey this information includes the dorsal tegmental nucleus of Gudden (DTN) and the lateral mammillary nucleus (LMN). To test the hypothesis that the DTN and LMN are critical components for generating HD cell activity, we made electrolytic lesions of the DTN or LMN in rats and screened for HD cell activity in the anterior thalamus. Directional activity was absent in all animals with complete LMN lesions and in animals with complete DTN lesions, although a few HD cells were isolated in animals with incomplete lesions. Some DTN-lesioned animals contained cells whose firing rates were modulated by angular head velocity. Although cells with bursting patterns of activity have been observed in the anterior dorsal nucleus of the thalamus of animals with disruption of vestibular inputs, this pattern of activity was not observed in either the LMN- or DTN-lesioned animals. The general absence of direction-specific activity in the anterior thalamus of animals with DTN or LMN lesions is consistent with the view that the DTN-LMN circuit is essential for the generation of HD cell activity.
Critical periods for plasticity of thalamic sensory inputs play an important role in developing neocortical circuits. During an early postnatal time window, pyramidal cells of visual, auditory, and somatosensory cortex undergo structural refinement and possess an enhanced ability for activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. In olfactory cortex, however, pyramidal cells receive direct sensory input from the olfactory bulb, and it is unclear whether the development of olfactory sensory circuits is governed by a critical period. Here, we show that NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation and dendritic spine maturation occur only during a brief postnatal time window at sensory synapses of olfactory cortex pyramidal cells. In contrast, associational synapses onto the same cells retain the capacity for plasticity into adulthood.
Previous studies demonstrated that cross-linking of GM1 ganglioside with multivalent ligands, such as B subunit of cholera toxin (CtxB), induced Ca2+ influx through an unidentified, voltage-independent channel in several cell types. Application of CtxB to undifferentiated NG108-15 cells resulted in outgrowth of axon-like neurites in a Ca2+ influx-dependent manner. In this study, we demonstrate that CtxB-induced Ca2+ influx is mediated by TRPC5 channels, naturally expressed in these cells and primary neurons. Both Ca2+ influx and neurite induction were blocked by TRPC5 small interfering RNA (siRNA). Pretreatment of NG108-15 cells with neuraminidase increased cell-surface GM1 and greatly enhanced the signal. GM1 was not directly associated with TRPC5 but rather with alpha5beta1 integrin, which opened the channel through a signaling sequence after cross-linking of the GM1/integrin complex. This cascade included autophosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase and subsequent activation of phospholipase Cgamma (PLCgamma) and phosphoinositide-3 kinase [PI(3)K]. Pharmacological blockers that inhibited tyrosine kinase, PLC, and PI(3)K suppressed both CtxB-induced Ca2+ influx and neurite outgrowth. These were also suppressed by SK&amp;F96365, a nonspecific transient receptor potential channel blocker. Confocal immunocytochemistry revealed that GM1 cross-linking induced colocalization of GM1 with these signaling elements in sprouting regions of plasma membrane. In primary cerebellar granular neurons (CGNs), TRPC5 was detected at 2 d in vitro (2 DIV), a stage corresponding to CtxB-stimulated Ca2+ influx. Neurite outgrowth in CGNs, determined at 3 DIV, was accelerated by CtxB and suppressed by TRPC5 siRNA and the above blockers. The crucial role of GM1 was indicated with CGNs from ganglio-series null mice, in which growth of axons was significantly retarded.
Granule cell neurogenesis increases following seizures, and some newly born granule cells develop at abnormal locations within the hilus. These ectopic granule cells (EGCs) demonstrate regular bursts of action potentials that are synchronized with CA3 pyramidal cell burst discharges and the bursts of hilar neurons, including mossy cells. Such findings suggest that mossy cells may participate in circuits that activate EGCs. Electron microscopic immunolabeling was therefore used to determine if mossy cell axon terminals form synapses with hilar EGC dendrites, using animals that underwent pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Pilocarpine was administered to adult male rats, and those which developed status epilepticus were perfused 5-7 months later, after the period of EGC genesis. Hippocampal sections were processed for dual electron microscopic immunolabeling (using calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) as a marker for mossy cells and calbindin (CaBP) as a marker for EGCs). Light microscopic analysis revealed large CGRP-immunoreactive cells in the hilus, with the appearance and distribution of mossy cells. Electron microscopic analysis revealed numerous CaBP-immunoreactive dendrites in the hilus, some of which were innervated by CGRP-immunoreactive terminals. The results suggest that mossy cells participate in the excitatory circuits which activate EGCs, providing further insight into the network rearrangements that accompany seizure-induced neurogenesis in this animal model of epilepsy.


The balance between dynamic and stable actin filaments is essential for the regulation of cellular functions including the determination of cell shape and polarity, cell migration, and cytokinesis. Proteins that regulate polymerization at the filament ends and filament stability confer specificity to actin filament structure and cellular function. The dynamics of the barbed, fast-growing end of the filament are controlled in space and time by both positive and negative regulators of actin polymerization. Capping proteins inhibit the addition and loss of subunits, whereas other proteins, including formins, bind at the barbed end and allow filament growth. In this work, we show that tropomyosin regulates dynamics at the barbed end. Tropomyosin binds to constructs of FRL1 and mDia2 that contain the FH2 domain and modulates formin-dependent capping of the barbed end by relieving inhibition of elongation by FRL1-FH1FH2, mDia1-FH2, and mDia2-FH2 in an isoform-dependent fashion. In this role, tropomyosin functions as an activator of formin. Tropomyosin also inhibits the binding of FRL1-FH1FH2 to the sides of actin filaments independent of the isoform. In contrast, tropomyosin does not affect the ability of capping protein to block the barbed end. We suggest that tropomyosin and formin act together to ensure the formation of unbranched actin filaments, protected from severing, that could be capped in stable cellular structures. This role, in addition to its cooperative control of myosin function, establishes tropomyosin as a universal regulator of the multifaceted actin cytoskeleton.

Previous studies have reported sex and estrous cycle-dependent differences in the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking triggered by cocaine injections or drug-paired cues. However, the relationship between estradiol or progesterone levels and cocaine-seeking in a reinstatement model of relapse has not been explored. Thus, we examined changes in plasma hormone levels during cocaine-taking and -seeking behaviors in gonadally intact female rats. Rats self-administered cocaine (0.5mg/kg infusion) during daily 2-h sessions, followed by extinction. For reinstatement, cocaine (0, 5, or 10mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 30 min prior to testing. Vaginal smears and blood samples were collected prior to and during chronic cocaine self-administration, extinction, and reinstatement testing. Relative to non-estrous females, females in estrus showed greater responding during self-administration, extinction, and during cocaine-primed reinstatement. The highest progesterone levels were noted at the time of lowest cocaine-seeking (proestrus) and the lowest levels of progesterone occurred at the time of highest cocaine-seeking (estrus). In contrast, plasma estradiol levels did not show any clear pattern with cocaine-seeking. These data from an animal model of relapse supports recent clinical evidence that progesterone reduces subjective craving in cocaine-dependent women. Overall, these results suggest that progesterone administration may be a useful intervention for reducing the incidence of relapse.
After peripheral axotomy, synapses are eliminated from the somata of spinal motoneurons. Recent evidence indicates that synaptic adhesion molecules play a role in maintenance of synaptic contacts, but so far such molecules have not been investigated in the context of synapse elimination after injury. In vitro, the neuroligins (NLGs) and SynCAM1 drive formation of synapses, and RNAi of NLGs results in decreased synaptic input, indicating an important role for these molecules in synaptic biology. To address potential involvement of NLGs and SynCAMs in postinjury synapse elimination, we investigated the mRNA expression of NLG1, -2, and -3; SynCAM1 and -3; and PSD-95--an intracellular NLG-binding scaffolding protein--in rat spinal motoneurons in control animals and after sciatic nerve transection (SNT). mRNA signals for NLG2, NLG3, SynCAM1, and SynCAM3, but not NLG1, were seen in uninjured motoneurons. Immunoreactivity for SynCAM was seen in close relation to synaptophysin immunoreactivity on the surface of motoneurons and in close relation to neurofilament immunoreactivity in the sciatic nerve. After axotomy, the signals for NLG2, NLG3, and SynCAM1 mRNAs decreased, whereas the signal for NLG1 mRNA remained undetectable and that for SynCAM3 remained at control levels. The signal for PSD-95 mRNA decreased gradually and reached approximately 50% of control values 2 weeks after axotomy. Thus the retrograde response to axotomy of spinal motoneurons involves a rapid down-regulation of NLG2, NLG3, and SynCAM1 mRNAs and a gradual decrease in PSD-95 mRNA. This indicates that down-regulation of synaptic adhesion molecules plays a role in postinjury synapse elimination.
Most mammals have two distinct olfactory epithelia, the olfactory epithelium (OE) and vomeronasal epithelium (VNE), containing, respectively, olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and vomeronasal receptor neurons (VRNs). Olfactory receptors (ORs), which couple to G alpha olf, are generally expressed by ORNs, whereas two vomeronasal receptor families (V1rs and V2rs) coupled respectively to G alpha i2 and G alpha o, are expressed by VRNs. Previously, we reported that one goat V1rs (gV1ra1) is expressed by ORNs and VRNs. To investigate the characteristics of vomeronasal-receptor-expressing ORNs in mammals we performed double-label in situ hybridization for gV1ra1, G alpha i2, G alpha olf, olfactory marker protein (OMP), and growth association protein 43 (GAP43). Goat V1r-expressing ORNs are categorized into two types situated in different areas of the epithelium. The first type of V1r-expressing ORN coexpressed G alpha i2, but not OMP or GAP43. The second type of V1r-expressing ORN expresses G alpha olf and OMP, but not G alpha i2 or GAP43. These findings suggest that the two types of V1r-expressing ORN in goat OE function using different G protein alpha subunits for chemoreception.
The endomorphins are endogenous opioids with high affinity and selectivity for the mu opioid receptor (MOR, MOR-1, MOP). Endomorphin-1 (Tyr-Pro-Trp-Phe-NH(2); EM1) and endomorphin-2 (Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH(2); EM2) have been localized to many regions of the central nervous system (CNS), including those that regulate antinociception, autonomic function, and reward. Colocalization or shared distribution (overlap) of two neurotransmitters, or a transmitter and its cognate receptor, may imply an interaction of these elements in the regulation of functions mediated in that region. For example, previous evidence of colocalization of EM2 with substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and MOR in primary afferent neurons suggested an interaction of these peptides in pain modulation. We therefore investigated the colocalization of EM1 and EM2 with SP, CGRP, and MOR in other areas of the CNS. EM2 was colocalized with SP and CGRP in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and with SP, CGRP and MOR in the parabrachial nucleus. Several areas in which EM1 and EM2 showed extensive shared distributions, but no detectable colocalization with other signaling molecules, are also described.
Sleep-dependent memory consolidation is observed following motor skill learning: Performance improvements are greater over a 12-h period containing sleep relative to an equivalent interval without sleep. Here we examined whether older adults exhibit sleep-dependent consolidation on a sequence learning task. Participants were trained on one of two sequence learning tasks. Performance was assessed after a 12-h break that included sleep and after a 12-h break that did not include sleep. Older and younger adults showed similar degrees of initial learning. However, performance of the older adults did not improve following sleep, providing evidence that sleep-dependent consolidation is diminished with age.


An understanding of the molecular bases of the morphogenesis, organization, and functioning of hair cells requires that the genes expressed in these cells be identified and their functions ascertained. After purifying zebrafish hair cells and detecting mRNAs with oligonucleotide microarrays, we developed a subtractive strategy that identified 1,037 hair cell-expressed genes whose cognate proteins subserve functions including membrane transport, synaptic transmission, transcriptional control, cellular adhesion and signal transduction, and cytoskeletal organization. To assess the validity of the subtracted hair-cell data set, we verified the presence of 11 transcripts in inner-ear tissue. Functional evaluation of two genes from the subtracted data set revealed their importance in hair bundles: zebrafish larvae bearing the seahorse and ift 172 mutations display specific kinociliary defects. Moreover, a search for candidate genes that underlie heritable deafness identified a human ortholog of a zebrafish hair-cell gene whose map location is bracketed by the markers of a deafness locus.
Anuran amphibians undergo a rapid and dramatic process of metamorphosis featuring widespread structural reorganization of the central nervous system. Although morphological changes during embryonic stages of anuran development have been well documented, much less information is available describing structural changes in the brain during larval (tadpole) stages. Using still images from cresyl-violet-stained material, we present an adaptation of the digital image and video manipulation technique of morphing that allows these images to be compiled in such a manner as to highlight key periods in tadpole brain development in a dynamic fashion. We present three morphed video data sets from ranid tadpoles that facilitate the identification of developmental changes in nuclear boundaries at different levels of the neuraxis. The use of animation allows dynamic examination of anatomical changes across long developmental spans without requiring additional anatomical preparations or specialized expensive equipment.
Genome-encoded microRNAs (miRNAs) are potent regulators of gene expression. The significance of miRNAs in various biological processes has been suggested by studies showing an important role of these small RNAs in regulation of cell differentiation. However, the role of miRNAs in regulation of differentiated cell physiology is not well established. Mature neurons express a large number of distinct miRNAs, but the role of miRNAs in postmitotic neurons has not been examined. Here, we provide evidence for an essential role of miRNAs in survival of differentiated neurons. We show that conditional Purkinje cell-specific ablation of the key miRNA-generating enzyme Dicer leads to Purkinje cell death. Deficiency in Dicer is associated with progressive loss of miRNAs, followed by cerebellar degeneration and development of ataxia. The progressive neurodegeneration in the absence of Dicer raises the possibility of an involvement of miRNAs in neurodegenerative disorders.
The role of the gastrin peptide hormones (G17, G34) and their precursors (progastrins, PG; gly-extended gastrin, G-gly), in gastrointestinal (GI) cancers has been extensively reviewed in recent years [W. Rengifo-Cam, P. Singh, Role of progastrins and gastrins and their receptors in GI and pancreatic cancers: targets for treatment, Curr. Pharm. Des. 10 (19) (2004) 2345-2358; M. Dufresne, C. Seva, D. Fourmy, Cholecystokinin and gastrin receptors, Physiol. Rev. 86 (3) (2006) 805-847; A. Ferrand, T.C. Wang, Gastrin and cancer: a review, Cancer Lett. 238 (1) (2006) 15-29]. A possible important role of progastrin peptides in colon carcinogenesis has become evident from experiments with transgenic mouse models [W. Rengifo-Cam, P. Singh, (2004); A. Ferrand, T.C. Wang, (2006)]. It is now known that growth stimulatory and co-carcinogenic effects of gastrin/PG peptides are mediated by both proliferative and anti-apoptotic effects of the peptides on target cells [H. Wu, G.N. Rao, B. Dai, P. Singh, Autocrine gastrins in colon cancer cells Up-regulate cytochrome c oxidase Vb and down-regulate efflux of cytochrome c and activation of caspase-3, J. Biol. Chem. 275 (42) (2000) 32491-32498; H. Wu, A. Owlia, P. Singh, Precursor peptide progastrin(1-80) reduces apoptosis of intestinal epithelial cells and upregulates cytochrome c oxidase Vb levels and synthesis of ATP, Am. J. Physiol. Gastrointest. Liver Physiol. 285 (6) (2003) G1097-G1110]. Several receptor subtypes have been described that mediate growth effects of gastrin peptides [W. Rengifo-Cam, P. Singh (2004); M. Dufresne, C. Seva, D. Fourmy, (2006)]. Recently, we identified Annexin II as a high affinity binding protein for gastrin/PG peptides [P. Singh, H. Wu, C. Clark, A. Owlia, Annexin II binds progastrin and gastrin-like peptides, and mediates growth factor effects of autocrine and exogenous gastrins on colon cancer and intestinal epithelial cells, Oncogene (2006), doi:10.1038/sj.onc.1209798]. Importantly, the expression of Annexin II was required for mediating growth stimulatory effects of gastrin and PG peptides on intestinal epithelial and colon cancer cells [P. Singh, H. Wu, C. Clark, A. Owlia, Annexin II binds progastrin and gastrin-like peptides, and mediates growth factor effects of autocrine and exogenous gastrins on colon cancer and intestinal epithelial cells, Oncogene (2006), doi:10.1038/sj.onc.1209798], suggesting that Annexin-II may represent the elusive novel receptor for gastrin/PG peptides. The importance of this finding in relation to the structure and function of Annexin-II, especially in GI cancers, is described below. Since this surprising finding represents a new front in our understanding of the mechanisms involved in mediating growth effects of gastrin/PG peptides in GI cancers, our current understanding of the role of Annexin-II in proliferation and metastasis of cancer cells is additionally reviewed.
It has been claimed that recursion is one of the properties that distinguishes human language from any other form of animal communication. Contrary to this claim, a recent study purports to demonstrate center-embedded recursion in starlings. I show that the performance of the birds in this study can be explained by a counting strategy, without any appreciation of center-embedding. To demonstrate that birds understand center-embedding of sequences of the form A(n) B(n) (such as A(1) A(2) B(2) B(1) , or A(3) A(4) A(5) B(5) B(4) B(3) ) would require not only that they discriminate such patterns from other patterns, but that they appreciate that elements must be bound from the outside in (thus, in the above examples, A(1) B(1) , A(2) B(2) , A(3) B(3) , A(4) B(4) , A(5) B(5) are bound pairs). This has not been shown in nonhuman species, and sentences with this structure are difficult even for humans to parse. There appears to be no evidence to date that nonhuman species understand recursion.
It has since long been known, from everyday experience as well as from animal and human studies, that psychological processes-both affective and cognitive-exert an influence on gastrointestinal sensorimotor function. More specifically, a link between psychological factors and visceral hypersensitivity has been suggested, mainly based on research in functional gastrointestinal disorder patients. However, until recently, the exact nature of this putative relationship remained unclear, mainly due to a lack of non-invasive methods to study the (neurobiological) mechanisms underlying this relationship in non-sleeping humans. As functional brain imaging, introduced in visceral sensory neuroscience some 10 years ago, does provide a method for in vivo study of brain-gut interactions, insight into the neurobiological mechanisms underlying visceral sensation in general and the influence of psychological factors more particularly, has rapidly grown. In this article, an overview of brain imaging evidence on gastrointestinal sensation will be given, with special emphasis on the brain mechanisms underlying the interaction between affective &amp; cognitive processes and visceral sensation. First, the reciprocal neural pathways between the brain and the gut (brain-gut axis) will be briefly outlined, including brain imaging evidence in healthy volunteers. Second, functional brain imaging studies assessing the influence of psychological factors on brain processing of visceral sensation in healthy humans will be discussed in more detail. Finally, brain imaging work investigating differences in brain responses to visceral distension between healthy volunteers and functional gastrointestinal disorder patients will be highlighted.
John Finberg is a professor of pharmacology at the Faculty of Medicine, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, home of Israel's two Nobel laureates. He and his colleague Prof. Moussa Youdim were instrumental in the early clinical development of the anti-Parkinson drug rasagiline, which gained UK- and EU-marketing authorization in 2005 and US FDA approval in 2006. In our interview, Finberg reflects on his clinical research to develop rasagiline as a commercial drug and its proposed pharmacological mechanisms of action. Moreover, he elucidates the current state of anti-Parkinson drug discovery and offers direction for future research.

Mason et al. (Reports, 19 January 2007, p. 393) attributed activity in certain regions of the &quot;resting&quot; brain to the occurrence of mind-wandering. However, previous research has demonstrated the difficulty of distinguishing this type of stimulus-independent thought from stimulus-oriented thought (e.g., watchfulness). Consideration of both possibilities is required to resolve this ambiguity.
Forming distinct representations of multiple contexts, places, and episodes is a crucial function of the hippocampus. The dentate gyrus subregion has been suggested to fulfill this role. We have tested this hypothesis by generating and analyzing a mouse strain that lacks the gene encoding the essential subunit of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor NR1, specifically in dentate gyrus granule cells. The mutant mice performed normally in contextual fear conditioning, but were impaired in the ability to distinguish two similar contexts. A significant reduction in the context-specific modulation of firing rate was observed in the CA3 pyramidal cells when the mutant mice were transferred from one context to another. These results provide evidence that NMDA receptors in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus play a crucial role in the process of pattern separation.
Despite its initial promise, there has been both progress and some set backs in genetic studies of the major psychiatric disorders of childhood and adulthood. Finding true susceptibility genes may be delayed because the most genetically informative phenotypes are not being used on a regular basis in linkage analysis and association studies. It is highly likely that using alternative phenotypes instead of DSM diagnostic categories will lead more rapid success in the search for these susceptibility genes. The objective of this paper is to describe the different types of informative phenotypes that can be employed in psychiatric genetic studies, to clarify their uses, to identify several methodologic issues the design and conduct of linkage and association studies that use alternative phenotypes and finally to suggest possible solutions to those difficulties. This is a conceptual review with a focus on methodological issues that may arise in psychiatric genetics and examples are taken from the literature on autism, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and alcoholism.
Photophysical properties of 2-(4-(dimethylamino)styryl)-1-methylpyridinium iodide (DASPMI) in various solvents were investigated using time- and space-correlated single photon counting. DASPMI is known to selectively stain mitochondria in living cells.1,2 The uptake and fluorescence intensity of DASPMI in mitochondria is a dynamic measure of membrane potential. Hence, an endeavor has been made to elucidate the mechanism of DASPMI fluorescence by obtaining spectrally resolved fluorescence decays in different solvents. A biexponential decay model was sufficient to globally describe the wavelength-dependent fluorescence in ethanol and chloroform. While in glycerol, a three-exponential decay model was necessary for global analysis. In the polar low-viscous solvent water, a monoexponential decay model fitted the decay data. The sensitivity of DASPMI to solvent viscosity was analyzed using various proportions of glycerol-ethanol mixtures. The lifetimes were found to increase with increasing solvent viscosity. The negative amplitudes of the short lifetime component found in chloroform and glycerol at the longer wavelengths validated the formation of new excited-state species from the initially excited state. Time-resolved emission spectra in chloroform and glycerol showed a biphasic increase of spectral width and emission maxima. The spectral width had an initial fast increase within 150 ps and a near constant thereafter. A three-state model of generalized scheme, on the basis of successive formation of locally excited state (LE), intramolecular charge transfer state (ICT), and twisted intramolecular charge transfer (TICT) state, has been proposed to explain the excited-state kinetics. The presumed role of solvation dynamics of ICT and TICT states leading to the asymmetrical broadening and structureless fluorescence has been substantiated by the decomposition of time-resolved emission spectra in chloroform, glycerol, and ethanol/glycerol mixtures.
Synaptogenesis requires recruitment of neurotransmitter receptors to developing postsynaptic specializations. We developed a coculture system reconstituting artificial synapses between neurons and nonneuronal cells to investigate the molecular components required for AMPA-receptor recruitment to synapses. With this system, we find that excitatory axons specifically express factors that recruit the AMPA receptor GluR4 subunit to sites of contact between axons and GluR4-transfected nonneuronal cells. Furthermore, the N-terminal domain (NTD) of GluR4 is necessary and sufficient for its recruitment to these artificial synapses and also for GluR4 recruitment to native synapses. Moreover, we show that axonally derived neuronal pentraxins NP1 and NPR are required for GluR4 recruitment to artificial and native synapses. RNAi knockdown and knockout of the neuronal pentraxins significantly decreases GluR4 targeting to synapses. Our results indicate that NP1 and NPR secreted from presynaptic neurons bind to the GluR4 NTD and are critical trans-synaptic factors for GluR4 recruitment to synapses.
We have characterized a rodent-specific gene family designated alpha-takusan (meaning &quot;many&quot; in Japanese). We initially identified a member of the family whose expression is upregulated in mice lacking the NMDAR subunit NR3A. We then isolated cDNAs encoding 46 alpha-takusan variants from mouse brains. Most variants share an approximately 130 aa long sequence, which contains the previously identified domain of unknown function 622 (DUF622) and is predicted to form coiled-coil structures. Single-cell PCR analyses indicate that one neuron can express multiple alpha-takusan variants and particular variants may predominate in certain cell types. Forced expression in cultured hippocampal neurons of two variants, alpha1 or alpha2, which bind either directly or indirectly to PSD-95, leads to an increase in PSD-95 clustering, dendritic spine density, GluR1 surface expression, and AMPAR activity. Conversely, treating cultured neurons with RNAi targeting alpha-takusan variants resulted in the opposite phenotype. Hence, alpha-takusan represents a large gene family that regulates synaptic activity.
We reported previously that calpain-mediated Cdk5 activation is critical for mitochondrial toxin-induced dopaminergic death. Here, we report a target that mediates this loss. Prx2, an antioxidant enzyme, binds Cdk5/p35. Prx2 is phosphorylated at T89 in neurons treated with MPP+ and/or MPTP in animals in a calpain/Cdk5/p35-dependent manner. This phosphorylation reduces Prx2 peroxidase activity. Consistent with this, p35-/- neurons show reduced oxidative stress upon MPP+ treatment. Expression of Prx2 and Prx2T89A, but not the phosphorylation mimic Prx2T89E, protects cultured and adult neurons following mitochondrial insult. Finally, downregulation of Prx2 increases oxidative stress and sensitivity to MPP+. We propose a mechanistic model by which mitochondrial toxin leads to calpain-mediated Cdk5 activation, reduced Prx2 activity, and decreased capacity to eliminate ROS. Importantly, increased Prx2 phosphorylation also occurs in nigral neurons from postmortem tissue from Parkinson's disease patients when compared to control, suggesting the relevance of this pathway in the human condition.
Researchers who study the neuronal basis of cognition face a paradox. If they extract the brain, its cognitive functions cannot be assessed. On the other hand, the brain's microcircuits are difficult to study in the intact animal. In this issue of Neuron, Mitchell et al. make use of a promising approach based on waveform analysis to reveal new details about neuronal interactions during visual attention.
Spatiotemporal patterns of cortical activation occur superimposed upon sensory, motor, and cognitive maps. The papers by Benucci et al. and Xu et al. in this issue of Neuron demonstrate that visual responses propagate in space and may serve to link different visual areas. This is an important step toward understanding how cortical maps relate to activation patterns, a prerequisite to understanding visual cortex function.
In an earlier study, we demonstrated that PAN-811 (3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone), a novel neuroprotectant, provides protection against glutamate, staurosporine, veratridine, or hypoxia/hypoglycemia toxicities in primary cortical neuronal cultures by upregulating Bcl-2 expression [R.-W. Chen, C. Yao, X.C. Lu, Z.-G. Jiang, R. Whipple, Z. Liao, H.A. Ghanbari, B. Almassian, F.C. Tortella, J.R. Dave. PAN-811 (3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone), a novel neuroprotectant, elicits its function in primary neuronal cultures by upregulating Bcl-2 expression. Neuroscience 135 (2005) 191-201]. Both JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase) and p38 MAP (mitogen-activated protein) kinase activation have a direct inhibitory action on Bcl-2 by phosphorylation. In the present study, we continued to explore the mechanism of PAN-811 neuroprotection. Our results indicate that treatment of cultured cortical neurons with glutamate (100 microM) induces phosphorylation of both JNK and p38 MAPK. Specifically, pretreatment of neurons with 10 microM PAN-811 (an optimal neuroprotective concentration) for 1h, 4h, or 24h significantly suppresses glutamate-mediated activation of both JNK and p38 MAPK. Furthermore, the p38 MAPK-specific inhibitor SB203580 and the JNK-specific inhibitor SP600125 prevented glutamate-induced neuronal death in these primary cultures. Our results demonstrate that glutamate-induced phosphorylation of JNK and p38 MAPK is suppressed by PAN-811, which might contribute to Bcl-2 upregulation and PAN-811 neuroprotection.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small ( approximately 22 nucleotides) non-coding RNA strands that base pair with mRNA to degrade it or inhibit its translation. Because sleep and sleep loss induce changes in many mRNA species, we hypothesized that sleep loss would also affect miRNA levels in the brain. Rats were sleep-deprived for 8h then decapitated; hippocampus, prefrontal and somatosensory cortices and hypothalamus tissues were harvested and frozen in liquid nitrogen. miRNA was extracted and then characterized using microarrays. Several let-7 miRNA microarray results using hippocampus and prefrontal cortex samples were verified by PCR. From the array data it was determined that about 50 miRNA species were affected by sleep loss. For example, in the hippocampus of sleep-deprived rats, miRNA expression increased compared to cage control samples. In contrast, the majority of miRNA species in the somatosensory and prefrontal cortices decreased, while in the hypothalamus miRNA species were both up- and down-regulated after sleep deprivation. The number of miRNA species affected by sleep loss, their differential expression in separate brain structures and their predicted targets suggest that they have a role in site-specific sleep mechanisms. Current results are, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of the homeostatic process, sleep, altering brain miRNA levels.
Since the discovery of small-world and scale-free networks the study of complex systems from a network perspective has taken an enormous flight. In recent years many important properties of complex networks have been delineated. In particular, significant progress has been made in understanding the relationship between the structural properties of networks and the nature of dynamics taking place on these networks. For instance, the 'synchronizability' of complex networks of coupled oscillators can be determined by graph spectral analysis. These developments in the theory of complex networks have inspired new applications in the field of neuroscience. Graph analysis has been used in the study of models of neural networks, anatomical connectivity, and functional connectivity based upon fMRI, EEG and MEG. These studies suggest that the human brain can be modelled as a complex network, and may have a small-world structure both at the level of anatomical as well as functional connectivity. This small-world structure is hypothesized to reflect an optimal situation associated with rapid synchronization and information transfer, minimal wiring costs, as well as a balance between local processing and global integration. The topological structure of functional networks is probably restrained by genetic and anatomical factors, but can be modified during tasks. There is also increasing evidence that various types of brain disease such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, brain tumours and epilepsy may be associated with deviations of the functional network topology from the optimal small-world pattern.
The present study investigates the influence of a chronic high Na+ diet (8% Na+) on the expression of the angiotensin type 1A (AT1A) receptor gene in the lamina terminalis and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) in normotensive Wistar (W) rats, as well as in Dahl salt-resistant (DR) and Dahl salt-sensitive (DS) rats. Three weeks of 8% Na+ diet led to a higher blood pressure in DS rats compared to DR and W rats. Moreover, the high Na+ diet was correlated with a decreased expression of AT1A receptor mRNA in the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) and in the PVH of DS rats, compared to DR and W rats. Contrastingly, the AT1A receptor mRNA expression was not altered by the high Na+ diet in the forebrain circumventricular organs of all the rat strains. Interestingly, a furosemide-induced Na+ depletion was correlated with an increased expression of AT1A receptor mRNA in the PVH, MnPO and SFO of both the DS and DR rats. It is concluded that chronic high Na+ diet did differently regulate the expression of AT1A receptor mRNA in two hypothalamic integrative centers for hydromineral and cardiovascular balance (the PVH and MnPO) in DS rats, compared to DR and W rats. However, the AT1A receptor mRNA expression was similarly regulated in DS and DR rats in response to an acute Na+ depletion, suggesting a distinct high Na+ -induced regulation of the AT1A receptor gene in the PVH and MnPO of DS rats.
Paraventricular hypothalamic (PVH) corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neuroendocrine neurons mount neurosecretory and transcriptional responses to glycemic challenges [intravenous 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) or insulin]. Although these responses require signals from intact afferents originating from hindbrain CA (catecholaminergic) neurons, the identity of these signals and the mechanisms by which they are transduced by PVH neurons during glycemic challenge remain unclear. Here, we tested whether the prototypical catecholamine, norepinephrine (NE), can reproduce PVH neuroendocrine responses to glycemic challenge. Because these responses include phosphorylation of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases [extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2)], we also determined whether NE activates ERK1/2 in PVH neurons and, if so, by what mechanism. We show that systemic insulin and 2-DG, and PVH-targeted NE microinjections, rapidly elevated PVH phospho-ERK1/2 levels. NE increased Crh and c-fos expression, together with circulating ACTH/corticosterone. However, because injections also increased c-Fos mRNA in other brain regions, we used hypothalamic slices maintained in vitro to clarify whether NE activates PVH neurons without contribution of inputs from distal regions. In slices, bath-applied NE triggered robust phospho-ERK1/2 immunoreactivity in PVH (including CRH) neurons, which attenuated markedly in the presence of the alpha1 adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin, or the MAP kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor, U0126 (1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis[2-aminophenylthio]butadiene). Therefore, at a systems level, local PVH delivery of NE is sufficient to account for hindbrain activation of CRH neuroendocrine neurons during glycemic challenge. At a cellular level, these data provide the first demonstration that MAP kinase signaling cascades (MEK--&gt;ERK) are intracellular transducers of noradrenergic signals in CRH neurons, and implicate this transduction mechanism as an important component of central neuroendocrine responses during glycemic challenge.
The identity of any cell type is determined by the specific pattern of gene expression. We show here that the ability of oligodendrocyte progenitors to acquire the identity of myelin-expressing cells or choose alternative fates is dependent on the activity of histone deacetylases. Using gene expression profiling, electrophysiological recordings, transplantation studies, and pharmacological inhibition, we demonstrate that specified NG2+ oligodendrocyte progenitors are plastic cells, whose decision to initiate an oligodendrocytic rather than astrocytic or neuronal program of gene expression requires the establishment of an epigenetic identity that is initiated by histone deacetylation.
The mechanism by which microtubule-based axonal transport regulates activity-dependent presynaptic plasticity in developing neurons remains mostly unknown. Our previous studies established that syntabulin is an adaptor capable of conjoining the kinesin family member 5B (KIF5B) motor and syntaxin-1. We now report that the complex of syntaxin-1-syntabulin-KIF5B mediates axonal transport of the active zone (AZ) components essential for presynaptic assembly. Syntabulin associates with AZ precursor carriers and colocalizes and comigrates with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-Bassoon-labeled AZ transport cargos within developing axons. Knock-down of syntabulin or disruption of the syntaxin-1-syntabulin-KIF5B complex impairs the anterograde transport of GFP-Bassoon out of the soma and reduces the axonal densities of synaptic vesicle (SV) clusters and FM4-64 [N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(p-dibutylaminostyryl)pyridinium, dibromide] loading. Furthermore, syntabulin loss of function results in a reduction in both the amplitude of postsynaptic currents and the frequency of asynchronous quantal events, and abolishes the activity-induced recruitment of new GFP-Bassoon into the axons and subsequent coclustering with SVs. Consequently, syntabulin loss of function blocks the formation of new presynaptic boutons during activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in developing neurons. These studies establish that a kinesin motor-adaptor complex is critical for the anterograde axonal transport of AZ components, thus contributing to activity-dependent presynaptic assembly during neuronal development.
Thousands of children receive methylphenidate (MPH; Ritalin) for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), yet the long-term neurochemical consequences of MPH treatment are unknown. To mimic clinical Ritalin treatment in children, male rats were injected with MPH (5 mg/kg) or vehicle twice daily from postnatal day 7 (PND7)-PND35. At the end of administration (PND35) or in adulthood (PND135), brain sections from littermate pairs were immunocytochemically labeled for neurotransmitters and cytological markers in 16 regions implicated in MPH effects and/or ADHD etiology. At PND35, the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of rats given MPH showed 55% greater immunoreactivity (-ir) for the catecholamine marker tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), 60% more Nissl-stained cells, and 40% less norepinephrine transporter (NET)-ir density. In hippocampal dentate gyrus, MPH-receiving rats showed a 51% decrease in NET-ir density and a 61% expanded distribution of the new-cell marker PSA-NCAM (polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule). In medial striatum, TH-ir decreased by 21%, and in hypothalamus neuropeptide Y-ir increased by 10% in MPH-exposed rats. At PND135, MPH-exposed rats exhibited decreased anxiety in the elevated plus-maze and a trend for decreased TH-ir in the mPFC. Neither PND35 nor PND135 rats showed major structural differences with MPH exposure. These findings suggest that developmental exposure to high therapeutic doses of MPH has short-term effects on select neurotransmitters in brain regions involved in motivated behaviors, cognition, appetite, and stress. Although the observed neuroanatomical changes largely resolve with time, chronic modulation of young brains with MPH may exert effects on brain neurochemistry that modify some behaviors even in adulthood.
After injury, the CNS undergoes an astrocyte stress response characterized by reactive astrocytosis/proliferation, boundary formation, and increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) expression. Previously, we showed that in vitro astrocytes exhibit this stress response when in contact with Schwann cells but not olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs). In this study, we confirm this finding in vivo by demonstrating that astrocytes mingle with OECs but not Schwann cells after injection into normal spinal cord. We show that Schwann cell-conditioned media (SCM) induces proliferation in monocultures of astrocytes and increases CSPG expression in a fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1)-independent manner. However, SCM added to OEC/astrocyte cocultures induces reactive astrocytosis and boundary formation, which, although sensitive to FGFR1 inhibition, was not induced by FGF2 alone. Addition of heparin to OEC/astrocyte cultures induces boundary formation, whereas heparinase or chlorate treatment of Schwann cell/astrocyte cultures reduces it, suggesting that heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) are modulating this activity. In vivo, FGF2 and FGFR1 immunoreactivity was increased over grafted OECs and Schwann cells compared with the surrounding tissue, and HSPG immunoreactivity is increased over reactive astrocytes bordering the Schwann cell graft. These data suggest that components of the astrocyte stress response, including boundary formation, astrocyte hypertrophy, and GFAP expression, are mediated by an FGF family member, whereas proliferation and CSPG expression are not. Furthermore, after cell transplantation, HSPGs may be important for mediating the stress response in astrocytes via FGF2. Identification of factors secreted by Schwann cells that induce this negative response in astrocytes would further our ability to manipulate the inhibitory environment induced after injury to promote regeneration.
Neuronal Nogo-66 receptor 1 (NgR1) has been proposed to function as an obligatory coreceptor for the myelin-derived ligands Nogo-A, oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp), and myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) to mediate neurite outgrowth inhibition by these ligands. To examine the contribution of neuronal NgR1 to outgrowth inhibition, we used two different strategies, genetic ablation of NgR1 through the germline and transient short hairpin RNA interference (shRNAi)-mediated knock-down. To monitor growth inhibition, two different paradigms were used, chronic presentation of substrate-bound inhibitor to measure neurite extension and acute application of soluble inhibitor to assay growth cone collapse. We find that regardless of the NgR1 genotype, membrane-bound MAG strongly inhibits neurite outgrowth of primary cerebellar, sensory, and cortical neurons. Similarly, substrate-bound OMgp strongly inhibits neurite outgrowth of NgR1 wild-type and mutant sensory neurons. Consistent with these results, shRNAi-mediated knock-down of neuronal NgR1 does not result in a substantial release of L-MAG (large MAG) inhibition. When applied acutely, however, MAG-Fc and OMgp-Fc induce a modest degree of growth cone collapse that is significantly attenuated in NgR1-null neurons compared with wild-type controls. Based on our findings and previous studies with Nogo-66, we propose that neuronal NgR1 has a circumscribed role in regulating cytoskeletal dynamics after acute exposure to soluble MAG, OMgp, or Nogo-66, but is not required for these ligands to mediate their growth-inhibitory properties in chronic outgrowth experiments. Our results thus provide unexpected evidence that the growth cone-collapsing activities and substrate growth-inhibitory activities of inhibitory ligands can be dissociated. We also conclude that chronic axon growth inhibition by myelin is mediated by NgR1-independent mechanisms.
Understanding the large-scale structural network formed by neurons is a major challenge in system neuroscience. A detailed connectivity map covering the entire brain would therefore be of great value. Based on diffusion MRI, we propose an efficient methodology to generate large, comprehensive and individual white matter connectional datasets of the living or dead, human or animal brain. This non-invasive tool enables us to study the basic and potentially complex network properties of the entire brain. For two human subjects we find that their individual brain networks have an exponential node degree distribution and that their global organization is in the form of a small world.

The size of a resonant source can be estimated by the acoustic-scale information in the sound [1-3]. Previous studies revealed that posterior superior temporal gyrus (STG) responds to acoustic scale in human speech when it is controlled for spectral-envelope change (unpublished data). Here we investigate whether the STG activity is specific to the processing of acoustic scale in human voice or whether it reflects a generic mechanism for the analysis of acoustic scale in resonant sources. In two functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments, we measured brain activity in response to changes in acoustic scale in different categories of resonant sound (human voice, animal call, and musical instrument). We show that STG is activated bilaterally for spectral-envelope changes in general; it responds to changes in category as well as acoustic scale. Activity in left posterior STG is specific to acoustic scale in human voices and not responsive to acoustic scale in other resonant sources. In contrast, the anterior temporal lobe and intraparietal sulcus are activated by changes in acoustic scale across categories. The results imply that the human voice requires special processing of acoustic scale, whereas the anterior temporal lobe and intraparietal sulcus process auditory size information independent of source category.




We previously reported that long-term cyclic estrogen (E) treatment reverses age-related impairment of cognitive function mediated by the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) in ovariectomized (OVX) female rhesus monkeys, and that E induces a corresponding increase in spine density in layer III dlPFC pyramidal neurons. We have now investigated the effects of the same E treatment in young adult females. In contrast to the results for aged monkeys, E treatment failed to enhance dlPFC-dependent task performance relative to vehicle control values (group young OVX+Veh) but nonetheless led to a robust increase in spine density. This response was accompanied by a decline in dendritic length, however, such that the total number of spines per neuron was equivalent in young OVX+Veh and OVX+E groups. Robust effects of chronological age, independent of ovarian hormone status, were also observed, comprising significant age-related declines in dendritic length and spine density, with a preferential decrease in small spines in the aged groups. Notably, the spine effects were partially reversed by cyclic E administration, although young OVX+Veh monkeys still had a higher complement of small spines than did aged E treated monkeys. In summary, layer III pyramidal neurons in the dlPFC are sensitive to ovarian hormone status in both young and aged monkeys, but these effects are not entirely equivalent across age groups. The results also suggest that the cognitive benefit of E treatment in aged monkeys is mediated by enabling synaptic plasticity through a cyclical increase in small, highly plastic dendritic spines in the primate dlPFC.
Neurons typically function as transduction devices, converting patterns of synaptic inputs, received on the dendrites, into trains of output action potentials in the axon. This transduction process is surprisingly complex and has been proposed to involve a two-way dialogue between axosomatic and dendritic compartments that can generate mutually interacting regenerative responses. To manipulate this process, we have developed a new approach for rapid and reversible occlusion or amputation of the primary dendrites of individual neurons in brain slices. By applying these techniques to cerebellar Purkinje and layer 5 cortical pyramidal neurons, we show directly that both the active and passive properties of dendrites differentially affect firing in the axon depending on the strength of stimulation. For weak excitation, dendrites act as a passive electrical load, raising spike threshold and dampening axonal excitability. For strong excitation, dendrites contribute regenerative inward currents, which trigger burst firing and enhance neuronal excitability. These findings provide direct support for the idea that dendritic morphology and conductances act in concert to regulate the excitability of the neuron.
Neurons are flexible electrophysiological entities in which the distribution and properties of ionic channels control their behaviors. Through simultaneous somatic and axonal whole-cell recording of layer 5 pyramidal cells, we demonstrate a remarkable differential expression of slowly inactivating K(+) currents. Depolarizing the axon, but not the soma, rapidly activated a low-threshold, slowly inactivating, outward current that was potently blocked by low doses of 4-aminopyridine, alpha-dendrotoxin, and rTityustoxin-K alpha. Block of this slowly inactivating current caused a large increase in spike duration in the axon but only a small increase in the soma and could result in distal axons generating repetitive discharge in response to local current injection. Importantly, this current was also responsible for slow changes in the axonal spike duration that are observed after somatic membrane potential change. These data indicate that low-threshold, slowly inactivating K(+) currents, containing Kv1.2 alpha subunits, play a key role in the flexible properties of intracortical axons and may contribute significantly to intracortical processing.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the selective vulnerability of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic circuit. Recently, loss-of-function mutations in the PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) gene have been linked to early-onset PD. How PINK1 deficiency causes dopaminergic dysfunction and degeneration in PD patients is unknown. Here, we investigate the physiological role of PINK1 in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic circuit through the generation and multidisciplinary analysis of PINK1(-/-) mutant mice. We found that numbers of dopaminergic neurons and levels of striatal dopamine (DA) and DA receptors are unchanged in PINK1(-/-) mice. Amperometric recordings, however, revealed decreases in evoked DA release in striatal slices and reductions in the quantal size and release frequency of catecholamine in dissociated chromaffin cells. Intracellular recordings of striatal medium spiny neurons, the major dopaminergic target, showed specific impairments of corticostriatal long-term potentiation and long-term depression in PINK1(-/-) mice. Consistent with a decrease in evoked DA release, these striatal plasticity impairments could be rescued by either DA receptor agonists or agents that increase DA release, such as amphetamine or l-dopa. These results reveal a critical role for PINK1 in DA release and striatal synaptic plasticity in the nigrostriatal circuit and suggest that altered dopaminergic physiology may be a pathogenic precursor to nigrostriatal degeneration.
Neurodevelopmental changes induced by environmental stress exposure play a significant but poorly defined role in the etiology of schizophrenia. Exposure of pregnant female rats to a series of unpredictable stresses during the final week of pregnancy generates behavioral deficits and molecular changes in the offspring similar to those observed in schizophrenic individuals. We used this rat prenatal stress preparation to investigate social withdrawal behaviors that may have relevance to the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. The cumulative time adult male offspring of stress-exposed pregnant female rats actively interacted with a weight-matched, same-sex peer was decreased approximately 76% relative to non-stress exposed control rats. Prenatal stress exposure also diminished the quality of the social interaction behavior indicative of reduced social drive. Analysis of the oxytocinergic system in the prenatally stressed male rats revealed significantly less oxytocin mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus and increased oxytocin receptor binding in the central amygdala. Moreover, oxytocin, but not vasopressin, administration into the central amygdala reversed the social incompetence of the prenatally stressed rats without increasing behavior in non-stressed control animals. In addition, cross-fostering pups from prenatally stressed mothers to non-stressed mothers failed to improve the social deficit of the prenatally stressed male offspring. Two behavioral assays designed to measure anxiety did not differentiate the prenatally stressed rats from non-stressed controls. These data indicate that prenatal stress may be an etiologically appropriate animal model for some aspects of schizophrenic social withdrawal. Furthermore, unpredictable prenatal stress exposure selectively degrades social interaction behaviors without increasing anxiety measures.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) is a pleiotropic cytokine with several CNS physiological and pathophysiological actions including sleep, memory, thermal and appetite regulation. Short interfering RNAs (siRNA) targeting TNFalpha were incubated with cortical cell cultures and microinjected into the primary somatosensory cortex (SSctx) of rats. The TNFalpha siRNA treatment specifically reduced TNFalpha mRNA by 45% in vitro without affecting interleukin-6 or gluR1-4 mRNA levels. In vivo the TNFalpha siRNAalpha reduced TNFalpha mRNA, interleukin-6 mRNA and gluR1 mRNA levels compared to treatment with a scrambled control siRNA. After in vivo microinjection, the density of TNFalpha-immunoreactive cells in layer V of the SSctx was also reduced. Electroencephalogram (EEG) delta wave power was decreased on days 2 and 3 on the side of the brain that received the TNFalpha siRNA microinjection relative to the side receiving the control siRNA. These findings support the hypothesis that TNFalpha siRNA attenuates TNFalpha mRNA and TNFalpha protein in the rat cortex and that those reductions reduce cortical EEG delta power. Results also are consistent with the notion that TNFalpha is involved in CNS physiology including sleep regulation.
Alterations in neurotrophic signaling pathways may contribute to the changes in the mesolimbic dopamine system induced by chronic morphine exposure. In a rat model of morphine dependence, we previously identified increased levels of phospholipase C gamma-1 (PLCgamma1) immunoreactivity specifically within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) following chronic morphine treatment. Using an antibody specific for the tyrosine-phosphorylated, activated form of PLCgamma1, we now show that chronic morphine also significantly upregulates PLCgamma1 activity in the VTA, as well as in the nucleus accumbens and hippocampus, regions which are also implicated in the reinforcing properties of morphine. In contrast, no increase in PLCgamma1 activity was found in the substantia nigra or dorsal striatum. HSV-mediated overexpression of PLCgamma1 in PC12 cells induced ERK activation via a mechanism dependent, in part, on both MAP-ERK kinase (MEK) and protein kinase C. PLCgamma1 overexpression in the VTA similarly induced ERK activation in the VTA in vivo. As chronic morphine treatment has been shown to increase ERK activity within the VTA, the current results suggest that increased PLCgamma1 activity may be an upstream mediator of this effect.
Small-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (SK) regulate the firing properties of many types of neurons. In the mammalian brain, 3 subunits (SK1-SK3) are expressed with different distributions. Purkinje cells (PCs), the central neuron of the cerebellar basic circuit, express the SK2 subunit in their soma and dendrites. Mature PCs fire bursts of Na(+)-Ca(2+) spikes that constitute the sole output of the cerebellar cortex. Application of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), blocker of Kv potassium channels in brain slices, augments the electrical activity and burst firing in mature PCs. Using conventional intracellular recordings from acutely prepared brain slices, we examined the role of SK channels in regulation of the 4-AP-induced burst activity in PCs. Application of apamin, blocker of the SK channels induced a depolarization in the membrane potential particularly between spontaneous bursts induced by 4-AP. To study the role of SK channels in 4-AP-induced burst, the spontaneous activity was suppressed by injecting adequate hyperpolarizing current and the bursts were evoked by depolarizing pulse. Apamin decreased the duration of the evoked bursts in 4-AP-treated neurons. It also prolonged the duration and repolarization time of the Ca(2+) spikes and decreased the number of and interval between Na(+) spikes in the 4-AP-induced bursts. Decrease in interval between Na(+) spikes was also seen in the rebound responses. Our findings suggest that SK channels are active at membrane potentials close to resting membrane potential in mature PCs and play an important role in the regulation of neuronal hyperexcitability and burst firing.
Bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) are involved in axon pathfinding, but how they guide growth cones remains elusive. In this study, we report that a BMP7 gradient elicits bidirectional turning responses from nerve growth cones by acting through LIM kinase (LIMK) and Slingshot (SSH) phosphatase to regulate actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin-mediated actin dynamics. Xenopus laevis growth cones from 4-8-h cultured neurons are attracted to BMP7 gradients but become repelled by BMP7 after overnight culture. The attraction and repulsion are mediated by LIMK and SSH, respectively, which oppositely regulate the phosphorylation-dependent asymmetric activity of ADF/cofilin to control the actin dynamics and growth cone steering. The attraction to repulsion switching requires the expression of a transient receptor potential (TRP) channel TRPC1 and involves Ca2+ signaling through calcineurin phosphatase for SSH activation and growth cone repulsion. Together, we show that spatial regulation of ADF/cofilin activity controls the directional responses of the growth cone to BMP7, and Ca2+ influx through TRPC tilts the LIMK-SSH balance toward SSH-mediated repulsion.
The Retinoblastoma protein p107 regulates the neural precursor pool in both the developing and adult brain. As p107-deficient mice exhibit enhanced levels of Hes1, we questioned whether p107 regulates neural precursor self-renewal through the repression of Hes1. p107 represses transcription at the Hes1 promoter. Despite an expanded neural precursor population, p107-null mice exhibit a striking reduction in the number of cortical neurons. Hes1 deficiency rescues neurosphere numbers in p107-null embryos. We find that the loss of a single Hes1 allele in vivo restores the number of neural precursor cells at the ventricular zone. Neuronal birthdating analysis reveals a dramatic reduction in the rate of neurogenesis, demonstrating impairment in p107(-/-) progenitors to commit to a neuronal fate. The loss of a single Hes1 allele restores the number of newly generated neurons in p107-deficient brains. Together, we identify a novel function for p107 in promoting neural progenitor commitment to a neuronal fate.
Social isolation has profound effects on animal behavior and dopamine systems. We investigated the effect of social isolation on the dopamine receptor and neuropeptide mRNAs in the brain reward system in an animal model of depression, the Flinders Sensitive Line rats and Sprague-Dawley controls. We demonstrate that socially isolated but not group housed Flinders sensitive line rats had lower dopamine D2 receptor mRNA levels compared with Sprague-Dawley rats. Isolated and group housed Flinders Sensitive Line rats had higher levels of dopamine D1 receptor and substance P and enkephalin but not dynorphin mRNAs when compared with Sprague-Dawley rats. Our findings of decreased dopamine D2 receptor levels in socially isolated Flinders Sensitive Line rats suggest that low D2 receptor expression may play a role in pathophysiology of depression.
This study examined the role of medial temporal lobe structures in verbal estimation and production of time intervals. Left medial temporal lobe lesions produced deficits in both tasks, whereas right medial temporal lobe lesions only disturbed time production. Although both tasks require adequate use of chronometric units, they seem to be subserved by distinct cognitive processing and to depend on different neural substrates. Verbal estimation of intervals in retrospect seems to depend mainly on contextual memory, and production of intervals depends more specifically on the mental load devoted to time. These findings, documenting for the first time the role of each temporal lobe in duration estimation within the range of minutes, are discussed in light of memory-based and attentional models of time.
Stem cell niches exist around the lateral ventricle and in the subgranular layer of the dentate gyrus, supporting adult neurogenesis. Recently, a third germinal layer, the subcallosal zone has been identified supporting the generation of oligodendrocytes in the adult brain. We have previously described a proliferative role for neuropeptide Y on precursors in the dentate gyrus, caudal subventricular zone and subcallosal zone under basal conditions and in the dentate gyrus after seizures. Here we sought to determine a role for neuropeptide Y in seizure-induced proliferation in the subcallosal niche. Using the chemoconvulsant kainate and neuropeptide Y(-/-) mice with controls, we show an effect of neuropeptide Y on basal proliferation and demonstrate a significant reduction in seizure-induced proliferation in the subcallosal zone.
This study examined the temporal courses of imagery processes by having participants imagining vibrotactile sensation as if perceived by the right-hand second finger. The results indicate that the imagery condition elicited a less negative going N400 and then a less positive going P600 than the control condition (perceived without imagining). This is suggestive of a sequential process of retrieving experiences from memory, generating images, and then maintaining the images. Dipole analysis further supports that N400 and P600 (or long latency P300) can be respectively regarded as part of the generic 'imagery network' and as modality-specific processes of imagery.
So far, the specific role of the ventral striatum in reward-based decision making remains elusive. Here, we examined the role of the ventral striatum in reward-based decision making using functional MRI and a probabilistic object reversal task. During decision making, activity in the ventral striatum increased monotonically as a function of association learning and was greatest when the individuals expected to be rewarded for the decision with high certainty. Conversely, during the reward phase, activity in the ventral striatum showed an inverted U-shaped modulation by learning and was greatest when uncertainty about the outcome was maximal. Our data indicate that, during reward-based decision making, the ventral striatal signal dynamically changes over time dependent on the phase of the reward process and on the learning status and thereby acts as a motivational engine for the continuation of behavior.
Lafora disease (LD) is the most severe form of Progressive Myoclonus Epilepsy with teenage onset. It has an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance and is almost universally fatal by the second or third decade of life. To date, there is no prevention or cure. In the last decade, with the identification of the genes responsible for this disease, much knowledge has been gained with the potential for the future development of effective treatment. This review will briefly address clinical issues and will focus on the molecular aspects of the disease.

Motor neuron disorders are clinically and pathologically heterogeneous. They can be classified into those that affect primarily upper motor neurons, lower motor neurons or both. The most common disorder to affect both upper and lower motor neurons is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Some forms of motor neuron disease (MND) affect primarily motor neurons in the spinal cord or brainstem, while others affect motor neurons at all levels of the neuraxis. A number of genetic loci have been identified for the various motor neuron disorders. Several of the MND genes encode for proteins important for cytoskeletal stability and axoplasmic transport. Despite these genetic advances, the relationship of the various motor neuron disorders to each other is unclear. Except for rare familial forms of ALS associated with mutations in superoxide dismutase type 1 (SOD1), which are associated with neuronal inclusions that contain SOD1, specific molecular or cellular markers that differentiate ALS from other motor neuron disorders have not been available. Recently, the TAR DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) has been shown to be present in neuronal inclusions in ALS, and it has been suggested that TDP-43 may be a specific marker for ALS. This pilot study aimed to determine the value of TDP-43 in the differential diagnosis of MND. Immunohistochemistry for TDP-43 was used to detect neuronal inclusions in the medulla of disorders affecting upper motor neurons, lower motor neurons or both. Medullary motor neuron pathology also was assessed in frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) that had no evidence of MND. TDP-43 immunoreactivity was detected in the hypoglossal nucleus in all cases of ALS, all cases of FTLD-MND and some of cases of primary lateral sclerosis (PLS). It was not detected in FTLD-PLS. Surprisingly, sparse TDP-43 immunoreactivity was detected in motor neurons in about 10% of FTLD that did not have clinical or pathologic features of MND. The results suggest that TDP-43 immunoreactivity is useful in differentiating FTLD-MND and ALS from other disorders associated with upper or lower motor neuron pathology. It also reveals subclinical MND in a subset of cases of FTLD without clinical or pathologic evidence of MND.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) encompasses a heterogeneous group of clinical syndromes that include frontotemporal dementia (FTD), frontotemporal dementia with motor neurone disease (FTD/MND), progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA), semantic dementia (SD) and progressive apraxia (PAX). Clinical phenotype is often assumed to be a poor predictor of underlying histopathology. Advances in immunohistochemistry provide the opportunity to re-examine this assumption. We classified pathological material from 79 FTLD brains, blind to clinical diagnosis, according to topography of brain atrophy and immunohistochemical characteristics. There were highly significant relationships to clinical syndrome. Atrophy was predominantly frontal and anterior temporal in FTD, frontal in FTD/MND, markedly asymmetric perisylvian in PNFA, asymmetric bitemporal in SD and premotor, parietal in PAX. Tau pathology was found in half of FTD and all PAX cases but in no FTD/MND or SD cases and only rarely in PNFA. FTD/MND, SD and PNFA cases were ubiquitin and TDP-43 positive. SD cases were associated with dystrophic neurites without neuronal cytoplasmic or intranuclear inclusions (FTLD-U, type 1), FTD/MND with numerous neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions (FTLD-U, type 2 ) and PNFA with neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions, dystrophic neurites and neuronal intranuclear inclusions (FTLD-U, type 3). MAPT mutations were linked to FTD and PGRN mutations to FTD and PNFA. The findings demonstrate predictable relationships between clinical phenotype and both topographical distribution of brain atrophy and immunohistochemical characteristics. The findings emphasise the importance of refined delineation of both clinical and pathological phenotype in furthering understanding of FTLD and its molecular substrate.

Dr Lee S. Berk is a pioneering medical researcher studying the neuroendocrine and immune effects of positive emotions. He is an associate professor of Health Promotion and Education, School of Public Health, and associate research professor of Pathology and Human Anatomy, School of Medicine, both at Loma Linda University in Loma Linda, California. Dr Berk is a fellow of the American College of Sports Medicine and the American Association for Integrative Medicine. He is also nationally board certified as a health education specialist and has served as a member of the board of directors for the American College of Lifestyle Medicine in Loma Linda, California. Dr Berk is a member of the editorial board of Advances in Mind Body Medicine. During the Society for Neurosciences' annual 2001 meeting Dr Berk presented and received major media coverage of a landmark paper entitled, &quot;The Anticipation of a Laughter Eustress Event Modulates Mood States Prior to the Actual Humor Experience.&quot; More recently Dr Berk presented at the FASEB (Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology) annual 2006 meeting in the American Physiological Society section another landmark paper entitled, &quot;Beta-Endorphin and HGH Increase are Associated With Both the Anticipation and Experience of Mirthful Laughter,&quot; with further major media coverage. Recently, Dr Berk spoke about his work with Sheldon Lewis, editor in chief of Advances.
The aim of this study was to determine the diagnostic value and agreement analyses between Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) and dementia diagnostic criteria (gold standard), Blessed Dementia Rating scale (BDRS), and Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 3rd Edition, Revised (DSM III-R) criteria for severity. In a sample of 343 Southern Brazilian participants, CDR was consecutively assessed in 295 dementia patients (Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia, and questionable) and 48 healthy elderly. The National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Diseases and Stroke/Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria for probable Alzheimer disease and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and Association Internationale pour la Recherch et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) for probable vascular dementia were the gold standard. A battery of cognitive tests and the Mini Mental State Examination (as a screening test at study entry) were also applied. Sensitivity and specificity were obtained through contingency tables. Validity and reliability were measured through kappa coefficient, Kendall b, and percent agreement. CDR agreement among raters was demonstrated by percent agreement. Agreement to gold standard was good (kappa=0.75), as well as to the Blessed scale (kappa=0.73), and excellent to the DSM III-R (kappa=0.78). CDR detection of dementia among healthy elderly or questionable dementia was 86% and 80% sensitive, respectively, and 100% specific for both settings. In conclusion, agreement of CDR global score with the gold standard was good, and diagnostic values were high.
Presenilin enhancer-2 (PSENEN) is a fundamental component of the gamma-secretase protein complex involved in beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) processing, a key event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) etiopathogenesis. In a mild cognitive impairment (MCI)-diagnosed woman, belonging to a family with a positive history for AD, we found that a novel PSENEN mutation (S73F) was the only genetic alteration of relevance. The mutation was absent in 253 age-matched controls. In an attempt to learn the biochemical effects of this mutation, we cultured skin primary fibroblasts from the patient and her daughter, and we assessed A beta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) production. We did not find any relevant differences in comparison to age-matched, normal subjects. Although our data do not definitively support a pathogenetic role for this mutation, it does not appear to be a common polymorphism. Further follow-up is warranted in this family.




Neutral sphingomyelinase SMPD3 (nSMase2), a sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase, resides in the Golgi apparatus and is ubiquitously expressed. Gene ablation of smpd3 causes a generalized prolongation of the cell cycle that leads to late embryonic and juvenile hypoplasia because of the SMPD3 deficiency in hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons. We show here that this novel form of combined pituitary hormone deficiency is characterized by the perturbation of the hypothalamus-pituitary growth axis, associated with retarded chondrocyte development and enchondral ossification in the epiphyseal growth plate. To study the contribution by combined pituitary hormone deficiency and by the local SMPD3 deficiency in the epiphyseal growth plate to the skeletal phenotype, we introduced the full-length smpd3 cDNA transgene under the control of the chondrocyte-specific promoter Col2a1. A complete rescue of the smpd3(-/-) mouse from severe short-limbed skeletal dysplasia was achieved. The smpd3(-/-) mouse shares its dwarf and chondrodysplasia phenotype with the most common form of human achondrodysplasia, linked to the fibroblast-growth-factor receptor 3 locus, not linked to deficits in the hypothalamic-pituitary epiphyseal growth plate axis. The rescue of smpd3 in vivo has implications for future research into dwarfism and, particularly, growth and development of the skeletal system and for current screening and future treatment of combined dwarfism and chondrodysplasia.
Several ERbeta isoforms have been identified in human and rodent tissues, but it is unclear whether each isoform has distinctly different cellular targeting characteristics and physiological functions. We have investigated the intracellular localization and regulatory patterns for ERbeta isoforms in rat fallopian tubes. Western blot analysis reveals that two ERbeta isoforms corresponding to ERbeta1 and ERbeta2 are expressed in rat fallopian tubes. However, ERbeta2 is the predominant form of ERbeta in this tissue. High-resolution confocal imaging and immunohistochemical analysis provide ample evidence that ERbeta expression is limited almost exclusively to the ciliated epithelial cells, in contrast to ERalpha, which is widely distributed. Furthermore, within the ciliated epithelial cells, ERbeta is colocalized with beta-tubulin IV at stem portion of the cilia. We show that ERbeta2 protein expression is tightly regulated by E(2) or DPN in a time-dependent manner without changes in ERbeta1 expression. These estrogenic effects are inhibited by an ER antagonist, ICI 182,780. In addition, significant alteration of ERbeta immunoreactivity is detected only histologically in the ampullary region. Since the cilia are considered an essential determinant of tubal transport, we further demonstrate that E(2)- or DPN-induced ERbeta2 activation is associated with alterations in tubal protein expression crucial for the regulation of calcium-dependent ciliary beating. Given the coordinated regulation and interaction of ER and progesterone receptor in the cilia, we hypothesize that tubal ERbeta2 may facilitate the estrogen-mediated transport process by processing protein-protein interaction under physiological and/or pathological conditions. We show for the first time that a previously unrecognized localization of ERbeta isoform in rat fallopian tubes can combine with estrogen to individually control the expression of ER beta-isoforms in normal target tissues.
Maternal hypertriglyceridemia is a normal condition in late gestation and is an adaptation to ensure an adequate nutrient supply to the fetus. Placental lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is involved in the initial step in transplacental fatty acid transport as it hydrolyzes maternal triglycerides (TG) to release free fatty acids (FFA). We investigated LPL activity and protein (Western blot) and mRNA expression (real-time RT-PCR) in the placenta of an LPL-deficient mother with marked hypertriglyceridemia. The LPL activity was fourfold lower, LPL protein expression 50% lower, and mRNA expression threefold higher than that of normal, healthy placentas at term (n = 4-7). To further investigate the role of maternal lipids in placental LPL regulation, we isolated placental cytotrophoblasts from term placentas and studied LPL activity and protein and mRNA expression after incubation in Intralipid (as a source of TG) and oleic, linoleic, and a combination of oleic, linoleic, and arachidonic acids as well as insulin. Intralipid (40 and 400 mg/dl) decreased LPL activity by approximately 30% (n = 10-14, P &lt; 0.05) and 400 microM linoleic and linoleic-oleic-arachidonic acid (n = 10) decreased LPL activity by 37 and 34%, respectively. No major changes were observed in LPL protein or mRNA expression. We found no effect of insulin on LPL activity or protein expression in the cultured trophoblasts. To conclude, the activity of placental LPL is reduced by high levels of maternal TG and/or FFA. This regulatory mechanism may serve to counteract an excessive delivery of FFA to the fetus in conditions where maternal TG levels are markedly increased.
Increased sympathetic nervous activity (SNA) elevates venomotor tone in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertension. We studied the mechanisms by which the SNA increases venomotor tone in DOCA-salt hypertension by making in situ intracellular recordings of venous smooth muscle cell (VSMC) membrane potential (E(m)) and measurement of outside diameter (OD) in mesenteric veins (MV) and mesenteric arteries (MA) of anesthetized rats. We also studied norepinephrine (NE)- and endothelin-1 (ET-1)-induced increases in MA or MV perfusion pressure (PP) in vitro. E(m) in DOCA-salt MV was depolarized compared with sham MV. Prazosin hyperpolarized VSMC E(m) in DOCA-salt but not in sham MV. NE concentration-response curves (CRCs) for OD decreases in MV from DOCA-salt rats were left-shifted with an increased maximum response (E(max)) compared with sham MV. NE CRCs for OD decreases in MA were right-shifted with reduced E(max) in DOCA-salt compared with sham rats. ET-1 CRCs were similar in DOCA-salt and sham MV but were right-shifted with reduced E(max) in DOCA-salt MA. NE CRCs for MAPP increases were left-shifted without a change in E(max) in DOCA-salt rats. NE did not change MVPP. MAPP and MVPP for ET-1 CRCs were similar in sham and DOCA-salt rats, but E(max) for MAPP was reduced in DOCA-salt rats. Hematoxylin staining revealed hypertrophy in DOCA-salt MA but not in MV. We conclude that there is increased reactivity to NE released from the sympathetic nervous system in DOCA-salt MV that causes VSMC depolarization and increased venomotor tone. In DOCA-salt rats, in vivo ET-1 reactivity is maintained in MV, but reduced in MA.
Sex differences in the prevalence of inflammatory disorders exist, perhaps due to sex differences in cellular mechanisms that contribute to proinflammatory cytokine activity. This study analyzed sex differences of monocyte intracellular expression of IL-6 and its associations with reproductive hormones and autonomic mechanisms in 14 matched pairs of men and women (n = 28). Monocyte intracellular IL-6 production was repeatedly assessed over two circadian periods. Sympathetic balance was estimated by heart rate variability and the ratio of power in the low-frequency (LF) to high-frequency (HF); vagal tone was indexed by the power of HF component. As compared to men, women showed greater monocyte expression of IL-6 across the circadian period. In addition, women showed lower sympathetic balance (LF/HF ratio), and greater levels of vagal tone (HF power). In women, but not men, sympathovagal balance was negatively associated with monocyte IL-6 expression, whereas vagal tone was positively associated with production of this cytokine. Levels of reproductive hormones were not related to monocyte IL-6 expression. The marked increase in monocyte expression of interleukin-6 in women has implications for understanding sex differences in risk of inflammatory disorders. Additionally, these data suggest that sex differences in sympathovagal balance or vagal tone may be a pathway to explain sex differences in IL-6 expression. Interventions that target autonomic mechanisms might constitute new strategies to constrain IL-6 production with impacts on inflammatory disease risk in women.
Ghrelin is well known for its feeding and growth hormone-releasing actions. It may also be involved in sleep regulation; intracerebroventricular administration and hypothalamic microinjections of ghrelin stimulate wakefulness in rats. Hypothalamic ghrelin, together with neuropeptide Y and orexin form a food intake-regulatory circuit. We hypothesized that this circuit also promotes arousal. To further investigate the role of ghrelin in the regulation of sleep-wakefulness, we characterized spontaneous and homeostatic sleep regulation in ghrelin knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice. Both groups of mice exhibited similar diurnal rhythms with more sleep and less wakefulness during the light period. In ghrelin KO mice, spontaneous wakefulness and rapid-eye-movement sleep (REMS) were slightly elevated, and non-rapid-eye-movement sleep (NREMS) was reduced. KO mice had more fragmented NREMS than WT mice, as indicated by the shorter and greater number of NREMS episodes. Six hours of sleep deprivation induced rebound increases in NREMS and REMS and biphasic changes in electroencephalographic slow-wave activity (EEG SWA) in both genotypes. Ghrelin KO mice recovered from NREMS and REMS loss faster, and the delayed reduction in EEG SWA, occurring after sleep loss-enhanced increases in EEG SWA, was shorter-lasting compared with WT mice. These findings suggest that the basic sleep-wake regulatory mechanisms in ghrelin KO mice are not impaired and they are able to mount adequate rebound sleep in response to a homeostatic challenge. It is possible that redundancy in the arousal systems of the brain or activation of compensatory mechanisms during development allow for normal sleep-wake regulation in ghrelin KO mice.
Extensive studies in the adult have demonstrated that the sympathetic nervous system plays a central role in cardiovascular control. The maturation of the sympathetic nervous system before birth is poorly understood. In the present study, we directly recorded renal sympathetic nerve activity (renal SNA) in five preterm fetal sheep (99 +/- 1 days gestation; term is 147 days). Recordings were performed in utero using a telemetry-based technique to alleviate movement artifact without anesthesia or paralysis. The preterm fetuses exhibited a coordinated discharge pattern in renal SNA, indicating many individual neurons active at approximately the same time. This is consistent with that observed previously in adult animals, although the frequency of the bursts was relatively low (0.5 +/- 0.1 Hz). The discharges in renal SNA were entrained to the cardiac cycle (average delay between diastolic pressure and maximum renal SNA 319 +/- 1 ms). The entrainment of the sympathetic discharges to the cardiac cycle indicates phasic baroreceptor input and that the underlying circuits controlling SNA within the central nervous system are active in premature fetuses.

The insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 4 (IGFBP-4), which exists in many different tissues and biological fluids, modulates insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) bioavailability in part by competitive sequestration and prevention of interaction with cell membrane IGF-1 receptors. Accordingly, small molecules that inhibit the ability of IGF-1 to associate with IGFBP-4 may have clinical utility as regulators of cellular proliferation, survival, and differentiation. Currently, a polyethylene glycol-based precipitation of [(125)I]IGF-1 bound to IGFBP-4 is used to quantify selective IGFBP-4 ligand interactions. We have developed a novel 96-well plate scintillation proximity assay (SPA) for measuring small molecule interactions at IGFBP-4 using a biotinylated form of IGFBP-4 coupled to streptavidin-coated polyvinyltoluene (PVT) SPA microbeads and using [(125)I]IGF-1 as the endogenous ligand. Dose-displacement curves with unlabeled IGF-1 exhibited a mean K(d) value of 0.46 nM. Parallel studies using the nonselective IGFBP inhibitor, NBI-31772, generated a K(i) value of 47 nM. Under optimized conditions, the IGFBP-4 SPA was stable for up to 24h at room temperature and was unaffected by dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO,&lt;0.5%). This homogeneous binding assay is simple, stable, sensitive, and amenable to automation. The good signal/noise ratio (10:1) and Z' factor (0.7-0.8) make it compatible with high-throughput screening platforms for the identification of IGFBP-4 inhibitors. The IGFBP-4 binding assay may be expanded to other IGFBP members, in biotinylated form, to provide a powerful tool amenable to drug screening and the design of therapeutics to treat a variety of IGF-responsive diseases.
Assessment of total neopterin and tetrahydrobioterin (BH4) concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can be used to identify potential disorders of BH4 biosynthesis. In this study, we demonstrate that exposure of CSF to nitric oxide leads to an accelerated degradation of BH4 but does not affect the total neopterin concentration. These data suggest that in those conditions associated with increased nitric oxide formation, perturbation of the total neopterin to BH4 ratio could occur. Under such circumstances a putative diagnosis of a defect in BH4 biosynthesis may erroneously be proposed. Assessment of central nitric oxide generation may therefore be a useful adjunct to the determination of CSF pterin status.



This review focuses on the recent advances in chemotherapy of malignant gliomas, with special emphasis on the most common primary brain tumor in adults, glioblastoma. The demonstration of the superiority of concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with standard radiotherapy over radiotherapy alone in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastomas by means of phase III international trial has been the major advance in the care of these patients so far. Moreover, patients whose tumors display the hypermethylation of the promoter of the gene for the repairing enzyme O-methylguanine-DMA methyltransferase are most likely to benefit from the combination regimen. The advantage of a postsurgical local administration of carmustine by slow-release polymers ('gliadel wafers') is more modest, and the efficacy and safety of a sequence of carmustine wafers followed by temozolomide combined with radiotherapy remain to be defined. Different DNA repair modulation strategies are being investigated to further improve the results: dose-dense regimens of temozolomide, combination of temozolomide with specific inhibitors of O-methylguanine-DMA methyltransferase and combination of temozolomide with specific inhibitors of base excision repair [poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors]. Other developments include the combination of cytotoxic, cytostatic and targeted therapies. Multitargeted compounds that simultaneously affect multiple signaling pathways, such as those involving epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, are increasingly employed. In the future, innovative trial designs (factorial and adaptative designs), pretreatment molecular profiling of individual tumors and the adoption of biological end-points (changes in serum tumor markers, measures of target inhibition), in addition to the traditional clinical and radiographic end-points, will be needed to achieve further advances.
Cell shrinkage is a hallmark of apoptosis. Potassium efflux, which is involved in cell shrinkage, has been previously described as an essential event of apoptosis. This study was designed to address the importance of potassium efflux in hypertonicity (450 mOsm and 600 mOsm) induced apoptosis. We initiated apoptosis in HL-60 cells in hypertonic medium consisting of either high concentrations of NaCl, mannitol or KCl. Apoptotic activity was evaluated based on the DNA content of the cells, annexin-V staining and calcium content. Apoptosis was initiated in hypertonic conditions consisting of high intracellular K(+). We demonstrate that apoptosis can occur in the presence of high intracellular potassium contrary to previous predictions.
Time- and space-correlated single photon counting method has been used to demonstrate the interactions of cation channel &quot;transient receptor potential vanilloid 4&quot; (TRPV4) and microfilaments. Living cells co-expressing TRPV4-CFP and actin-YFP, when excited for the donor molecules (CFP) exhibited an emission peak at 527 nm and decrease of the lifetime in the wavelength band 460-490 nm; corresponding to resonance energy transfer to YFP. CFP fluorescence decay was fitted best by a dual mode decay model. Considering the average lifetime of the donor, both in the presence and absence of acceptor yielded an apparent FRET efficiency of approximately 20%. This is rather high placing the minimum distance of chromophores in the two fluorescent proteins in the range of 4 nm. Thus, this study shows for the first time that TRPV4 and actin intimately associate within living cells. The significance of this finding for cell volume regulation is highlighted.
There is evidence that sleep enhances memory and learning. Childhood is a critical period for neurodevelopment, and minor but persistent disruption of sleep may have long-term implications for cognitive performance. Sleep is critical for health and is undervalued both in our 24 h society and in paediatric clinical practice. Paediatricians need to understand the neurodevelopmental consequences of poor quality sleep in children.






Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) or hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM) is an autosomal recessive disorder clinically characterized by weakness that initially involves the distal muscles, although other muscles can be affected as well. Pathological hallmarks include the presence of rimmed vacuoles (RVs) and intracellular Congo red-positive depositions in vacuolated or nonvacuolated fibers. Mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene, which encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in sialic acid biosynthesis, are causative of DMRV/hIBM. Recently, we have generated a mouse model (Gne(-/-)hGNEV572L-Tg) for this disease, and have shown that these mice exhibit hyposialylation and intracellular amyloid deposition before the characteristic RVs are detected, indicating that autophagy is a downstream phenomenon to hyposialylation and amyloid deposition in DMRV/hIBM.
Deletion mutations of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) accumulate somatically on a cell-by-cell basis with age, resulting in decreased cell function in muscle and substantia nigra. In osteosarcoma cells deletions incapacitate mitochondria and induce the autophagic transcript ATG12, which is involved in an early step of the mammalian autophagy pathway. We discuss here which consequences of mtDNA deletions could induce ATG12, and provide two new pieces of data. Our previous studies demonstrated that mtDNA deletions decreased mitochondrial ATP production and proteasomal function, induced the AMPK transcript (likely as a consequence of bioenergetic depletion), and decreased the intracellular concentration of 20 amino acids (possibly as a consequence of decreased proteasomal activity). Deletions eliminate essential tRNAs for mitochondrial protein synthesis, as well as essential components of mitochondrial multisubunit enzymes; therefore, the increased level of ATG12 could result from decreased bioenergetic function, increased oxidative damage, or decreased mitochondrial protein synthesis. However, the bioenergetic inhibitor rotenone does not induce ATG12. We show here that chloramphenicol, which inhibits mitochondrial protein synthesis, induces ATG12, and that mtDNA deletions result in an increased burden of oxidatively damaged protein. Thus, mtDNA deletions could induce ATG12 through a mechanism such as the following: deletions &gt; mitochondrial protein synthesis inhibition or ROS &gt; proteasome inhibition &gt; amino acid depletion &gt; ATG12.
Data on the ability of Delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) to modify reward processes in experimental animals are inconsistent. This study examined the effects of Delta 9-THC on brain reward function using the rate-frequency curve shift paradigm of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) and the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. In ICSS tests, rats were implanted with electrodes into the medial forebrain bundle. After brain stimulation reward thresholds stabilized, rats received intraperitoneal injections of Delta 9-THC (0, 0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg) or the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A (0, 0.02 mg/kg) and Delta 9-THC (0, 2 mg/kg). The two highest doses of Delta 9-THC significantly increased the threshold ICSS frequency. SR141716A reversed the action of Delta 9-THC (2 mg/kg), without affecting reward thresholds by itself. In the CPP test, mice received intraperitoneal injections of Delta 9-THC (0, 1 or 3 mg/kg). Delta 9-THC showed neither statistically significant preference nor aversion in either of the doses tested. These findings indicate that Delta 9-THC, in contrast to other drugs of abuse, does not facilitate ICSS or support CPP under the present experimental conditions, but rather has a dose-dependent inhibitory influence on ICSS.
Studies that involve analysis of the psychomotor activating effects of drugs often use locomotor activity as the sole measure of psychomotor activation. At low doses, psychostimulant drugs typically produce primarily locomotor hyperactivity. As dose is increased, behavior, however, changes in complex ways, in part because of a transition to behavior progressively dominated by more and more stereotyped actions, such as repetitive head movements. Thus, at some doses an increase in a drug effect is reflected by an increase in locomotion and at others by a decrease, making the interpretation of changes in locomotor activity difficult. Using an automated video analysis system (Clever Sys., Inc. Reston, Virginia, USA), we quantified various components of the psychomotor response to cocaine in the rat, including locomotor activity and lateral head movements, as well as the velocity and/or frequency of these behaviors. We report that the combination of these measures provides an especially sensitive measure of the psychomotor activating effects of cocaine, and how behavior changes as a consequence of repeated drug treatment.
The reconstitution of Aspergillus niger apoglucose oxidase (apoGOx) with FAD conjugates for biosensoring of progesterone was investigated. ApoGOx prepared by partial unfolding of the protein under acidic conditions consisted of reconstitutable monomers (50+/-10%), reconstitutable dimers (20+/-10%) and irreversibly aggregated oligomers (30+/-20%). Incubation of monomeric apoGOx with FAD or N(6)-(6-aminohexyl)-FAD (ahFAD) restored glucose oxidase (GOx) activity and induced dimerization with stoichiometric incorporation of FAD. N(6)-(6-aminohexyl)-FAD progesterone conjugates also induced dimerization. However, holoenzyme reconstitution required relatively high concentrations of apoprotein and was dependent on the type of conjugate. Restoration to 25-50% of the original enzyme activity was obtained. Binding of the FAD-progesterone conjugates might hinder the closure of a protein lid needed for dimer formation. Our results illustrate the prospects of FAD conjugates in sensitive detection of progesterone in biological matrices in a biosensor based on the recombination of apoGOx with progesterone-conjugated FAD.
Spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) is a type of synaptic modification found relatively recently, but the underlying biophysical mechanisms are still unclear. Several models of STDP have been proposed, and differ by their implementation, and in particular how synaptic weights saturate to their minimal and maximal values. We analyze here kinetic models of transmitter-receptor interaction and derive a series of STDP models. In general, such kinetic models predict progressive saturation of the weights. Various forms can be obtained depending on the hypotheses made in the kinetic model, and these include a simple linear dependence on the value of the weight (&quot;soft bounds&quot;), mixed soft and abrupt saturation (&quot;hard bound&quot;), or more complex forms. We analyze in more detail simple soft-bound models of Hebbian and anti-Hebbian STDPs, in which nonlinear spike interactions (triplets) are taken into account. We show that Hebbian STDPs can be used to selectively potentiate synapses that are correlated in time, while anti-Hebbian STDPs depress correlated synapses, despite the presence of nonlinear spike interactions. This correlation detection enables neurons to develop a selectivity to correlated inputs. We also examine different versions of kinetics-based STDP models and compare their sensitivity to correlations. We conclude that kinetic models generally predict soft-bound dynamics, and that such models seem ideal for detecting correlations among large numbers of inputs.

Recognizing people involves creating and retrieving links between distinct representations such as faces and names. In previous research we have shown that the retrieval of face/name associations produced cerebral activities lateralized in the left hemisphere and spreading from posterior to anterior sites after about 300ms. The present ERP study was performed to compare the specific electrophysiological activities elicited by the retrieval of face/proper name (FP) and animal/common name (AC) associations. Using a subtraction method to isolate the specific binding activities, we showed that both kinds of association produced two main posterior negative/anterior positive complexes, with a more frontal distribution for AC, and bilateral temporal activities. These findings confirm that general associative processes - independent of the kind of association - are not simply the sum of the activities elicited by each stimulus, and that they could involve both unimodal sensory and multimodal convergence regions of the brain.
The aim of the current study was to investigate the effect of a naturalistic stressor, examination stress, on frontal EEG asymmetry, psychological stress, hormonal stress, and negative health. Forty-nine subjects were tested during periods of low and high examination stress. During the high examination stress period, subjects reported higher levels of stress on the Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory and Cohen's Perceived Stress Scale. However, no change in cortisol was detected across the two sessions. Furthermore, a shift from relatively greater left frontal activity during the low examination session to relatively greater right frontal activity during the high examination session was also found. Moreover, the increasing right frontal activity asymmetry associated with the high exam session compared to the low exam session correlated with increasing reports of negative health. No evidence was found for the prediction that cortisol mediated either the relationship between examination stressor and right frontal asymmetry or between right frontal asymmetry and negative health. In conclusion, while the findings from this study are compelling, the mechanism mediating increases in psychological stress, relatively greater right frontal activity, and increases in negative health from naturally occurring stressors is in need of further investigation.
Modern semiotics is a branch of logics that formally defines symbol-based communication. In recent years, the semiotic classification of signs has been invoked to support the notion that symbols are uniquely human. Here we show that alarm-calls such as those used by African vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops), logically satisfy the semiotic definition of symbol. We also show that the acquisition of vocal symbols in vervet monkeys can be successfully simulated by a computer program based on minimal semiotic and neurobiological constraints. The simulations indicate that learning depends on the tutor-predator ratio, and that apprentice-generated auditory mistakes in vocal symbol interpretation have little effect on the learning rates of apprentices (up to 80% of mistakes are tolerated). In contrast, just 10% of apprentice-generated visual mistakes in predator identification will prevent any vocal symbol to be correctly associated with a predator call in a stable manner. Tutor unreliability was also deleterious to vocal symbol learning: a mere 5% of &quot;lying&quot; tutors were able to completely disrupt symbol learning, invariably leading to the acquisition of incorrect associations by apprentices. Our investigation corroborates the existence of vocal symbols in a non-human species, and indicates that symbolic competence emerges spontaneously from classical associative learning mechanisms when the conditioned stimuli are self-generated, arbitrary and socially efficacious. We propose that more exclusive properties of human language, such as syntax, may derive from the evolution of higher-order domains for neural association, more removed from both the sensory input and the motor output, able to support the gradual complexification of grammatical categories into syntax.
How the single-celled egg is transformed through the multicellular embryo into the structurally complex adult remains a significant challenge to developmental biologists today. Historically, fate maps have been used to follow the reorganization of tissue domains through pertinent stages of growth to predict the mechanisms by which the development of form takes place. However to understand the details of morphogenesis and the causes of errors in its execution, it is essential that we record and reconstruct the precise journeys of all cells and their progeny throughout the course of development. This article presents an overview of the key technologies used in the construction of such dynamic, high-resolution fate maps and highlights their real potential for quantitatively analyzing the physical basis of development.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The modern management of severe TBI has fallen into the domain of a multidisciplinary team led by neurointensivists, neuroanaesthetists, and neurosurgeons and is based on the avoidance of secondary injury, maintenance of cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), and optimization of cerebral oxygenation. In this review, we will discuss the intensive care management of severe TBI with emphasis on the specific measures directed at the control of intracranial pressure and CPP.


ATP-sensitive P2X(7) receptors are localized on cells of immunological origin including peripheral macrophages and glial cells in the CNS. Activation of P2X(7) receptors leads to rapid changes in intracellular calcium concentrations, release of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta and following prolonged agonist exposure, the formation of cytolytic pores in plasma membranes. Both the localization and functional consequences of P2X(7) receptor activation indicate a role in inflammatory processes. The phenotype of P2X(7) receptor gene-disrupted mice also indicates that P2X(7) receptor activation contributes to ongoing inflammation. More recently, P2X(7) receptor knockout data has also suggested a specific role in inflammatory and neuropathic pain states. The recent discovery of potent and highly selective antagonists for P2X(7) receptors has helped to further clarify P2X receptor pharmacology, expanded understanding of P2X(7) receptor signaling, and offers new evidence that P2X(7) receptors play a specific role in nociceptive signaling in chronic pain states. In this review, we incorporate the recent discoveries of novel P2X(7) receptor-selective antagonists with a brief update on P2X(7) receptor pharmacology and its therapeutic potential.
We have previously performed detailed clinical and neuropsychological assessments in a community-based cohort of patients with newly diagnosed parkinsonism, and through analysis of a subcohort with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), we have demonstrated that cognitive dysfunction occurs even at the time of PD diagnosis and is heterogeneous. Longitudinal follow-up of the cohort has now been performed to examine the evolution of cognitive dysfunction within the early years of the disease. One hundred and eighty (79%) eligible patients from the original cohort with parkinsonism were available for re-assessment at between 3 and 5 years from their initial baseline assessments. PD diagnoses were re-validated with repeated application of the UKPDS Brain Bank criteria in order to maximize sensitivity and specificity, following which a diagnosis of idiopathic PD was confirmed in 126 patients. Thirteen out of 126 (10%) had developed dementia at a mean (SD) of 3.5 (0.7) years from diagnosis, corresponding to an annual dementia incidence of 30.0 (16.4-52.9) per 1000 person-years. A further 57% of PD patients showed evidence of cognitive impairment, with frontostriatal deficits being most common amongst the non-demented group. However, the most important clinical predictors of global cognitive decline following correction for age were neuropsychological tasks with a more posterior cortical basis, including semantic fluency and ability to copy an intersecting pentagons figure, as well as a non-tremor dominant motor phenotype at the baseline assessment. This work clarifies the profile of cognitive dysfunction in early PD and demonstrates that the dementing process in this illness is heralded by both postural and gait dysfunction and cognitive deficits with a posterior cortical basis, reflecting probable non-dopaminergic cortical Lewy body pathology. Furthermore, given that these predictors of dementia are readily measurable within just a few minutes in a clinical setting, our work may ultimately have practical implications in terms of guiding prognosis in individual patients.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with abnormal activity in spatially distributed neural systems mediating the motor and cognitive manifestations of this disorder. Metabolic PET studies have demonstrated that this illness is characterized by a set of reproducible functional brain networks that correlate with these clinical features. The time at which these abnormalities appear is unknown, as is their relationship to concurrent clinical and dopaminergic indices of disease progression. In this longitudinal study, 15 early stage PD patients (age 58.0 +/- 10.2 years; Hoehn and Yahr Stage 1.2 +/- 0.3) were enrolled within 2 years of diagnosis. The subjects underwent multitracer PET imaging at baseline, 24 and 48 months. At each timepoint they were scanned with [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to assess longitudinal changes in regional glucose utilization and in the expression of the PD-related motor (PDRP) and cognitive metabolic covariance patterns (PDCP). At each timepoint the subjects also underwent PET imaging with [18F]-fluoropropyl betaCIT (FP-CIT) to quantify longitudinal changes in caudate and putamen dopamine transporter (DAT) binding. Regional metabolic changes across the three timepoints were localized using statistical parametric mapping (SPM). Longitudinal changes in regional metabolism and network activity, caudate/putamen DAT binding, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor ratings were assessed using repeated measures analysis of variance (RMANOVA). Relationships between these measures of disease progression were assessed by computing within-subject correlation coefficients. We found that disease progression was associated with increasing metabolism in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and internal globus pallidus (GPi) (P &lt; 0.001), as well as in the dorsal pons and primary motor cortex (P &lt; 0.0001). Advancing disease was also associated with declining metabolism in the prefrontal and inferior parietal regions (P &lt; 0.001). PDRP expression was elevated at baseline relative to healthy control subjects (P &lt; 0.04), and increased progressively over time (P &lt; 0.0001). PDCP activity also increased with time (P &lt; 0.0001). However, these changes in network activity were slower than for the PDRP (P &lt; 0.04), reaching abnormal levels only at the final timepoint. Changes in PDRP activity, but not PDCP activity, correlated with concurrent declines in striatal DAT binding (P &lt; 0.01) and increases in motor ratings (P &lt; 0.005). Significant within-subject correlations (P &lt; 0.01) were also evident between the latter two progression indices. The early stages of PD are associated with progressive increases and decreases in regional metabolism at key nodes of the motor and cognitive networks that characterize the illness. Potential disease-modifying therapies may alter the time course of one or both of these abnormal networks.
In patients with Parkinson's disease, the therapeutic efficacy of L-DOPA medication is gradually lost over time, and abnormal involuntary movements, dyskinesias, gradually emerge as a prominent side-effect in response to previously beneficial doses of the drug. Here we show that dyskinesia induced by chronic L-DOPA treatment in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway is critically dependent on the integrity and function of the serotonergic system. Removal of the serotonin afferents, or dampening of serotonin neuron activity by 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B agonist drugs, resulted in a near-complete block of the L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias, suggesting that dysregulated dopamine release from serotonin terminals is the prime trigger of dyskinesia in the rat Parkinson's disease model. In animals with complete dopamine lesions, the spared serotonin innervation was unable to sustain the therapeutic effect of L-DOPA, suggesting that dopamine released as a 'false transmitter' from serotonin terminals is detrimental rather than beneficial. The potent synergistic effect of low doses of 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B agonists to suppress dyskinesia, without affecting the anti-parkinsonian effect of L-DOPA in presence of spared dopamine terminals, suggests an early use of these drugs to counteract the development of dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease patients.
Extensive changes in resting-state oscillatory brain activity have recently been demonstrated using magnetoencephalography (MEG) in moderately advanced, non-demented Parkinson's disease patients relative to age-matched controls. The aim of the present study was to determine the onset and evolution of these changes over the disease course and their relationship with clinical parameters. In addition, we evaluated the effects of dopaminomimetics on resting-state oscillatory brain activity in levodopa-treated patients. MEG background oscillatory activity was studied in a group of 70 Parkinson's disease patients with varying disease duration and severity (including 18 de novo patients) as well as in 21 controls that were age-matched to the de novo patients. Whole head 151-channel MEG recordings were obtained in an eyes-closed resting-state condition. Levodopa-treated patients (N = 37) were examined both in a practically defined 'OFF' as well as in the 'ON' state. Relative spectral power was calculated for delta, theta, low alpha, high alpha, beta and gamma frequency bands and averaged for 10 cortical regions of interest (ROIs). Additionally, extensive clinical and neuropsychological testing was performed in all subjects. De novo Parkinson's disease patients showed widespread slowing of background MEG activity relative to controls. Changes included a widespread increase in theta and low alpha power, as well as a loss of beta power over all but the frontal ROIs and a loss of gamma power over all but the right occipital ROI. Neuropsychological assessment revealed abnormal perseveration in de novo patients, which was associated with increased low alpha power in centroparietal ROIs. In the whole group of Parkinson's disease patients, longer disease duration was associated with reduced low alpha power in the right temporal and right occipital ROI, but not with any other spectral power measure. No association was found between spectral power and disease stage, disease severity or dose of dopaminomimetics. In patients on levodopa therapy, a change from the 'OFF' to the 'ON' state was associated with decreases in right frontal theta, left occipital beta and left temporal gamma power and an increase in right parietal gamma power. Widespread slowing of oscillatory brain activity is a characteristic of non-demented Parkinson's disease patients from the earliest clinical stages onwards that is (largely) independent of disease duration, stage and severity and hardly influenced by dopaminomimetic treatment. Some early cognitive deficits in Parkinson's disease appear to be associated with increased low alpha power. We postulate a role for hypofunctional non-dopaminergic ascending neurotransmitter systems in spectral power changes in non-demented Parkinson's disease patients.
The function of the anterior-most portion of the temporal lobes, the temporal pole, is not well understood. Anatomists have long considered it part of an extended limbic system based on its location posterior to the orbital frontal cortex and lateral to the amygdala, along with its tight connectivity to limbic and paralimbic regions. Here we review the literature in both non-human primates and humans to assess the temporal pole's putative role in social and emotional processing. Reviewed findings indicate that it has some role in both social and emotional processes, including face recognition and theory of mind, that goes beyond semantic memory. We propose that the temporal pole binds complex, highly processed perceptual inputs to visceral emotional responses. Because perceptual inputs remain segregated into dorsal (auditory), medial (olfactory) and ventral (visual) streams, the integration of emotion with perception is channel specific.
The involvement of glia, and glia-neuronal signalling in enhancing nociceptive transmission has become an area of intense scientific interest. In particular, a role has emerged for activated microglia in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury. Following activation, spinal microglia proliferate and release many substances which are capable of modulating neuronal excitability within the spinal cord. Here, we the investigated the response of spinal microglia to a unilateral spared nerve injury (SNI) in terms of the quantitative increase in cell number and the spatial distribution of the increase. Design-based stereological techniques were combined with iba-1 immunohistochemistry to estimate the total number of microglia in the spinal dorsal horn in nave and peripheral nerve-injured adult rats. In addition, by mapping the central terminals of hindlimb nerves, the somatotopic distribution of the microglial response was mapped. Following SNI there was a marked increase in the number of spinal microglia: The total number of microglia (mean+/-SD) in the dorsal horn sciatic territory of the nave rat was estimated to be 28,591+/-2715. Following SNI the number of microglia was 82,034+/-8828. While the pattern of microglial activation generally followed somatotopic boundaries, with the majority of microglia within the territory occupied by peripherally axotomised primary afferents, some spread was seen into regions occupied by intact, 'spared' central projections of the sural nerve. This study provides a reproducible method of assaying spinal microglial dynamics following peripheral nerve injury both quantitatively and spatially.
Spinal cord glia (microglia and astrocytes) contribute to enhanced pain states. One model that has been used to study this phenomenon is intrathecal (i.t.) administration of gp120, an envelope glycoprotein of HIV-1 known to activate spinal cord glia and thereby induce low-threshold mechanical allodynia, a pain symptom where normally innocuous (non-painful) stimuli are perceived as painful. Previous studies have shown that i.t. gp120-induced allodynia is mediated via the release of the glial pro-inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), and interleukin-1beta (IL-1). As we have recently reported that i.t. gp120 induces the release of interleukin-6 (IL-6), in addition to IL-1 and TNF, the present study tested whether this IL-6 release in spinal cord contributes to gp120-induced mechanical allodynia and/or to gp120-induced increases in TNF and IL-1. An i.t. anti-rat IL-6 neutralizing antibody was used to block IL-6 actions upon its release by i.t. gp120. This IL-6 blockade abolished gp120-induced mechanical allodynia. While the literature predominantly documents the cascade of pro-inflammatory cytokines as beginning with TNF, followed by the stimulation of IL-1, and finally TNF plus IL-1 stimulating the release of IL-6, the present findings indicate that a blockade of IL-6 inhibits the gp120-induced elevations of TNF, IL-1, and IL-6 mRNA in dorsal spinal cord, elevation of IL-1 protein in lumbar dorsal spinal cord, and TNF and IL-1 protein release into the surrounding lumbosacral cerebrospinal fluid. These results would suggest that IL-6 induces pain facilitation, and may do so in part by stimulating the production and release of other pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Paclitaxel is a commonly used cancer chemotherapy drug that frequently causes painful peripheral neuropathies. The mechanisms underlying this dose-limiting side effect are poorly understood. Growing evidence supports that proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), released by activated spinal glial cells and within the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) are critical in enhancing pain in various animal models of neuropathic pain. Whether these cytokines are involved in paclitaxel-induced neuropathy is unknown. Here, using a rat neuropathic pain model induced by repeated systemic paclitaxel injections, we examined whether paclitaxel upregulates proinflammatory cytokine gene expression, and whether these changes and paclitaxel-induced mechanical allodynia can be attenuated by intrathecal IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) or intrathecal delivery of plasmid DNA encoding the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10). The data show that paclitaxel treatment induces mRNA expression of IL-1, TNF, and immune cell markers in lumbar DRG. Intrathecal IL-1ra reversed paclitaxel-induced allodynia and intrathecal IL-10 gene therapy both prevented, and progressively reversed, this allodynic state. Moreover, IL-10 gene therapy resulted in increased IL-10 mRNA levels in lumbar DRG and meninges, measured 2 weeks after initiation of therapy, whereas paclitaxel-induced expression of IL-1, TNF, and CD11b mRNA in lumbar DRG was markedly decreased. Taken together, these data support that paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain is mediated by proinflammatory cytokines, possibly released by activated immune cells in the DRG. We propose that targeting the production of proinflammatory cytokines by intrathecal IL-10 gene therapy may be a promising therapeutic strategy for the relief of paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain.
It has been suggested that spindle neurons, an evolutionarily unique type of neuron, might be involved in higher-order social, emotional, and cognitive functions. As such, it was hypothesized that these neurons may be particularly important to the pathophysiology of autism, a disease characterized in part by disruption of higher-order social and emotional processing. Therefore, we conducted the first stereological investigation of the number of spindle neurons in autism, using the optical fractionator technique. Our results did not provide evidence of a reduction in spindle neuron number in frontoinsular cortex in autism. However, this study provides the first quantitative stereological data on spindle neuron number in autism. Future postmortem studies with larger sample sizes will likely be critical in elucidating the spared and defective neural systems underlying the autistic phenotype.
Individuals with developmental dyslexia are often impaired in their ability to process certain linguistic and even basic non-linguistic auditory signals. Recent investigations report conflicting findings regarding impaired low-level binaural detection mechanisms associated with dyslexia. Binaural impairment has been hypothesized to stem from a general low-level processing disorder for temporally fine sensory stimuli. Here we use a new behavioral paradigm to address this issue. We compared the response times of dyslexic listeners and their matched controls in a tone-in-noise detection task. The tonal signals were either Huggins Pitch (HP), a stimulus requiring binaural processing to elicit a pitch percept, or a pure tone-perceptually similar but physically very different signals. The results showed no difference between the two groups specific to the processing of HP and thus no evidence for a binaural impairment in dyslexia. However, dyslexic subjects exhibited a general difficulty in extracting tonal objects from background noise, manifested by a globally delayed detection speed.
D-Serine has recently been identified as a major gliotransmitter in the mammal central nervous system (CNS). The distribution of D-serine is analogous to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors in the brain. D-Serine is as potent as glycine as a coagonist at the glycine-binding site of NMDA receptors. Thus, D-serine has been considered as an endogenous ligand of the NMDA receptors in the brain. D-Serine is synthesized by serine racemase (SR) from L-serine. Both D-serine and SR have been enriched to astrocytes which are the dynamic partners of neurons at synapses and participate in controlling synaptic transmission, synaptic plasticity and synaptogenesis. The present review highlights the most recent findings on the molecular mechanisms of controlling D-serine metabolism in the CNS, the physiological role of D-serine in synaptic plasticity, and the pathological relevance of D-serine to schizophrenia, excitotoxicity- and neuroinflammation-induced neuronal death as well as neuropathic pain. Finally, as we have recently established SR knockout mouse strain with pure C57BL/6 genetic background, this novel mouse model will contribute the analysis of physiological and pathophysiological role of D-serine in vivo.
G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) form the largest superfamily of membrane proteins. About 50% of medicines are thought to target GPCRs. We recently developed a novel strategy to screen GPCRs that are highly or selectively expressed in particular cells of the brain. Since recent literature suggests causative roles of glial cell dysfunction in many neuropsychiatric disorders, we first characterized GPCRs expressed in cultured astrocytes and neural progenitor cells (NPCs) using the method. Among approximately 300 GPCRs expressed in the adult mouse brain, we found that type 2 neurotensin receptor (Ntsr2) was abundantly expressed in cultured astrocytes. In situ hybridization of Ntsr2 and co-immunostaining of GFAP confirmed that the molecule was expressed in astrocytes of the adult mouse brain. Mice lacking Ntsr2 showed altered emotional behaviors. Application of a Ntsr2 agonist modified the behavior of wild type mice. In NPCs, PACAP receptor (PAC1) was identified as one of the highly expressed GPCRs. Previously the PACAP/PAC1 system was reported to induce differentiation of NPCs. We observed that PACAP and PAC1 were co-localized in NPCs of the mouse embryonic cortex and that activation of the PACAP/PAC1 system potentiated growth factor-induced proliferation of the glial progenitors. Furthermore, VPAC2, a structurally related GPCR to PAC1, was detected in reactive astrocytes in vivo. These observations suggest potential roles of Ntsr2, PAC1 and VPAC2 in the development, expression and maintenance of the brain function. Further study on glial GPCRs should provide important information for the role of astrocytes in the processing of neural information.
L-glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system and has also been implicated as a potent neurotoxin. To ensure a high signal-to-noise ratio during synaptic transmission and to prevent neuronal damage that might occur as a result of excessive activation of glutamate receptors, the extracellular glutamate concentration is tightly controlled by glutamate transporters in the plasma membrane of neurons and the surrounding glial cells. Five subtypes of glutamate transporters have been identified and characterized by molecular cloning. Recent studies of glutamate transporters using the genetic knockout strategy indicate that glial, but not neuronal, glutamate transporters play critical roles in maintaining the extracellular glutamate concentrations and are thereby essential for both normal synaptic transmission and protection of neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity. Furthermore, we have recently demonstrated that glial glutamate transporters are necessary for brain development through regulation of extracellular glutamate concentration and mediate a functional metabolic crosstalk between neurons and astrocytes. Changes involving altered glutamate signaling are found in CNS disorders including depression, schizophrenia, and several neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, the design of compounds capable of modulating glutamate uptake represents a novel strategy for the treatment of these CNS disorders.
During a lexical decision task, lexical decision making can be distinguished from lexical retrieval. Lexical decision making is independent of stimulus modality and not reflected in the decision times, whereas the opposite holds for lexical retrieval. In neuroimaging studies investigating lexical decision tasks with either visual or auditory stimuli these two processes have so far been confused. Therefore, it is not clear whether the activation of Broca's region, consisting of the left Brodmann's area (BA) 44 and BA 45, reported in such studies really reflects lexical decision making. The present event-related fMRI study investigated the role of Broca's region in lexical decision by analyzing brain activation that is independent of stimulus modality or decision times. Twenty-two healthy participants performed lexical decisions on visual and auditory real words and pseudo-words. The left BA 44 was conjointly activated during visual and auditory lexical decisions as compared to rest indicating the modality-independent involvement of BA 44 in lexical decision tasks in general. To identify brain activation related to lexical decision making rather than lexical retrieval the decision times were entered as covariates into the fMRI analysis. In this analysis, the left BA 44 was activated for visual and for auditory lexical decision making. These results indicate that the left BA 44 as a distinct sub-part of Broca's region plays an important role in lexical decision making independently of stimulus modality and decision times.
The cerebral cortex conveys major input to the granule cell layer of the cerebellar hemispheres by way of the pontine nuclei. Cerebrocortical projections terminate in multiple, widely distributed clusters in the pontine nuclei. This clustered organization is thought to provide the transition between the different organizational principles of the cerebrum and cerebellum, and indicates that parallel processing occurs at multiple sites in the pontine nuclei. At a cellular level, however, it is unknown whether individual cerebropontine neurons target pontocerebellar cells located in different clusters or not. We have employed anterograde axonal tracing and 3D computerized reconstruction techniques to characterize the branching pattern and morphology of individual cerebropontine axons from the primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Our findings show that 43% of the cerebrobulbar fibers arising from SI whisker representations provide two or three fibers entering the pontine nuclei, whereas 39% have only one fiber, and the remaining 18% do not project to the pontine nuclei. Thus, it appears that a majority of cerebropontine axons originating in SI whisker representations diverge to contact multiple, separated pontocerebellar cells. Further, 84% of the somatosensory cerebropontine fibers are collateral branches from cerebrobulbar and/or cerebrospinal parent fibers, while 16% are direct cerebropontine projections without a further descending projection. A range of thicknesses of the fibers entering the pontine nuclei were observed, with collaterals of corticobulbar fibers having the smallest diameter. Taken together, these findings may be related to previously described separate cerebropontine transmission lines with different properties.
The three-dimensional intrahippocampal distribution of axon collaterals of an in vivo filled CA3c pyramidal cell was investigated. The neuron was filled with biocytin in an anesthetized rat and the collaterals were reconstructed with the aid of a NeuroLucida program from 48 coronal sections. The total length of the axon collaterals exceeded 0.5 m, with almost 40,000 synaptic boutons. The majority of the collaterals were present in the CA1 region (70.0%), whereas 27.6% constituted CA3 recurrent collaterals with the remaining minority of axons returning to the dentate gyrus. The axon arbor covered more than two thirds of the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus, and the terminals were randomly distributed both locally and distally from the soma. We suggest that the CA3 system can be conceptualized as a single-module, in which nearby and distant targets are contacted by the same probability (similar to a mathematically defined random graph). This arrangement, in combination with the parallel input granule cells and parallel output CA1 pyramidal cells, appears ideal for segregation and integration of information and memories.
A basic feature of the neocortex is its organization in functional, vertically oriented columns, recurring modules of signal processing and a system of transcolumnar long-range horizontal connections. These columns, together with their network of neurons, present in all sensory cortices, are the cellular substrate for sensory perception in the brain. Cortical columns contain thousands of neurons and span all cortical layers. They receive input from other cortical areas and subcortical brain regions and in turn their neurons provide output to various areas of the brain. The modular concept presumes that the neuronal network in a cortical column performs basic signal transformations, which are then integrated with the activity in other networks and more extended brain areas. To understand how sensory signals from the periphery are transformed into electrical activity in the neocortex it is essential to elucidate the spatial-temporal dynamics of cortical signal processing and the underlying neuronal 'microcircuits'. In the last decade the 'barrel' field in the rodent somatosensory cortex, which processes sensory information arriving from the mysticial vibrissae, has become a quite attractive model system because here the columnar structure is clearly visible. In the neocortex and in particular the barrel cortex, numerous neuronal connections within or between cortical layers have been studied both at the functional and structural level. Besides similarities, clear differences with respect to both physiology and morphology of synaptic transmission and connectivity were found. It is therefore necessary to investigate each neuronal connection individually, in order to develop a realistic model of neuronal connectivity and organization of a cortical column. This review attempts to summarize recent advances in the study of individual microcircuits and their functional relevance within the framework of a cortical column, with emphasis on excitatory signal flow.
It would be of the utmost interest to map correlated sources in the working human brain by Event-Related Potentials (ERPs). This work is to develop a new method to map correlated neural sources based on the time courses of the scalp ERPs waveforms. The ERP data are classified first by k-means cluster analysis, and then the Correlation Coefficients (CC) between the original data of each electrode channel and the time course of each cluster centroid are calculated and utilized as the mapping variable on the scalp surface. With a normalized 4-concentric-sphere head model with radius 1, the performance of the method is evaluated by simulated data. CC, between simulated four sources (s (1)-s (4)) and the estimated cluster centroids (c (1)-c (4)), and the distances (Ds), between the scalp projection points of the s (1)-s (4) and that of the c (1)-c (4), are utilized as the evaluation indexes. Applied to four sources with two of them partially correlated (with maximum mutual CC = 0.4892), CC (Ds) between s (1)-s (4) and c (1)-c (4) are larger (smaller) than 0.893 (0.108) for noise levels NSR&lt;/= 0.2; Applied to four sources with two of them completely correlated, CC (Ds) between s (1)-s (4) and c (1)-c (4) are larger (smaller) than 0.97367 (0.1898) for a random noise level NSR&lt;/= 0.2; Applied to 128, 64 and 32 recording electrodes, CC (Ds) between s (1)-s (4) and c (1)-c (4) are larger (smaller) than 0.9557 (0.4251) for a random noise level NSR = 0.15; And applied to the cases of spatially overlapped scalp activities, CC (Ds) between s (1)-s (4) and c (1)-c (4) are larger (smaller) than 0.9083 (0.4329) for a random noise level NSR = 0.15. Finally, the method successfully decomposed the ERPs collected in a spatial selective attention experiment into three clusters located at left, right occipital and frontal. The estimated vectors of the contra-occipital area demonstrate that attention to the stimulus location produces increased amplitude of the P1 and N1 components over the contra-occipital scalp. The estimated vector in the frontal area displays two large processing negativity waves around 100 ms and 250 ms when subjects are attentive, and there is a small negative wave around 140 ms and a P300 when subjects are unattentive. The results of simulations and real Visual Evoked Potentials (VEPs) data demonstrate the validity of the method in mapping correlated sources. This method may be an objective, heuristic and important tool to study the properties of cerebral, neural networks in cognitive and clinical neurosciences.
Erythrocytes are peculiar cells aimed at the delivery of oxygen and nitric oxide to the periphery and carbon dioxide to the lungs. In addition, they also exert, under physiological conditions, a scavenging activity towards reactive oxygen and nitrogen species often over-produced in morbidity states, e.g. in inflamed tissues. Their deformability is essential for their circulation, specifically in small blood vessels, and this is an important pre-requisite for such vascular &quot;antioxidant&quot; functions. On the other hand, if the erythrocyte undergoes changes in its redox status, i.e. is not capable of counteracting the pro-oxidant status of the microenvironment, it becomes a source of reactive species and, consequently, its typical structural and functional features are lost. More importantly, the oxidatively modified red cell increases its aggregability and adhesiveness to the endothelium and to other blood cells, thus contributing to vascular damage. In line with recent data from the literature, erythrocytes can be proposed as bioindicators of progression in chronic or acute diseases characterized, as a hallmark, by oxidative alterations.
The formation of neuronal synapses is a finely organized process that involves the presynaptic assembly of the machinery responsible for neurotransmitter release and the postsynaptic recruitment of neurotransmitter receptors and scaffold proteins to the postsynaptic density (PSD). The molecular cues guiding the establishment of synaptic connections are now beginning to be identified. Recent studies indicate that cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) participate prominently in the key steps of synapse formation, inducing transsynaptic adhesion and promoting a precise alignment of pre- and postsynaptic terminals. This addendum describes a new mechanism of cell-cell interaction that combines features of both diffusible and membrane-bound synaptogenic factors. It particularly points out the key role played by GDNF triggering trans-homophilic binding between GFR alpha 1 molecules and cell adhesion between GFR alpha 1-expressing cells. In this model GFR alpha 1 functions as a ligand-induced cell adhesion molecule (LICAM) to establish precise synaptic contacts and promote the assembly of presynaptic terminals. In this overview, I summarize the current concepts of synapse formation in the limelight of this new mechanism of ligand-induced cell adhesion.

Although activation of glutamate receptors is essential for normal brain function, excessive activity leads to a form of neurotoxicity known as excitotoxicity. Key mediators of excitotoxic damage include overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, resulting in excessive Ca(2+) influx with production of free radicals and other injurious pathways. Overproduction of free radical nitric oxide (NO) contributes to acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders. NO can react with cysteine thiol groups to form S-nitrosothiols and thus change protein function. S-nitrosylation can result in neuroprotective or neurodestructive consequences depending on the protein involved. Many neurodegenerative diseases manifest conformational changes in proteins that result in misfolding and aggregation. Our recent studies have linked nitrosative stress to protein misfolding and neuronal cell death. Molecular chaperones - such as protein-disulfide isomerase, glucose-regulated protein 78, and heat-shock proteins - can provide neuroprotection by facilitating proper protein folding. Here, we review the effect of S-nitrosylation on protein function under excitotoxic conditions, and present evidence that NO contributes to degenerative conditions by S-nitrosylating-specific chaperones that would otherwise prevent accumulation of misfolded proteins and neuronal cell death. In contrast, we also review therapeutics that can abrogate excitotoxic damage by preventing excessive NMDA receptor activity, in part via S-nitrosylation of this receptor to curtail excessive activity.
Mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis is today at the center of wide interest in the scientific community because of its role both in the modulation of numerous physiological responses and because of its involvement in cell death. In this review, we briefly summarize a few basic features of mitochondrial Ca(2+) handling in vitro and within living cells, and its involvement in the modulation of Ca(2+)-dependent signaling. We then discuss the role of mitochondrial Ca(2+) in the control of apoptotic death, focusing in particular on the effects of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins of the Bcl-2 family. Finally, the potential involvement of Ca(2+) and mitochondria in the development of two diseases, Ullrich muscular dystrophy and familial Alzheimer's disease, is briefly discussed.
Adult stem cells have been intensively studied for their potential use in cell therapies for neurodegenerative diseases, ischemia and traumatic injuries. One of the most promising cell sources for autologous cell transplantation is bone marrow, containing a heterogenous cell population that can be roughly divided into hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). MSCs are multipotent progenitor cells that, in the case of severe tissue ischemia or damage, can be attracted to the lesion site, where they can secrete bioactive molecules, either naturally or through genetic engineering. They can also serve as vehicles for delivering therapeutic agents. Mobilized from the marrow, sorted or expanded in culture, MSCs can be delivered to the damaged site by direct or systemic application. In addition, MSCs can be labeled with superparamagnetic nanoparticles that allow in vivo cell imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is thus a suitable method for in vivo cell tracking of transplanted cells in the host organism. This review will focus on cell labeling for MRI and the use of MSCs in experimental and clinical studies for the treatment of brain and spinal cord injuries.
Nitrosative and oxidative stress, associated with the generation of excessive reactive oxygen or nitrogen species, are thought to contribute to neurodegenerative disorders. Many such diseases are characterized by conformational changes in proteins that result in their misfolding and aggregation. Accumulating evidence implies that at least two pathways affect protein folding: the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and molecular chaperones. Normal protein degradation by the UPS can prevent accumulation of aberrantly folded proteins. Molecular chaperones - such as protein-disulfide isomerase, glucose-regulated protein 78, and heat shock proteins - can provide neuroprotection from aberrant proteins by facilitating proper folding and thus preventing their aggregation. Our recent studies have linked nitrosative stress to protein misfolding and neuronal cell death. Here, we present evidence for the hypothesis that nitric oxide contributes to degenerative conditions by S-nitrosylating specific chaperones or UPS proteins that would otherwise prevent accumulation of misfolded proteins.

Human observers can quickly and accurately interpret the meaning of complex visual scenes. The neural mechanisms underlying this ability are largely unexplored. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure cortical activity while subjects identified briefly presented scenes as specific familiar locations (&quot;Houston Hall&quot;), general place categories (&quot;kitchen&quot;), or general situational categories (&quot;party&quot;). Scene-responsive voxels in the parahippocampal place area (PPA) and retrosplenial cortex (RSC) were highly sensitive to recognition level when identifying scenes, responding more strongly during location identification than during place category or situation identification. In contrast, the superior temporal sulcus, cingulate sulcus, and supermarginal gyrus displayed the opposite pattern, responding more strongly during place category and situation identification. Consideration of results from 4 experiments suggests that the PPA represents the visuospatial structure of individual scenes, whereas RSC supports processes that allow scenes to be localized within a larger extended environment. These results suggest that different scene identification tasks tap distinct cortical networks. In particular, we hypothesize that the PPA and RSC are critically involved in the identification of specific locations but play a less central role in other scene recognition tasks.
The ability to detect and preferentially process salient auditory stimuli, even when irrelevant to a current task, is often critical for adaptive behavior. This stimulus-driven allocation of processing resources is known as &quot;attentional capture.&quot; Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to investigate brain activity and behavioral effects related to such auditory attentional capture. Participants searched a sequence of tones for a target tone that was shorter or longer than the nontarget tones. An irrelevant singleton feature in the tone sequence resulted in behavioral interference (attentional capture) and activation of parietal and prefrontal cortices only when the singleton was associated with a nontarget tone (nontarget singleton) and not when associated with a target tone (target singleton). In contrast, the presence (vs. absence) of a singleton feature in the sequence was associated with activation of frontal and temporal loci previously associated with auditory change detection. These results suggest that a ventral network involving superior temporal and inferior frontal cortices responds to acoustic variability, regardless of attentional significance, but a dorsal frontoparietal network responds only when a feature singleton captures attention.
Skillful object manipulation requires that haptically explored spatial object characteristics like orientation be adequately represented in working memory. In the current functional magnetic resonance imaging study, healthy right-handed participants explored a bar-shaped reference object with the left hand, memorizing its orientation. After a variable delay (0.5, 5, or 10 s), participants used their right hand to match the orientation by rotating a second, identical object. In the first seconds of the delay, right sensorimotor cortex was active, whereas clusters in left anterior prefrontal cortex (aPFC) (Brodmann area 10) became dominant 2 s after the end of exploration, showing sustained activity for several seconds. In contrast, left parieto-occipital cortex was involved toward the end of the delay interval. Our results indicate that a dynamic network of brain areas subserves hapticospatial information processing in the delay between haptic stimulus exploration and orientation matching. We propose that haptic sensory traces, maintained in contralateral sensorimotor cortex, are transformed into more abstract hapticospatial representations in the early delay stages. Maintenance of these representations engages aPFC and parieto-occipital cortex. Whereas aPFC possibly integrates spatial and motor components of hapticospatial working memory, parieto-occipital cortex might be involved in orientation imagery, supporting working memory, and the preparation of haptic matching.
Debate continues as to the automaticity of the amygdala's response to threat. Accounts taking a strong automaticity line suggest that the amygdala's response to threat is both involuntary and independent of attentional resources. Building on these accounts, prominent models have suggested that anxiety modulates the output of an amygdala-based preattentive threat evaluation system. Here, we argue for a modification of these models. Functional magnetic resonance imaging data were collected while volunteers performed a letter search task of high or low perceptual load superimposed on fearful or neutral face distractors. Neither high- nor low-anxious volunteers showed an increased amygdala response to threat distractors under high perceptual load, contrary to a strong automaticity account of amygdala function. Under low perceptual load, elevated state anxiety was associated with a heightened response to threat distractors in the amygdala and superior temporal sulcus, whereas individuals high in trait anxiety showed a reduced prefrontal response to these stimuli, consistent with weakened recruitment of control mechanisms used to prevent the further processing of salient distractors. These findings suggest that anxiety modulates processing subsequent to competition for perceptual processing resources, with state and trait anxiety having distinguishable influences upon the neural mechanisms underlying threat evaluation and &quot;top-down&quot; control.
We measured the timing, areal distribution, and laminar profile of fast, wavelength-insensitive and slower, wavelength-sensitive responses in V1 and extrastriate areas, using laminar current-source density analysis in awake macaque monkeys. There were 3 main findings. 1) We confirmed previously reported significant ventral-dorsal stream latency lags at the level of V4 (V4 mean = 38.7 ms vs. middle temporal mean = 26.9 ms) and inferotemporal cortex (IT mean = 43.4 ms vs. dorsal bank of the superior temporal sulcus mean = 33.9 ms). 2) We found that wavelength-sensitive inputs in areas V1, V4, and IT lagged the wavelength-insensitive responses by significant margins; this lag increased over successive levels of the system. 3) We found that laminar activation profiles in V4 and IT were inconsistent with &quot;feedforward&quot; input through the ascending ventral cortical pathway; the likely alternative input routes include both lateral inputs from the dorsal stream and direct inputs from nonspecific thalamic neurons. These findings support a &quot;Framing&quot; Model of ventral stream visual processing in which rapidly conducted inputs, mediated by one or more accessory pathways, modulate the processing of more slowly conducted feedforward inputs.
How many different calcium channels does it take to make a nervous system? The answer: more than any of us predicted. In 1975 Hagiwara and colleagues published the first evidence that functionally different calcium channels are expressed in cells. By 1999, the calcium channel family could boast ten members, each member defined by a unique set of attributes to support their cellular functions and by unique amino acid sequences. Although nine of these genes are expressed in the nervous system, that number still seemed insufficient to support the wide spectrum of neuronal functions controlled by voltage-gated calcium channels. This discrepancy is probably explained by alternative pre-messenger RNA splicing which substantially expands the number of protein activities available from a limited number of genes. Like many other ion channel genes, each Ca(V)alpha(1) gene has the capacity to generate perhaps thousands of unique splice isoforms with unique functional properties. The high level of conservation among alternatively spliced exons in Ca(V)2.2 genes of different species and in some cases closely related genes implies biological importance. A number of Ca(V)alpha(1) isoforms have been identified from neural tissue but until recently we lacked direct evidence linking a specific splice site in a calcium channel gene to a specific function in an identified neuron population. Our recent studies show that alternative pre-mRNA splicing of a pair of 32 amino acid encoding exons in the C-terminus of Ca(V)2.2, e37a and e37b, underlie the expression of two mutually exclusive N-type channel isoforms. The inclusion of e37a creates a module that couples the N-type channel to a powerful form of G protein-dependent inhibition. The inhibitory pathway that works through e37a is voltage-independent, requires G(i/o) and tyrosine kinase activation, and is used by mu opioid and GABA(B) receptors to downregulate N-type channel activity. Combined with our previous studies that show enrichment of e37a in nociceptors, our data suggest a molecular basis for the high susceptibility of N-type currents in sensory neurons to voltage-independent inhibition following G protein activation.
Many neuropsychiatric disorders of childhood and adolescence have a strong genetic component, and all present challenging questions about the neural abnormalities that underlie complex and unique behavioral and cognitive phenotypes. A useful research strategy in this setting is imaging genetics, a relatively new approach that combines genetic assessment with multimodal neuroimaging to discover neural systems linked to genetic abnormalities or variation. In this article, the authors review this strategy as applied to two areas. First, the authors present results on dissecting neural mechanisms underlying the complex neuropsychiatric phenotype of Williams syndrome. Second, they examine neural systems that are linked to candidate gene genetic variation that mediate risk for psychiatric disorders in a gene by environmental interaction. These data provide convergent evidence for neural circuitry mediating emotional regulation and social cognition under genetic control in humans.

The authors describe a rare case of internal carotid artery (ICA) trifurcation aneurysm and its surgical management. Carotid trifurcation is a unique anatomical variant where three arterial branches arise from the carotid termination than the usual two. Aneurysm arising from the trifurcation, due to its rarity, is difficult to treat. The anatomy, embryological basis and significance of such an anomaly during surgical management are discussed.
The Miller Fisher syndrome, Guillain-Barre syndrome and Bickerstaff's brainstem encephalitis are related conditions in which anti-GQ1b antibody positivity occur in varied frequencies. This report demonstrates the presence of corticobulbar and corticospinal dysfunction in BBE, by means of a novel transcranial magnetic stimulation technique. It further supports the presence of protean manifestations in anti-GQ1b IgG antibody-positive spectrum of disorders.
Aortic dissection is a rare potentially life threatening condition. Neurological complications such as paraplegia as presenting manifestation of aortic dissection are exceedingly rare. We describe a 60-year-old man who presented with acute onset paraplegia with bladder involvement, constricting pain in the lower abdomen, bradycardia and succumbed rapidly within 14h of onset of symptoms. Autopsy revealed an unexpected cause of paraplegia with extensive aortic dissection extending from origin to iliac bifurcation (DeBakey type I). The aorta showed extensive atherosclerosis causing medial destruction and dissection. The spinal cord in the vulnerable watershed zone of T12-L1 downwards revealed ischemic softening. No infarcts were seen in other organs as he succumbed rapidly to cardiac tamponade. Acute aortic dissection presenting as paraplegia though rare, should be considered in patients presenting with sudden onset paraplegia with associated severe pain and absent pulses. Prompt diagnosis and timely intervention may help save life and limb.
Eumycetoma in the cerebellopontine angle region is extremely uncommon with no case being reported as per an extensive review of the literature by the authors. The authors report a case of cerebellopontine angle eumycetoma in a young female managed by subtotal decompression and antifungal treatment. The pre-operative diagnosis of eumycetoma in this location is extremely difficult and the role of histopathology is very important to characterize this uncommon lesion. The prognosis of this bizarre pathology is dismal despite all treatment modalities as compared to the usual tumors of the cerebellopontine angle that generally have a favorable outcome.


Exposure therapy for anxiety disorders has been one of success stories of clinical psychology and psychiatry. Nevertheless, a significant minority of patients fail to benefit from extant treatments. This clinical impasse is prompting renewed attempts to understand fear and its reduction at neural, cellular, and molecular as well as behavioral levels of analysis. The purpose of this article is to provide a review of theories of exposure therapy, including recent developments in emotional processing theory, and to discuss insights from neuroscience that promise to improve psychological treatments for reducing pathological fears.
This article reviews the rapidly growing literature on the functional anatomy and behavioral correlates of the precuneus, with special reference to imaging neuroscience studies using hamodynamic techniques. The precuneus, along with adjacent areas within the posteromedial parietal cortex, is among the most active cortical regions according to the &quot;default mode&quot; of brain function during the conscious resting state, whereas it selectively deactivates in a number of pathophysiological conditions (ie, sleep, vegetative state, drug-induced anesthesia), and neuropsychiatric disorders (ie, epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, and schizophrenia) characterized by impaired consciousness. These findings, along with the widespread connectivity pattern, suggest that the precuneus may play a central role in the neural network correlates of consciousness. Specifically, its activity seems to correlate with self-reflection processes, possibly involving mental imagery and episodic/autobiographical memory retrieval.
People with autism spectrum disorders appear to have some specific advantages in visual processing, including an advantage in visual search tasks. However, executive function theory predicts deficits in tasks that require divided attention, and there is evidence that people with autism have difficulty broadening their attention (Mann &amp; Walker, 2003). We wanted to know how robust the known attentional advantage is. Would people with autism have difficulty dividing attention between central and peripheral tasks, as is required in the Useful Field of View task, or would they show an advantage due to strengths in visual search? Observers identified central letters and localized peripheral targets under both focused- and divided-attention conditions. Participants were 20 adults with high-functioning autism and Asperger's syndrome and 20 adults matched to the experimental group on education, age, and IQ. Contrary to some predictions, individuals with autism tended to show relatively smaller divided-attention costs than did matched adults. These results stand in stark contrast to the predictions of some prevalent theories of visual and cognitive processing in autism.
We report an aphasic patient, Z.B.L., who showed a significant advantage for verbs compared to nouns in picture-naming tests. Within the object class, he performed better on animate things than on nonliving things in picture naming as well as in an &quot;attribute judgement task&quot;. This pattern of performance is contrary to the central prediction of a recent proposal (Bird, Howard, &amp; Franklin, 2000), which attributes noun-verb dissociation in aphasic patients to deficits in processing certain kinds of semantic features. This model proposes that conceptual representations of verbs have a lower proportion of sensory features than do representations of nouns; the same is proposed for inanimate versus animate items within the noun category. Noun deficits are assumed to arise due to impairment for the processing of sensory features. The model predicts that if a patient is more impaired for nouns than for verbs, he will also display more difficulty with animate than with inanimate objects. Contrary to predications derived from this theory, Z.B.L. performed better with animate than inanimate nouns.
Sophisticated string analysis [compressed regional string analysis, cRSE] shows significant differences following therapeutical masking of the foveal region during a virtual hemianopia. The visual imagery scanpath is done over a compressed mental image that needs longer fixation duration but fewer saccades than the real image. Combination of different viewing tasks with types of pictures permits to show how scanpath top-down strategies can be enforced or decreased by proper combination of task and picture; this is influenced by the mask of fovea versus no-mask of fovea difference, with bottom up mechanisms becoming more important with loss of foveal viewing strategies in the mask condition.
The developing field of neuroinformatics includes technologies for the collection and sharing of neuro-related digital resources. These resources will be of increasing value for understanding the brain. Developing a database system to integrate these disparate resources is necessary to make full use of these resources. This study proposes a base database system termed XooNIps that utilizes the content management system called XOOPS. XooNIps is designed for developing databases in different research fields through customization of the option menu. In a XooNIps-based database, digital resources are stored according to their respective categories, e.g., research articles, experimental data, mathematical models, stimulations, each associated with their related metadata. Several types of user authorization are supported for secure operations. In addition to the directory and keyword searches within a certain database, XooNIps searches simultaneously across other XooNIps-based databases on the Internet. Reviewing systems for user registration and for data submission are incorporated to impose quality control. Furthermore, XOOPS modules containing news, forums schedules, blogs and other information can be combined to enhance XooNIps functionality. These features provide better scalability, extensibility, and customizability to the general neuroinformatics community. The application of this system to data, models, and other information related to human pupils is described here.
In the second half of the 19th century, there was very little attention given to bilingual speakers within the growing clinical literature on aphasia. The first major publication on this topic (Pitres, 1895), appeared three decades after Broca's seminal work. Previously, Ribot (1881) had discussed the phenomenon of bilingual aphasia in the context of diseases of memory. Although interest in the neurological basis of the language faculty was in fact present throughout the century, the theoretical implications of the knowledge of more than one language did not appear to be linked to this issue. A number of British authors writing in the first half of the 19th century have been identified who did consider the significance of these cases. Importantly, these writers speculated on the implication of bilingual aphasia specifically with regard to ideas about memory rather than language. Consideration of these writings helps to illuminate the history of ideas about the organization of language in the brain.
Ebbinghaus' seminal work suggested that forgetting occurred as a function of time. However, it raised a number of fundamental theoretical issues that still have not been resolved in the literature. Mller and Pilzecker (1900) addressed some of these issues in a remarkable manner but their observations have been mostly ignored in recent years. Mller and Pilzecker (1900) showed that the materials and the task that intervene between presentation and recall may interfere with the to-be-remembered items, and they named this phenomenon &quot;retroactive interference&quot; (RI). They further asked whether there is a type of RI that is based only on distraction, and not on the similarity between the memoranda and the interfering stimuli. Their findings, and our follow up research in healthy volunteers and amnesiacs, confirm that forgetting can be induced by any subsequent mentally effortful interpolated task, irrespective of its content; the interpolated &quot;interfering&quot; material does not have to be similar to the to-be-remembered stimuli.
Stroke is a complex neurological disorder that most likely results from an intricate interplay between lifestyle, environment and genetics. Genes can influence susceptibility to stroke, alter responses to pharmacotherapy, and affect disease outcome. Recently, common variations within the PDE4D and ALOX5AP genes have been identified that increase population-attributable risk of stroke in Iceland. These genes are yet to be unequivocally confirmed and the functional variants identified. Characterizing the genetic profile of individuals at highest risk of stroke will permit more targeted pharmacological approaches to early primary and secondary stroke prevention. Pharmacogenomics is likely to be particularly important for stroke prevention because of the narrow therapeutic index for treatments like warfarin that prevents thrombosis but also promotes hemorrhage. Identifying possible genetic determinants of outcome will also open new avenues of research into stroke therapeutics beyond thrombolysis.
Ischemic stroke secondary to cardiac disease accounts for approximately 30% of all stroke subtypes and it may be due to a large list of conditions. Stroke secondary to heart disease causes more severe deficits, higher mortality, and increased costs that other stroke subtypes. Therefore, proper identification of cardioembolic stroke is crucial for adequate selection of optimal preventive strategies. Identification of stroke prone individuals with heart disease could also have an important therapeutic impact. This manuscript reviews the interaction between the heart and brain with a particularly emphasis in the current state of older and newer antithrombotic drugs for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation. Other neuro-cardiological issues reviewed include current antithrombotic strategies in patients with a host of heart conditions which include pacemakers, acute myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, cardiac procedures, patent foramen ovale, valve disease, endocarditis, or cardiac tumours.

Merck Serono SA (formerly Serono), under license from Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (following its acquisition of the rights from Pharmacia and Upjohn AB [now Pfizer Inc]), is developing the oral alpha-aminoamide derivative of milacemide, safinamide, a monoamine oxidase-B and glutamate release inhibitor, for the potential treatment of Parkinson's disease, epilepsy and restless legs syndrome. In March 2007, plans to develop the agent for the potential treatment of other cognitive disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, were being finalized and testing was expected to begin before the end of that year.
Schizophrenia is characterized by a range of positive and negative symptoms, and cognitive deficits. While positive symptoms respond to current antipsychotic agents, negative symptoms and cognitive deficits are often resistant to pharmacopea. Thus research is now focused on developing third-generation antipsychotics that combine antagonism or partial agonism at dopamine D(2)-like receptors with agonism at serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptors. Such an association is anticipated to provide therapeutic benefits against a broader range of schizophrenia symptoms. Bifeprunox is one such third-generation antipsychotic agent which acts as a partial agonist at D(2)-like receptors and is an efficacious agonist at 5-HT(1A) receptors, with little interaction at 5HT(2A/2C), muscarinic or histaminergic H(1) receptors. This review summarizes the pharmacological profiles of the current antipsychotic agents and describes the rationale behind the development of third-generation antipsychotics. It also evaluates current data concerning bifeprunox in comparison with currently available antipsychotics, as well as those that are still under clinical development.
Lentiviral vectors have emerged over the last decade as powerful, reliable and safe tools for stable gene transfer in a wide variety of mammalian cells. Unlike other vectors derived from oncoretroviruses, they allow for stable gene delivery into most nondividing primary cells. This is why LVs are becoming useful and promising tools for future gene and cell therapy approaches. Lentivectors (LVs) derived from HIV-1 have gradually evolved to display many desirable features aimed at increasing both their safety and their versatility. These latest designs are reviewed in this unit. This unit also describes protocols for production and titration of LVs that can be implemented in a research laboratory setting, with an emphasis on standardization to improve transposability of results between laboratories.
The dorsal midline structure is critical for patterning the developing central nervous system (CNS). We show here that Zfp423/OAZ, a multiple zinc-finger transcription factor involved in both OE/EBF and BMP-signaling pathways, is required for the proper formation of forebrain and hindbrain midline structures. During embryogenesis, OAZ is highly expressed at the dorsal neuroepithelium flanking the roof plate. OAZ-deficient mice are ataxic, attributed to the reduction of the cerebellar vermis and some regions of the hemispheres. Characterization of postnatal cerebellar development shows defects in Purkinje cell differentiation and granule cell proliferation. In the forebrain, dorsal telencephalic commissural neurons project axons, but these axons fail to cross the midline and midline glial cells are abnormally distributed. Moreover, there are malformations in midline structures including the septum, thalamus and hypothalamus, suggesting a pivotal role of OAZ in CNS midline patterning.
teashirt (tsh) encodes a zinc-finger protein that is thought to be part of a network that contributes to regionalization of the Drosophila embryo and establishes the domains of Hox protein function. tsh and the Hox gene Sex combs reduced (Scr) are essential to establish the identity of the first thoracic segment. We used the development of the first thoracic segment as a paradigm for Scr dependent regional morphological distinctions. In this specific context, we asked whether Tsh protein could have a direct influence on Scr activity. Here we present evidence that Tsh interacts directly with Scr and this interaction depends in part on the presence of a short domain located in the N-terminal half of Teashirt called &quot;acidic domain&quot;. In vivo, expression of full length Tsh can rescue the tsh null phenotype throughout the trunk whereas Tsh lacking the Scr interacting domain rescues all the trunk defects except in the prothorax. We suggest this provides insights into the mechanism by which Tsh, in concert with Scr, specifies the prothoracic identity.
Deletion of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (Fgfr3) leads to hearing impairment in mice due to defects in the development of the organ of Corti, the sensory epithelium of the Cochlea. To examine the role of FGFR3 in auditory development, cochleae from Fgfr3(-/-) mice were examined using anatomical and physiological methods. Deletion of Fgfr3 leads to the absence of inner pillar cells and an increase in other cell types, suggesting that FGFR3 regulates cell fate. Defects in outer hair cell differentiation were also observed and probably represent the primary basis for hearing loss. Furthermore, innervation defects were detected consistent with changes in the fiber guidance properties of pillar cells. To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the effects of FGFR3, we examined the expression of Bmp4, a known target. Bmp4 was increased in Fgfr3(-/-) cochleae, and exogenous application of bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) onto cochlear explants induced a significant increase in the outer hair cells, suggesting the Fgf and Bmp signaling act in concert to pattern the cochlea.
Motoneuron loss is a significant medical problem, capable of causing severe movement disorders or even death. We have been investigating the effects of motoneuron loss on surviving motoneurons in a lumbar motor nucleus, the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB). SNB motoneurons undergo marked dendritic and somal atrophy following the experimentally induced death of other nearby SNB motoneurons. However, treatment with testosterone at the time of lesioning attenuates this atrophy. Because testosterone can be metabolized into the estrogen estradiol (as well as other physiologically active steroid hormones), it was unknown whether the protective effect of testosterone was an androgen effect, an estrogen effect, or both. In the present experiment, we used a retrogradely transported neurotoxin to kill the majority of SNB motoneurons on one side of the spinal cord only in adult male rats. Some animals were also treated with either testosterone, the androgen dihydrotestosterone (which cannot be converted into estradiol), or the estrogen estradiol. As seen previously, partial motoneuron loss led to reductions in soma area and in dendritic length and extent in surviving motoneurons. Testosterone and dihydrotestosterone attenuated these reductions, but estradiol had no protective effect. These results indicate that the neuroprotective effect of testosterone on the morphology of SNB motoneurons following partial motoneuron depletion is an androgen effect rather than an estrogen effect.

Socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with childhood cognitive achievement. In previous research we found that this association shows neural specificity; specifically we found that groups of low and middle SES children differed disproportionately in perisylvian/language and prefrontal/executive abilities relative to other neurocognitive abilities. Here we address several new questions: To what extent does this disparity between groups reflect a gradient of SES-related individual differences in neurocognitive development, as opposed to a more categorical difference? What other neurocognitive systems differ across individuals as a function of SES? Does linguistic ability mediate SES differences in other systems? And how do specific prefrontal/executive subsystems vary with SES? One hundred and fifty healthy, socioeconomically diverse first-graders were administered tasks tapping language, visuospatial skills, memory, working memory, cognitive control, and reward processing. SES explained over 30% of the variance in language, and a smaller but highly significant portion of the variance in most other systems. Statistically mediating factors and possible interventional approaches are discussed.
Do preschool children appreciate numerical value as an abstract property of a set of objects? We tested the influence of stimulus features such as size, shape, and color on preschool children's developing nonverbal numerical abilities. Children between 3 and 5 years of age were tested on their ability to estimate number when the sizes, shapes, and colors of the elements in an array were varied (heterogeneous condition) versus when they did not vary (homogeneous condition). One group of children was tested on an ordinal task in which the goal was to select the smaller of two arrays while another group of children was tested on a match-to-sample task in which the goal was to choose one of two visual arrays that matched the sample in number. Children performed above chance on both homogeneous and heterogeneous stimuli in both tasks. However, while children showed no impairment on heterogeneous relative to homogeneous arrays in the ordering task, performance was impaired by heterogeneity in the matching task. We suggest that nonverbal numerical abstraction occurs early in development, but specific task objectives may prevent children from engaging in numerical abstraction.
Selective neuronal loss in the substantia nigra (SNc), as described for Parkinson's disease (PD) in humans and for Pitx3 deficiency in mice, highlights the existence of neuronal subpopulations. As yet unknown subset-specific gene cascades might underlie the observed differences in neuronal vulnerability. We identified a developmental cascade in mice in which Ahd2 (Aldh1a1) is under the transcriptional control of Pitx3. Interestingly, Ahd2 distribution is restricted to a subpopulation of the meso-diencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) neurons that is affected by Pitx3 deficiency. Ahd2 is involved in the synthesis of retinoic acid (RA), which has a crucial role in neuronal patterning, differentiation and survival in the brain. Most intriguingly, restoring RA signaling in the embryonic mdDA area counteracts the developmental defects caused by Pitx3 deficiency. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH+) neurons was significantly increased after RA treatment in the rostral mdDA region of Pitx3-/- embryos. This effect was specific for the rostral part of the developing mdDA area, and was observed exclusively in Pitx3-/- embryos. The effect of RA treatment during the critical phase was preserved until later in development, and our data suggest that RA is required for the establishment of proper mdDA neuronal identity. This positions Pitx3 centrally in a mdDA developmental cascade linked to RA signaling. Here, we propose a novel mechanism in which RA is involved in mdDA neuronal development and maintenance, providing new insights into subset-specific vulnerability in PD.
Retinoic acid (RA) has pleiotropic functions during embryogenesis. In zebrafish, increasing or blocking RA signaling results in enlarged or reduced otic vesicles, respectively. Here we elucidate the mechanisms that underlie these changes and show that they have origins in different tissues. Excess RA leads to ectopic foxi1 expression throughout the entire preplacodal domain. Foxi1 provides competence to adopt an otic fate. Subsequently, pax8, the expression of which depends upon Foxi1 and Fgf, is also expressed throughout the preplacodal domain. By contrast, loss of RA signaling does not affect foxi1 expression or otic competence, but instead results in delayed onset of fgf3 expression and impaired otic induction. fgf8 mutants depleted of RA signaling produce few otic cells, and these cells fail to form a vesicle, indicating that Fgf8 is the primary factor responsible for otic induction in RA-depleted embryos. Otic induction is rescued by fgf8 overexpression in RA-depleted embryos, although otic vesicles never achieve a normal size, suggesting that an additional factor is required to maintain otic fate. fgf3;tcf2 double mutants form otic vesicles similar to RA-signaling-depleted embryos, suggesting a signal from rhombomere 5-6 may also be required for otic fate maintenance. We show that rhombomere 5 wnt8b expression is absent in both RA-signaling-depleted embryos and in fgf3;tcf2 double mutants, and inactivation of wnt8b in fgf3 mutants by morpholino injection results in small otic vesicles, similar to RA depletion in wild type. Thus, excess RA expands otic competence, whereas the loss of RA impairs the expression of fgf3 and wnt8b in the hindbrain, compromising the induction and maintenance of otic fate.
Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia characterized by progressive neurodegeneration. Recently, a vaccine therapy for Alzheimer's disease was developed as a curative treatment. Although clinical trials of active vaccination for Alzheimer's disease were halted due to the development of meningoencephalitis in some patients, the clinical and pathological findings of treated patients suggest that the vaccine therapy is effective. Hence, newly designed vaccines are being invented to control excessive T-cell immune reactions after the human clinical trial. In this article, we will review conventional vaccine therapies and newly developed vaccine therapies, mainly DNA vaccines, for possible clinical application in the near future.
The theoretical framework behind family-centered, developmentally supportive care (NIDCAP) is endorsed by research from several scientific fields, including neuroscience, developmental and family psychology, medicine and nursing. However, the introduction of NIDCAP involves a considerable investment at all levels of the organization. NIDCAP requires some physical changes in the NICU as well as substantial educational efforts and changes in the practice of care. The findings of the presented NIDCAP studies have been encouraging, and NIDCAP has been very well received by nursing staff, neonatologists and parents. It also is attractive from an ethical point of view. It appears reasonable to recommend that nurseries implement NIDCAP and investigate developmentally supportive care in different cultural contexts and with diversified, randomized multicenter trials.







The hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) mediates neuroendocrine responses to dehydration through the action of the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP). VP is synthesized as part of a prepropeptide in magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON) and paraventricular nucleus. This precursor is processed during transport to axon terminals in the posterior pituitary gland, in which biologically active VP is stored until mobilized for secretion by electrical activity evoked by osmotic cues. During release, VP travels through the blood stream to specific receptor targets located in the kidney in which it increases the permeability of the collecting ducts to water, reducing the renal excretion of water, thus promoting water conservation. The HNS undergoes a dramatic function-related plasticity during dehydration. We hypothesize that alterations in steady-state protein levels might be partially responsible for this remodeling. We investigated dehydration-induced changes in the SON and pituitary neurointermediate lobe (NIL) proteomes using two-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis. Seventy proteins were altered by dehydration, including 45 in the NIL and 25 in the SON. Using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry, we identified six proteins in the NIL (four down, two up) and nine proteins in the SON (four up, five down) that are regulated as a consequence of chronic dehydration. Results for five of these proteins, namely Hsp1alpha (heat shock protein 1alpha), NAP22 (neuronal axonal membrane protein 22), GRP58 (58 kDa glucose regulated protein), calretinin, and ProSAAS (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 1 inhibitor), have been confirmed using independent methods such as semiquantitative Western blotting, two-dimensional Western blotting, enzyme-linked immunoassay, and immunohistochemistry. These proteins may have roles in regulating and effecting HNS remodeling.
Steroid-mediated sexual differentiation of the brain is a developmental process that permanently organizes the brain into a male or female phenotype. Previous studies in the rodent have examined the steroid-mediated mechanisms of male brain development. In an effort to identify molecules involved in female brain development, a high-throughput proteomics approach called PowerBlot was used to identify signaling proteins differentially regulated in the neonatal male and female rat hypothalamus during the critical period for brain sexual differentiation. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and paxillin, both members of the focal adhesion complex family of proteins, were significantly elevated in the newborn female compared with the male hypothalamus. Sex differences in these proteins were not detected in brain regions that are not subject to substantial organizational effects of steroids. Estrogens, the aromatized products of testosterone in the male, can both masculinize and defeminize the male brain. Daily estradiol administration to neonatal females significantly reduced FAK and paxillin in the hypothalamus, and aromatase inhibition increased paxillin in males to levels comparable with females. Androgens also appear to modulate paxillin levels in combination with estrogen action. Across development, hypothalamic levels of FAK were significantly elevated in females compared with males on postnatal d 6. Synaptic circuits in the hypothalamus develop sex differences perinatally. Estradiol treatment of cultured hypothalamic neurons significantly enhanced axon branching (P&lt;0.01), consistent with the phenotype of FAK-deficient neurons. Together, these data implicate FAK and paxillin as regulators of sex differences in neuronal morphology.
Individuals dramatically alter physiology and behavior to adapt to seasonal changes in their environment. To cope with winter stressors such as reduced food availability and low temperatures, central stress responses are presumably modulated at the level of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, but the details remain unspecified. We examined the effects of long or short photoperiods (day lengths) on corticosterone responses to restraint, HPA negative feedback sensitivity, glucocorticoid receptor gene expression in the hippocampus, the role of corticosterone in spatial learning, and corticosterone responses to stressors associated with the spatial water maze task in adult male white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus). Short days increased corticosterone responses to restraint, increased hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor expression, enhanced corticosterone negative feedback on the HPA axis, and increased sensitivity to dexamethasone suppression of corticosterone. Although spatial learning and memory performance (via water maze) of all mice was impaired after pharmacological corticosterone inhibition, both water maze exposure and treatment injections alone were sufficient to increase short-day, but not long-day, corticosterone concentrations. Thus, the effects of corticosterone on spatial learning in these mice may be complicated by photoperiodic differences in stressor response to the learning task itself. Overall, these results suggest that photoperiod-evoked modification of the HPA axis and its potential behavioral consequences may be adaptive for winter survival.
The effects of prenatal and postnatal lead exposure on monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity were investigated in rat brain. MAO activity was examined in 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks old rat to investigate the effects of lead in the different stages of rat brain development. Prenatal lead exposure was achieved by providing mother rats with drinking water containing either low (0.05%) or high (0.2%) concentration of lead acetate from gestation to birth. Postnatal lead treatment was performed through drinking water to mothers and pups from birth to the day of experiment. MAO activity was gradually increased with the development in all the brain regions examined, i.e. telencephalon, diencephalons, midbrain, pons/medulla, and cerebellum. Lead exposure increased MAO activity in most of the brain regions especially at early developmental stages (2 weeks of age) and the toxicity was gradually decreased with the development of rats. High concentration of lead showed greater effects on MAO activity compared to low concentration. Postnatal lead exposure showed stronger effects on MAO activity compared to prenatal lead exposure demonstrating the importance of preventing lead exposure to lactating mother. The increased MAO activity by lead intoxication may contribute to the neurobehavioral changes such as cognitive and attention deficit as well as hyperactivity, which is commonly observed both in lead intoxication and perturbed monoaminergic neurotransmission.


Rodent models of chronic epilepsy with spontaneous recurrent seizures likely represent the closest parallel to the human condition. Such models may be best suited for therapy discovery for pharmacoresistant epilepsy and for antiepileptogenic or disease-modifying therapeutics. However, the use of such rodent models for therapy discovery creates problems with regard to maintaining effective drug levels throughout a prolonged testing period. This is particularly due to the fact that rodents such as rats and mice eliminate most drugs much more rapidly than humans. Thus, knowledge about elimination rate of a test drug in a laboratory species is essential for development of a treatment paradigm that allows maintaining adequate drug levels in the system over the period of treatment. Currently, the most popular models of epilepsy with spontaneous seizures are poststatus epilepticus models of temporal lobe epilepsy in rats. Such models are both used for studies on antiepileptogenesis and drug resistance. For validation of these models, current antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) have to be used. In this article, the elimination rates of these AEDs and their effective plasma levels in rats are reviewed as a guide for developing treatment protocols for chronic drug testing. The advantages and disadvantages of several technologies for drug delivery are discussed, and some examples for calculation of adequate treatment protocols are given. As shown in this review, because of the rapid elimination of most AEDs in rats, it is no trivial task to maintain effective steady-state AED levels in the plasma throughout the day over multiple days to ensure that there will be adequate levels in the system for the purpose of the experiment. However, the use of an adequate dosing regimen that is based on elimination rate is an absolute prerequisite when using rat models for discovery of new antiepileptogenic therapies or therapies for pharmacoresistant epilepsy, because otherwise such models may lead to erroneous conclusions about drug efficacy.
In this paper we explore the prevalence of ictal and interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) and sleep disorders in ADHD children referred to a sleep clinic for all night video-PSG. Forty-two ADHD outpatients (35 males and 7 females) underwent video-PSG and a behavioural/neuropsychological assessment. Spearman correlation coefficients (p&lt;0.05 criterion level) were used to assess the association between cognitive, behavioural, clinical (co-morbidity), sleep (sleep efficiency) and EEG (seizures, IEDs, localization of IEDs foci) variables. Sleep disorders were found in 86% of ADHD children; among these, 26% had RLS. 53.1% of ADHD children had IEDs (28.2% centro-temporal spikes, 12.5% frontal spikes, 9.3% temporal-occipital spikes and 2.3% generalized S-W). Nocturnal seizures were recorded in three patients: two with atypical interictal rolandic spikes and one with left frontal slow abnormalities. A significant relationship (p&lt;0.05) emerges between nocturnal seizures and WISC-R IQ score and visual-spatial memory test and between some cognitive variables and interictal rolandic spikes. High levels of inattention, impulsivity/hyperactivity and oppositional behaviours were related (p&lt;0.01 or 0.05) with Restless Leg Syndrome diagnosis. In conclusion, ADHD is a condition often associated with EEG epileptiform abnormalities. Seizures/IEDs presence seems to play a role on cognitive abilities, conversely sleep disorders have a stronger impact on behavioural rather than cognitive indicators.

The association between depression and smoking has been well-documented in multiple countries and age groups. This review examines recent publications that address the magnitude of the association and its causal patterns (ie, due to lowered success of quitting in people with depression, depression causing smoking, smoking causing depression or third factor related to both smoking and depression). We conclude that the association may be multi-factorial with each of the causal directions possibly contributing to the observed association. Also, the association extends beyond depression to other mental disorders, including consumption of illegal drugs and non-medical use of prescription medications. Although the studies emphasize cigarette smoking, it is plausible to generalize the findings to other tobacco delivery systems involving deep inhalation, such as a hookah, due to the pharmacodynamics of nicotine. Although this review did not examine any studies specific to Arab Americans, the findings should generalize if smoking is stigmatized or, alternatively, as stigmatization increases. The good news is that even with the robust association between depression and smoking, people with depression can quit smoking and continue to be smoke-free. Because 44.3% of cigarettes in the United States are consumed by individuals with mental illnesses, mental illness deserves a prominent focus to allow our public health goal of reducing the prevalence of smoking to be reached.
Self proteins may become autoantigenic through structural modification. We studied malondialdehydation of recombinant rat (rr) myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), an autoantigen in multiple sclerosis. Malondialdehyde (MDA) modification changed protein weight and charge, the location of these adducts being mapped by Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance. Molecular modelling revealed significant differences in the MDA-rrMOG three-dimensional structure. DBA/1 mice immunised with MDA-rrMOG developed greater proliferative responses and more severe experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis than mice immunised with unmodified rrMOG. MDA-rrMOG was taken up more effectively by antigen-presenting cells (APC), at least partially through scavenger receptors. Exposure to MDA-rrMOG led to increased expression of IL-23, IL-12 and IL-12R, indicating a role not only for increased antigen uptake but also for activation of APC. We thus provide biochemical, structural, immunological and clinical data that suggest that the post-translationally modified form of this myelin autoantigen is a more relevant form of the molecule.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) allows one to investigate the effects of temporary interference of neural processing in neurologically intact subjects. In a previous study [J. Silvanto et al. (2007) Eur. J. Neurosci., 25, 1874-1881] we found that online TMS perceptually facilitates the attributes encoded by the least active neural populations. The objective of the present experiment was to extend this work to determine whether such state-dependent effects can be observed when offline high-frequency TMS is applied to suppress neural activity. The activity levels of direction-selective neural populations in the V1/V2 region were modulated by asking subjects to passively view either leftward or rightward motion during offline TMS. In a subsequent motion direction-discrimination task, their ability to discriminate motion direction was dependent on the type of motion they had passively viewed during offline TMS: detection of the congruent direction (i.e. direction viewed during offline TMS) was unaffected, whereas detection of the incongruent direction (i.e. opposite direction to the one viewed during offline TMS) was impaired. As the activity level of neurons tuned to the incongruent direction was presumably lower during the TMS than of those tuned to the congruent direction, this behavioral result demonstrates that the offline TMS preferentially suppressed attributes encoded by the least active neural populations. In contrast to direction discrimination, motion detection was not impaired in a direction-specific manner. This shows that the requirements of the psychophysical task, in conjunction with the relative activity states of neuronal populations when TMS is applied, can be used to selectively interfere with overlapping neuronal populations.
Within the visual modality, it has been shown that attention to a single visual feature of an object such as speed of motion, results in an automatic transfer of attention to other task-irrelevant features (e.g. colour). An extension of this logic might lead one to predict that such mechanisms also operate across sensory systems. But, connectivity patterns between feature modules across sensory systems are thought to be sparser to those within a given sensory system, where interareal connectivity is extensive. It is not clear that transfer of attention between sensory systems will operate as it does within a sensory system. Using high-density electrical mapping of the event-related potential (ERP) in humans, we tested whether attending to objects in one sensory modality resulted in the preferential processing of that object's features within another task-irrelevant sensory modality. Clear evidence for cross-sensory attention effects was seen, such that for multisensory stimuli responses to ignored task-irrelevant information in the auditory and visual domains were selectively enhanced when they were features of the explicitly attended object presented in the attended sensory modality. We conclude that attending to an object within one sensory modality results in coactivation of that object's representations in ignored sensory modalities. The data further suggest that transfer of attention from visual-to-auditory features operates in a fundamentally different manner than transfer from auditory-to-visual features, and indicate that visual-object representations have a greater influence on their auditory counterparts than vice-versa. These data are discussed in terms of 'priming' vs. 'spreading' accounts of attentional transfer.
The mammalian circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) drives a vast array of biochemical and physiological processes with 24-h periodicity. The phasing of SCN pacemaker activity is tightly regulated by photic input from the retina. Recent work has implicated protein kinase C (PKC) as a regulator of photic input, although stimulus-induced PKC activity has not been examined. Here we used a combination of biochemical, immunohistochemical and behavioral techniques to examine both the regulation and role of PKC in light-induced clock entrainment in mice. We report that photic stimulation during the subjective night, but not during the subjective day, stimulates PKC activity within the SCN. To assess the role of PKC in clock entrainment, we employed an in-vivo infusion approach to deliver the PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide I to the SCN. The disruption of PKC activity significantly enhanced the phase-shifting effects of light, indicating that PKC functions as a negative regulator of light entrainment. Importantly, bisindolylmaleimide I infusion in the absence of light treatment did not phase shift the clock, demonstrating that transient disruption of basal PKC activity does not affect inherent pacemaker activity. The capacity of light to stimulate immediate early gene expression in the SCN was not substantively altered by PKC inhibition, suggesting that PKC does not couple light to rapid transcriptional activation. Rather, a combination of in-vivo and cell culture assays indicates that PKC functions as an inhibitor of PERIOD1 degradation. Thus, PKC may influence clock entrainment via a post-translational mechanism that influences clock protein stability.
Our first aim was to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the hypotensive response elicited by 5-HT(2) receptor activation in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). In pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats, intra-NTS administration of 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI), a wide spectrum 5-HT(2) receptor agonist, but not an antagonist of selective 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C) receptors, produced a decrease in blood pressure and heart rate. The maximal cardiovascular changes obtained by DOI (0.5 pmol) could be almost completely abolished by prior intra-NTS microinjection (10 pmol) of MDL-100907, a selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, but not by 5-HT(2B) or 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonists. In addition, using extracellular recordings we found that the large majority of identified cardiovascular rostroventrolateral medulla (RVLM) neurons were almost totally inhibited by NTS 5-HT(2A) receptor stimulation. We then investigated whether intra-NTS administration of a subthreshold dose (0.05 pmol) of DOI, known to facilitate the cardiovagal component of the baroreflex, could also modulate the sympathoinhibitory component of this reflex. These experiments showed that neither the decrease in the activity of the cardiovascular RVLM neurons and lumbar sympathetic nerve activities produced by aortic occlusion (gain of the baroreflex), nor the hypotensive response elicited by aortic nerve stimulation, were potentiated by the microinjection of DOI under such conditions. These data show that activation of 5-HT(2A), but not 5-HT(2B) or 5-HT(2C), receptors, located on NTS neurons, elicits depressor and bradycardic responses, and that this 5-HT(2A)-mediated hypotension is produced via the inhibition of RVLM cardiovascular neurons. In addition, NTS 5-HT(2A) receptor activation facilitates the cardiac but not the sympathetic baroreflex response.
The dorsal striatum is involved in motor-response learning, but the extent to which distinct populations of striatal efferent neurons are differentially involved in such learning is unknown. Activity-regulated, cytoskeleton-associated (Arc) protein is an effector immediate-early gene implicated in synaptic plasticity. We examined arc mRNA expression in striatopallidal vs. striatonigral efferent neurons in dorsomedial and dorsolateral striatum of rats engaged in reversal learning on a T-maze motor-response task. Male Sprague-Dawley rats learned to turn right or left for 3 days. Half of the rats then underwent reversal training. The remaining rats were yoked to rats undergoing reversal training, such that they ran the same number of trials but ran them as continued-acquisition trials. Brains were removed and processed using double-label fluorescent in situ hybridization for arc and preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA. In the reversal, but not the continued-acquisition, group there was a significant relation between the overall arc mRNA signal in dorsomedial striatum and the number of trials run, with rats reaching criterion in fewer trials having higher levels of arc mRNA expression. A similar relation was seen between the numbers of PPE(+) and PPE(-) neurons in dorsomedial striatum with cytoplasmic arc mRNA expression. Interestingly, in behaviourally activated animals significantly more PPE(-) neurons had cytoplasmic arc mRNA expression. These data suggest that Arc in both striatonigral and striatopallidal efferent neurons is involved in striatal synaptic plasticity mediating motor-response learning in the T-maze and that there is differential processing of arc mRNA in distinct subpopulations of striatal efferent neurons.
The cytokine erythropoietin (EPO) has been shown to be neuroprotective in a variety of models of central and peripheral nervous system injury. Derivatives of EPO that lack its erythropoietic effects have recently been developed, and the initial reports suggest that they have a neuroprotective potential comparable to that of EPO. One such derivative is carbamylated EPO (CEPO). In the current study we compared the effects of treatment with EPO and CEPO on some of the early neurodegenerative events that occur following spinal cord injury (SCI) induced by hemisection. Adult male Wistar rats received a unilateral hemisection of the spinal cord. Thirty minutes and 24 h following injury, animals received an intraperitoneal injection of saline, EPO (40 microg/kg) or CEPO (40 microg/kg). Results indicated that 3 days post-injury, both CEPO and EPO decreased to a similar extent the size of the lesion compared with control animals. Both compounds also decreased the number of terminal transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL)-labelled apopotic nuclei around the lesion site, as well as the number of axons expressing the injury marker beta-amyloid precursor protein. EPO and CEPO also increased Schwann cell infiltration into the lesion site, although neither compound had any effect on macrophage infiltration either within the lesion site itself or in the surrounding intact tissue. In addition, immunohistochemistry showed an increased expression of both the EPO receptor and the beta common receptor subunit, the components of the receptor complex proposed to mediate the neuroprotective effects of EPO and CEPO in neurons near the site of the injury. The results show that not only does CEPO have an efficacy comparable to that of EPO in its neuroprotective potential following injury, but also that changes in the receptors for these compounds following SCI may underlie their neuroprotective efficacy.
The epidermis, the outermost structure of the skin, fulfils important roles as a physical barrier between the organism and its environment and as a neuroendocrine, immune and sensory organ. It is innervated by unmyelinated sensory fibres conveying nociceptive and thermoceptive information. Little is known concerning the functional interactions between these sensory fibres and the keratinocytes, which constitute 95% of the epidermal cells. We have developed a coculture model of primary rat sensory neurons and keratinocytes, as well as of equivalent cell-lines: ND7-23 neurons and A431 keratinocytes. We show that primary dorsal root ganglion neurons survive well in a standard keratinocyte reference medium containing a low concentration of calcium, but fail to extend axons. However, when neurons are cocultured with keratinocytes, axonal outgrowth is strongly stimulated. The use of a Transwell culture system indicated that the stimulation of axonal growth depends on a soluble factor secreted by keratinocytes. Axon outgrowth was also induced by nerve growth factor or brain-derived neurotrophic factor, but not by neurotrophin 3 or glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor. Neurons cocultured with keratinocytes did not change their responses to ATP, capsaicin or high potassium solution, as measured by calcium imaging. The trophic effect of keratinocytes concerned essentially a population of medium-sized (17-25 microm) neurons, some of which expressed substance P-like immunoreactivity and responded to capsaicin. Our preparation, in which cells are maintained at low external calcium concentration, could represent a useful in vitro model for characterizing the effect of skin-derived guidance and trophic factors.
Research on motor sequence acquisition has shown significant differences between learners. Learners who develop explicit knowledge respond faster than non-explicit ones and they show larger amplitude in event-related brain potentials to sequence deviants. There is evidence that memory span correlates with the amount of sequence learned, but the specific mechanisms subserving such differences are still unknown. Recently, it has been observed that performance of explicit learners, but not of non-explicit ones, improves when presented with auditory action effects. Accordingly, differences between learners might be related to differences in auditory rhythm perception. To test this hypothesis, the mismatch negativity (MMN)-evoked potential elicited to stimuli violating stimulus alternation (i.e. low pitch, high pitch) was recorded in explicit and non-explicit sequence learners. Results confirmed our prediction: explicit learners showed larger amplitude of the MMN to the violation of the auditory rhythm, suggesting new theoretical implications to account for individual differences in sequential action control.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD) at parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses have been described in vitro in the cerebellar cortex, but the physiological roles of these two forms of plasticity have not been well defined. Here we show that, in cerebellar slices taken from rats that had undergone fear conditioning, there was a significant occlusion of electrically induced LTP at parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses. This effect was long-lasting and related to associative processes, as LTP was not occluded in unpaired animals. Notably, in conditioned animals the LTP-inducing protocol produced LTD in some cells instead of LTP. Conversely, synaptic depression induced by conjunctive stimulation of parallel fibers and climbing fibres was impaired in tissue taken immediately following aversive stimulation in both paired and unpaired subjects. This effect was not, however, long-lasting as the incidence and extent of LTD returned to normal levels 24 h after behavioural testing. These findings suggest that LTP takes part in the mechanisms underlying aversive associative memories in the cerebellum.

Structural modifications occur in the brain of severely depressed patients and they can be reversed by antidepressant treatment. Some of these changes do not occur in the same direction in different regions, such as the medial prefrontal cortex, the hippocampus or the amygdala. Differential structural plasticity also occurs in animal models of depression and it is also prevented by antidepressants. In order to know whether chronic fluoxetine treatment induces differential neuronal structural plasticity in rats, we have analyzed the expression of synaptophysin, a protein considered a marker of synaptic density, and the expression of the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a molecule involved in neurite and synaptic remodeling. Chronic fluoxetine treatment increases synaptophysin and PSA-NCAM expression in the medial prefrontal cortex and decreases them in the amygdala. The expression of these molecules is also affected in the entorhinal, the visual and the somatosensory cortices.
Various processes might explain the progression from casual to compulsive drug use underlying the development of drug addiction. Two of these, accelerated stimulus-response (S-R) habit learning and augmented assignment of motivational value to reinforcers, could be mediated via neuroadaptations associated with long-lasting sensitization to psychostimulant drugs, i.e. augmented dopaminergic neurotransmission in the striatum. Here, we tested the hypothesis that both processes, which are often regarded as mutually exclusive alternatives, are present in amphetamine-sensitized rats. Amphetamine-sensitized rats showed increased responding for food under a random ratio schedule of reinforcement, indicating increased incentive motivational value of food. In addition, satiety-specific devaluation experiments under a random interval schedule of reinforcement showed that amphetamine-sensitized animals exhibit accelerated development of S-R habits. These data show that both habit formation and motivational value of reinforcers are augmented in amphetamine-sensitized rats, and suggest that the task demands determine which behavioral alteration is most prominently expressed.
Tetanic electrical stimulation applied over human muscle or peripheral nerve generates contractions by depolarizing motor axons beneath the stimulating electrodes. However, the simultaneous depolarization of sensory axons can also contribute to the contractions by the synaptic recruitment of spinal motoneurons. Maximizing this central contribution may be beneficial for reducing muscle atrophy or restoring movement for persons with movement disorders.
At present, rhythmic and discrete movements are investigated by largely distinct research communities using different experimental paradigms and theoretical constructs. As these two classes of movements are tightly interlinked in everyday behavior, a common theoretical foundation spanning across these two types of movements would be valuable. Furthermore, it has been argued that these two movement types may constitute primitives for more complex behavior. The goal of this paper is to develop a rigorous taxonomic foundation that not only permits better communication between different research communities, but also helps in defining movement types in experimental design and thereby clarifies fundamental questions about primitives in motor control. We propose formal definitions for discrete and rhythmic movements, analyze some of their variants, and discuss the application of a smoothness measure to both types that enables quantification of discreteness and rhythmicity. Central to the definition of discrete movement is their separation by postures. Based on this intuitive definition, certain variants of rhythmic movement are indistinguishable from a sequence of discrete movements, reflecting an ongoing debate in the motor neuroscience literature. Conversely, there exist rhythmic movements that cannot be composed of a sequence of discrete movements. As such, this taxonomy may provide a language for studying more complex behaviors in a principled fashion.
Reaching to grasp an object of interest requires a complex sensorimotor transformation-involving eye, head, hand, and postural systems. We show here that discontinuities in development of movement in these systems are dependent not only on age but also vary according to task constraints. Providing external postural support allows us to examine the differential influences of the eye on the hand and the hand on the eye as the ability to isolate and coordinate each system changes with age. Children 4-6 years old had significant difficulty isolating eye movement from head or hand movement, whereas children 7-9 years old showed improved ability to isolate the eye, and by 10-15 years children became proficient in isolating hand movements from eye movements. Postural support had differential effects on the processes of initiation and execution of eye-hand movements. The addition of postural support decreased the time needed for planning the movement, especially in the youngest children, and contributed to increased speed of isolated movements, whereas it caused differential slowing of coordinated movements depending on the child's developmental level. We suggest that the complexity of the results reflects the complexity of changing task requirements as children transition from simpler ballistic control of all systems to flexible, independent but coordinated control of multiple systems.
Visuospatial working memory mechanisms have been studied extensively at single cell level in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFCd) in nonhuman primates. Despite the importance of short-term memory of sound location for behavioral orientation, there are only a few studies on auditory spatial working memory. The purpose of this study was to investigate neuronal mechanisms underlying working memory processing of auditory and visual location information at single cell level in the PFCd. Neuronal activity was recorded in monkeys performing a delayed matching-to-sample task (DMTS). The location of a visual or auditory stimulus was used as a memorandum. The majority of the neurons that were activated during presentation of the cue memorandum were selective either for visual or auditory spatial information. A small group of cue related bimodal neurons were sensitive to the location of the cue regardless of whether the stimulus was visual or auditory, suggesting modality independent processing of spatial information at cellular level in the PFCd. Most neurons that were activated during the delay period were modality specific, responding either during visual or auditory trials. All bimodal delay related neurons that responded during both visual and auditory trials were spatially nonselective. The results of the present study suggest that in addition to the modality specific parallel mechanism, working memory of auditory and visual space also involves modality independent processing at cellular level in the PFCd.
We examined whether retrograde amnesia would be more likely for object discriminations learned an hour before hippocampal damage than object discriminations learned days before. Specifically, rats were trained on two object-discrimination problems 72 h before surgery and another discrimination problem and the reversal of one of the previously learned problems 1 h before surgery. Importantly, novel procedures that minimized overtraining on the object discriminations were used to increase the possibility of the lesions causing amnesia. After either receiving sham or neurotoxic-induced hippocampal damage, rats were tested for retention using an extinction procedure. Control rats and rats with extensive hippocampal damage displayed a strong bias for the rewarded object on each object-discrimination problem and a significant bias for the most recent contingency learned on the reversal problem. These results suggest that, despite the use of very sensitive training and testing procedures, hippocampal damage did not cause retrograde amnesia. The findings imply that the hippocampus is not critical for the consolidation, storage, or retrieval of object-reward associations, or any other information required for accurate performance of an object discrimination.
Accumulating evidence indicates that mutations in the presenilin 1 (PS1) gene are responsible for most cases of familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although its biological functions are not yet fully understood, it appears that PS1 plays a role in the processing and trafficking of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). However, little is known about factors that are involved in regulating the metabolism of PS1 especially in relation to AD pathology. In this study, we have examined the effect of optic nerve crush, intravitreal injection of the inflammatory agent lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or injection of amyloid beta(1-42) (A beta(1-42)) on the expression and processing of PS1 in the rat retina. We found that 48 h after injection of A beta(1-42) there was a dramatic alteration in the banding pattern of PS1 on Western blots, as indicated by marked changes in the levels of expression of some of its C- and N-terminal fragments in retinal homogenates. These results suggest an A beta(1-42)-induced potentiation of a non-specific stress-related but inflammation-independent alteration of processing of PS1 in this in vivo model.
When grasping rectangular or circular objects with a precision grip the digits close in on the object in opposite directions. In doing so the digits move perpendicular to the local surface orientation as they approach opposite sides of the object. This perpendicular approach is advantageous for accurately placing the digits. Trapezoidal objects have non-parallel surfaces so that moving the digits in opposite directions would make the digits approach the contact surfaces at an angle that is not 90 degrees . In this study we examined whether this happens, or whether subjects tend to approach trapezoidal objects' surfaces perpendicularly. We used objects of different sizes and with different surface slants. Subjects tended to approach the object's surfaces orthogonally, suggesting that they aim for an optimal precision of digit placement rather than simply closing their hand as it reaches the object.
Using near infrared spectroscopy and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), we studied interhemispheric interactions between bilateral motor and sensory cortices in humans. RTMS consisted of a triple-pulse burst (50 Hz) repeated every 200 m for 2 s (10 bursts, 30 pulses); one kind of theta burst TMS (TBS) (Huang et al. in Neuron 45:201-206, 2005). The hemoglobin concentration changes were recorded at the right prefrontal cortex, premotor area (PM), primary hand motor area (M1) and primary sensory area (S1) during and after TBS over the left PM, M1 and S1 or sham stimulation in eight normal volunteers. In addition, motor evoked potentials (MEPs) to TMS over the right M1 were recorded from the left first dorsal interosseous muscle after the conditioning TBS over left S1. TBS over PM induced a significant oxy-Hb decrease at the contralateral PM. TBS over M1 elicited a significant oxy-Hb decrease at the contralateral S1, and TBS over S1 significant oxy-Hb decreases at the contralateral M1 and S1. MEPs to TMS of the right M1 were significantly suppressed by the conditioning TBS over the left S1. These results suggest that there are mainly inhibitory interactions between bilateral PMs and bilateral sensorimotor cortices in humans. Those are partly compatible with the previous findings. In addition to between the primary motor cortices, bilateral connection is requisite for smooth bimanual coordination between the sensory cortices or premotor cortices.
Previous investigations suggest the gain of smooth pursuit is directionally anisotropic and is regulated in a task-dependent manner. Smooth pursuit is also known to be influenced by expectations concerning the target's motion, but the role of such expectations in modulating feedback gain is not known. In the present work, the gain of smooth pursuit was probed by applying brief perturbations to quasi-predictable two-dimensional target motion at multiple time points. The target initially moved in a straight line, then followed the circumference of a circle for distances ranging between 180 degrees and 270 degrees . Finally, the path reverted to linear motion. Perturbations consisted of a pulse of velocity 50 or 100 ms in duration, applied in one of eight possible directions. They were applied at the onset of the curve or after the target had traversed an arc of 45 degrees or 90 degrees . Pursuit gain was measured by computing the average amplitude of the response in smooth pursuit velocity over a 100 ms interval. To do so we used a coordinate system defined by the motion of the target at the onset of the perturbation, with directions tangential and normal to the path. Responses to the perturbations had two components: one that was modulated with the direction of the perturbation and one that was directionally nonspecific. For the directional response, on average the gain in the normal direction was slightly larger than the gain in the tangential direction, with a ratio ranging from 1.0 to 1.3. The directionally nonspecific response, which was more prominent for perturbations at curve onset or at 90 degrees , consisted of a transient decrease in pursuit speed. Perturbations applied at curve onset also delayed the tracking of the curved target motion.
Motor actions can be simulated and generated through the perception of objects and their characteristics. Such functional characteristics of objects with given action capabilities are called affordances. Here we report an interaction between the perception of affordances and the processing of numerical magnitude, and we show that the numerical information calibrates the judgement of action even when no actual action is required. In Experiment 1, participants had to judge whether they would be able to grasp a rod lengthways between their thumb and index finger. The presentation of the rod was preceded by a number or a non-numerical symbol. When a small number preceded the rod, participants overestimated their grasp; conversely, when a large number preceded the rods, they underestimated their grasp. In Experiment 2, participants were requested to judge if two successive rods had the same length, a judgement that did not involve any grasping. The numerical primes had no effect on this judgement, showing that the magnitude/affordance interaction was not due to a simple perceptual effect. Finally, Experiment 3 showed that the interaction was not present with a non-numerical ordered sequence, thereby eliminating sequence order as a potentially confounding variable.
We have previously demonstrated that a potent plant hormone, ethylene induces sexual development including zygote formation in Dictyostelium cells, and that a novel gene (zyg1) is also involved in zygote formation. Based on these findings, the present work was mainly designed to reveal (1) the precise relationship between the ethylene amount and zygote formation, and (2) the relation of in situ ethylene synthesis to zyg1 expression, using transformants that over- or under-produce ACC-oxidase (Dd-aco) involved in ethylene biosynthesis. ACO(OE) cells overexpressing Dd-aco gene overproduced ethylene and exhibited the augmented zygote formation. In contrast, ACO-RNAi cells, in which the expression of Dd-aco was suppressed by the RNAi method, showed a reduced level of ethylene production, thus resulting in inhibition of zygote formation. Importantly, the expression of zyg1 was affected by the amount of ethylene produced: Zyg1 expression was augmented in ACO(OE) cells, but was significantly suppressed in ACO-RNAi cells. In another experiment, we found that 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP), which is known to inhibit the function of ethylene by binding specifically to ethylene receptors, greatly suppresses zygote formation. These results indicate that ethylene is capable of inducing zygote formation through the expression of zyg1.
Otx2 and Crx are vertebrate orthologs of the orthodenticle family of homeobox genes, which are involved in retinal development. In this study, the temporal expression patterns of Otx2 and Crx in the rat retina during embryonic and postnatal stages of development were analyzed in detail. This confirmed the presence of Otx2 mRNA in both the embryonic retinal pigment epithelium and the developing neural retina. During development, the expression of Otx2 persists in the pigment epithelium, whereas Otx2 expression of the neural retina becomes progressively restricted to the outer nuclear layer and the outer part of the inner nuclear layer. Immunohistochemistry revealed that Otx2 protein is also present in cell bodies of the ganglion cell layer, which does not contain the Otx2 transcript, suggesting that Otx2 protein is synthesized in cell bodies of the bipolar neurons and then transported to and taken up by cells in the ganglion cell layer. Crx is also highly expressed in the outer nuclear layer starting at E17 and postnatally in the inner nuclear layer. The onset of expression of Crx lags behind that of Otx2 consistent with evidence that Otx2 activates Crx transcription. These expression patterns are consistent with evidence that Otx2 and Crx function during retinal development and extend the period of probable functionality to the adult. In this regard, these results provide an enhanced and expanded temporal and spatial framework for understanding the multiple roles of Otx2 and Crx in the developing and mature mammalian retina.
Acute activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis releases glucocorticoids to maintain homeostasis, whereas prolonged exposure to elevated glucocorticoids has deleterious effects. Due to the potential benefits of limiting stress-induced glucocorticoid secretion, the present study uses drinking in dehydrated rats as a model to delineate mechanisms mobilized to rapidly inhibit HPA activity during stress. Using Fos expression as an indicator of neuronal activation, the effect of a single or repeated episode of dehydration-induced drinking on the activity of magnocellular and parvocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus was examined. Adult male rats underwent a single episode or repeated (six) episodes of water restriction and were sacrificed before or after drinking water in the AM. Plasma osmolality, vasopressin (AVP), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone were elevated by water restriction and reduced after drinking in both models. Fos expression was elevated in AVP-positive magnocellular PVN neurons and AVP- and corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH)-positive parvocellular PVN neurons after water restriction. Fos expression was reduced in magnocellular AVP neurons after both models of restriction-induced drinking. In contrast, Fos expression did not change in AVP and CRH parvocellular neurons after a single episode of restriction-induced drinking, but was reduced after repeated episodes of restriction-induced drinking. These data indicate that drinking-induced decreases in glucocorticoids in dehydrated rats involve multiple factors including reduction in magnocellular release of vasopressin and reduction in parvocellular neuronal activity. The differential inhibition of PVN parvocellular neurons after repeated rehydration may reflect a conditioned response to repeated stress reduction.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a regulator of rodent embryogenesis during the period of neural tube closure. VIP enhanced growth in whole cultured mouse embryos; treatment with a VIP antagonist during embryogenesis inhibited growth and development. VIP antagonist treatment during embryogenesis also had permanent effects on adult brain chemistry and impaired social recognition behavior in adult male mice. The neurological deficits of autism appear to be initiated during neural tube closure and social behavior deficits are among the key characteristics of this disorder that is more common in males and is frequently accompanied by mental retardation. The current study examined the blockage of VIP during embryogenesis as a model for the behavioral deficits of autism. Treatment of pregnant mice with a VIP antagonist during embryonic days 8 through 10 had no apparent effect on the general health or sensory or motor capabilities of adult offspring. However, male offspring exhibited reduced sociability in the social approach task and deficits in cognitive function, as assessed through cued and contextual fear conditioning. Female offspring did not show these deficiencies. These results suggest that this paradigm has usefulness as a mouse model for aspects of autism as it selectively impairs male offspring who exhibit the reduced social behavior and cognitive dysfunction seen in autism. Furthermore, the study indicates that the foundations of some aspects of social behavior are laid down early in mouse embryogenesis, are regulated in a sex specific manner and that interference with embryonic regulators such as VIP can have permanent effects on adult social behavior.

Neuronal activity in the central nervous system evokes localized changes in blood flow, a response termed neurovascular coupling or functional hyperaemia. Modern functional imaging methods, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), measure signals related to functional hyperaemia in order to determine localization of brain function and to diagnose disease. The cellular mechanisms that underlie functional hyperaemia, however, are not well understood. Glial cells have been hypothesized to be intermediaries between neurons and blood vessels in the control of neurovascular coupling, owing to their ability to release vasoactive factors in response to neuronal activity. Using an in vitro preparation of the isolated, intact rodent retina, we have investigated two likely mechanisms of glial control of the vasculature: glial K(+) siphoning and glial induction of vasoactive arachidonic acid metabolites. Potassium siphoning is a process by which a K(+) current flowing through glial cells transfers K(+) released from active neurons to blood vessels. Since slight increases in extracellular K(+) can cause vasodilatation, this mechanism was hypothesized to contribute to neurovascular coupling. Our data, however, suggest that glial K(+) siphoning does not contribute significantly to neurovascular coupling in the retina. Instead, we suggest that glial cells mediate neurovascular coupling by inducing the production of two types of arachidonic acid metabolites, epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) and 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE), which dilate and constrict vessels, respectively. We show that both light flashes and direct glial stimulation produce vasodilatation or vasoconstriction mediated by EETs and 20-HETE, respectively. Further, we show that the type of vasomotor response observed (dilatation or constriction) depends on retinal levels of nitric oxide. Our data also demonstrate that glial cells are necessary intermediaries for signalling from neurons to blood vessels, since functional hyperaemia does not occur when neuron-to-glia communication is interrupted. These results indicate that glial cells play an important role in mediating functional hyperaemia and suggest that the regulation of blood flow may involve both vasodilating and vasoconstricting components.
In this study, we employed both power spectral analysis and cross-sample entropy measurement to assess the relationship between two time series, arterial blood pressure (ABP) and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA), during a mild haemorrhage in anaesthetized Wistar rats. Removal of 1 ml of venous blood decreased BP (by 7.1 +/- 0.7 mmHg) and increased RSNA (by 25.9 +/- 2.4%). During these changes, the power in the RSNA signal at heart rate frequency was reduced but coherence between the spectra at heart rate frequency in RSNA and ABP remained unchanged. Cross-sample entropy was significantly increased (by 10%) by haemorrhage, revealing that there was greater asynchrony between ABP and the RSNA time series. Intrathecal administration of the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (2 mm) almost halved (P &lt; 0.01) the reflex increase in RSNA. Also during kynurenic acid block, haemorrhage failed to change total power, power at heart rate frequency, coherence at heart rate frequency, or the cross-sample entropy measurements. We conclude that the increase in asynchrony between ABP and RSNA during the reflex increase in RSNA was a consequence of an increase in synaptic input to the spinal renal neurones. The data show that the cross-sample entropy calculations can characterize the non-linearities of neural mechanisms underlying cardiovascular control and have a potential to reveal how some aspects of homeostatic regulation of kidney function is achieved by the autonomic nervous system.
Children with epilepsy are at increased risk for social difficulties compared with other children. This review investigated the types of social difficulties that children with epilepsy experience, the risk factors for their social difficulties and possible interventions for treating their social difficulties, such as social skills training, educational and speech and language interventions, and psychopharmacotherapy. Recommendations for future research on social difficulties in children with epilepsy are discussed.

Parkinson's disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disorder, causes severe motor impairment due to loss of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). MPTP, a neurotoxin that causes dopaminergic cell loss in mice, was used in an animal model to study the pathogenic mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration. We observed the activation of apoptosis signal regulating kinase (ASK1, MAPKKK) and phosphorylation of its downstream targets MKK4 and JNK, 12 h after administration of a single dose of MPTP. Further, Daxx, the death-associated protein, translocated to the cytosol selectively in SNpc neurons seemingly due to MPTP mediated down-regulation of DJ-1, the redox-sensitive protein that binds Daxx in the nucleus. Coadministration of alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), a thiol antioxidant, abolished the activation of ASK1 and phosphorylation of downstream kinases, MKK4, and JNK and prevented the down-regulation of DJ-1 and translocation of Daxx to the cytosol seen after MPTP. ALA also attenuated dopaminergic cell loss in SNpc seen after subchronic MPTP treatment. Our studies demonstrate for the first time that MPTP triggers death signaling pathway by activating ASK1 and translocating Daxx, in vivo, in dopaminergic neurons in SNpc of mice and thiol antioxidants, such as ALA terminate this cascade and afford neuroprotection.
In the central nervous system, long-term adaptive responses to changes in the environment, such as the processes involved in learning and memory, require the conversion of extracellular stimuli into intracellular signals. Many of these signals involve the induction of gene expression. The late, transcription- and translation-dependent phase of long-term synaptic potentiation (L-LTP) is an attractive cellular model for long-lasting memory formation. The transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) plays an essential role in the maintenance of L-LTP. However, how synaptic signals propagate to the nucleus to initiate CREB-target gene expression is unclear. Recent studies indicate that the CREB transducer of regulated CREB activity 1 coactivator undergoes neuronal activity-dependent translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, a process required for CRE-dependent gene expression and the maintenance of L-LTP in the hippocampus.
Basic neuroscience has demonstrated new mechanisms of neuroplasticity in the healthy and the lesioned brain. Post injury, behavioral experience and neuronal stimulation-based therapy seem to play an adaptive role in the injured brain, modifying the functional organization of remaining cortical tissue and leading to clinical improvements. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying human neuroplasticity might benefit neurorehabilitation strategies designed to promote recovery of function. We review some of the main results from animal experimental and human clinical studies focusing on mechanisms of reorganization of the motor cortex in response to injury and highlight different available approaches used to modulate and to evaluate motor cortical plasticity. Finally, we discuss how knowledge on neuroplasticity might be applied to neurorehabilitation strategies in neurologically impaired patients.
A century has passed since Harvey Cushing presented a syndrome characterized by obesity and sexual infantilism, caused by a tumour located in the base of the brain, and named it as Adiposogenital dystrophy or Frohlich's syndrome, on the name of its discoverer. Further study of this syndrome contributed to establish the hormonal connection between the brain and the anterior pituitary, and then the concept of neuroendocrinology.
Cholinergic neurons elaborate a hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) sensitive choline transporter (CHT) that mediates presynaptic, high-affinity choline uptake (HACU) in support of acetylcholine (ACh) synthesis and release. Homozygous deletion of CHT (-/-) is lethal shortly after birth (Ferguson et al. 2004), consistent with CHT as an essential component of cholinergic signaling, but precluding functional analyses of CHT contributions in adult animals. In contrast, CHT+/- mice are viable, fertile and display normal levels of synaptosomal HACU, yet demonstrate reduced CHT protein and increased sensitivity to HC-3, suggestive of underlying cholinergic hypofunction. We find that CHT+/- mice are equivalent to CHT+/+ siblings on measures of motor co-ordination (rotarod), general activity (open field), anxiety (elevated plus maze, light/dark paradigms) and spatial learning and memory (Morris water maze). However, CHT+/- mice display impaired performance as a result of physical challenge in the treadmill paradigm, as well as reduced sensitivity to challenge with the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine in the open field paradigm. These behavioral alterations are accompanied by significantly reduced brain ACh levels, elevated choline levels and brain region-specific decreased expression of M1 and M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. Our studies suggest that CHT hemizygosity results in adequate baseline ACh stores, sufficient to sustain many phenotypes, but normal sensitivities to physical and/or pharmacological challenge require full cholinergic signaling capacity.
We previously applied selective breeding on outbred mice to increase maternal aggression (maternal defense). In this study, we compared gene expression within a continuous region of the central nervous system (CNS) involved in maternal aggression (hypothalamus and preoptic regions) between lactating selected (S) and nonselected control (C) mice (n= 6 per group). Using microarrays representing over 40,000 genes or expressed sequence tags, two statistical algorithms were used to identify significant differences in gene expression: robust multiarray and the probe logarithmic intensity error method. Approximately 200 genes were identified as significant using an intersection from both techniques. A subset of genes was examined for confirmation by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Significant decreases were found in S mice for neurotensin and neuropeptide Y receptor Y2 (both confirmed by PCR). Significant increases were found in S mice for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (confirmed by PCR), the K+ channel subunit, Kcna1 (confirmed by PCR), corticotrophin releasing factor binding protein (just above significance using PCR; P= 0.051) and GABA A receptor subunit 1A (not confirmed by PCR, but similar direction). S mice also exhibited significantly higher levels of the neurotransmitter receptor, adenosine A1 receptor and the transcription factors, c-Fos, and Egr-1. Interestingly, for 24 genes related to metabolism, all were significantly elevated in S mice, suggesting altered metabolism in these mice. Together, this study provides a list of candidate genes (some previously implicated in maternal aggression and some novel) that may play an important role in the production of this behavior.
In the marine mollusk Aplysia californica, waterborne protein pheromones that are released during egg laying act in concert to stimulate mate attraction. However, molecular information concerning the cellular receptors and signaling mechanisms that may be involved in waterborne peptide and protein pheromonal communication is lacking. As a first step toward examining whether members of the G protein family and phosphoinositide signaling pathway are present in the primary peripheral chemosensory organs (i.e., rhinophores), we isolated five full-length cDNA clones from an A. californica central nervous system cDNA library. These clones encoded (1) the G protein alpha subunits of the Gq, Gi, and Go families, (2) a protein with homology to phospholipase C (PLC) isoforms, and (3) an inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R). The expression of these genes was examined using laser capture microdissection/reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization. All of them are expressed in the rhinophore sensory epithelium, suggesting that Galphaq, Galphai, Galphao, PLC-like protein, and IP3R may be involved in waterborne protein pheromone detection in Aplysia-possibly via a phosphoinositide signaling mechanism.
To successfully grow, neurons need to overcome the effects of hostile environments, such as the inhibitory action of myelin. We have evaluated the potential of exercise to overcome the intrinsic limitation of the central nervous system for axonal growth. In line with the demonstrated ability of exercise to increase the regenerative potential of neurons, here we show that exercise reduces the inhibitory capacity of myelin. Cortical neurons grown on myelin from exercised rats showed a more pronounced neurite extension compared with neurons grown on poly-D-lysine, or on myelin extracted from sedentary animals. The activity of cyclin-dependent kinase 5, a kinase involved in neurite outgrowth, was found to be increased in cortical neurons grown on exercise-myelin and in the lumbar spinal cord enlargement of exercised animals. Exercise significantly decreased the levels of myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), a potent axonal growth inhibitor, suggesting that downregulation of MAG is part of the mechanism through which exercise reduces growth inhibition. It is known that exercise elevates brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) spinal cord levels and that BDNF acts to overcome the inhibitory effects of myelin. Accordingly, we blocked the action of BDNF during exercise, which suppressed the exercise-related MAG decrease. Protein kinase A (PKA) has been related to the ability of BDNF to overcome growth inhibition; in agreement, we found that exercise increased PKA levels and this effect was reverted by blocking BDNF. Overall, these results show that exercise promotes a permissive cellular environment for axonal growth in the adult spinal cord requiring BDNF action.
Caspase-3 has classically been defined as the main executioner of programmed cell death. However, recent data supports the participation of this protease in non-apoptotic cellular events including cell proliferation, cell cycle regulation, and cellular differentiation. In this study, astroglial cleavage of caspase-3 was analyzed following excitotoxic damage in postnatal rats to determine if its presence is associated with apoptotic cell death, cell proliferation, or cytoskeletal remodeling. A well-characterized in vivo model of excitotoxicity was studied, where damage was induced by intracortical injection of N-methyl-D-asparate (NMDA) in postnatal day 9 rats. Our results demonstrate that cleaved caspase-3 was mainly observed in the nucleus of activated astrocytes in the lesioned hemisphere as early as 4 h postlesion and persisted until the glial scar was formed at 7-14 days, and it was not associated with TUNEL labeling. Caspase-3 enzymatic activity was detected at 10 h and 1 day postlesion in astrocytes, and co-localized with caspase-cleaved fragments of glial fibrillary acidic protein (CCP-GFAP). However, at longer survival times, when astroglial hypertrophy was observed, astroglial caspase-3 did not generally correlate with GFAP cleavage, but instead was associated with de novo expression of vimentin. Moreover, astroglial caspase-3 cleavage was not associated with BrdU incorporation. These results provide further evidence for a nontraditional role of caspases in cellular function that is independent of cell death and suggest that caspase activation is important for astroglial cytoskeleton remodeling following cellular injury.
The mammalian central nervous system is organized by a variety of cells such as neurons and glial cells. These cells are generated from a common progenitor, the neural stem cell (NSC). NSCs are defined as undifferentiated neural cells that are characterized by their high proliferative potential while retaining the capacity for self-renewal and multipotency. Glycoconjugates carrying carbohydrate antigens, including glycoproteins, glycolipids, and proteoglycans, are primarily localized on the plasma-membrane surface of cells and serve as excellent biomarkers at various stages of cellular differentiation. Moreover, they also play important functional roles in determining cell fate such as self-renewal, proliferation, and differentiation. In the present review, we discuss the expression pattern and possible functions of glycoconjugates and carbohydrate antigens in NSCs, with an emphasis on stage-specific embryonic antigen-1, human natural killer antigen-1, polysialic acid-neural cell-adhesion molecule, prominin-1, gp130, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, heparan sulfate proteoglycans, cystatin C, galectin-1, glycolipids, and Notch.
In contrast to other areas of psychiatry, little work has been done on the history of forensic psychiatry, and such work is especially scarce regarding the first half of the 19th century, when forensic psychiatry began to develop together with the neurosciences. One newly discovered archival source bears immediate witness to the genesis of forensic psychiatry and is presented for the first time in this study. That source helps us to better understand, in particular, one of the most important cases in 19th-century German forensic psychiatry - namely, that of Johann Christian Woyzeck, the murderer who became the lead figure and the decisive model for the famous eponymous drama by German poet Georg Bchner. Duke Friedrich August, the heir to the throne of the German kingdom of Saxony, submitted a separately recorded special vote (or, very roughly speaking, a brief) that denied the criminal responsibility of the murderer since he had committed his crime out of jealousy and in an emotionally agitated state of mind that eliminated the offender's free will. Though possessing no relevant professional training, the duke applied, and argued in support of, a syndrome - partial mania - that was then the subject of ongoing controversy in general psychiatry. In that context, his vote and analysis can be seen a part of the conceptual development not only of forensic psychiatry, but also of German psychiatry and criminal law.
Ongoing discussion of potential benefits and risks of antidepressant treatment with respect to suicidal behaviors includes many ecological, or population-based, correlational studies of temporal or regional trends in suicide rates and rates of usage of modern antidepressants including serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SRIs). Since this body of research has not been compiled and evaluated, we used computerized literature searching to identify 19 relevant published studies. They yielded heterogeneous findings: only 8/19 found significant inverse correlations between rising sales of modern antidepressants in the 1990 s and falling suicide rates not anticipated in the 1980s. Average reductions in suicide rates in the 1990 s (10.7%) and 1980s (10.0%) differed little in 11 studies with data from both eras. Reduction of suicide rates in the 1990 s was unrelated to geographic region, population size, units of analysis, publication year, or growth in antidepressant usage, but was greater with higher initial suicide rates, in men, and in older persons. In the same decade, suicides rates decreased in only half of 79 large countries. Overall, these findings yield limited and inconsistent support for the hypothesis that increased use of modern antidepressants might limit suicide risk, and no evidence that the risk increased. Suicidal risk is determined by complex factors, including access to clinical services, in general, and more comprehensive treatment of depression, in particular. Overall, as with findings from randomized trials and cohort or case-control studies, evidence of specific antisuicidal effects of antidepressant treatment from ecological analyses remains elusive.
The authors' Level I trauma center has advocated the use of ski helmets for several years and in 1998, undertook a social-marketing campaign and a helmet loaner program to increase helmet use among skiers and snowboarders. The loaner program's effect on helmet acceptance was measured by comparing helmet acceptance in participating rental stores with acceptance in nonparticipating stores during 3 years. For the 1998-1999 season, 13.8% of renters in the participating stores accepted a helmet compared to 1.38% in the nonparticipating stores (p &lt; .01); for 2000-2001, 33.5% to 3.93% (p &lt; .01); and for 2001-2002, 30.3% to 4.48% (p &lt; .01). The authors believe that efforts to increase helmet use--by increasing education and public awareness and decreasing barriers, such as through helmet loaner programs or routinely including helmets in rental packages--have significant potential to decrease the incidence and severity of brain injuries from skiing and/or snowboarding accidents in Colorado.
A synthesis of cat auditory cortex (AC) organization is presented in which the extrinsic and intrinsic connections interact to derive a unified profile of the auditory stream and use it to direct and modify cortical and subcortical information flow. Thus, the thalamocortical input provides essential sensory information about peripheral stimulus events, which AC redirects locally for feature extraction, and then conveys to parallel auditory, multisensory, premotor, limbic, and cognitive centers for further analysis. The corticofugal output influences areas as remote as the pons and the cochlear nucleus, structures whose effects upon AC are entirely indirect, and it has diverse roles in the transmission of information through the medial geniculate body and inferior colliculus. The distributed AC is thus construed as a functional network in which the auditory percept is assembled for subsequent redistribution in sensory, premotor, and cognitive streams contingent on the derived interpretation of the acoustic events. The confluence of auditory and multisensory streams likely precedes cognitive processing of sound. The distributed AC constitutes the largest and arguably the most complete representation of the auditory world. Many facets of this scheme may apply in rodent and primate AC as well. We propose that the distributed auditory cortex contributes to local processing regimes in regions as disparate as the frontal pole and the cochlear nucleus to construct the acoustic percept.
This paper focuses on the cognitive and neural mechanisms of speech perception: the rapid, and highly automatic processes by which complex time-varying speech signals are perceived as sequences of meaningful linguistic units. We will review four processes that contribute to the perception of speech: perceptual grouping, lexical segmentation, perceptual learning and categorical perception, in each case presenting perceptual evidence to support highly interactive processes with top-down information flow driving and constraining interpretations of spoken input. The cognitive and neural underpinnings of these interactive processes appear to depend on two distinct representations of heard speech: an auditory, echoic representation of incoming speech, and a motoric/somatotopic representation of speech as it would be produced. We review the neuroanatomical system supporting these two key properties of speech perception and discuss how this system incorporates interactive processes and two parallel echoic and somato-motoric representations, drawing on evidence from functional neuroimaging studies in humans and from comparative anatomical studies. We propose that top-down interactive mechanisms within auditory networks play an important role in explaining the perception of spoken language.
Since the earliest studies of auditory cortex, it has been clear that an animal's behavioral or attentional state can play a crucial role in shaping the response characteristics of single neurons. Much of what has been learned about attention has been made using human and animal models, but little is known about the cellular and synaptic mechanisms by which attentional modulation of neuronal responses occurs. The use of rodent experimental models allows us to exploit the full armamentarium of modern cellular and molecular neuroscience techniques. Here we present our program for studying auditory attention, specifically for development of rodent models of attention and finding the neural correlates of attention.
Mutual information (MI) is in increasing use as a way of quantifying neural responses. However, it is still considered with some doubts by many researchers, because it is not always clear what MI really measures, and because MI is hard to calculate in practice. This paper aims to clarify these issues. First, it provides an interpretation of mutual information as variability decomposition, similar to standard variance decomposition routinely used in statistical evaluations of neural data, except that the measure of variability is entropy rather than variance. Second, it discusses those aspects of the MI that makes its calculation difficult. The goal of this paper is to clarify when and how information theory can be used informatively and reliably in auditory neuroscience.
Goal-directed behavior is the essence of adaptation because it allows humans and other animals to respond dynamically to different environmental scenarios. Goal-directed behavior can be characterized as the formation of dynamic links between stimuli and actions. One important attribute of goal-directed behavior is that linkages can be formed based on how a stimulus is categorized. That is, links are formed based on the membership of a stimulus in a particular functional category. In this review, we review categorization with an emphasis on auditory categorization. We focus on the role of categorization in language and non-human vocalizations. We present behavioral data indicating that non-human primates categorize and respond to vocalizations based on differences in their putative meaning and not differences in their acoustics. Finally, we present evidence suggesting that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex plays an important role in processing auditory objects and has a specific role in the representation of auditory categories.
Research in robotics has moved away from its primary focus on industrial applications. The New Robotics is a vision that has been developed in past years by our own university and many other national and international research institutions and addresses how increasingly more human-like robots can live among us and take over tasks where our current society has shortcomings. Elder care, physical therapy, child education, search and rescue, and general assistance in daily life situations are some of the examples that will benefit from the New Robotics in the near future. With these goals in mind, research for the New Robotics has to embrace a broad interdisciplinary approach, ranging from traditional mathematical issues of robotics to novel issues in psychology, neuroscience, and ethics. This paper outlines some of the important research problems that will need to be resolved to make the New Robotics a reality.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) is abundantly expressed in Schwann cells in adult mammalian peripheral nerves, but not in neurons. After peripheral nerve injury, CNTF released from disrupted Schwann cells is likely to promote neuronal survival and axonal regeneration. In the present study, we examined the expression and histochemical localization of CNTF in adult rat DRG in vivo and in vitro. In contrast to the restricted expression in Schwann cells in vivo, we observed abundant CNTF mRNA and protein expression in DRG neurons after 3 h, 2, 7, and 15 days in dissociated cell culture. At later stages (7 and 15 days) of culture, CNTF immunoreactivity was detected in both neuronal cell bodies and regenerating neurites. These results suggest that CNTF is synthesized and transported to neurites in cultured DRG neurons. Since we failed to observe CNTF immunoreactivity in DRG neurons in explant culture, disruption of cell-cell interactions, rather than the culture itself, may be an inducible factor for localization of CNTF in the neurons.
Blood vessels and nerve fibers often course alongside one another in an orderly fashion throughout the brain. This clustering gives rise to a reciprocal signaling network between endothelial and nerve cells that follows highly stereotyped anatomical patterns. One such molecular signal that is produced by endothelial cells and acts on surrounding neurons is heat shock protein 70. Here we briefly review recent studies that have revealed a critical role of this signaling pathway during harmful insults to the brain, particularly during episodes of cerebral ischemia.

Toward the development of biocompatible surfaces for implantable electrode arrays and the creation of patterned neuronal networks, the impact of select biochemical substrates [poly-D-lysine (PDL), polyornithine (PO), polyethylenimine (PEI), and a basement membrane extract (BM)] on network morphology and spontaneous electrophysiological activity of dissociated hippocampal neurons was investigated. Cultured in serum-free Neurobasal medium at 100 000 cells/cm(2), neurons attached to each substrate. PDL, PO, and PEI induced little or no neuronal clustering and process fasciculation, whereas the addition of BM promoted these features. The ratios of somas to processes, and axons to dendrites, as determined by immunohistochemical staining and image analysis were comparable across all substrates. Spontaneous firing was recorded using planar multielectrode arrays (MEAs) at the third week in vitro for the two most divergent morphologies according to Euclidian cluster analysis, namely those induced by PO + BM and PEI. Mean spike amplitude, mean firing rate, median interspike interval (ISI), mean burst rate, and correlation index were analyzed and compared to morphological features. Synchronized bursting was highly correlated with neuronal clustering and process fasciculation. Spike amplitude was negatively correlated with thin branching which was most evident in neurons grown on PEI. These data indicate that factors, which influence adherence of neurons to surfaces, can profoundly impact both neuronal network morphology and electrophysiological activity in vitro.
Over the last decade, the detection of auditory steady-state responses (ASSR) has been developed for reliable hearing threshold estimation at audiometric frequencies. Unfortunately, the duration of ASSR measurement can be long, which is unpractical for wide scale clinical application. In this paper, we propose independent component analysis (ICA) as a tool to improve the ASSR detection in recorded single-channel as well as multichannel electroencephalogram (EEG) data. We conclude that ICA is able to reduce measurement duration significantly. For a multichannel implementation, near-optimal performance is obtained with five-channel recordings.
Large scale gene expression studies in the mammalian brain offer the promise of understanding the topology, networks and ultimately the function of its complex anatomy, opening previously unexplored avenues in neuroscience. High-throughput methods permit genome-wide searches to discover genes that are uniquely expressed in brain circuits and regions that control behavior. Previous gene expression mapping studies in model organisms have employed situ hybridization (ISH), a technique that uses labeled nucleic acid probes to bind to specific mRNA transcripts in tissue sections. A key requirement for this effort is the development of fast and robust algorithms for anatomically mapping and quantifying gene expression for ISH. We describe a neuroinformatics pipeline for automatically mapping expression profiles of ISH data and its use to produce the first genomic scale 3-D mapping of gene expression in a mammalian brain. The pipeline is fully automated and adaptable to other organisms and tissues. Our automated study of over 20,000 genes indicates that at least 78.8 percent are expressed at some level in the adult C56BL/6J mouse brain. In addition to providing a platform for genomic scale search, high-resolution images and visualization tools for expression analysis are available at the Allen Brain Atlas web site (http://www.brain-map.org).
A novel three-dimensional (3D) skeletal muscle model composed of C2C12 mouse myoblasts is described. This model was generated by cultivating myoblasts in suspension using the rotary cell culture system (RCCS), a unique culture environment. Single-cell suspensions of myoblasts were seeded at 5 x 10(5)/ml in growth medium without exogenous support structures or substrates. Cell aggregation occurred in both RCCS and suspension control (SC) conditions within 12 h but occurred more rapidly in the SC at all time intervals examined. RCCS-cultured myoblasts fused and differentiated into a 3D construct without serum deprivation or alterations. Syncitia were quantified at 3 and 6+ d in stained thin sections. A significantly greater number of syncitia was found at 6+ d in the RCCS cultures compared to the SC. The majority of syncitia were localized to the periphery of the cell constructs for all treatments. The expression of sarcomeric myosin heavy chain (MHC) was localized at or near the periphery of the 3D construct. The majority of MHC was associated with the large cells (syncitia) of the 6+-d aggregates. These results show, for the first time, that myoblasts form syncitia and express MHC in the presence of growth factors and without the use of exogenous supports or substrates. This model test system is useful for investigating initial cell binding, myoblast fusion and syncitia formation, and differentiation processes.

Dhat syndrome (&quot;semen loss&quot;-related psychological distress) is a culture-bound syndrome seen in the natives of Indian subcontinent, but it is prevalent in other cultures also. Its diagnosis and management issues need to be taught to postgraduates in their teaching program. This syndrome involves vague and multiple somatic and psychological complaints such as fatigue, listlessness, loss of appetite, lack of physical strength, poor concentration, forgetfulness and other vague somatic troubles. These symptoms are usually associated with an anxious and dysphoric mood state. These patients may also present with or without psychosexual dysfunction. The management of Dhat syndrome needs serious attention. The understanding of this condition by Modern Medicine fails to impress most of the patients, and the explanations and reassurances offered prove to be not of much use.
Activation of microglia has been increasingly associated with the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, and the suppression of microglial activation may lead to alleviation of the progression of neurodegeneration in these diseases. We sought to investigate whether Phellodendri cortex (PC) that has been used for centuries in Chinese traditional medicine for the treatment of various inflammatory conditions, inhibits production of anti-inflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide (NO) in microglia, and further studied the molecular and cellular mechanisms that govern these anti-inflammatory effects. The methanol extract of PC (PC extract) attenuated LPS-stimulated increase in production of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and NO in BV2 cells, a mouse microglia cell line, as well as in primary mouse microglia. The RNase protection assay and RT-PCR revealed that the PC extracts inhibited increases in mRNAs of these cytokines and iNOS in LPS-stimulated BV2 cells. The PC extracts significantly decreased release of these cytokines and NO from LPS-stimulated microglia in a dose-dependent manner. Molecular mechanisms that govern attenuation of the levels of mRNAs and proteins of these cytokines and iNOS revealed that the PC extract inhibited LPS-stimulated phosphorylation of ERK and activation of NF-kappaB. The studies demonstrate that the PC extract effectively inhibits microglial production and release of inflammatory cytokines and NO, and could be a candidate agent for anti-inflammation in neurodegenerative human brain diseases.
Health-care providers in China are facing an exponential increase in HIV testing and HIV-positive patients. A total of 1101 service providers were recruited to examine attitudes toward people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in China. Logistic regression models were used to assess factors associated with providers' attitudes toward mandatory HIV testing. Providers were most likely to endorse mandatory HIV testing for patients with high-risk behaviour and for all patients before surgery. Over 43% of providers endorsed mandatory testing for anyone admitted to hospital. Controlling for demographics, multivariate analyses indicated that providers with higher perceived risk of HIV infection at work, higher general prejudicial attitudes toward PLWHA, and previous contact with HIV patients were more likely to endorse mandatory HIV testing for anyone admitted to hospital. Results underscore the importance of implementing universal precautions in health-care settings and call attention to social and ethical issues associated with HIV/AIDS control and treatment in China.


Lewy-type pathology is a characteristic of a number of neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Thus far, the definitive diagnosis of these dementias can only be confirmed at post-mortem. However, it is known that the loss of smell (anosmia) is an early symptom in patients who develop dementia, and the use of the smell test has been proposed as an early diagnostic procedure. The aim of this study was to understand further the extent of Lewy pathology in the olfactory system of patients with neurodegenerative disorders. Post-mortem tissue from 250 subjects was obtained from the OPTIMA brain bank. Five areas of the olfactory pathway were examined by immunolabelling for alpha-synuclein - a major component of Lewy pathology: the olfactory tract/bulb (n = 79), the anterior olfactory nucleus in the lateral olfactory gyrus (n = 193), the region of olfactory projection to the orbito-frontal cortex (n = 225), the hippocampus (n = 236) and the amygdala (n = 201). Results show that Lewy pathology affects different parts of the olfactory pathways differentially, suggesting a specific pattern of development of pathology. Clinical Parkinson's disease is most likely to be identified if the orbito-frontal cortex is affected, while the diagnosis is less likely if the pathology is restricted to the olfactory bulb or tract. These results suggest that pathology in the olfactory bulb and tract occurs prior to clinical signs of Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, the results presented here provide further evidence supporting the possible value of a smell test to aid the clinical diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases.
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation can generate contractions through peripheral and central mechanisms. Direct activation of motor axons (peripheral mechanism) recruits motor units in an unnatural order, with fatigable muscle fibers often activated early in contractions. The activation of sensory axons can produce contractions through a central mechanism, providing excitatory synaptic input to spinal neurons that recruit motor units in the natural order. Presently, we quantified the effect of stimulation frequency (10-100 Hz), duration (0.25-2 s of high-frequency bursts, or 20 s of constant-frequency stimulation), and intensity [1-5% maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) torque generated by a brief 100-Hz train] on the torque generated centrally. Electrical stimulation (1-ms pulses) was delivered over the triceps surae in eight subjects, and plantar flexion torque was recorded. Stimulation frequency, duration, and intensity all influenced the magnitude of the central contribution to torque. Central torque did not develop at frequencies &lt; or = 20 Hz, and it was maximal at frequencies &gt; or = 80 Hz. Increasing the duration of high-frequency stimulation increased the central contribution to torque, as central torque developed over 11 s. Central torque was greatest at a relatively low contraction intensity. The largest amount of central torque was produced by a 20-s, 100-Hz train (10.7 +/- 5.5 %MVC) and by repeated 2-s bursts of 80- or 100-Hz stimulation (9.2 +/- 4.8 and 10.2 +/- 8.1% MVC, respectively). Therefore, central torque was maximized by applying high-frequency, long-duration stimulation while avoiding antidromic block by stimulating at a relatively low intensity. If, as hypothesized, the central mechanism primarily activates fatigue-resistant muscle fibers, generating muscle contractions through this pathway may improve rehabilitation applications.
We simulated the effects of delivering focal electrical stimuli to the central nervous system to modulate the firing rate of neurons and alleviate motor disorders. Application of these stimuli to the spinal cord to reduce the increased excitability of motoneurons and resulting spasticity after spinal cord injury (SCI) was examined by means of a morphologically detailed computer model of a spinal motoneuron. High-frequency sinusoidal and rectangular pulses as well as biphasic charge-balanced and charge-imbalanced pulses were examined. Our results suggest that suprathreshold high-frequency sinusoidal or rectangular current pulses could inactivate the Na+ channels in the soma and initial segment, and block action potentials from propagating through the axon. Subthreshold biphasic charge-imbalanced pulses reduced the motoneuronal firing rate significantly (up to approximately 25% reduction). The reduction in firing rate was achieved through stimulation-induced hyperpolarization generated in the first node of Ranvier. Because of their low net DC current, these pulses could be tolerated safely by the tissue. To deliver charge-imbalanced pulses with the lowest net DC current and induce the largest reduction in motoneuronal firing rate, we studied the effect of various charge-imbalanced pulse parameters. Short pulse durations were found to induce the largest reduction in firing rate for the same net DC level. Subthreshold high-frequency sinusoidal and rectangular current pulses and low-frequency biphasic charge-balanced pulses, on the other hand, were ineffective in reducing the motoneuronal firing rate. In conclusion, the proposed electrical stimulation paradigms could provide potential rehabilitation interventions for suppressing the excitability of neurons to reduce the severity of motor disorders after injury to the central nervous system.
This study describes a longitudinal design (following subjects described in Rutherford &amp; Rogers [2003, Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorder, 33, 289-302]) to test for predictors of pretend play competence in a group of children with autism. We tested the hypothesis that developmental change in pretend play performance can be predicted by earlier measures of either executive function, intersubjectivity, imitation, or general development. Participants at the time of follow-up testing were 28 children with autistic disorder (mean chronological age (CA) 57.6 months), 18 children with other developmental disorders (mean CA 59.0 months), and 27 typically developing children (mean CA 30.1 months). Children with autism were profoundly delayed given both competence (prompted) measures as well as performance (spontaneous) measures. Joint attention at time 1 strongly and uniquely predicted pretend play development.
Impression materials are largely used to record the geometry of dental tissue. Hence, the assessment of their possible cytotoxicity is a necessary step in the evaluation of their biocompatibility. The present study is carried out to evaluate the cytotoxicity of a new elastomeric sterile and radiopaque impression material. Human gingival fibroblasts, cultured in vitro are exposed directly to Elite Implant in three different viscosities, heavy, medium, and light. At 3, 9, 24, 48, and 72 h, the cellular proliferation is evaluated. In parallel, human gingival fibroblasts are exposed indirectly by means of fluid extracts of Elite Implant. The cellular viability is evaluated by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide, (MTT) assay (Sigma, St Louis, Mo). The gingival fibroblasts proliferation and viability are unaffected by the presence of Elite Implant. This new impression material may represent a safe medical device for clinical and surgical applications. In addition, this material is radiopaque and, thus, can be identified radiographically.
Recent advances in sensory neuroscience using Drosophila olfaction as a model system have revealed brain maps representing the external world. Once we understand how the brain's built-in capability generates the internal olfactory maps, we can then elaborate how the brain computes and makes decision to elicit complex behaviors. Here, we review current progress in mapping Drosophila olfactory circuits and discuss their relationships with innate olfactory behaviors.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation is pivotal in the progression of hypertension, atherosclerosis, and restenosis. Resveratrol is a grape polyphenol that is implicated as an important contributor to red wine's vascular protective effects. Its antimitogenic action on VSMC is attributed to an array of pleiotropic effects, including modulation of the estrogen receptor (ER). To elucidate the mechanisms underlying resveratrol-mediated ER modulation and its inhibition of VSMC proliferation, we treated VSMC with resveratrol with or without the ER antagonist ICI 182,780 and measured cell proliferation and nitric oxide (NO) production. Resveratrol dose-dependently decreased VSMC DNA synthesis, with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 3.73+/-0.57 microM, and dramatically slowed cell growth, but did not induce VSMC apoptosis. Resveratrol-mediated decrease in proliferation was reversed by cotreatment with ICI 182,780, and resveratrol effectively competed with 17beta-estradiol for binding to the ER, exhibiting an IC50 of 8.92+/-0.14 microM. Resveratrol induced a sustained increase in ER-dependent NO production. Further, resveratrol-mediated decrease in VSMC proliferation was blunted by cotreatment with the general nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N5-(1-Iminomethyl)-L-ornithine, dihydrochloride or with the inducible NOS (iNOS)-selective inhibitor S,S'-1,4-phenylene-bis (1,2-ethanediyl)bis-isothiourea, dihydrobromide, but not with the neuronal NOS-selective inhibitor 7-nitroindazole. Though resveratrol did not alter iNOS protein levels, it dose-dependently increased levels of iNOS activity, of the iNOS cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), and of guanosine triphosphate cyclohydrolase I protein, the rate-limiting enzyme in BH4 biosynthesis. In addition, all of these effects were abolished by cotreatment with ICI 182,780. Thus, the antimitogenic effects of resveratrol on VSMC may be mediated by an ER-induced increase in iNOS activity.
Astrocytic glutamate (Glt) uptake keeps brain interstitial Glt levels low. Within the astrocytes Glt is converted to glutamine (Gln), which is released and reconverted to Glt in neurons. The Glt-Gln cycle is energy demanding and impaired energy metabolism has been suggested to cause low interstitial Gln/Glt ratios. Using microdialysis (MD) measurements from visually noninjured cortex in 33 neurointensive care patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, we have determined how interstitial Glt and Gln, as a reflection of the Glt-Gln cycle turnover, relate to perturbed energy metabolism. A total of 3703 hourly samples were analyzed. The lactate/pyruvate (L/P) ratios correlated to the Gln/Glt ratios (r=-0.66), but this correlation was not stronger than the correlation between L/P and Glt (r=0.68) or the correlation between lactate and Glt (r=0.65). A novel observation was a linear relationship between interstitial pyruvate and Gln (r=0.52). There were 13 periods (404 h) of 'energy crisis', defined by L/P ratios above 40. All were associated with high interstitial Glt levels. Periods with L/P ratios above 40 and low pyruvate levels were associated with decreased interstitial Gln levels, suggesting ischemia and failing astrocytic Gln synthesis. Periods with L/P ratios above 40 and normal or high pyruvate levels were associated with increased interstitial Gln levels, which may represent an astrocytic hyperglycolytic response to high interstitial Glt levels. The results imply that moderately elevated L/P ratios cannot always be interpreted as failing energy metabolism and that interstitial pyruvate levels may discriminate whether or not there is sufficient astrocytic capacity for Glt-Gln cycling in the brain.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) of adult rodents is capable of undergoing neuronal remodeling and neuroimaging studies in humans have revealed that the structure of this region also appears affected in different psychiatric disorders. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying this plasticity are still unclear. The polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) may mediate these structural changes through its anti-adhesive properties. PSA-NCAM participates in neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis and changes in its expression occur parallel to neuronal remodeling in certain regions of the adult brain. PSA-NCAM is expressed in the hippocampus and temporal cortex of adult humans, but it has not been studied in the PFC. Employing immunohistochemistry on sections from the rostromedial superior frontal gyrus we have found that PSA-NCAM is expressed in the human PFC neuropil following a laminated pattern and in a subpopulation of mature neurons, which lack doublecortin expression. Most of these cells have been identified as interneurons expressing calbindin. The expression of PSA-NCAM in the human PFC is similar to that of rodents. Since this molecule has been linked to the neuronal remodeling found in experimental models of depression, it may also participate in the structural plasticity described in the PFC of depressed patients.
Maple syrup urine disease is a disorder of branched-chain keto acid metabolism. Three children were diagnosed with the intermediate form of maple syrup urine disease during routine evaluation of mental retardation. Clinical features were characterized by mental retardation, seizures, autistic features, and movement disorder in the form of dystonia. High-performance liquid chromatography of the urine and serum revealed elevated levels of branched-chain amino acids, suggesting a diagnosis of maple syrup urine disease. Magnetic resonance imaging showed diffuse hyperintense signals in the white matter along with involvement of the thalami and globus pallidus. Magnetic resonance imaging in the intermediate form showed myelination in the posterior limb of the internal capsule, in contrast to the classic form of the disease. Knowledge about the neuroimaging findings of this rare disease will help to narrow down the differential diagnosis when evaluating children with unexplained mental retardation and seizures.
Idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndromes are generally considered as brain channelopathies due to alteration of several genes. The aim of our study was to compare the distribution of D2S124 and D2S111 genetic polymorphisms of the SCN2A gene between cases with a specific idiopathic generalized epilepsy subtype (with generalized tonic-clonic seizures) and healthy controls. Allele frequencies of both the D2S111 and the D2S124 polymorphisms were not significantly different between cases and control. Further studies are needed to investigate if possible polymorphic variants of SCN2A gene may influence seizures susceptibility of idiopathic generalized epilepsy with tonic-clonic seizures.
Neonatal stroke outcome studies demonstrate variable findings of either relatively spared intellectual function or persistent impairments. Volumetric measurement of the brain can provide more precise data on lesion-cognition outcomes. We studied 7 children with unilateral focal lesions from prenatal stroke. Whole-brain magnetic resonance imaging scans were analyzed to produce volumes of cortical gray matter, total white matter, cerebrospinal fluid, lesion, and lesion constricted fluid, and we ascertained the relationship of morphometric variables to intellectual and clinical outcome. Children with cystic encephalomalacia plus atrophy had poorer outcomes than children with atrophy or gliosis alone. These children also demonstrated the largest lesion size, smallest gray matter volume, and greatest proportion of hyperintense white matter in the affected hemisphere. Findings suggest that the type and size of the lesion, in addition to the integrity of white matter and residual cortex, may be better predictors of intellectual functioning than either of these indices alone.
Across a range of mammalian species, early developmental variations in fear-related behaviors constrain patterns of anxious behavior throughout life. Individual differences in anxiety among rodents and non-human primates have been shown to reflect early-life influences of genes and the environment on brain circuitry. However, in humans, the manner in which genes and the environment developmentally shape individual differences in anxiety and associated brain circuitry remains poorly specified. The current review presents a conceptual framework that facilitates clinical research examining developmental influences on brain circuitry and anxiety. Research using threat-exposure paradigms might most directly integrate basic and clinical perspectives on pediatric anxiety.
This study explored the interactive effect of substance abuse and depression on social competence among 106 adolescent inpatients (57% female, 86% Caucasian). Substance abuse and depression were conceptualized using dimensional ratings of illness severity based on adolescent interviews, whereas social competence was conceptualized using parent ratings of adolescent behavior. Cross-sectional analyses revealed that substance abuse and depression had a negative interactive effect on adolescent social competence: Higher severity levels of both dimensions were associated with lower levels of competence than accounted for by the additive effects of the two dimensions. These findings persisted when controlling for gender, race, and other common dimensions of psychopathology. Significant impairment in social competence occurred at subdiagnostic levels of substance abuse when depression severity was high, highlighting the value of assessing outcomes across the full range of severity.
Adolescence is marked by change and renegotiation in almost every arena -- biological, social, and cognitive development; identity development; changes in peer relations and friendships; a renegotiation of family relationships, especially the parent-adolescent relationship; and school transitions. Further, for African Americans, adolescence is also marked by the exploration of ethnic or racial identity, which is shaped by parents' ethnic socialization and interactions with an increasingly diverse peer group. This article provides a developmental, cultural, and contextual framework for understanding changes in parenting and parental influences vis-a-vis peers. The normative developmental changes in adolescent outcomes, parenting, and parent-adolescent relationships are discussed as they are shaped by neighborhood characteristics, family-level socioeconomic status, and ethnicity and are related to mental health and developmental outcomes across late childhood through adolescence.
Glaucoma, a progressive optic neuropathy due to retinal ganglion cell (RGC) degeneration, is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness. Although glaucoma is often associated with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), IOP elevation is not detected in a significant subset of glaucomas, such as normal tension glaucoma (NTG). Moreover, in some glaucoma patients, significant IOP reduction does not prevent progression of the disease. Thus, understanding IOP-independent mechanisms of RGC loss is important. Here, we show that mice deficient in the glutamate transporters GLAST or EAAC1 demonstrate spontaneous RGC and optic nerve degeneration without elevated IOP. In GLAST-deficient mice, the glutathione level in Mller glia was decreased; administration of glutamate receptor blocker prevented RGC loss. In EAAC1-deficient mice, RGCs were more vulnerable to oxidative stress. These findings suggest that glutamate transporters are necessary both to prevent excitotoxic retinal damage and to synthesize glutathione, a major cellular antioxidant and tripeptide of glutamate, cysteine, and glycine. We believe these mice are the first animal models of NTG that offer a powerful system for investigating mechanisms of neurodegeneration in NTG and developing therapies directed at IOP-independent mechanisms of RGC loss.
Proinflammatory agents trypsin and mast cell tryptase cleave and activate PAR2, which is expressed on sensory nerves to cause neurogenic inflammation. Transient receptor potential A1 (TRPA1) is an excitatory ion channel on primary sensory nerves of pain pathway. Here, we show that a functional interaction of PAR2 and TRPA1 in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons could contribute to the sensation of inflammatory pain. Frequent colocalization of TRPA1 with PAR2 was found in rat DRG neurons. PAR2 activation increased the TRPA1 currents evoked by its agonists in HEK293 cells transfected with TRPA1, as well as DRG neurons. Application of phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitors or phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) suppressed this potentiation. Decrease of plasma membrane PIP(2) levels through antibody sequestration or PLC-mediated hydrolysis mimicked the potentiating effects of PAR2 activation at the cellular level. Thus, the increased TRPA1 sensitivity may have been due to activation of PLC, which releases the inhibition of TRPA1 from plasma membrane PIP(2). These results identify for the first time to our knowledge a sensitization mechanism of TRPA1 and a novel mechanism through which trypsin or tryptase released in response to tissue inflammation might trigger the sensation of pain by TRPA1 activation.

Three women (aged 21-36 years) developed acute illnesses that were similar to epidemic encephalitis lethargica. Each presented with a neuropsychiatric disturbance that was succeeded by pyrexia, a fluctuating conscious state and involuntary movements including oculogyria. Cerebrospinal fluid examination showed a predominantly lymphocytic pleocytosis (64-120x10(6) cells/L) and oligoclonal bands were detected in two cases. Two patients died, while the third made a gradual recovery. Post-mortem examination in the two fatal cases showed changes of lymphocytic meningitis and focal diencephalic lymphocytic infiltration, although these changes were mild relative to the effects of the clinical illness. The diagnosis of sporadic encephalitis lethargica relies on identifying shared clinical features with the past epidemic disease plus circumstantial evidence of immunological activity from laboratory investigations and some tests of exclusion of other disorders.
Regulatory focus theory [Higgins, E. T. Beyond pleasure and pain. American Psychologist, 52, 1280-1300, 1997] postulates two social-cognitive motivational systems, the promotion and prevention systems, for self-regulation of goal pursuit. However, the neural substrates of promotion and prevention goal activation remain unclear. Drawing on several literatures, we hypothesized that priming promotion versus prevention goals would activate areas in the left versus right prefrontal cortex (PFC), respectively, and that activation in these areas would be correlated with individual differences in chronic regulatory focus. Sixteen participants underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while engaged in a depth-of-processing task, during which they were exposed incidentally to their own promotion and prevention goals. Task-related cortical activation was consistent with previous studies. At the same time, incidental priming of promotion goals was associated with left orbital PFC activation, and activation in this area was stronger for individuals with a chronic promotion focus. Findings regarding prevention goal priming were not consistent with predictions. The data illustrate the centrality of self-regulation and personal goal pursuit within the multilayered process of social cognition.
The present study used event-related potentials (ERPs) to investigate how the encoding and recognition of complex scenes change with normal aging. Although functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have identified more drastic age impairments at encoding than at recognition, ERP studies accumulate more evidence for age differences at retrieval. However, stimulus type and paradigm differences across the two literatures have made direct comparisons difficult. Here, we collected young and elderly adults' encoding- and recognition-phase ERPs using the same materials and paradigm as a previous fMRI study [Gutchess, A. H., Welsh, R. C., Hedden, T., Bangert, A., Minear, M., Liu, L., et al. Aging and the neural correlates of successful picture encoding: Frontal activations compensate for decreased medial temporal activity. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 17, 84-96, 2005]. Twenty young and 20 elderly adults incidentally encoded and then recognized photographs of outdoor scenes. During encoding, young adults showed a frontocentral subsequent memory effect, with high-confidence hits exhibiting greater positivity than misses. Elderly adults showed a similar subsequent memory effect, which, however, did not differ as a function of confidence. During recognition, young adults elicited a widespread old/new effect, and high-confidence hits were distinct from both low-confidence hits and false alarms. Elderly adults elicited a smaller and later old/new effect, which was unaffected by confidence, and hits and false alarms were indistinguishable in the waveforms. Consistent with prior ERP work, these results point to important age-related changes in recognition-phase brain activity, even when behavioral measures of memory and confidence pattern similarly across groups. We speculate that memory processes with different time signatures contribute to the apparent differences across encoding and retrieval stages, and across methods.
The localization of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been well described in most classes of vertebrates but not in adult lampreys. The question if the GABA distribution is similar throughout the vertebrate subphylum is therefore still to be addressed. We here investigate two lamprey species, the sea lamprey, Petromyzon marinus, and the river lamprey, Lampetra fluviatilis, and compare the GABA pattern with that of other vertebrates. The present immunohistochemical study provides an anatomical basis for the general distribution and precise localization of GABAergic neurons in the adult lamprey forebrain and brainstem. GABA-immunoreactive cells were organized in a virtually identical manner in the two species. They were found throughout the brain, with the following regions being of particular interest: the granular cell layer of the olfactory bulb, the nucleus of the anterior commissure, the septum, the lateral and medial pallia, the striatum, the nucleus of the postoptic commissure, the thalamus, the hypothalamus, and pretectal areas, the optic tectum, the torus semicircularis, the mesencephalic tegmentum, restricted regions of the rhombencephalic tegmentum, the octavolateral area, and the dorsal column nucleus. The GABA distribution found in cyclostomes is very similar to that of other classes of vertebrates, including mammals. Since the lamprey diverged from the main vertebrate line around 450 million years ago, this implies that already at that time the basic vertebrate plan for the GABA innervation in different parts of the brain had been developed.
Female choice plays a critical role in the evolution of male acoustic displays. Yet there is limited information on the neurophysiological basis of female songbirds' auditory recognition systems. To understand the neural mechanisms of how non-singing female songbirds perceive behaviorally relevant vocalizations, we recorded responses of single neurons to acoustic stimuli in two auditory forebrain regions, the caudal lateral mesopallium (CLM) and Field L, in anesthetized adult female zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). Using various metrics of response selectivity, we found consistently higher response strengths for unfamiliar conspecific songs compared to tone pips and white noise in Field L but not in CLM. We also found that neurons in the left auditory forebrain had lower response strengths to synthetics sounds, leading to overall higher neural selectivity for song in neurons of the left hemisphere. This laterality effect is consistent with previously published behavioral data in zebra finches. Overall, our results from Field L are in parallel and from CLM are in contrast with the patterns of response selectivity reported for conspecific songs over synthetic sounds in male zebra finches, suggesting some degree of sexual dimorphism of auditory perception mechanisms in songbirds.
This article presents an interpretation of autoshaping, and positive and negative automaintenance, based on a neural-network model. The model makes no distinction between operant and respondent learning mechanisms, and takes into account knowledge of hippocampal and dopaminergic systems. Four simulations were run, each one using an A-B-A design and four instances of feedfoward architectures. In A, networks received a positive contingency between inputs that simulated a conditioned stimulus (CS) and an input that simulated an unconditioned stimulus (US). Responding was simulated as an output activation that was neither elicited by nor required for the US. B was an omission-training procedure. Response directedness was defined as sensory feedback from responding, simulated as a dependence of other inputs on responding. In Simulation 1, the phenomena were simulated with a fully connected architecture and maximally intense response feedback. The other simulations used a partially connected architecture without competition between CS and response feedback. In Simulation 2, a maximally intense feedback resulted in substantial autoshaping and automaintenance. In Simulation 3, eliminating response feedback interfered substantially with autoshaping and automaintenance. In Simulation 4, intermediate autoshaping and automaintenance resulted from an intermediate response feedback. Implications for the operant-respondent distinction and the behavior-neuroscience relation are discussed.
In nature, moths encounter nutritious and toxic substances in plants, and thus have to discriminate between a diversity of tastants. Whereas olfactory learning allowing memory of nutritious plants is well demonstrated, little is known about learning and memory of toxic items in adult lepidopterans. Moths may use bitter substances to detect and possibly learn to avoid noxious plants. We have studied the physiological and behavioural effects of two bitter substances, quinine and sinigrin, on the moth Heliothis virescens. Electrophysiological recordings showed responses to both compounds in gustatory receptor neurons on the antennae. The response patterns suggested a peripheral discrimination between quinine and sinigrin. We evaluated their putative aversive effect in an appetitive conditioning context where the moths learned to associate an odour with sucrose. We first aimed at enhancing olfactory conditioning of the proboscis extension response by testing the effect of the sucrose concentration on acquisition, retention and extinction. 2 mol l(-1) and 3 mol l(-1) sucrose concentration gave similar acquisition, retention and extinction performances. Experiments involving pre-exposure or facilitated extinction with an odour paired with quinine, sinigrin or no tastant showed a latent inhibitory effect, as well as an aversive effect of quinine and, to a lesser extent, of sinigrin. The results suggested that the two tastants may act as negative reinforcers in H. virescens.
The epithelial Na(+) channel (ENaC) is a multimeric membrane protein consisting of three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma. The total number of subunits per functional channel complex has been described variously to follow either a tetrameric arrangement of 2alpha:1beta:1gamma or a higher-ordered stoichiometry of 3alpha:3beta:3gamma. Therefore, while it is clear that all three ENaC subunits are required for full channel activity, the number of the subunits required remains controversial. We used a new approach, based on single-channel measurements in Xenopus oocytes to address this issue. Individual mutations that alter single-channel conductance were made in pore-lining residues of ENaC alpha, beta, or gamma subunits. Recordings from patches in oocytes expressing a single species, wild type or mutant, of alpha, beta, and gamma showed a well-defined current transition amplitude with a single Gaussian distribution. When cRNAs for all three wild-type subunits were mixed with an equimolar amount of a mutant alpha-subunit (either S589D or S592T), amplitudes corresponding to pure wild-type or mutant conductances could be observed in the same patch, along with a third intermediate amplitude most likely arising from channels with at least one wild-type and at least 1 mutant alpha-subunit. However, intermediate or hybrid conductances were not observed with coexpression of wild-type and mutant betaG529A or gammaG534E subunits. Our results support a tetrameric arrangement of ENaC subunits where 2alpha, 1beta, and 1gamma come together around central pore.
In 1870 Gustav Fritsch and Edvard Hitzig showed that electrical stimulation of the cerebral cortex of a dog produced movements. This was a crucial event in the development of modern neuroscience because it was the first good experimental evidence for a) cerebral cortex involvement in motor function, b) the electrical excitability of the cortex, c) topographic representation in the brain, and d) localization of function in different regions of the cerebral cortex. This paper discusses their experiment and some developments in the previous two centuries that led to it including the ideas of Thomas Willis and Emanuel Swedenborg, the widespread interest in electricity and the localizations of function of Franz Joseph Gall, John Hughlings Jackson, and Paul Broca. We also consider the subsequent study of the motor cortex by David Ferrier and others.

This paper is dedicated to one of the outstanding scientists of the twentieth century--Ivane Beritashvili. He was a Georgian physiologist who graduated from St. Petersburg University and worked under the supervision of N. Wedensky. He founded the Department of Physiology and the Institute of Physiology at the University of Tbilisi, Georgia. Among his numerous contributions was the discovery of the rhythmical course of reciprocal inhibition in spinal reflexes, the first demonstration of the excitatory and inhibitory reactions in the brain stem neuropil. But Beritashvili's most significant contribution was the discovery of the mediation of animal psychoneural behavior by image-driven memory.
This essay analyzes the history of the Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) discovery, relating some of the principles of the theory of scientific creativity to the cognitive and personal qualities of the scientists that participated in the discovery, particularly Rita Levi-Montalcini and Viktor Hamburger. The discovery of NGF is especially attractive for the history of science as it involves chance, luck, creativity, and some extraordinary scientists.
This study identifies the actin-binding protein, coronin-1a, as a novel and effective immunohistochemical marker for microglia in both cell cultures and in formaldehyde-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue. Antibodies to coronin-1a effectively immunostained microglia in human, monkey, horse, rat, and mouse tissues, even in tissues stored for long periods of time. The identity of coronin-1a-immunoreactive cells as microglia was confirmed using double immunolabeling with cell type-specific markers as well as by morphological features and the distribution of immunoreactive cells. These properties are shared by another actin-binding protein, IBA-1. Unlike IBA-1, coronin-1a immunoreactivity was also detected in lymphocytes and certain other hematopoietic cells. The results indicate that both coronin-1a and IBA-1 are robust markers for microglia that can be used in routinely processed tissue of humans and animals. Because both coronin-1a and IBA-1 are actin-binding proteins that play a role in rearrangement of the membrane cytoskeleton, it suggests that these proteins are critical to dynamic properties of microglia.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by inattention and/or hyperactivity/impulsivity. Impulsivity persists in adults with ADHD and might be the basis of much of the impairment observed in the daily lives of such individuals. The objective of this study was to address the presence, and more importantly, the three dimensions of impulsivity: attentional, non-planning and motor, in how they may relate to neuropsychological mechanisms of impulse control. We studied a sample of 50 adults with ADHD and 51 healthy comparison controls using the Barratt Impulsivity Scale Version 11 (BIS), and neuropsychological tasks, namely the Continuous Performance Task (CPT-II) and the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). The ADHD group showed more signs of impulsivity on the three dimensions of BIS, committed more errors of omission and commission on the CPT-II, and made more disadvantageous choices on the IGT. These results support the existence of deficits related to three components of impulsivity: motor, cognitive, and attentional among adults with ADHD. Most importantly, this study also highlights the complementary nature of self-report questionnaires and neuropsychological tasks in the assessment of impulsivity in ADHD adults.
The authors examined and compared the effect of support-surface perturbations of various magnitudes on lower extremity kinetics of 7 children with cerebral palsy (CP) and 8 typically developing (TD) children. Results showed that the highest velocity tolerated without stepping was slower in children with CP than in either age-matched TD or younger TD children. Multimodal torque profiles were more frequent in children with CP than in TD controls. TD groups temporally and spatially organized torque activation, whereas children with CP activated all joints simultaneously and showed altered torque contribution patterns among joints. Those results suggest that impairments in reactive postural control in children with CP result not only from developmental delay but also from pathology. Evidence for pathology included increased numbers of torque bursts required to regain stability and less efficient temporal and spatial organization of torque activation patterns.
Post-mortem studies have provided evidence for abnormalities of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic system in schizophrenia. The calcium-binding proteins (CBPs), parvalbumin (PV), calbindin (CB) and calretinin (CR) can be used as markers for specific subpopulations of GABAergic neurons in the brain. Isolation rearing of rats is a non-pharmacological, non-lesion manipulation that leads to deficits in prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex (PPI) and other behavioural and neurochemical alterations reminiscent of schizophrenia. Female rats were reared in social housing (groups of three) or singly for 11 weeks post weaning and PPI was measured. Brains were removed and hippocampal CBP- containing neurons determined following immunocytochemical staining. Compared to socially housed rats, isolated rats exhibited PPI deficits and reductions in PV and CB-immunoreactive cells in the hippocampus, with no significant change in CR. These findings demonstrate selective abnormalities of sub-populations of GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampus of isolation reared rats, which resemble the neuronal deficits seen in this region in schizophrenia.
MK-801, a glutamergic, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist that mediates neurotransmission and has psychotomimetic properties, giving schizophrenia-like symptom. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects on the thalamic and cortical proteome of one typical (haloperidol) and one atypical (clozapine) antipsychotic drug in interaction with MK-801 in rats. Rats received subcutaneous injections of MK-801 or vehicle (controls) or MK-801 together with concurrent administration of haloperdol or clozapine for eight days. Protein samples from thalamus and cortex were analyzed with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in combination with mass spectrometry. MK-801 induced alterations in the levels of three proteins in both cortex and thalamus. Clozapine reversed all the protein changes. Haloperidol reversed two. Both antipsychotics induced new protein changes in both cortex and thalamus not seen after MK-801-treatment by alone. In conclusion, the MK-801 animal model shows potential for investigation of different antipsychotic drugs and biochemical treatment effects in schizophrenia.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated as one of the agents responsible for many neurodegenerative diseases. A critical target for ROS is DNA. Most oxidative stress-induced DNA damage in the nucleus and mitochondria is removed by the base excision repair pathway. Apn1 is a yeast enzyme in this pathway which possesses a wider substrate specificity and greater enzyme activity than its mammalian counterpart for removing DNA damage, making it a good therapeutic candidate. For this study we targeted Apn1 to mitochondria in a neuronal cell line derived from the substantia nigra by using a mitochondrial targeting signal (MTS) in an effort to hasten the removal of DNA damage and thereby protect these cells. We found that following oxidative stress, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was repaired more efficiently in cells containing Apn1 with the MTS than controls. There was no difference in nuclear repair. However, cells that expressed Apn1 without the MTS showed enhanced repair of both nuclear and mtDNA. Both Apn1-expressing cells were more resistant to cell death following oxidative stress compared with controls. Therefore, these results reveal that the expression of Apn1 in neurons may be of potential therapeutic benefit for treating patients with specific neurodegenerative diseases.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors play important roles in numerous cognitive processes as well as in several debilitating central nervous system (CNS) disorders. In order to fully elucidate the diverse roles of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in CNS function and dysfunction, a detailed knowledge of their cellular and subcellular localizations is essential. To date, methods to precisely localize nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the CNS have predominantly relied on the use of anti-receptor subunit antibodies. Although data obtained by immunohistology and immunoblotting are generally in accordance with ligand binding studies, some discrepancies remain, in particular with electrophysiological findings. In this context, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit-deficient mice should be ideal tools for testing the specificity of subunit-directed antibodies. Here, we used standard protocols for immunohistochemistry and western blotting to examine the antibodies raised against the alpha3-, alpha4-, alpha7-, beta2-, and beta4-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits on brain tissues of the respective knock-out mice. Unexpectedly, for each of the antibodies tested, immunoreactivity was the same in wild-type and knock-out mice. These data imply that, under commonly used conditions, these antibodies are not suited for immunolocalization. Thus, particular caution should be exerted with regards to the experimental approach used to visualize nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the brain.
In spite of the rapid advances in the development of the new proteomic technologies, there are, to date, relatively fewer studies aiming to explore the neuronal proteome. One of the reasons is the complexity of the brain, which presents high cellular heterogeneity and a unique subcellular compartmentalization. Therefore, tissue fractionation of the brain to enrich proteins of interest will reduce the complexity of the proteomics approach leading to the production of manageable and meaningful results. In this review, general considerations and strategies of proteomics, the advantages and challenges to exploring the neuronal proteome are described and summarized. In addition, this article presents an overview of recent advances of proteomic technologies and shows that proteomics can serve as a valuable tool to globally explore the changes in brain proteome during various disease states. Understanding the molecular basis of brain function will be extremely useful in identifying novel targets for the treatment of brain diseases.
The incidence of amyloid plaques, composed mainly of beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta), does not correlate well with the severity of neurodegeneration in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The effects of Abeta(42) on neurons or neural stem cells (NSCs) in terms of the aggregated form remain controversial. We prepared three forms of oligomeric, fibrillar, and monomeric Abeta(42) peptides and investigated their effects on the proliferation and neural differentiation of adult NSCs, according to the degree of aggregation or concentration. A low micromolar concentration (1 micromol/L) of oligomeric Abeta(42) increased the proliferation of adult NSCs remarkably in a neurosphere assay. It also enhanced the neuronal differentiation of adult NSCs and their ability to migrate. These results provide us with valuable information regarding the effects of Abeta(42) on NSCs in the brains of patients with AD.
The arginine vasopressin (Avp) 1b receptor (Avpr1b) present on anterior pituitary corticotrophs is involved in the stimulation of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secretion, especially during times of stress. Corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) is considered the major ACTH secretagogue during acute stress whereas Avp appears to be the more dominant mediator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response during chronic stress situations. To investigate the role of the Avpr1b in the HPA axis response to acute stress, we measured ACTH and corticosterone (CORT) plasma levels in Avpr1b knockout (KO) mice and wild-type controls in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge and ethanol (EtOH) administration. Mice deficient in Avpr1b had markedly compromised plasma ACTH and CORT responses to acute (30 min) LPS, but normal ACTH and CORT response to more extended exposure (4 h) to the immune system activator. The plasma ACTH and CORT levels stimulated by intoxicating, sedative doses of EtOH (3.2 and 4 g/kg) were significantly decreased in the Avpr1b KO mice compared to wild-type littermates. Significantly higher EtOH-induced plasma ACTH and CORT secretion was measured in female than in male Avpr1b wild-type mice. There were no differences in the blood alcohol levels following acute EtOH administration in Avpr1b KO or wild-type mice of either gender. Our results clearly suggest that Avpr1b plays a significant role in the HPA axis response to acute immune stress and EtOH intoxication.
Male wild house mice selected for a long (LAL) or a short (SAL) latency to attack a male intruder generally show opposing behavioural coping responses to environmental challenges. LAL mice, unlike SAL mice, adapt to novel challenges with a highly reactive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and show an enhanced expression of markers for hippocampal plasticity. The present study aimed to test the hypothesis that these features of the more reactive LAL mice are reflected in parameters of hippocampal cell proliferation. The data show that basal cell proliferation in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus, assessed by the endogenous proliferation marker Ki-67, is lower in LAL than in SAL mice. Furthermore, application of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) over 3 days showed an almost two-fold lower cell proliferation rate in the SGZ in LAL versus SAL mice. Exposure to forced swimming resulted, 24 h later, in a significant reduction in BrdU + cell numbers in LAL mice, whereas cell proliferation was unaffected by this stressor in SAL mice. Plasma corticosterone and dentate gyrus glucocorticoid receptor levels were higher in LAL than in SAL mice. However, no differences between the SAL and LAL lines were found for hippocampal NMDA receptor binding. In conclusion, the data suggest a relationship between coping responses and hippocampal cell proliferation, in which corticosterone may be one of the determinants of line differences in cell proliferation responses to environmental challenges.
Increasing evidence strongly suggest that CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T (Treg) cells play a pivotal role in suppressing the development of autoimmune diseases. However, it remains poorly understood how these cells are involved in the persistence of, or recovery from, the diseases. In the present study, we examined the role of CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg cells in chronic EAE and compared the results with those obtained in acute EAE. In EAE lesions, CD25(+) cells decreased rapidly at the beginning of chronic EAE, whereas these cells were maintained at high levels during the recovery from acute EAE. The number of Foxp3(+)CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg and levels of Foxp3 mRNA in the lymphoid organ were significantly lower in chronic EAE. Importantly, the regulatory function of individual CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg cells was maintained in animals with chronic EAE. Furthermore, adoptive transfer of activated CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg cells suppressed the development of chronic EAE. These findings suggest that impairment of the CD4(+)CD25(+) Treg response is critical for development of chronic autoimmune diseases, and can be adjustable by autologous Treg transplantation.
Given the known roles of TGFbeta2 in both regulating the immune system and promoting the survival of dopaminergic neurons, it is feasible that genetic variations in TGFB2 might play an aetiological role in neurological diseases such as Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Hence we performed an indirect association analysis of TGFB2 using 8 haplotype-tagging SNPs in a population of 937 MS patients, 538 PD cases and 2022 controls. We found no evidence for association with susceptibility or progression of MS, but have demonstrated a trend towards association of the 5' region of the gene with susceptibility to PD. Further analysis of TGFB2 is warranted in other PD cohorts.
Tremor in multiple sclerosis is considered to be a persistent and progressive sign. We describe five patients with multiple sclerosis in whom upper limb tremor severity gradually decreased over a period of several years after deep brain stimulation. In every case this attenuation of tremor was accompanied by increasing pyramidal weakness in the relevant upper limb. In two patients this attenuation of tremor remained after stimulation was permanently switched off. In one other patient, where upper limb strength remained normal, tremor severity gradually worsened in spite of continuing stimulation. There was a highly significant difference (p = 0.0007) between the changes in intention tremor severities when the arms with increasing pyramidal weakness (n = 9) were compared to those in which normal strength was retained throughout follow-up period (n = 3); intention tremor decreased in the former and increased in the latter by means of -3.66 and +4.0 points of a 0-10 tremor scale respectively. There was also a significant correlation (0.699; p = 0.0359) between decreasing upper limb strength and decreasing intention tremor severity for the upper limbs of patients that had undergone contralateral DBS.



The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the gating of interlimb cutaneous reflexes is altered by holding an earth-referenced handrail during locomotion. In the first experiment, subjects performed locomotor tasks of varying difficulty (level walking, incline walking, and stair climbing) while lightly holding an earth-referenced rail. In the second experiment, the extent of rail contact and nature of the rail stability (e.g., fixed vs. mobile rail) were varied while subjects performed incline walking. Cutaneous reflexes were evoked by delivering trains of electrical stimulation to the sural nerve at the ankle. EMG data were collected continuously from muscles in the upper and lower limbs and trunk. Results showed that modulation of reflexes across the body changed when the rail was held. Most interestingly, a facilitatory reflex in the shoulder extensor posterior deltoid emerged during swing phase only when subjects held a rail. This facilitatory reflex was largest during the more challenging tasks of incline walking and stair climbing, A similar reflex facilitation was observed in the elbow extensor triceps brachii. The observed facilitation of reflexes in triceps brachii and posterior deltoid was specifically expressed only when subjects held an earth-referenced rail. This suggests that interlimb reflexes in arm extensors may be enhanced to make use of a supportive handrail for stability during gait. Therefore, holding a rail may cause global changes in reflex thresholds across the body that may have widespread functional relevance for assisting in the maintenance of postural stability during locomotion.
We have combined electrophysiology and chemical separation and measurement techniques with capillary electrophoresis (CE) to evaluate the role of endogenous d-serine as an NMDA receptor (NMDAR) coagonist in the salamander retina. Electrophysiological experiments were carried out using whole cell recordings from retinal ganglion cells and extracellular recordings of the proximal negative response (PNR), while bath applying two D-serine degrading enzymes, including d-amino acid oxidase (DAAO) and D-serine deaminase (DsdA). The addition of either enzyme resulted in a significant and rapid decline in the light-evoked responses observed in ganglion cell and PNR recordings. The addition of exogenous D-serine in the presence of the enzymes restored the light-evoked responses to the control or supracontrol amplitudes. Heat-inactivated enzymes had no effect on the light responses and blocking NMDARs with AP7 eliminated the suppressive influence of the enzymes as well as the response enhancement normally associated with exogenous d-serine application. CE was used to separate amino acid racemates and to study the selectivity of DAAO and DsdA against D-serine and glycine. Both enzymes showed high selectivity for D-serine without significant effects on glycine. Our results strongly support the concept that endogenous D-serine plays an essential role as a coagonist for NMDARs, allowing them to contribute to the light-evoked responses of retinal ganglion cells. Furthermore under our experimental conditions, these coagonist sites are not saturated so that modulation of NMDAR sensitivity can be achieved with further modulaton of d-serine.
We made in vivo whole cell patch-clamp recordings from the inferior colliculus of young-adult, anesthetized C57/Bl6 mice to compare the responses to constant-current injections with the responses to tones of different duration or to sinusoidal amplitude-modulated (SAM) tones. We observed that voltage-dependent ion channels contributed in several ways to the response to tones. A sustained response to long tones was observed only in cells showing little accommodation during current injection. Cells showing burst-onset firing during current injection showed a small response to SAM tones, whereas burst-sustained cells showed a good response to SAM tones. The hyperpolarization-activated nonselective cation channel I(h) had a special role in shaping the responses: I(h) was associated with an increased excitability, with chopper and pauser responses, and with an afterhyperpolarization following tones. Synaptic properties were more important in determining the responses to tones of different durations. A short-latency inhibitory response appeared to contribute to the long-pass response in some cells and short-pass and band-pass neurons were characterized by their slow recovery from synaptic adaptation. Cells that recovered slowly from synaptic adaptation showed a relatively small response to SAM tones. Our results show an important role for both intrinsic membrane properties -- most notably the presence of I(h) and the extent of accommodation -- and synaptic adaptation in shaping the response to tones in the inferior colliculus.
Coincident hand and foot movements are more reliably performed in the same direction than in opposite directions. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to assess motor cortex function, we examined the physiological basis of these movements across three novel experiments. Experiment 1 demonstrated that upper limb corticomotor excitability changed in a way that facilitated isodirectional movements of the hand and foot, during phasic and isometric muscle activation conditions. Experiment 2 demonstrated that motor cortex inhibition was modified with active, but not passive, foot movement in a manner that facilitated hand movement in the direction of foot movement. Together, these findings demonstrate that the coupling between motor representations within motor cortex is activity dependent. Because there are no known connections between hand and foot areas within primary motor cortex, experiment 3 used a dual-coil paired-pulse TMS protocol to examine functional connectivity between secondary and primary motor areas during active ankle dorsiflexion and plantarflexion. Dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and supplementary motor area (SMA) conditioning, but not ventral premotor cortex (PMv) conditioning, produced distinct phases of task-dependent modulation of excitability of forearm representations within primary motor cortex (M1). Networks involving PMd-M1 facilitate isodirectional movements of hand and foot, whereas networks involving SMA-M1 facilitate corticomotor pathways nonspecifically, which may help to stabilize posture during interlimb coordination. These results may have implications for targeted neurorehabilitation after stroke.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is a large auditory nucleus in the midbrain, which is a nearly obligatory relay center for ascending auditory projections. We made in vivo whole cell patch-clamp recordings of IC cells in young-adult anesthetized C57/Bl6 mice and Wistar rats to characterize their membrane properties and spontaneous inputs. We observed spikelets in both rat (18%) and mouse (13%) IC neurons, suggesting that IC neurons may be connected by electrical synapses. In many cells, spontaneous postsynaptic potentials were sufficiently large to contribute to spike irregularity. Cells differed considerably in the number of simultaneous spontaneous postsynaptic potentials that would be needed to trigger an action potential. Depolarizing and hyperpolarizing current injections showed six different types of firing patterns: buildup, accelerating, burst-onset, burst-sustained, sustained, and accommodating. Their relative frequencies were similar in both species. In mice, about half of the cells showed a clear depolarizing sag, suggesting that they have the hyperpolarization-activated current I(h). This sag was observed more often in burst and in accommodating cells than in buildup, accelerating, or sustained neurons. Cells with I(h) had a significantly more depolarized resting membrane potential. They were more likely to fire rebound spikes and generally showed long-lasting afterhyperpolarizations following long depolarizations. We therefore suggest a separate functional role for I(h).
Stereoscopic vision is characterized by greater visual acuity when a background feature serves as a reference. When a reference is present, the perceived depth of an object is predominantly dependent on this reference. Neural representations of stereoscopic depth are expected to have a relative frame of reference. The conversion of absolute disparity encoded in area V1 to relative disparity begins in area V2, although the information encoded in this area appears to be insufficient for stereopsis. This study examines whether relative disparity is encoded in a higher cortical area. We recorded the responses of V4 neurons from macaque monkeys to various combinations of the absolute disparities of two features: the center patch and surrounding annulus of a dynamic random-dot stereogram. We analyzed the effects of the disparity of the surrounding annulus on the tuning for the disparity of the center patch; the tuning curves of relative-disparity-selective neurons for disparities of the center patch should shift with changes in the disparity of the surrounding annulus. Most V4 tuning curves exhibited significant shifts. The magnitudes of the shifts were larger than those reported for V2 neurons and smaller than that expected for an ideal relative-disparity-selective cell. No correlation was found between the shift magnitude and the degree of size suppression, suggesting that the two phenomena are not the result of a common mechanism. Our results suggest that the coding of relative disparity advances as information flows along the cortical pathway that includes areas V2 and V4.
Extracellular proteolysis is an important regulatory nexus for coordinating synaptic functional and structural plasticity, but the identity of such proteases is incompletely understood. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have well-known, mostly deleterious roles in remodeling after injury or stroke, but their role in nonpathological synaptic plasticity and function in intact adult brains has not been extensively investigated. Here we address the role of MMP-9 in hippocampal synaptic plasticity using both gain- and loss-of-function approaches in urethane-anesthetized adult rats. Acute blockade of MMP-9 proteolytic activity with inhibitors or neutralizing antibodies impairs maintenance, but not induction, of long-term potentiation (LTP) at synapses formed between Schaffer-collaterals and area CA1 dendrites. LTP is associated with significant increases in levels of MMP-9 and proteolytic activity within the potentiated neuropil. By introducing a novel application of gelatin-substrate zymography in vivo, we find that LTP is associated with significantly elevated numbers of gelatinolytic puncta in the potentiated neuropil that codistribute with immunolabeling for MMP-9 and for markers of synapses and dendrites. Such increases in proteolytic activity require NMDA receptor activation. Exposing intact area CA1 neurons to recombinant-active MMP-9 induces a slow synaptic potentiation that mutually occludes, and is occluded by, tetanically evoked potentiation. Taken together, our data reveal novel roles for MMP-mediated proteolysis in regulating nonpathological synaptic function and plasticity in mature hippocampus.
Each time the eyes move, the visual system must adjust internal representations to account for the accompanying shift in the retinal image. In the lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP), neurons update the spatial representations of salient stimuli when the eyes move. In previous experiments, we found that split-brain monkeys were impaired on double-step saccade sequences that required updating across visual hemifields, as compared to within hemifield. Here we describe a subsequent experiment to characterize the relationship between behavioral performance and neural activity in LIP in the split-brain monkey. We recorded from single LIP neurons while split-brain and intact monkeys performed two conditions of the double-step saccade task: one required across-hemifield updating and the other required within-hemifield updating. We found that, despite extensive experience with the task, the split-brain monkeys were significantly more accurate for within-hemifield than for across-hemifield sequences. In parallel, we found that population activity in LIP of the split-brain monkeys was significantly stronger for the within-hemifield than for the across-hemifield condition of the double-step task. In contrast, in the normal monkey, both the average behavioral performance and population activity showed no bias toward the within-hemifield condition. Finally, we found that the difference between within-hemifield and across-hemifield performance in the split-brain monkeys was reflected at the level of single-neuron activity in LIP. These findings indicate that remapping activity in area LIP is present in the split-brain monkey for the double-step task and covaries with spatial behavior on within-hemifield compared to across-hemifield sequences.
We use magnetoencephalography to study human auditory cortical processing of changes in interaural correlation (IAC). We studied transitions from correlated (identical signals at the 2 ears) to uncorrelated (different signals at the 2 ears) or vice versa for two types of wide-band noise stimuli: CHANGE signals contained a single IAC change (or none) and ALT signals alternated between correlated and uncorrelated at a constant rate. The relevant transitions, from correlated to uncorrelated or vice versa, are physically identical in both stimulus conditions, but auditory cortical response patterns differed substantially. CHANGE stimuli exhibited a response asymmetry in their temporal dynamics and magnetic field morphology according to the direction of change. Distinct field patterns indicate the involvement of separate neural substrates for processing, and distinct latencies are suggestive of different temporal integration windows. In contrast, the temporal dynamics of responses to change in the ALT stimuli did not differ substantially according to the direction of change. Notably, the uncorrelated-to-correlated transition in the ALT stimuli showed a first deflection approximately 90 ms earlier than for the same transition in the CHANGE stimuli and with an opposite magnetic field distribution. This finding suggests that as early as 50 ms after the onset of an IAC transition, a given physical change is processed differentially depending on stimulus context. Consequently, even early cortical activation cannot be interpreted independently of the specific long-term stimulus context used in the experiment.
GABA excites immature neurons due to their relatively high intracellular chloride concentration. This initial high concentration is commonly attributed to the ubiquitous chloride cotransporter NKCC1, which uses a sodium gradient to accumulate chloride. Here we tested this hypothesis in immature retinal amacrine and ganglion cells. Western blotting detected NKCC1 at birth and its expression first increased, then decreased to the adult level. Immunocytochemistry confirmed this early expression of NKCC1 and localized it to all nuclear layers. In the ganglion cell layer, staining peaked at P4 and then decreased with age, becoming undetectable in adult. In comparison, KCC2, the chloride extruder, steadily increased with age localizing primarily to the synaptic layers. For functional tests, we used calcium imaging with fura-2 and chloride imaging with 6-methoxy-N-ethylquinolinium iodide. If NKCC1 accumulates chloride in ganglion and amacrine cells, deleting or blocking it should abolish the GABA-evoked calcium rise. However, at P0-5 GABA consistently evoked a calcium rise that was not abolished in the NKCC1-null retinas, nor by applying high concentrations of bumetanide (NKCC blocker) for long periods. Furthermore, intracellular chloride concentration in amacrine and ganglion cells of the NKCC1-null retinas was approximately 30 mM, same as in wild type at this age. This concentration was not lowered by applying bumetanide or by decreasing extracellular sodium concentration. Costaining for NKCC1 and cellular markers suggested that at P3, NKCC1 is restricted to Mller cells. We conclude that NKCC1 does not serve to accumulate chloride in immature retinal neurons, but it may enable Mller cells to buffer extracellular chloride.
Vertebrate photoreceptors are highly polarized sensory cells in which several different ionic currents have been characterized. In the present study we used whole cell voltage-clamp and optical imaging techniques, the former combined with microsurgical manipulations, and simultaneous recording of membrane current and intracellular calcium signals to investigate the spatial distribution of ion channels within isolated salamander rods. In recordings from intact rods with visible terminals, evidence for five previously identified ionic currents was obtained. These include two Ca(2+)-dependent, i.e., a Ca(2+)-dependent chloride current [I(Cl(Ca))] and a large-conductance Ca(2+)- and voltage-dependent K(+) or BK current [I(K(Ca))], and three voltage-dependent currents, i.e., a delayed-rectifier type current [I(K(V))], a hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)), and a dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type calcium current (I(Ca)). Of these, I(Cl(Ca)) was highly correlated with the presence of a terminal; rods with visible terminals expressed I(Cl(Ca)) without exception (n = 125), whereas approximately 71% of rods (40/56) without visible terminals lacked I(Cl(Ca)). More significantly, I(Cl(Ca)) was absent from all rods (n = 33) that had their terminals ablated, and recordings from the same cell before and after terminal ablation led, in all cases (n =10), to the loss of I(Cl(Ca)). In contrast, I(K(Ca)), I(K(V)), and I(h) remained largely intact after terminal ablation, suggesting that they arose principally from ion channels located in the soma and/or inner segment. The outward I(K)((Ca)) in terminal-ablated rods was reversibly suppressed on &quot;puffing&quot; a Ca(2+)-free extracellular solution over the soma and was appreciably enhanced by the L-type Ca(2+) channel agonist, Bay K 8644 (0.1-2 microM). These data indicate that rod photoreceptors possess discrete targeting mechanisms that preferentially sort ion channels mediating I(Cl(Ca)) to the terminal.
Several studies have suggested that the cerebellum has an important role in timing of subsecond intervals. Previous studies using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to test this hypothesis directly have produced inconsistent results. Here we used 1-Hz repetitive TMS (rTMS) for 10 min over the right or left cerebellar hemisphere to interfere transiently with cerebellar processing to assess its effect on the performance of a finger-tapping task. Subjects tapped with their right index finger for 1 min (synchronization phase) with an auditory or visual cue at 0.5, 1, or 2 Hz; they continued for a further 1 min at the same rate with no cues (continuation phase). The blocks of trials were performed in a random order. rTMS of the cerebellum ipsilateral to the movement increased the variability of the intertap interval but only for movements at 2 Hz that were made while subjects were synchronizing with an auditory cue. There was no effect on the continuation phase of the task when the cues were no longer present or on synchronization with a visual cue. Similar results were seen after stimulation over the contralateral dorsal premotor cortex but not after rTMS over supplementary motor area. There was no effect after rTMS over the ipsilateral right cervical nerve roots or over the ipsilateral primary motor cortex. The results support the hypothesis of neural network for event-related timing in the subsecond range that involves a cerebellar-premotor network.
Classical conditioning paradigms have been shown to cause frequency-specific plasticity in both primary and secondary cortical areas. Previous research demonstrated that repeated pairing of nucleus basalis (NB) stimulation with a tone results in plasticity in primary auditory cortex (A1), mimicking the changes observed after classical conditioning. However, few studies have documented the effects of similar paradigms in secondary cortical areas. The purpose of this study was to quantify plasticity in the posterior auditory field (PAF) of the rat after NB stimulation paired with a high-frequency tone. NB-tone pairing increased the frequency selectivity of PAF sites activated by the paired tone. This frequency-specific receptive field size narrowing led to a reorganization of PAF such that responses to low- and mid-frequency tones were reduced by 40%. Plasticity in A1 was consistent with previous studies -- pairing a high-frequency tone with NB stimulation expanded the high-frequency region of the frequency map. Receptive field sizes did not change, but characteristic frequencies in A1 were shifted after NB-tone pairing. These results demonstrate that experience-dependent plasticity can take different forms in both A1 and secondary auditory cortex.
Sleep abnormalities are coexpressed with human communication disorders. Recent data from the birdsong system, the best model for human speech, indicate that sleep has a critical role in vocal learning. To understand the neural mechanisms that underlie behavioral changes during sleep, we recorded sleep activity in the song control area HVC longitudinally during song development in zebra finches. We focused on the sensorimotor phase of song learning, when the finch shapes his song behavior toward a learned tutor song model. Direct comparison of sleep activity in adults and juveniles revealed that the juvenile HVC has a lower spike rate and longer silent periods than the adult. Within individual finches, sleep silent periods decreased and spike rate increased with age. We next systematically compared neural sleep activity and song behavior. We now report that spike rate during sleep was significantly correlated with overnight changes in song behavior. Collectively, these data indicate that sleep activity in the vocal control area HVC increases with age and may affect song behavior.
To understand the relative contributions of primary motor cortex (M1) and area F5 of the ventral premotor cortex (PMv) to visually guided grasp, we made simultaneous multiple electrode recordings from the hand representations of these two areas in two adult macaque monkeys. The monkeys were trained to fixate, reach out and grasp one of six objects presented in a pseudorandom order. In M1 326 task-related neurons, 104 of which were identified as pyramidal tract neurons, and 138 F5 neurons were analyzed as separate populations. All three populations showed activity that distinguished the six objects grasped by the monkey. These three populations responded in a manner that generalized across different sets of objects. F5 neurons showed object/grasp related tuning earlier than M1 neurons in the visual presentation and premovement periods. Also F5 neurons generally showed a greater preference for particular objects/grasps than did M1 neurons. F5 neurons remained tuned to a particular grasp throughout both the premovement and reach-to-grasp phases of the task, whereas M1 neurons showed different selectivity during the different phases. We also found that different types of grasp appear to be represented by different overall levels of activity within the F5-M1 circuit. Altogether these properties are consistent with the notion that F5 grasping-related neurons play a role in translating visual information about the physical properties of an object into the motor commands that are appropriate for grasping, and which are elaborated within M1 for delivery to the appropriate spinal machinery controlling hand and digit muscles.
Using tests that are frequently administered by neuropsychologists, the authors investigated whether pathological gambling is associated with frontal lobe abnormalities. The sample comprised 10 pathological gamblers, 25 methamphetamine-dependent subjects, and 19 matched comparison subjects. The pathological gamblers and methamphetamine-dependent subjects performed significantly less well than comparison subjects, and the gamblers' test scores were comparable to those of the methamphetamine-dependent participants. The overall magnitude of the effect size was large. These findings demonstrate that the severity of frontal lobe dysfunction in pathological gambling is similar to that observed in methamphetamine-dependent individuals on frequently used clinical measures.
Few studies have described the metabolic substrates underlying neuropsychological performance in HIV infection or examined the specificity of these relationships. The authors performed magnetic resonance spectroscopic and neuropsychological evaluations on 61 patients with AIDS dementia complex (stages 1-3) and 39 HIV-positive neurologically asymptomatic individuals. N-acetylaspartate, a marker of mature neurons, choline and myoinositol, both markers of gliosis, and creatine, a reference marker, were measured in the basal ganglia, frontal white matter, and parietal cortex. The neuropsychological evaluation consisted of tests that measured gross and fine motor skills, psychomotor function, information processing speed, and verbal memory. The authors examined performance on individual subtests and an aggregate Z score based on eight subtests (NPZ-8), adjusted for age and education. The NPZ-8 was significantly higher in subjects with greater N-acetylaspartate/creatine in the frontal white matter and was lower in subjects with higher myoinositol/creatine in the basal ganglia. Particularly strong associations were found between measures of gross and fine motor function, which correlated positively with N-acetylaspartate/creatine in the frontal white matter and negatively with myoinositol/creatine in the basal ganglia. Similarly, cognitive processing speed was negatively correlated with myoinositol/creatine in the basal ganglia. In contrast, there were no statistically significant relationships between brain metabolite levels in the parietal cortex and neuropsychological function. This study provides convincing evidence that neuropsychological impairment is associated with reduced markers of mature neurons and increased markers of gliosis in the basal ganglia and frontal white matter. Neural changes as reflected by these metabolite levels may prove useful in identifying individuals at risk for neuropsychological impairment. Prospective studies are needed to elucidate the evolution of these changes in the setting of antiretroviral therapy.

Spinal cord injury (SCI)-induced functional impairment results from secondary apoptosis regulated in part by SCI-induced decreases in the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-x(L). We assessed the role that Bcl-x(L) subcellular rerouting and posttranslational phosphorylation play in Bcl-x(L) decreases in a contusion model of rat SCI. Immunohistochemical analysis showed the presence of Bcl-x(L) in neurons and oligodendrocytes, but not in astrocytes and microglia, whereas phosphorylated Bcl-x(L) (P-ser(62)-Bcl-x(L)) was present only in neurons. Western blot analyses showed Bcl-x(L) present in mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, nuclei, and cytosolic extracts, whereas P-ser(62)-Bcl-x(L) was restricted to organelles. During the first 24 hr after SCI, Bcl-x(L) levels decreased in all fractions but with a different time course, suggesting an independent regulation of Bcl-x(L) shuttling from the cytosol to each compartment after SCI. SCI did not affect P-ser(62)-Bcl-x(L) levels in organelles. However, P-ser(62)-Bcl-x(L), which was not detected in the cytosolic fraction of uninjured spinal cord, appeared in the cytosol as early as 15 min postcontusion, suggesting a role for phosphorylation in SCI-induced Bcl-x(L)-decreases. Using an in vitro model, we observed a correlation between levels of cytosolic phosphorylated Bcl-x(L) and neuronal apoptosis, supporting the hypothesis that Bcl-x(L) phosphorylation is proapoptotic. Activated microglia/macrophages robustly expressed Bcl-x(L) 7 days after SCI, and a subpopulation showing nuclear condensation also expressed P-ser(62)-Bcl-x(L). Therefore, phosphorylation of Bcl-x(L) may have opposite effects in injured spinal cords: 1) it may decrease levels of the antiapoptotic Bcl-x(L) in neurons contributing to neuronal death, and 2) it may promote apoptosis in activated microglia/macrophages, thus curtailing the inflammatory cascades associated with SCI.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and its cognate receptors, defined as Type 1 and Type 2 have been localized within the cerebellum. The Type 2 CRF receptor (CRF-R2) is known to have both a full length (CRF-R2alpha) and a truncated (CRF-R2alpha-tr) isoform. A recent study documented CRF-R2alpha primarily in Bergann glia and astrocytes, as well as in populations of Purkinje cells in the adult cerebellum. The goal of the present study is to determine if CRF-R2alpha is present in the postnatal cerebellum, and if so to describe its cellular distribution. RT-PCR data showed that CRF-R2alpha is expressed in the mouse cerebellum from birth through postnatal day 21. Between birth and P14, CRF-R2alpha-immunoreactivity was localized within the somata of Purkinje cells, and migrating GABAergic interneurons. GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes, including Bergmann glia, also expressed CRF-R2alpha-immunoreactivity from P3-P14. There is a change, however, in CRF-R2alpha immunolabeling within neurons as the cerebellum matures. Compared to its expression in the adult cerebellum, Purkinje cells, and GABAergic interneurons showed more extensive CRF-R2alpha immunolabeling during early postnatal development. We postulate that CRF-R2alpha could be involved in developmental events related to the survival and differentiation of Purkinje cells and GABAergic neurons, whereas in the adult, this isoform of the CRF receptor family is likely involved in modulating Bergmann glia that have been shown to play a role in regulating the synaptic environment around Purkinje neurons.
At the developing vertebrate neuromuscular junction, neuregulins are growth/differentiation factors essential for terminal Schwann cell survival. Neuregulins have also been thought as the critical signals responsible for the increased transcription of acetylcholine receptor subunit genes at the neuromuscular synapse. This latter role is now highly controversial. This article reviews the evidence that has shaped the views of the neuregulins and how these views have been challenged. The most recent experiments indicate that neuregulin signaling to postsynaptic muscle fibers may modulate, rather than determine, acetylcholine receptor expression at the neuromuscular junction. Based on findings from my lab and those of others, I propose that this modulation might involve novel posttranscriptional molecular mechanisms. Finally, I also suggest that neuregulin signaling may have an important role to play in mediating the response of adult terminal Schwann cells to denervation.

Metabolic suppression caused by barbiturates is a major mechanism responsible for their cerebral protective potential. Maximal cerebral metabolic suppression is believed to coincide with electroencephalographic burst suppression. However, many neurosurgical procedures associated with cerebral ischemic threat are still performed in the absence of electroencephalogram monitoring, especially in developing nations. The present study was designed to assess the degree of burst suppression with 2 different doses of thiopentone sodium administered on the background of isoflurane anesthesia intraoperatively. Forty-one patients without any intracranial pathology undergoing elective spinal surgery under a general anesthetic consisting of N2O (60%) in O2 (40%) and isoflurane to maintain a bispectral index (BIS) value of 45 were randomized to receive a thiopentone bolus of either 3 or 5 mg/kg. BIS, burst suppression ratio (BSR), systolic blood pressure, and heart rate were recorded before the bolus and every 15 seconds for first 2 minutes and every 30 seconds for another 8 minutes. During the 10-minute study period after the administration of thiopentone bolus, BIS values were significantly lower in the group that received thiopentone 5 mg/kg compared with the group that received thiopentone 3 mg/kg (P&lt;0.02). BSR&gt;25% was seen in 7 out of 21 patients in the 3 mg/kg group and 10 out of 20 patients in the 5 mg/kg group. There was a statistically insignificant prolongation of the duration of burst suppression with thiopentone 5 mg/kg [243 s (range 75 to 435 s)] compared with thiopentone 3 mg/kg [171 s (30 to 465 s)]. The number of patients who had a BSR &gt;50% was higher among patients who received thiopentone 5 mg/kg as compared with those who received a dose of 3 mg/kg [9/20 vs. 3/21(P&lt;0.02)]. We conclude that thiopentone in a bolus dose of 3 to 5 mg/kg produces only a short duration of incomplete burst suppression. Also, in this dose range, burst suppression does not occur consistently in all patients. The present data suggest that bolus doses of thiopentone in the range of 3 to 5 mg/kg may have very limited value in providing significant metabolic suppression required for intraoperative cerebral protection during temporary ischemic episodes.
It has previously been shown that small peptide molecules derived from the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) receptor binding region are anti-inflammatory in nature and can improve outcome following head injury. The present study evaluated the preclinical efficacy of COG1410, a small molecule ApoE-mimetic peptide (1410 daltons), following cortical contusion injury (CCI). Animals were prepared with a unilateral CCI of the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) or sham procedure. Thirty mins post-CCI the animals received i.v. infusions of 0.8 mg/kg COG1410, 0.4 mg/kg COG1410, or vehicle. Starting on day 2, the animals were tested on a battery of behavioral measures to assess sensorimotor (vibrissae-forelimb placing and forelimb use-asymmetry), and motor (tapered balance beam) performance. Administration of the 0.8 mg/kg dose of COG1410 significantly improved recovery on the vibrissae-forelimb and limb asymmetry tests. However, no facilitation was observed on the tapered beam. The low dose (0.4 mg/kg) of COG1410 did not show any significant differences compared to vehicle. Lesion analysis revealed that the 0.8 mg/kg dose of COG1410 significantly reduced the size of the injury cavity compared to the 0.4 mg/kg dose and vehicle. The 0.8 mg/kg dose also reduced the number of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP+) reactive cells in the injured cortex. These results suggest that a single dose of COG1410 facilitates behavioral recovery and provides neuroprotection in a dose and task-dependent manner. Thus, the continued clinical development of ApoE based therapeutics is warranted and could represent a novel strategy for the treatment of traumatic brain injuries.


This paper discusses a set of closely related parenting and family factors that should be considered when planning and measuring the outcome of interventions for children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). These include parenting and parent-child relationships, parental cognitions, parental adjustment, marital interactions, general family relationships, and adaptive child functioning within the family. The measurement of each construct is discussed, and comparative, longitudinal, and treatment outcome studies using these measures are reviewed. It is concluded that measures of treatment outcome for children with ADHD could be improved by utilizing multiple informants, developing tools with greater content and contextual validity, relying more on observational methods, and identifying those measures which are of greatest importance to families. Given the multiple pathways via which both psychosocial and pharmacological interventions exert their influence, composite measures combining multi-informant, multimethod constructs may represent more useful measures of treatment outcome than measures of primary ADHD symptoms.
A considerable body of evidence implicates endogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) in conditions in which pain is a prominent feature, including neuropathic pain. However, previous studies of NGF antagonism in animal models of neuropathic pain have examined only the prevention of hyperalgesia and allodynia after injury, whereas the more relevant issue is whether treatment can provide relief of established pain, particularly without tolerance. In the current work, we studied the effects of potent, neutralizing anti-NGF antibodies on the reversal of tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in established models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain in rats and mice. In the complete Freund's adjuvant-induced hind-paw inflammation, spinal nerve ligation and streptozotocin-induced neuropathic pain models, a single intraperitoneal injection of a polyclonal anti-NGF antibody reversed established tactile allodynia from approximately day 3 to day 7 after treatment. Effects on thermal hyperalgesia were variable with a significant effect observed only in the spinal nerve ligation model. In the mouse chronic constriction injury (CCI) model, a mouse monoclonal anti-NGF antibody reversed tactile allodynia when administered 2 weeks after surgery. Repeated administration of this antibody to CCI mice for 3 weeks produced a sustained reversal (days 4 to 21) of tactile allodynia that returned 5 days after the end of dosing. In conclusion, NGF seems to play a critical role in models of established neuropathic and inflammatory pain in both rats and mice, with no development of tolerance to antagonism. Antagonists of NGF, such as fully human monoclonal anti-NGF antibodies, may have therapeutic utility in analogous human pain conditions.
The locus coeruleus (LC) is involved in several neural pathways responsible for some somatic and emotional processes, such as pain and depression; its activity is regulated by several receptors, such as opioid, alpha(2)-adrenergic, and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) receptors. The present study investigates the in vivo effects of venlafaxine, an antidepressant with analgesic properties, on locus coeruleus neurons, and its modulation by opioid, alpha(2)-adrenergic, and 5-HT(1A) receptors. The results show that acute administration of venlafaxine produced a dose-dependent, complete inhibition of LC activity. This inhibitory effect was not reversed by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, but subsequent administration of idazoxan, an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, did reverse it. The preadministration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (1 and 40 microg/kg) significantly enhanced the venlafaxine inhibitory effect, decreasing the ED(50) by 56 and 44%, respectively. A 14-day treatment with venlafaxine (40 mg/kg/day) induced a suppression of the firing activity of LC neurons. In these treated animals, venlafaxine produced an inhibitory effect similar to that in nontreated animals. This inhibitory effect was not reversed by naloxone, but it was reversed by idazoxan. In addition, the preadministration of 8-OH-DPAT (40 microg/kg) significantly enhanced the venlafaxine effect, decreasing the ED(50) by 60%. These results suggest that the effect of venlafaxine on LC neurons is modulated by alpha(2)-adrenergic and 5-HT(1A) receptors, and not by opioid receptors. These data could contribute to the further understanding of the antidepressant and analgesic mechanism of action of venlafaxine.


The intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) provide a conduit through which rods and cones can access brain circuits mediating circadian entrainment, pupillary constriction and other non-image-forming visual functions. We characterized synaptic inputs to ipRGCs in rats using whole-cell and multielectrode array recording techniques. In constant darkness all ipRGCs received spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs. Light stimulation evoked in all ipRGCs both synaptically driven ('extrinsic') and autonomous melanopsin-based ('intrinsic') responses. The extrinsic light responses were depolarizing, about 5 log units more sensitive than the intrinsic light response, and transient near threshold but sustained to brighter light. Pharmacological data showed that ON bipolar cells and amacrine cells make the most prominent direct contributions to these extrinsic light responses, whereas OFF bipolar cells make a very weak contribution. The spatial extent of the synaptically driven light responses was comparable to that of the intrinsic photoresponse, suggesting that synaptic contacts are made onto the entire dendritic field of the ipRGCs. These synaptic influences increase the sensitivity of ipRGCs to light, and also extend their temporal bandpass to higher frequencies. These extrinsic ipRGC light responses can explain some of the previously reported properties of circadian photoentrainment and other non-image-forming visual behaviours.
Pathological fetal growth is associated with perinatal morbidity and the development of diabetes and cardiovascular disease later in life. Placental nutrient transport is a primary determinant of fetal growth. In human intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) the activity of key placental amino acid transporters, such as systems A and L, is decreased. However the mechanisms regulating placental nutrient transporters are poorly understood. We tested the hypothesis that the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling pathway regulates amino acid transport in the human placenta and that the activity of the placental mTOR pathway is reduced in IUGR. Using immunohistochemistry and culture of trophoblast cells, we show for the first time that the mTOR protein is expressed in the transporting epithelium of the human placenta. We further demonstrate that placental mTOR regulates activity of the l-amino acid transporter, but not system A or taurine transporters, by determining the mediated uptake of isotope-labelled leucine, methylaminoisobutyric acid and taurine in primary villous fragments after inhibition of mTOR using rapamycin. The protein expression of placental phospho-S6K1 (Thr-389), a measure of the activity of the mTOR signalling pathway, was markedly reduced in placentas obtained from pregnancies complicated by IUGR. These data identify mTOR as an important regulator of placental amino acid transport, and provide a mechanism for the changes in placental leucine transport in IUGR previously demonstrated in humans. We propose that mTOR functions as a placental nutrient sensor, matching fetal growth with maternal nutrient availability by regulating placental nutrient transport.
It has been proposed that different forms of rhythmic human limb movement have a common central neural control ('common core hypothesis'), just as in other animals. We compared the modulation patterns of background EMG and cutaneous reflexes during walking, arm and leg cycling, and arm-assisted recumbent stepping. We hypothesized that patterns of EMG and reflex modulation during cycling and stepping (deduced from mathematical principal components analysis) would be comparable to those during walking because they rely on similar neural substrates. Differences between the tasks were assessed by evoking cutaneous reflexes via stimulation of nerves in the foot and hand in separate trials. The EMG was recorded from flexor and extensor muscles of the arms and legs. Angular positions of the hip, knee and elbow joints were also recorded. Factor analysis revealed that across the three tasks, four principal components explained more than 93% of the variance in the background EMG and middle-latency reflex amplitude. Phase modulation of reflex amplitude was observed in most muscles across all tasks, suggesting activity in similar control networks. Significant correlations between EMG level and reflex amplitude were frequently observed only during static voluntary muscle activation and not during rhythmic movement. Results from a control experiment showed that strong correlation between EMG and reflex amplitudes was observed during discrete, voluntary leg extension but not during walking. There were task-dependent differences in reflex modulation between the three tasks which probably arise owing to specific constraints during each task. Overall, the results show strong correlation across tasks and support common neural patterning as the regulator of arm and leg movement during various rhythmic human movements.

To re-examine how the basal extracellular concentration of adenosine is regulated in acutely isolated cerebellar slices we have combined electrophysiological and microelectrode biosensor measurements. In almost all cases, synaptic transmission was tonically inhibited by adenosine acting via A1 receptors. By contrast, in most slices, the biosensors did not measure an adenosine tone but did record a spatially non-uniform extracellular tone of the downstream metabolites (inosine and hypoxanthine). Most of the extracellular hypoxanthine arose from the metabolism of inosine by ecto-purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP). Adenosine kinase was the major determinant of adenosine levels, as its inhibition increased both adenosine concentration and A1 receptor-mediated synaptic inhibition. Breakdown of adenosine by adenosine deaminase was the major source of the inosine/hypoxanthine tone. However adenosine deaminase played a minor role in determining the level of adenosine at synapses, suggesting a distal location. Blockade of adenosine transport (by NBTI/dipyridamole) had inconsistent effects on basal levels of adenosine and synaptic transmission. Unexpectedly, application of NBTI/dipyridamole prevented the efflux of adenosine resulting from block of adenosine kinase at only a subset of synapses. We conclude that there is spatial variation in the functional expression of NBTI/dipyridamole-sensitive transporters. The increased spatial and temporal resolution of the purine biosensor measurements has revealed the complexity of the control of adenosine and purine tone in the cerebellum.
Visual information modulates the balance response evoked by a pure vestibular perturbation (galvanic vestibular stimulation, GVS). Here we investigate two competing hypotheses underlying this visual-vestibular interaction. One hypothesis assumes vision acts in a feedforward manner by altering the weight of the vestibular channel of balance control. The other assumes vision acts in a feedback manner through shifts in the retinal image produced by the primary response. In the first experiment we demonstrate a phenomenon that is predicted by both hypotheses: the GVS-evoked balance response becomes progressively smaller as the amount of visual self-motion information is increased. In the second experiment we independently vary the pre-stimulus and post-stimulus visual environments. The rationale is that feedback effects would depend only upon the post-stimulus visual environment. Although the post-stimulus visual environment did affect later parts of the response (after approximately 400 ms), the pre-stimulus visual environment had a strong influence on the size of the early part of the response. We conclude that both feedforward and feedback mechanisms act in concert to modulate the GVS-evoked response. We suggest this dual interaction that we observe between visual and vestibular channels is likely to apply to all sensory channels that contribute to balance control.
This study examined the influence of oestrogen on cardiovascular responses to hypotension produced by administration of isoproterenol (Isop) and on neural activation in hindbrain nuclei mediating these responses. We first measured mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) after administration of isoproterenol, a beta-adrenergic agonist that increases circulating levels of AngII, in ovariectomized (OVX) rats treated with oestradiol benzoate (EB). We then evaluated EB effects on Isop-induced Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) in the hindbrain baroreflex circuit. To control for weight loss associated with oestrogen replacement in OVX rats, we food restricted a separate group of OVX rats and evaluated Isop-induced changes in MAP, HR and Fos-IR. The depressor response to Isop was significantly attenuated by EB, which also produced a disproportionate increase in HR. These effects were not secondary to loss of body weight after EB treatment, because cardiovascular responses to Isop in food restricted rats were similar to those in OVX rats treated with the oil vehicle. Isop significantly increased Fos-IR in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), area postrema (AP), rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), and lateral parabrachial nucleus (lPBN); however, EB significantly attenuated the increase in the AP and in the lPBN. Again, these effects were not secondary to body weight loss, because food restricted rats had the same pattern of Fos-IR as did rats treated with the oil vehicle. These results suggest that EB modifies cardiovascular responses to Isop, possibly by decreasing activation of the AP and lPBN.

The introduction, an imaginary dialogue between a philosopher and a scientist, is followed by a brief discussion of the interactions between science, philosophy, and religion. Next comes an analysis of the three most popular philosophies of mind: classical mind-body dualism, computerism, and psychoneural monism. It is argued that the latter, held by medical psychologists since Hippocrates, and formulated explicitly by Cajal and Hebb, is the philosophy of mind that underlies contemporary cognitive and affective neuroscience. The standard objections to psychoneural monism (or materialism) are examined. Evolutionary psychology, though promissory, is judged to be more fancy than fact at its present stage. The conclusion is that the philosophy of mind is still in a poor shape, but that it can advance if it learns more from the science of mind. It would also help if scientific psychologists were to replace such tacitly dualistic expressions as &quot;organ N instantiates (or subserves) mental function M&quot; with &quot;organ N performs mental function M&quot;, just as we say &quot;the legs walk&quot; instead of &quot;walking is subserved by legs,&quot; and &quot;the lungs breathe&quot; instead of &quot;the lungs instantiate breathing.&quot;
Philosophers use the phrase &quot;moral intuition&quot; to describe the appearance in consciousness of moral judgments or assessments without any awareness of having gone through a conscious reasoning process that produces this assessment. This paper investigates the neural substrates of moral intuition. We propose that moral intuitions are part of a larger set of social intuitions that guide us through complex, highly uncertain and rapidly changing social interactions. Such intuitions are shaped by learning. The neural substrates for moral intuition include fronto-insular, cingulate, and orbito-frontal cortices and associated subcortical structure such as the septum, basil ganglia and amygdala. Understanding the role of these structures undercuts many philosophical doctrines concerning the status of moral intuitions, but vindicates the claim that they can sometimes play a legitimate role in moral decision-making.
Social cognition appears to present phenomena that &quot;ruthlessly reductive&quot; molecular and cellular neuroscience cannot fruitfully investigate or explain. This is because the causes of such phenomena are distal and external not only to the molecular machinery of individual neurons, but to individual brains. However, the &quot;reductionist's epiphany&quot; insists that to the extent that we understand the specific molecular mechanisms that underlie phenomena upon which most or all social cognition depends, we can be sure that molecular mechanisms for the broader phenomena can be found using standard experimental methods from molecular and cellular cognition. Furthermore, social recognition memory consolidation is required for virtually all types of social cognition, and its specific molecular mechanisms have now been uncovered experimentally. These same molecular mechanisms obtain across a wide variety of divergent species (from invertebrates to vertebrates). Thus we can expect to find the molecular mechanisms of the broader social cognitive functions that must &quot;plug into&quot; these specific molecular mechanisms, despite these functions' typically distal, external initial causes. This conclusion rests on explicit scientific facts, not just on some vague philosophical commitment to physicalism about mind.
Studies of cognitive function include a wide spectrum of disciplines, with very diverse theoretical and practical frameworks. For example, in Behavioral Neuroscience cognitive mechanisms are mostly inferred from loss of function (lesion) experiments while in Cognitive Neuroscience these mechanisms are commonly deduced from brain activation patterns. Although neuroscientists acknowledge the limitations of deriving conclusions using a limited scope of approaches, there are no systematically studied, objective and explicit criteria for what is required to test a given hypothesis of cognitive function. This problem plagues every discipline in science: scientific research lacks objective, systematic studies that validate the principles underlying even its most elemental practices. For example, scientists decide what experiments are best suited to test key ideas in their field, which hypotheses have sufficient supporting evidence and which require further investigation, which studies are important and which are not, based on intuitions derived from experience, implicit principles learned from mentors and colleagues, traditions in their fields, etc. Philosophers have made numerous attempts to articulate and frame the principles that guide research and innovation, but these speculative ideas have remained untested and have had a minimal impact on the work of scientists. Here, I propose the development of methods for systematically and objectively studying and improving the modus operandi of research and development. This effort (the science of scientific research or S2) will benefit all aspects of science, from education of young scientists to research, publishing and funding, since it will provide explicit and systematically tested frameworks for practices in science. To illustrate its goals, I will introduce a hypothesis (the Convergent Four) derived from experimental practices common in molecular and cellular biology. This S2 hypothesis proposes that there are at least four fundamentally distinct strategies that scientists can use to test the connection between two phenomena of interest (A and B), and that to establish a compelling connection between A and B it is crucial to develop independently confirmed lines of convergent evidence in each of these four categories. The four categories include negative alteration (decrease probability of A or p(A) and determine p(B)), positive alteration (increase p(A) and determine p(B)), non-intervention (examine whether A precedes B) and integration (develop ideas about how to get from A to B and integrate those ideas with other available information about A and B). I will discuss both strategies to test this hypothesis and its implications for studies of cognitive function.
Generic agents do not require large clinical trials of safety and efficacy to enter the market, although they must demonstrate both pharmacological and bioequivalence to the brand name drug. Bioequivalence is attained when the extent of absorption of the generic falls within an FDA predefined range relative to the brand name drug. This potential variation in bioequivalence is not thought to be clinically meaningful, however, there are reports of a lack of therapeutic equivalence between some generic medications and the brand name. This study examines the potential risks posed by a switch from Celexa to generic citalopram. Twenty patients at an Anxiety Disorders Clinic who were unknowingly switched to generic citalopram, from Celexa (Lundbeck, Montreal, Quebec, Canada) and experienced a re-emergence of their anxiety symptoms or development of new adverse events are described in this case series report. The mean time for re-emergence of symptoms or development of adverse events was 3.4 +/- 1.6 weeks (range 0.5-8 weeks). All patients reestablished previous treatment response with a change back to Celexa in a mean time of 3.8 +/- 2.6 weeks (range 0.7-12 weeks). Given these results, it is important for clinicians to be aware of the potential for loss of treatment effect or symptom re-emergence posed by a switch to a generic agent. Randomized, double blind, controlled investigations would likely provide useful information as current bioequivalence and pharmacological equivalence do not necessarily translate into clinical equivalence.

We report a young lady with acute left middle cerebral artery infarction after acute intake of amphetamine. This is the first case report of amphetamine-induced ischemic stroke with serial angiography and transcranial color-coded Doppler studies. The temporal sequence of stenosis of at least 3 weeks with subsequent complete resolution by 3 months and a &quot;beaded&quot; appearance on angiography support vasculitis or vasospasm as the pathogenesis of ischemic stroke in this patient. The presence of microembolic signals supports acute thrombosis at the site of vasculitis/vasospasm with distal embolism.

Picornaviruses carry a small number of proteins with diverse functions that subvert and exploit the host cell. We have previously shown that three coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) proteins (2B, 2BC, and 3A) target the Golgi complex and inhibit protein transit. Here we investigate these effects in more detail and evaluate the distribution of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules, which are critical mediators of the CD8(+) T-cell response. We report that concomitant with viral protein synthesis, MHC class I surface expression is rapidly downregulated during infection. However, this phenomenon may not result solely from inhibition of anterograde trafficking; we propose a new mechanism whereby the CVB3 2B and 2BC proteins upregulate the internalization of MHC class I (and possibly other surface proteins), perhaps by focusing of endocytic vesicles at the Golgi complex. Thus, our findings indicate that CVB3 carries at least three nonstructural proteins that directionally complement one another; 3A disrupts the Golgi complex to inhibit anterograde transport, while 2B and/or 2BC upregulates endocytosis, rapidly removing proteins from the cell surface. Taken together, these effects may render CVB3-infected cells invisible to CD8(+) T cells and untouchable by many antiviral effector molecules. This has important implications for immune evasion by CVB3.


Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been limited by time-consuming data analysis and a low signal-to-noise ratio, impeding online analysis. Recent advances in acquisition techniques, computational power and algorithms increased the sensitivity and speed of fMRI significantly, making real-time analysis and display of fMRI data feasible. So far, most reports have focused on the technical aspects of real-time fMRI (rtfMRI). Here, we provide an overview of the different major areas of applications that became possible with rtfMRI: online analysis of single-subject data provides immediate quality assurance and functional localizers guiding the main fMRI experiment or surgical interventions. In teaching, rtfMRI naturally combines all essential parts of a neuroimaging experiment, such as experimental design, data acquisition and analysis, while adding a high level of interactivity. Thus, the learning of essential knowledge required to conduct functional imaging experiments is facilitated. rtfMRI allows for brain-computer interfaces (BCI) with a high spatial and temporal resolution and whole-brain coverage. Recent studies have shown that such BCI can be used to provide online feedback of the blood-oxygen-level-dependent signal and to learn the self-regulation of local brain activity. Preliminary evidence suggests that this local self-regulation can be used as a new paradigm in cognitive neuroscience to study brain plasticity and the functional relevance of brain areas, even being potentially applicable for psychophysiological treatment.
Application of MRI contrast agents to neural systems research is complicated by the need to deliver agents past the blood-brain barrier or into cells, and the difficulty of targeting agents to specific brain structures or cell types. In the future, these barriers may be wholly or partially overcome using genetic methods for producing and directing MRI contrast. Here we review MRI contrast mechanisms that have used gene expression to manipulate MRI signal in cultured cells or in living animals. We discuss both fully genetic systems involving endogenous biosynthesis of contrast agents, and semi-genetic systems in which expressed proteins influence the localization or activity of exogenous contrast agents. We close by considering which contrast-generating mechanisms might be most suitable for applications in neuroscience, and we ask how genetic control machinery could be productively combined with existing molecular agents to enable next-generation neuroimaging experiments.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the commonest form of degenerative dementia and is characterised by progressive cognitive decline. Despite extensive research, the cause of AD is unknown and there is no cure at present. Of the deficits found in AD, that affecting the cholinergic neurotransmitter system is the best established and the only one translated into symptomatic treatment. Cholinergic enhancement with cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) drugs has been achieved and their efficacy and safety ascertained by conventional clinical trials. The mechanism of action of these drugs, however, is not well understood. Imaging with SPECT, PET, MRI and fMRI after treatment has clarified what happens in the brains of those AD patients treated with ChEI drugs. Studies with these techniques have identified increases in brain blood flow and glucose metabolism, restoration of nicotinic receptor function and re-establishment of task-related regional brain activation in response to cognitive stimulation after treatment. Structural MRI studies have explained, to some degree, why only a proportion of patients benefits from ChEI treatment and there is some evidence that some ChEI drugs might be neuroprotective. There are, however, many unsolved problems. Timing of treatment intervention to obtain maximum response and the determinants of treatment response are mostly unknown. It is also unclear whether administration of treatment in those patients who have no potential for response accelerates disease progression. These issues cannot be solved by conventional clinical trials. Pharmacoimaging studies could assist the development and refinement of drugs to treat those diseases, such as AD, which affect the central nervous system.
This functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study examined changes in brain activation after prolonged (20 weeks) and stabilized treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor galantamine in a small group of patients with very mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two cognitive activation paradigms were chosen: one requiring semantic association and the other relying on attention and requiring target detection. A group of age- and education-matched healthy controls was also scanned for comparison. A modest (but not statistically significant) improvement in behavioral scores after treatment was observed in both fMRI tasks. There were brain activation increases in the semantic association task after treatment, and the differences in brain activation present in the comparison of AD patients' baseline images with those of controls were not detectable after treatment. In the target detection task, regions that were activated in the elderly controls but not in the baseline images of the AD group also showed significant activation after treatment. Overall, however, the increases were modest and might reflect the heterogeneity of clinical response to treatment in this small group. Future pharmacological fMRI studies should include clinical response as a factor in the analysis of cholinergic enhancement effects in AD patients.
Spinal cord (SC) motion is thought to be the dominant source of error in current diffusion and spinal functional MRI (fMRI) methods. However, until now, such motion has not been well characterized in three dimensions. While previous studies have predominantly examined motion in the superior/inferior (S/I) direction, the foci of the present study were the anterior/posterior (A/P) and right/left (R/L) components of human cervical and upper thoracic SC motion. Cardiac-gated, turbofast low-angle shot (turbo-FLASH) cinematic MRI was employed at 3T to acquire images of the cord at 24 phases throughout the cardiac cycle. Time-dependent signal fluctuations within voxels adjacent to the cord/cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) interface were then used to measure SC motion, which was found to occur predictably as a function of cardiac activity. Cord movement was largest in the A/P direction, for which principal components of motion were calculated, thereby indicating consistent patterns of SC oscillation that can potentially be used to improve SC imaging.

Although the underlying mechanics of autobiographical memory may be identical across cultures, the processing of information differs. Undergraduates from Japan, Turkey, and the USA rated 30 autobiographical memories on 15 phenomenological and cognitive properties. Mean values were similar across cultures, with means from the Japanese sample being lower on most measures but higher on belief in the accuracy of their memories. Correlations within individuals were also similar across cultures, with correlations from the Turkish sample being higher between measures of language and measures of recollection and belief. For all three cultures, in multiple regression analyses, measures of recollection were predicted by visual imagery, auditory imagery, and emotions, whereas measures of belief were predicted by knowledge of the setting. These results show subtle cultural differences in the experience of remembering.
Mitochondrial encephalomyopathies, arising from deficiencies of the electron transport chain (ETC) give rise to a wide clinical spectrum of presentation and are often progressive in nature. The aetiology of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies have yet to be fully elucidated, however, a successive loss of ETC function may contribute to the progressive nature of these disorders. The possibility arises that as a consequence of a primary impairment of ETC activity, secondary damage to the ETC may occur. In order to investigate this hypothesis, we established a model of cytochrome oxidase (Complex IV) deficiency in cultured human astrocytoma 1321N cells. Potassium cyanide (KCN, 1mM) resulted in a sustained 50% (p&lt;0.01) loss of complex IV. At 24h activities of the other ETC complexes were unaffected. However, at 72h significant loss of succinate-cytochrome c reductase (complex II-III) activity expressed as a ratio to the mitochondrial marker, citrate synthase was observed. (KCN treated; 0.065+/-0.011 vs controls; 0.118+/-0.017 mean+/-SEM, n=8, p&lt;0.05). These results provide a possible mechanism for the progressive nature of ETC defects and why in some patients multiple patterns of ETC deficiencies can be demonstrated.
In both invertebrates and vertebrates, UNC5 receptors facilitate chemorepulsion away from a Netrin source. Unlike most motor neurons in the embryonic vertebrate spinal cord, spinal accessory motor neuron (SACMN) cell bodies and their axons translocate along a dorsally directed trajectory away from the floor plate/ventral midline and toward the lateral exit point (LEP). We have recently shown that Netrin-1 and DCC are required for the migration of SACMN cell bodies, in vivo. These observations raised the possibility that vertebrate UNC5 proteins mediate the presumed repulsion of SACMN away from the Netrin-rich ventral midline. Here, we show that SACMN are likely to express UNC5A and UNC5C. Whereas SACMN development proceeds normally in UNC5A null mice, many SACMN cell bodies fail to migrate away from the ventral midline and inappropriately cluster in the ventrolateral spinal cord of mouse embryos lacking UNC5C. These results support an important role for UNC5C in SACMN development.
This study has examined the relationship between the effects of opioids on the internalization of mu opioid receptors (MORs) and the morphology of dendritic spines. Several opioids (morphine, etorphine, DAMGO or methadone) were applied to cultured hippocampal neurons. Live imaging and biochemical techniques were used to examine the dynamic changes in MOR internalization and spine morphology. This study reveals that MOR internalization can regulate opioid-induced morphological changes in dendritic spines: (1) Chronic treatment with morphine, which induced minimal receptor internalization, caused collapse of dendritic spines. In contrast, &quot;internalizing&quot; opioids such as DAMGO and etorphine induced the emergence of new spines. It reveals that opioid-induced changes in spines vary greatly depending on how the applied opioid agonist affects MOR internalization. (2) The blockade of receptor internalization by dominant negative mutant of dynamin, K44E, reversed the effects of DAMGO and etorphine. It indicates that receptor internalization is necessary for the distinct effects of DAMGO and etorphine on spines. (3) In neurons that were cultured from MOR knock-out mice and had been co-transfected with DsRed and MOR-GFP, morphine caused collapse of spines whereas DAMGO induced emergence of new spines, indicating that opioids can alter the structure of spines via postsynaptic MORs. (4) Methadone at a low concentration induced minimal internalization and had effects that were similar to morphine. At a high concentration, methadone induced robust internalization and had effects that are opposite to morphine. The concentration-dependent opioid-induced changes in dendritic spines might also contribute to the variation in the effects of individual opioids.
During late developmental phases individual sympathetic neurons undergo a switch from noradrenergic to cholinergic neurotransmission. This phenomenon of plasticity depends on target-derived signals in vivo and is triggered by neurotrophic factors in neuronal cultures. To analyze genome-wide expression differences between the two transmitter phenotypes we employed DNA microarrays. RNA expression profiles were obtained from chick paravertebral sympathetic ganglia, treated with neurotrophin 3, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor or ciliary neurotrophic factor, all of which stimulate cholinergic differentiation. Results were compared with the effect of nerve growth factor, which functions as a pro-noradrenergic stimulus. The gene set common to all three comparisons defined the noradrenergic and cholinergic synexpression groups. Several functional categories, such as signal transduction, G-protein-coupled signaling, cation transport, neurogenesis and synaptic transmission, were enriched in these groups. Experiments based on the prediction that some of the identified genes play a role in the neurotransmitter switch identified bone morphogenetic protein signaling as an inhibitor of cholinergic differentiation.
Human neural precursor proliferation and potency is limited by senescence and loss of oligodendrocyte potential. We found that in vitro expansion of human postnatal brain CD133(+) nestin(+) precursors is enhanced at 5% oxygen, while raising oxygen tension to 20% depletes precursors and promotes astrocyte differentiation even in the presence of mitogens. Higher cell densities yielded more astrocytes regardless of oxygen tension. This was reversed by noggin at 5%, but not 20%, oxygen due to a novel repressive effect of low oxygen on bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling. When induced to differentiate by mitogen withdrawal, 5% oxygen-expanded precursors generated 17-fold more oligodendrocytes than cells expanded in 20% oxygen. When precursors were expanded at 5% oxygen and then differentiated at 20% oxygen, oligodendrocyte maturation was further enhanced 2.5-fold. These results indicate that dynamic control of oxygen tension regulates different steps in fate and maturation and may be crucial for treating neurodegenerative diseases.
G protein-coupled receptor 39 (GPR39) is a constitutively active, orphan member of the ghrelin receptor family that is activated by zinc ions. GPR39 is here described to be expressed in a full-length, biologically active seven-transmembrane form, GPR39-1a, as well as in a truncated splice variant five-transmembrane form, GPR39-1b. The 3' exon of the GPR39 gene overlaps with an antisense gene called LYPD1 (Ly-6/PLAUR domain containing 1). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that GPR39-1a is expressed selectively throughout the gastrointestinal tract, including the liver and pancreas as well as in the kidney and adipose tissue, whereas the truncated GPR39-1b form has a more broad expression pattern, including the central nervous system but with highest expression in the stomach and small intestine. In contrast, the LYPD1 antisense gene is highly expressed throughout the central nervous system as characterized with both quantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization analysis. A functional analysis of the GPR39 promoter region identified sites for the hepatocyte nuclear factors 1alpha and 4alpha (HNF-1alpha and -4alpha) and specificity protein 1 (SP1) transcription factors as being important for the expression of GPR39. In vivo experiments in rats demonstrated that GPR39 is up-regulated in adipose tissue during fasting and in response to streptozotocin treatment, although its expression is kept constant in the liver from the same animals. GPR39-1a was expressed in white but not brown adipose tissue and was down-regulated during adipocyte differentiation of fibroblasts. It is concluded that the transcriptional control mechanism, the tissue expression pattern, and in vivo response to physiological stimuli all indicate that the GPR39 receptor very likely is of importance for the function of a number of metabolic organs, including the liver, gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, and adipose tissue.
Endogenous opioids, particularly dynorphins, have been implicated in regulation of energy balance, but it is not known how they mediate this in vivo. We investigated energy homeostasis in dynorphin knockout mice (Dyn(-/-) mice) and probed the interactions between dynorphins and the neuropeptide Y (NPY) system. Dyn(-/-) mice were no different from wild types with regards to body weight and basal and fasting-induced food intake, but fecal output was increased, suggesting decreased nutrient absorption, and they had significantly less white fat and lost more weight during a 24-h fast. The neuroendocrine and thermal responses to fasting were at least as pronounced in Dyn(-/-) as in wild types, and there was no stimulatory effect of dynorphin knockout on 24-h energy expenditure (kilocalories of heat produced) or physical activity. However, Dyn(-/-) mice showed increased circulating concentrations of 3,4-dihydroxyphenlacetic acid and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol, suggesting increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system. The respiratory exchange ratio of male but not female Dyn(-/-) mice was reduced, demonstrating increased fat oxidation. Interestingly, expression of the orexigenic acting NPY in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus was reduced in Dyn(-/-) mice. However, fasting-induced increases in pre-prodynorphin expression in the arcuate nucleus, the paraventricular nucleus, and the ventromedial hypothalamus but not the lateral hypothalamus were abolished by deletion of Y(1) but not Y(2) receptors. Therefore, ablation of dynorphins results in increases in fatty acid oxidation in male mice, reductions in adiposity, and increased weight loss during fasting, possibly via increases in sympathetic activity, decreases in intestinal nutrient absorption, and interactions with the NPYergic system.
The symptomatology and known pathology of Alzheimer's disease are restricted to the central nervous system. This review details studies of PET tracers aimed at interrogating cholinergic, serotonergic, opiate, benzodiazepine, and inflammatory pathways as well as PET tracers that illuminate amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in AD. Progress has been remarkable. Together with studies of brain structure with MRI and of functional regional brain activity, e.g., through measures of blood flow and glucose metabolic rate, molecular imaging promises to dramatically alter our understanding of the structural and physiological abnormalities underlying AD symptomatology. A more immediate impact on the diagnosis and treatment evaluation of AD patients in clinical trials is predicted while the possibility of personalized treatment or prevention of AD may not be that far away.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), there is degeneration of the cholinergic, noradrenergic, and serotonergic systems in addition to dopaminergic projections. Function of these non-dopaminergic systems can be imaged with positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and correlated with motor and nonmotor symptomatology. In addition, neuronal loss in PD is associated with microglial activation. The role of microglia in driving the disease process remains uncertain. This review presents and discusses current findings in these areas.
Brain imaging of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism has been playing key roles in describing pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD), respectively. Many biomarkers have been developed in recent years to investigate the abnormality in molecular substrate, track the time course of disease progression, and evaluate the efficacy of novel experimental therapeutics. A growing body of literature has emerged on neurobiology of these two movement disorders in resting states and in response to brain activation tasks. In this paper, we review the latest applications of these approaches in patients and normal volunteers at rest conditions. The discussions focus on brain mapping studies with univariate and multivariate statistical analyses on a voxel basis. In particular, we present data to validate the reproducibility and reliability of unique spatial covariance patterns related with PD and HD.
Neuroimaging studies have provided a major contribution to our understanding of the mechanisms of the placebo effect in neurological and psychiatric disorders. Expectation of symptom improvement has long been believed to play a critical role in the placebo effect, and is associated with increased endogenous striatal dopamine release in Parkinson's disease and increased endogenous opioid transmission in placebo analgesia. Evidence from positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging studies suggests that expectations of symptom improvement are driven by frontal cortical areas, particularly the dorsolateral prefrontal, orbitofrontal, and anterior cingulate cortices. The ventral striatum is involved in the expectation of rewarding stimuli and, together with the prefrontal cortex, has also been shown to play an important role in the placebo-induced expectation of therapeutic benefit. Understanding the mechanisms of the placebo effect has important implications for treatment of several medical conditions, including depression, pain, and Parkinson's disease.
Zinc is an essential cofactor for the activity and folding of up to ten percent of mammalian proteins and can modulate the function of many others. Because of the pleiotropic effects of zinc on every aspect of cell physiology, deficits of cellular zinc content, resulting from zinc deficiency or excessive rise in its cellular concentration, can have catastrophic consequences and are linked to major patho-physiologies including diabetes and stroke. Thus, the concentration of cellular zinc requires establishment of discrete, active cellular gradients. The cellular distribution of zinc into organelles is precisely managed to provide the zinc concentration required by each cell compartment. The complexity of zinc homeostasis is reflected by the surprisingly large variety and number of zinc homeostatic proteins found in virtually every cell compartment. Given their ubiquity and importance, it is surprising that many aspects of the function, regulation, and crosstalk by which zinc transporters operate are poorly understood. In this mini-review, we will focus on the mechanisms and players required for generating physiologically appropriate zinc gradients across the plasma membrane and vesicular compartments. We will also highlight some of the unsolved issues regarding their role in cellular zinc homeostasis.
Zinc translocation from presynaptic nerve terminals to postsynaptic neurons has generally been considered the critical step leading to the accumulation of intracellular free zinc and subsequent neuronal injury. Recent evidence, however, strongly suggests that the liberation of zinc from intracellular stores upon oxidative and nitrative stimulation contributes significantly to the toxicity of this metal not only to neurons, but also to oligodendrocytes. The exact cell death signaling pathways triggered by zinc are beginning to be deciphered. In this review, we describe how the activation of 12-lipoxygenase and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) contribute to the toxicity of liberated zinc to neurons and oligodendrocytes.
Adrenomedullin (ADM) in the brain plays important roles in the maintenance of homeostasis. Although in vivo evidence has suggested that nitric oxide (NO) mediates ADM's effects in the brain, mechanisms for ADM stimulation of NO production in neurons have not been identified. In the present study, primary hypothalamic neurons were used to characterize ADM-induced NO production and to study the underlying mechanisms. Using Calcium Orange/4-amino-5-methylamino-2',7'-difluorofluorescein fluorescence live cell imaging, we found that ADM (1 or 10 nM, 5 min) significantly elevated [Ca(2+)](i) and NO production in a concentration-dependent manner. Ca(2+) and NO responses induced by 10 nM ADM were abolished by pretreatment with 50 microM 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid-acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM), an intracellular Ca(2+) chelator, or protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors 5 microM N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide dihydrochloride (H-89) and 50 microM Rp-cAMP. Furthermore, the ADM-induced NO production was significantly attenuated by a protein phosphatase 1/2A inhibitor, okadaic acid (OA; 0.1 microM), or calcineurin inhibitors, tacrolimus (FK506) (1 microM) and cyclosporin A (CsA; 0.1 microM). Using Western blotting, we found that ADM significantly decreased phosphorylation of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) at serine 847. This dephosphorylation was inhibited by 0.1 microM OA, 1 microM FK506, 0.1 microM CsA, or 5 microM H-89, and attenuated by 50 microM BAPTA-AM. These results suggest that, in hypothalamic neurons, ADM elevates [Ca(2+)](i) via PKA-associated mechanisms. The PKA/Ca(2+) cascade leads to protein phosphatase (PP) 1/PP2A- and calcineurin-mediated dephosphorylation of nNOS. We hypothesize that the Ca(2+) increase and nNOS dephosphorylation contribute to activation of nNOS and production of NO in hypothalamic neurons.
Non-genomic, rapid actions of steroids have long been known, suggesting the possible presence of non-classical steroid receptors. A membrane receptor for progestins (mPR) was recently described in the spotted seatrout, and transcripts of three related receptors (alpha, beta, and gamma) were subsequently identified in other species including human and mouse. To begin exploring the roles of mPRgamma in mammals, we have generated an antibody against this receptor. The specificity of the antibody was demonstrated by both overexpression and RNA interference experiments. Using the antibody, we show that mPRgamma is expressed in female mouse reproductive tissues such as ovary and fallopian tube, and also in the lung and liver of both sexes. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that mPRgamma is associated with the apical membrane of ciliated cells facing the lumen of the fallopian tube. The presence of mPRgamma in ciliated cells of the fallopian tube was also demonstrated in human samples. Rapid effects of progesterone on ciliary beat frequency in the fallopian tube have recently been reported. Together, this suggests a common role for mPRgamma in the regulation of ciliary activity in the fallopian tube and thus gamete transport in mammals. The presence of mPRgamma in lung and liver of mice suggests that the receptor mediates the actions of progesterone outside the reproductive tract as well.
Driven by recent empirical studies, we offer a new understanding of the degrees of freedom problem, and propose a refined concept of synergy as a neural organization that ensures a one-to-many mapping of variables providing for both stability of important performance variables and flexibility of motor patterns to deal with possible perturbations and/or secondary tasks. Empirical evidence is reviewed, including a discussion of the operationalization of stability/flexibility through the method of the uncontrolled manifold. We show how this concept establishes links between the various accounts for how movement is organized in redundant effector systems.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic neurological disease affecting the central nervous system (CNS). The disease is characterised by demyelination and axonal loss caused by abnormal immunological responses resulting in accumulating neurological disabilities. MS is considered a complex disease, with both genetic and environmental factors contributing to the pathogenesis. In this study, we have investigated the genetic role of the myeloperoxidase (MPO) gene encoding myeloperoxidase in MS. MPO is an enzyme found in myeloid cells which catalyses the production of hypochlorus acid, a potent microbicidal agent. It also plays an important role in inflammatory processes, where migrating neutrophiles may release active MPO and cause tissue damage. In this study, we investigated two polymorphisms located in the promotor region of the MPO gene, known to influence the expression of MPO, in a large case/control material consisting of 871 Swedish MS patients and 532 Swedish healthy controls. No association was observed with risk of MS.
The atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) in complex with PAR3 and PAR6 is required for axon-dendrite differentiation, but the upstream factors responsible for regulating its activity are largely unknown. Here, we report that in cultured hippocampal neurons aPKC is directly regulated by Dishevelled (Dvl), an immediate downstream effector of Wnt. We found that downregulation of Dvl abrogated axon differentiation, whereas Dvl overexpression resulted in multiple axon formation. Interestingly, Dvl was associated with aPKC and this interaction resulted in aPKC stabilization and activation. Furthermore, the multiple axon formation resulting from Dvl overexpression was attenuated by expressing a dominant-negative aPKC in these neurons and overexpression of aPKC prevented the loss of axon caused by Dvl downregulation. Finally, Wnt5a, a noncanonical Wnt, activated aPKC and promoted axon differentiation. The Wnt5a effect on axon differentiation was attenuated by downregulating Dvl or inhibiting aPKC. Thus, Dvl-aPKC interaction can promote axon differentiation mediated by the PAR3-PAR6-aPKC complex.

In neurology, as in all branches of medicine, symptoms of disease and the resulting burden of illness and disability are not simply the consequence of the injury, inflammation or dysfunction of a given organ; they also reflect the consequences of the nervous system's attempt to adapt to the insult. This plastic response includes compensatory changes that prove adaptive for the individual, as well as changes that contribute to functional disability and are, therefore, maladaptive. In this context, brain stimulation techniques tailored to modulate individual plastic changes associated with neurological diseases might enhance clinical benefits and minimize adverse effects. In this Review, we discuss the use of two noninvasive brain stimulation techniques--repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and transcranial direct current stimulation--to modulate activity in the targeted cortex or in a dysfunctional network, to restore an adaptive equilibrium in a disrupted network for best behavioral outcome, and to suppress plastic changes for functional advantage. We review randomized controlled studies, in focal epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, recovery from stroke, and chronic pain, to illustrate these principles, and we present evidence for the clinical effects of these two techniques.

Here we describe a technique for measuring changes in Ca2+ in the cytosolic domain of mature compact myelin of live axons in the central nervous system (CNS). We label the myelin sheath of optic nerve and dorsal column axons by using the Ca2+ indicator X-rhod-1 coupled with DiOC6(3) to produce bright myelin counterstaining, thereby providing unambiguous identification of the myelin sheath for analysis of two-photon excited fluorescence. We present evidence for localization of the Ca2+ reporter to the cytosolic domain of myelin, obtained by using fluorescence lifetime, spectral measurements and Mn2+ quenching. Chemical ischemia increased myelinic X-rhod-1 fluorescence (approximately 50% after 30 min) in a manner dependent on extracellular Ca2+. Inhibiting Na+-dependent glutamate transporters (with TBOA) or glycine transporters (with sarcosine and ALX-1393) reduced the ischemia-induced increase in Ca2+. We show that myelinic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are activated by the two conventional coagonists glutamate and glycine, which are released by specific transporters under conditions of cellular Na+ loading and depolarization in injured white matter. This new technique facilitates detailed studies of living myelin, a vital component of the mammalian CNS.
Disorders of the central nervous system (CNS) are some of the most prevalent, devastating and yet poorly treated illnesses. The development of new therapies for CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's disease has the potential to provide patients with significant improvements in quality of life, as well as reduce the future economic burden on health-care systems. However, few truly innovative CNS drugs have been approved in recent years, suggesting that there is a considerable need for strategies to enhance the productivity of research and development in this field. In this article, using illustrative examples from neurological and psychiatric disorders, we describe various approaches that are being taken to discover CNS drugs, discuss their relative merits and consider how risk can be balanced and attrition reduced.
Music performance is both a natural human activity, present in all societies, and one of the most complex and demanding cognitive challenges that the human mind can undertake. Unlike most other sensory-motor activities, music performance requires precise timing of several hierarchically organized actions, as well as precise control over pitch interval production, implemented through diverse effectors according to the instrument involved. We review the cognitive neuroscience literature of both motor and auditory domains, highlighting the value of studying interactions between these systems in a musical context, and propose some ideas concerning the role of the premotor cortex in integration of higher order features of music with appropriately timed and organized actions.
With spatially organized neural networks, we examined how bias and noise inputs with spatial structure result in different network states such as bumps, localized oscillations, global oscillations, and localized synchronous firing that may be relevant to, for example, orientation selectivity. To this end, we used networks of McCulloch-Pitts neurons, which allow theoretical predictions, and verified the obtained results with numerical simulations. Spatial inputs, no matter whether they are bias inputs or shared noise inputs, affect only firing activities with resonant spatial frequency. The component of noise that is independent for different neurons increases the linearity of the neural system and gives rise to less spatial mode mixing and less bistability of population activities.
Inspired by recent studies regarding dendritic computation, we constructed a recurrent neural network model incorporating dendritic lateral inhibition. Our model consists of an input layer and a neuron layer that includes excitatory cells and an inhibitory cell; this inhibitory cell is activated by the pooled activities of all the excitatory cells, and it in turn inhibits each dendritic branch of the excitatory cells that receive excitations from the input layer. Dendritic nonlinear operation consisting of branch-specifically rectified inhibition and saturation is described by imposing nonlinear transfer functions before summation over the branches. In this model with sufficiently strong recurrent excitation, on transiently presenting a stimulus that has a high correlation with feed- forward connections of one of the excitatory cells, the corresponding cell becomes highly active, and the activity is sustained after the stimulus is turned off, whereas all the other excitatory cells continue to have low activities. But on transiently presenting a stimulus that does not have high correlations with feedforward connections of any of the excitatory cells, all the excitatory cells continue to have low activities. Interestingly, such stimulus-selective sustained response is preserved for a wide range of stimulus intensity. We derive an analytical formulation of the model in the limit where individual excitatory cells have an infinite number of dendritic branches and prove the existence of an equilibrium point corresponding to such a balanced low-level activity state as observed in the simulations, whose stability depends solely on the signal-to-noise ratio of the stimulus. We propose this model as a model of stimulus selectivity equipped with self-sustainability and intensity-invariance simultaneously, which was difficult in the conventional competitive neural networks with a similar degree of complexity in their network architecture. We discuss the biological relevance of the model in a general framework of computational neuroscience.
Recent technological advances as well as progress in theoretical understanding of neural systems have created a need for synthetic spike trains with controlled mean rate and pairwise cross-correlation. This report introduces and analyzes a novel algorithm for the generation of discretized spike trains with arbitrary mean rates and controlled cross correlation. Pairs of spike trains with any pairwise correlation can be generated, and higher-order correlations are compatible with common synaptic input. Relations between allowable mean rates and correlations within a population are discussed. The algorithm is highly efficient, its complexity increasing linearly with the number of spike trains generated and therefore inversely with the number of cross-correlated pairs.
VNP40101M, or 1,2-bis(methylsulfonyl)-1-(2-choloroethyl)-2-(methylamino)carbonylhydrazine (Cloretazine), is a bifunctional prodrug that belongs to a class of DNA-modifying agents-the sulfonylhydrazines-that has been synthesized and been shown to have activity against a wide spectrum of xenografts. The current study was designed to assess the activity of VNP40101M administered at a dose of 18 mg/kg daily for five days against a panel of human adult and pediatric CNS tumors growing subcutaneously or intracranially in athymic nude mice. The results demonstrated statistically significant (p &lt; 0.05) growth delays of 15.0, 8.3, 51.0, 60+, 60+, and 60+ days in subcutaneous xenografts derived from childhood glioblastoma multiforme (D-456 MG), childhood ependymoma (D-528 EP and D-612 EP), childhood medulloblastoma (D-425 MED), and adult malignant glioma (D-245 MG and D-54 MG), respectively, with corresponding tumor regressions in 10 of 10, 4 of 10, 8 of 10, 9 of 10, 9 of 10, and 10 of 10 treated mice, respectively. Delayed toxicity was seen more than 60 days after treatment, with 23 deaths in 100 treated animals, despite a median weight loss of only 0.06%. In mice bearing intracranial D-245 MG xenografts, treatment with VNP40101M at a dose of 18 mg/kg daily for five days produced a 50% increase in median survival compared with controls. Additional experiments conducted against subcutaneous D-245 MG xenografts by using reduced doses of 13.5 or 9.0 mg/kg daily for five days demonstrated tumor growth delays of 82.2 and 53.5 days, with corresponding tumor regressions in 8 of 9 and 9 of 10 treated mice, respectively (all values, p &lt; 0.001), with one toxic death. These findings suggest that VNP40101M is active in the treatment of a wide range of human central nervous system tumors and warrants translation to the clinic.
This study aimed to investigate cross-sectional and longitudinal changes of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in preclinical dementia using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). SPECT and cognitive function were investigated in 39 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) subjects and 20 age-matched controls. All subjects were followed longitudinally 19 months on average, 16 MCI subjects progressed to Alzheimer's disease (AD), who were retrospectively defined as progressive mild cognitive impairment (PMCI) at baseline and 23 MCI subjects remained stable and were defined as stable mild cognitive impairment (SMCI) at baseline. SPECT was performed both at the initial investigation and at follow-up. Image data were analyzed using multivariate analysis, SPM and volume of interest (VOI)-based analysis. Significant covariate patterns were derived, which differentiate among PMCI, SMCI and controls at baseline as well as describe the longitudinal progression of PMCI. The combined SPECT and neuropsychology increased the diagnostic accuracy of PMCI at baseline. SPECT and neuropsychological testing can be used objectively for both baseline diagnosis and to monitor changes in brain function during very early AD.
We evaluated expression, protein levels and activity of the Beta-site cleaving enzyme (BACE1) as well as the amount of products of lipid peroxidation in frontal cortex of three groups of cases: sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD); control subjects (CTR); cognitively normal subjects with abundant amyloid plaques (NA). We found a significant increase of BACE1 activity and products of lipid peroxidation in brain tissue of AD cases, with normal gene expression, and non-significant elevation of protein levels. CTR and NA samples showed similar levels of BACE1 activity and oxidative products. BACE1 activity and the amount of oxidative products were significantly correlated in all cases.Moreover, both BACE1 activity and the level of 4-hydroxynonenal were correlated with the amount of Beta-amyloid pyroglutamated 3-42, the more toxic Beta-amyloid peptide that is characteristic of AD. These findings suggest that BACE1 activity reflects the type of ABeta species, rather than the Beta-amyloid plaques load. Hence, the increase of BACE1 activity occurring in sporadic AD is likely the effect, rather the cause, of ABeta accumulation and oxidative stress.
It is well known that Rett Syndrome, a severe postnatal childhood neurological disorder, is mostly caused by mutations in the MECP2 gene. However, how deficiencies in MeCP2 contribute to the neurological dysfunction of Rett Syndrome is not clear. We aimed to resolve the role of MeCP2 epigenetic regulation in postnatal brain development in an Mecp2-deficient mouse model. We found that, while Mecp2 was not critical for the production of immature neurons in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus, the newly generated neurons exhibited pronounced deficits in neuronal maturation, including delayed transition into a more mature stage, altered expression of presynaptic proteins and reduced dendritic spine density. Furthermore, analysis of gene expression profiles of isolated DG granule neurons revealed abnormal expression levels of a number of genes previously shown to be important for synaptogenesis. Our studies suggest that MeCP2 plays a central role in neuronal maturation, which might be mediated through epigenetic control of expression pathways that are instrumental in both dendritic development and synaptogenesis.
Recently, studies from our laboratory have shown that 16-day-old rats, in contrast to 23-day-old rats, fail to show either ABA renewal or recovery of an extinguished fear response following a pre-test injection of FG7142 [Kim, J. H. &amp; Richardson, R. (2007). A developmental dissociation of context and GABA effects on extinguished fear in rats. Behavioral Neuroscience; Yap &amp; Richardson, unpublished data]. The present study, using freezing as a measure of learned fear, extends these findings by examining whether there is a developmental difference in susceptibility to reinstatement following extinction. 16- and 23-day-old rats were trained to fear a white-noise conditioned stimulus (CS) by pairing it with a shock unconditioned stimulus (US). This fear was subsequently extinguished by non-reinforced presentations of the CS. Some rats received a post-extinction Reminder which consisted of a single presentation of a reduced-intensity US. Experiments 1 and 2 demonstrated that this Reminder was effective in reinstating extinguished fear in 23-day-olds, and that this reinstatement effect was context-specific in rats this age. In contrast, 16-day-old rats failed to show the reinstatement effect in either experiment. The failure to observe a post-extinction reinstatement effect in the 16-day-olds was not due to a general ineffectiveness of the Reminder treatment at this age because it did alleviate spontaneous forgetting in rats this age (Experiment 3). Taken together, the results suggest that fundamentally different processes may mediate extinction early in development compared to later in development.
The present study examined expression of the immediate-early gene, c-Fos, following acquisition, 48-h (recent) recall, and 1-week (remote) recall of a socially transmitted food preference (STFP) in multiple brain regions implicated in learning and memory. In comparisons with controls, trained Long-Evans rats had increased Fos immunoreactivity in the ventral hippocampus following acquisition and recent recall. In the parahippocampal cortices, Fos was increased in the lateral entorhinal cortex after acquisition. In the orbitofrontal cortex, increased Fos immunoreactivity was observed in the lateral orbital cortex following both recent and remote recall and in the ventral orbital cortex following remote recall, indicating a role for the orbitofrontal cortex in the remote recall of STFP memory. In contrast, in the medial prefrontal cortex, increased Fos-ir was found following acquisition in the prelimbic cortex and following recent recall in the prelimbic and infralimbic cortices. No differences in Fos expression were found between trained rats and controls in the dorsal hippocampus, posterior parietal cortex, or amygdala. The present findings support a time-limited role of the hippocampus in the acquisition and recall of STFP memory and implicate neocortical regions involved in STFP acquisition, recent, and remote recall.
Previous research has shown that some associative learning tasks prevent the death of new neurons in the adult hippocampus. However, it is unclear whether it is mere exposure to the training stimuli that rescues neurons or whether successful learning of the task is required for enhanced neuronal survival. If learning is the important variable, then animals that learn better given the same amount of training should retain more of the new cells after learning than animals that do not learn as well. Here, we examined the effects of training versus learning on cell survival in the adult hippocampus. Animals were injected with BrdU to label a population of cells and trained one week later on one of two trace conditioning tasks, one of which depends on the hippocampus and one that does not. Increases in cell number occurred only in animals that acquired the learned response, irrespective of the task. There were significant correlations between acquisition and cell number, as well as between asymptotic performance and cell number. These data support the idea that learning and not simply training increases the survival of the new cells in the hippocampus.
Conditioned odor aversion (COA) corresponds to the avoidance of an odorized-tasteless solution (conditioned stimulus, CS) previously paired with toxicosis. COA occurs only when the interstimulus interval (ISI) is kept short, suggesting that the memory trace of the odor is subject to rapid decay. Previous experiments have shown that the entorhinal cortex (EC) is involved in the acquisition of COA, since lesion of the EC rendered COA tolerant to long ISI. Because EC lesions induce a septo-hippocampal cholinergic sprouting, the present experiment investigated whether COA tolerance to long ISI may be linked to this sprouting reaction. In a first experiment, male Long-Evans rats subjected to bilateral excitotoxic EC lesions combined to intracerebroventricular infusions of the selective cholinergic immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin were exposed to odor-toxicosis pairing using a long ISI (120 min). Results showed that EC-lesioned rats displayed COA with the long ISI but not the control groups. In rats with EC combined to 192 IgG-saporin lesions, histological analysis demonstrated no evidence for cholinergic septo-hippocampal sprouting. In a second experiment, animals with 192-IgG saporin lesion showed a marked COA with a short ISI (5 min). These results suggest that the COA with the long ISI found in rats with EC lesions might involve a functional activity related to the EC lesion-induced hippocampal cholinergic sprouting. As the injection of 192 IgG-saporin alone did not affect COA with a short ISI, our data also point to a possible role of hippocampal cholinergic neurons in the modulation of memory processes underlying COA.
Disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a gene disrupted by a (1:1) (q42.1;q14.3) translocation that segregates with major psychiatric disorders in a Scottish family. To elucidate how DISC1 confers susceptibility to psychiatric disorders, identification of the molecules, which bind to the domain close to the translocation breakpoint in the DISC1 gene, was performed and fasciculation and elongation protein zeta-1 (Fez1), a novel DISC1-interacting protein, termed DISC1-binding zinc-finger protein (DBZ) and Kendrin were identified. The DISC1-Fez1 interaction is up-regulated by nerve growth factor (NGF) and involved in neurite extension. Transient dissociation of the DISC1-DBZ interaction by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) causes neurite extension. Furthermore, single-nucleotide polymorphisms association studies in a Japanese population have shown the relation of the Fez1, PACAP and PACAP receptor (PAC1) genes to schizophrenia. In schizophrenia with DISC1 translocation carrier, the DISC1-Fez1 and DISC1-DBZ interaction is disrupted, and it is likely that neural circuit formation remains immature, suggesting that schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disease. On the other hand, the DISC1-Kendrin interaction is suggested to be involved in microtubule network formation and an association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms of the Kendrin gene and bipolar disease has also been suggested in a Japanese population. This demonstrates that a part of bipolar disease is also a neurodevelopmental disorder.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) is a rate-limiting enzyme in prostaglandin synthesis. COX consists of two isoforms, constitutive COX-1 and inducible COX-2. We have first found that COX-2 expression in the brain is tightly regulated by neuronal activity under physiological conditions, and electroconvulsive seizure robustly induces COX-2 mRNA in the brain. Our recent in-depth studies reveal COX-2 expression is divided into two phases, early in neurons and late in non-neuronal cells, such as endothelial cells or astrocytes. In this review, we present that early synthesized COX-2 facilitates the recurrence of hippocampal seizures in rapid kindling model, and late induced COX-2 stimulates hippocampal neuron loss after kainic acid treatment. Hence, we consider the potential role of COX-2 inhibitors as a new therapeutic drug for a neuronal loss after seizure or focal cerebral ischemia. The short-term and sub-acute medication of selective COX-2 inhibitors that suppresses an elevation of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) may be an effective treatment to prevent neuronal loss after onset of neuronal excitatory diseases. This review also discusses a novel role of vascular endothelial cells in brain diseases. We found that these cells produce PGE(2) by synthesizing COX-2 and microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1) in response to excitotoxicity and neuroinflammation. We also show a possible mechanisms of neuronal damage associated with seizure via astrocytes and endothelial cells. Further analysis of the interaction among neurons, astrocytes and endothelial cells may provide a better understanding of the processes of neuropathological disorders, as well as facilitating the development of new treatments.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common neurodegenerative diseases, are caused by both genetic and environmental factors. Ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is a deubiquitinating enzyme that is involved in the pathogenesis of both of these neurodegenerative diseases. Several functions of UCH-L1, other than as an ubiquitin hydrolase, have been proposed; these include acting as an ubiquitin ligase and stabilizing mono-ubiquitin. This review focuses on recent findings on the functions and the regulation of UCH-L1, in particular those that relate to PD and AD.
Oxidative stress, excitotoxicity and mitochondrial dysfunction play synergistic roles in neurodegeneration. Maintenance of thiol homeostasis is important for normal mitochondrial function and dysregulation of protein thiol homeostasis by oxidative stress leads to mitochondrial dysfunction and neurodegeneration. We examined the critical roles played by the antioxidant, non-protein thiol, glutathione and related enzyme, glutaredoxin in maintaining mitochondrial function during excitotoxicity caused by beta-N-oxalyl amino-L-alanine (L-BOAA), the causative factor of neurolathyrism, a motor neuron disease involving the pyramidal system. L-BOAA causes loss of GSH and inhibition of mitochondrial complex I in lumbosacral cord of male mice through oxidation of thiol groups, while female mice are resistant. Reducing GSH levels in female mice CNS by pretreatment with diethyl maleate or L-propargyl glycine did not result in inhibition of complex I activity, unlike male mice. Further, treatment of female mice depleted of GSH with L-BOAA did not induce inhibition of complex I indicating that GSH levels were not critical for maintaining complex I activity in female mice unlike their male counterpart. Glutaredoxin, a thiol disulfide oxidoreductase helps maintain redox status of proteins and downregulation of glutaredoxin results in loss of mitochondrial complex I activity. Female mice express higher levels of glutaredoxin in certain CNS regions and downregulation of glutaredoxin using antisense oligonucleotides sensitizes them to L-BOAA toxicity seen as mitochondrial complex I loss. Ovariectomy downregulates glutaredoxin and renders female mice vulnerable to L-BOAA toxicity as evidenced by activation of AP1, loss of GSH and complex I activity indicating the important role of glutaredoxin in neuroprotection. Estrogen protects against mitochondrial dysfunction caused by excitotoxicity by maintaining cellular redox status through higher constitutive expression of glutaredoxin in the CNS. Therapeutic interventions designed to upregulate glutaredoxin may offer neuroprotection against excitotoxicity in motor neurons.
Triptolide (T10), an extract from the traditional Chinese herb, Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TWHF), has been shown to attenuate the rotational behavior induced by D: -amphetamine and prevent the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra in rat models of Parkinson's disease. To examine if the neuroprotective effect is mediated by its stimulation of production of neurotrophic factors from astrocytes, we investigated the effect of T10 on synthesis and release of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in rat astrocyte cultures. T10 did not affect the synthesis and release of either BDNF or GDNF. However, it significantly increased NGF mRNA expression. It also increased both intracellular NGF and NGF level in culture medium. These results indicate that the neuroprotective effect of T10 might be mediated, at least in part, via a stimulation of the production and release of NGF in astrocytes.
The potent parkinsonian neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is known to cause dopaminergic neurodegeneration in nigrostriatal system. In the present study we investigated the nuclear morphology of cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) region of rats following unilateral intranigral infusion of the active metabolite, 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium ion (MPP(+)), which resulted in a dose-dependent and prolonged dopamine depletion in the ipsilateral striatum. There appeared a substantial loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons in the SNpc that received the neurotoxin. Specific nuclear staining with Hoechst 33342 or acridine orange revealed bright pyknotic, shrunken, distorted nuclei and condensed chromatin with perinuclear nucleolus respectively following visualization with the former and latter dyes in the ipsilateral SNpc, as compared to the round, intact nuclei and centrally positioned nucleolus in the contralateral side. Ultrastructural details of the nucleus under transmission electron microscope confirmed distorted nuclear organization with shrunken or condensed nuclei and disrupted nuclear membrane. These features are typical of nucleus undergoing apoptosis, and suggest that MPP(+) causes dopaminergic neuronal death through an apoptotic mode. Typical laddering pattern of genomic DNA isolated from the ipsilateral SN in agarose gel electrophoresis conclusively established apoptosis following intranigral administration of MPP(+) in rats.
Efflux and tissue content of N-acetylaspartate (NAA) and amino acids were evaluated from cultured and acutely prepared hippocampal slices in response to changes in osmolarity. The osmoregulator taurine, but not NAA, was lost from both types of slices after moderate reductions in extracellular osmolarity (-60 mOsm) for 10-48 h. Hypoosmotic shock (-166 mOsm) for 5 min resulted in unselective efflux of several amino acids from acutely prepared slices. Notably, the efflux of taurine, but not NAA, was prominent also after the shock. Efflux of NAA was markedly enhanced by NMDA and high K(+), in particular after the stimulation period. The high K(+)-mediated efflux was decreased by high extracellular osmolarity and a NMDA-receptor antagonist. The results indicate that NAA efflux can be induced by a sudden non-physiological decrease in extracellular osmolarity but not by prolonged more moderate changes in osmolarity. The mechanisms behind the efflux of NAA by high K(+) are complex and may involve both swelling and activation of NMDA-receptors.
The factors underlying the survival and maintenance of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) are not well understood. Loss of ICC is often associated with loss of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in humans, suggesting a possible link. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of neuronal NO on ICC in the mouse gastric body. The volumes of ICC were determined in nNOS(-/-) and control mice in the gastric body and in organotypic cultures using immunohistochemistry, laser scanning confocal microscopy and three-dimensional reconstruction. ICC numbers were determined in primary cell cultures after treatment with an NO donor or an NOS inhibitor. The volumes of myenteric c-Kit-immunoreactive networks of ICC from nNOS(-/-) mice were significantly reduced compared with control mice. No significant differences in the volumes of c-Kit-positive ICC were observed in the longitudinal muscle layers. ICC volumes were either decreased or unaltered in the circular muscle layer after normalization for the volume of circular smooth muscle. The number of ICC was increased after incubation with S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and decreased by N(G)-nitro-l-arginine. Neuronally derived NO modulates ICC numbers and network volume in the mouse gastric body. NO appears to be a survival factor for ICC.
Based on a systematic PubMed search, this short review addresses why intestinal permeability may be important in the pathobiology of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), the evidence of abnormal permeability in patients with IBS, and the pros and cons of the different probe molecules available to assess intestinal permeability. While a subgroup of patients with IBS appears to have evidence of increased intestinal permeability, improvements in the methods and validation are key to further research in this field in order to better understand intestinal barrier functions in IBS.
Antagonists of NMDA receptors can inhibit both the transmission of pain signals from the intestine and enteric reflexes. However, it is unknown whether doses of the NMDA antagonist, ketamine, that are used in anaesthetic mixtures suppress motility reflexes and visceromotor responses (VMRs). In fact, whether intestinal motility is affected by NMDA receptor blockers in vivo has been little investigated. We studied the effects of ketamine and memantine, administered intravenously or intrathecally. Rats were maintained under alpha-chloralose plus xylazine or pentobarbitone anaesthesia; VMR and jejunal motility were measured. Under alpha-chloralose/xylazine anaesthesia, i.v. ketamine inhibited VMRs at 6 mg kg h(-1), but not at 3 mg kg h(-1). It did not inhibit propulsive reflexes in the jejunum at 10 mg kg h(-1), but reduced them by 30% at 20 mg kg h(-1). Under alpha-chloralose/pentobarbitone anaesthesia, i.v. ketamine reduced propulsive reflexes at 40 mg kg h(-1) and VMR at 10 mg kg h(-1). Memantine inhibited VMRs at 20 mg kg h(-1) and propulsion at 2 mg kg h(-1). Ketamine and memantine, intrathecally, prevented VMRs, but not jejunal propulsion. We conclude that peripherally administered ketamine reduces both VMR and motility reflexes, but not at doses used in anaesthetic mixes (1.8-2.4 mg kg h(-1)). Effects on motility reflexes are likely to be due to non-NMDA receptor actions, possibly on nicotinic receptors.
The use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in alert non-human primates is of great potential for research in systems neuroscience. It can be combined with invasive techniques and afford better understanding of non-invasively acquired brain imaging signals in humans. However, the difficulties in optimal application of alert monkey fMRI are multi-faceted, especially at high magnetic fields where the effects of motion and of changes in B0 are greatly amplified. To overcome these difficulties, strict behavioral controls and elaborate animal-training are needed. Here, we introduce a number of hardware developments, quantify the effect of movements on fMRI data, and present procedures for animal training and scanning for well-controlled and artifact-reduced alert monkey fMRI at high magnetic field. In particular, we describe systems for monitoring jaw and body movements, and for accurately tracking eye movements. A link between body and jaw movement and MRI image artifacts is established, showing that relying on the immobilization of an animal's head is not sufficient for high-quality imaging. Quantitative analysis showed that body and jaw movement events caused large instabilities in fMRI time series. On average, body movement events caused larger instabilities than jaw movement events. Residual baseline brain image position and signal amplitude shifts were observed after the jaw and body movement events ended. Based on these findings, we introduce a novel behavioral paradigm that relies on training the monkeys to stay still during long trials. A corresponding analysis method discards all data that were not obtained during the movement-free periods. The baseline position and amplitude shifts are overcome by motion correction and trial-by-trial signal normalization. The advantages of the presented method over conventional scanning and analysis are demonstrated with data obtained at 7 T. It is anticipated that the techniques presented here will prove useful for alert monkey fMRI at any magnetic field.
The role of the medial temporal lobe in learning and memory has been well established in research on humans and other animals. In humans, clinical and neuroimaging studies typically suggest material-specific lateralization in which the left and right temporal lobes are associated with verbal and nonverbal memory, respectively. It is often assumed that the temporal lobes are functionally alike, differing only in terms of the content to be learned. Here we present data that challenge this notion, showing that the type of material used during a memory task can influence fMRI activation patterns beyond the expected left-verbal/right-nonverbal dichotomy. Our results also suggest some degree of functional asymmetry in the medial temporal lobe that is independent of material type, pointing to underlying processing differences between the left and right temporal lobes.
Recent studies have identified a distributed network of brain regions thought to support cognitive reappraisal processes underlying emotion regulation in response to affective images, including parieto-temporal regions and lateral/medial regions of prefrontal cortex (PFC). A number of these commonly activated regions are also known to underlie visuospatial attention and oculomotor control, which raises the possibility that people use attentional redeployment rather than, or in addition to, reappraisal as a strategy to regulate emotion. We predicted that a significant portion of the observed variance in brain activation during emotion regulation tasks would be associated with differences in how participants visually scan the images while regulating their emotions. We recorded brain activation using fMRI and quantified patterns of gaze fixation while participants increased or decreased their affective response to a set of affective images. fMRI results replicated previous findings on emotion regulation with regulation differences reflected in regions of PFC and the amygdala. In addition, our gaze fixation data revealed that when regulating, individuals changed their gaze patterns relative to a control condition. Furthermore, this variation in gaze fixation accounted for substantial amounts of variance in brain activation. These data point to the importance of controlling for gaze fixation in studies of emotion regulation that use visual stimuli.
We describe a Bayesian learning algorithm for Robust General Linear Models (RGLMs). The noise is modeled as a Mixture of Gaussians rather than the usual single Gaussian. This allows different data points to be associated with different noise levels and effectively provides a robust estimation of regression coefficients. A variational inference framework is used to prevent overfitting and provides a model order selection criterion for noise model order. This allows the RGLM to default to the usual GLM when robustness is not required. The method is compared to other robust regression methods and applied to synthetic data and fMRI.
In everyday life, we continuously and effortlessly integrate the multiple sensory inputs from objects in motion. For instance, the sound and the visual percept of vehicles in traffic provide us with complementary information about the location and motion of vehicles. Here, we used high-density electrical mapping and local auto-regressive average (LAURA) source estimation to study the integration of multisensory objects in motion as reflected in event-related potentials (ERPs). A randomized stream of naturalistic multisensory-audiovisual (AV), unisensory-auditory (A), and unisensory-visual (V) &quot;splash&quot; clips (i.e., a drop falling and hitting a water surface) was presented among non-naturalistic abstract motion stimuli. The visual clip onset preceded the &quot;splash&quot; onset by 100 ms for multisensory stimuli. For naturalistic objects early multisensory integration effects beginning 120-140 ms after sound onset were observed over posterior scalp, with distributed sources localized to occipital cortex, temporal lobule, insular, and medial frontal gyrus (MFG). These effects, together with longer latency interactions (210-250 and 300-350 ms) found in a widespread network of occipital, temporal, and frontal areas, suggest that naturalistic objects in motion are processed at multiple stages of multisensory integration. The pattern of integration effects differed considerably for non-naturalistic stimuli. Unlike naturalistic objects, no early interactions were found for non-naturalistic objects. The earliest integration effects for non-naturalistic stimuli were observed 210-250 ms after sound onset including large portions of the inferior parietal cortex (IPC). As such, there were clear differences in the cortical networks activated by multisensory motion stimuli as a consequence of the semantic relatedness (or lack thereof) of the constituent sensory elements.
Dynamic causal modelling (DCM) has been applied recently to event-related responses (ERPs) measured with EEG/MEG. DCM attempts to explain ERPs using a network of interacting cortical sources and waveform differences in terms of coupling changes among sources. The aim of this work was to establish the validity of DCM by assessing its reproducibility across subjects. We used an oddball paradigm to elicit mismatch responses. Sources of cortical activity were modelled as equivalent current dipoles, using a biophysical informed spatiotemporal forward model that included connections among neuronal subpopulations in each source. Bayesian inversion provided estimates of changes in coupling among sources and the marginal likelihood of each model. By specifying different connectivity models we were able to evaluate three different hypotheses: differences in the ERPs to rare and frequent events are mediated by changes in forward connections (F-model), backward connections (B-model) or both (FB-model). The results were remarkably consistent over subjects. In all but one subject, the forward model was better than the backward model. This is an important result because these models have the same number of parameters (i.e., the complexity). Furthermore, the FB-model was significantly better than both, in 7 out of 11 subjects. This is another important result because it shows that a more complex model (that can fit the data more accurately) is not necessarily the most likely model. At the group level the FB-model supervened. We discuss these findings in terms of the validity and usefulness of DCM in characterising EEG/MEG data and its ability to model ERPs in a mechanistic fashion.
Regulatory interactions with the amygdala are thought to be critical for emotional processing in the extended limbic system. Structural equation modeling (path analysis) is a widely used method to quantify interactions among brain regions based on connectivity models, but is often limited by lack of precise anatomical and functional constraints. To address this issue, we developed an automated elaborative path analysis procedure guided by known anatomical connectivity in the macaque. We applied this technique to a large human fMRI data set acquired during perceptual processing of angry or fearful facial stimuli. The derived models were inferentially validated using a bootstrapping split-half approach in pairs of 500 independent groups. Significant paths across the groups were used to form a rigorously validated and consistent path model. We confirm and extend previous observations of amygdala regulation by an extended prefrontal network encompassing cingulate, orbitofrontal, insular, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, as well as strong interactions between amygdala and parahippocampal gyrus. This validated model can be used to study neurocognitive correlates as well as genotype or disease-related alterations of functional interactions in the limbic system.
There has been extensive work using early event-related potentials (ERPs) to study visual object processing. ERP analyses focus traditionally on mean amplitude differences, with the implicit assumption that all of the neuronal activity of interest is evoked by the stimulus in a time-locked manner from trial to trial. However, several recent studies have suggested that visual ERP components might be explained to a large extent by the partial phase resetting of ongoing activity in restricted frequency bands. Here we apply that approach to the neural processing of visual objects. We examine the single-trial dynamics of the EEG signal elicited by the presentation of noise textures, houses and faces. We show that the brain response to those stimuli is best explained by amplitude increase that is maximal in the 5- to 15-Hz frequency band. The results indicate also the presence of a substantial increase in phase coherence in the same frequency band. However, analyses of residual activity, after subtracting the mean from single trials, show that this increase in phase coherence is not due to phase resetting per se, but rather to the presence of the ERP+noise in each trial. In keeping with this idea, a simulation demonstrates that a purely evoked model of the ERP produces quantitatively very similar results. Finally, the stronger response to faces compared to other objects (the 'N170 face effect') can be explained by a pure modulation of amplitude centered in the 5- to 15-Hz band.
A new methodology based on Diffusion Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DW-MRI) and Graph Theory is presented for characterizing the anatomical connections between brain gray matter areas. In a first step, brain voxels are modeled as nodes of a non-directed graph in which the weight of an arc linking two neighbor nodes is assumed to be proportional to the probability of being connected by nervous fibers. This probability is estimated by means of probabilistic tissue segmentation and intravoxel white matter orientational distribution function, obtained from anatomical MRI and DW-MRI, respectively. A new tractography algorithm for finding white matter routes is also introduced. This algorithm solves the most probable path problem between any two nodes, leading to the assessment of probabilistic brain anatomical connection maps. In a second step, for assessing anatomical connectivity between K gray matter structures, the previous graph is redefined as a K+1 partite graph by partitioning the initial nodes set in K non-overlapped gray matter subsets and one subset clustering the remaining nodes. Three different measures are proposed for quantifying anatomical connections between any pair of gray matter subsets: Anatomical Connection Strength (ACS), Anatomical Connection Density (ACD) and Anatomical Connection Probability (ACP). This methodology was applied to both artificial and actual human data. Results show that nervous fiber pathways between some regions of interest were reconstructed correctly. Additionally, mean connectivity maps of ACS, ACD and ACP between 71 gray matter structures for five healthy subjects are presented.
Neuroscience increasingly uses computational models to assist in the exploration and interpretation of complex phenomena. As a result, considerable effort is invested in the development of software tools and technologies for numerical simulations and for the creation and publication of models. The diversity of related tools leads to the duplication of effort and hinders model reuse. Development practices and technologies that support interoperability between software systems therefore play an important role in making the modeling process more efficient and in ensuring that published models can be reliably and easily reused. Various forms of interoperability are possible including the development of portable model description standards, the adoption of common simulation languages or the use of standardized middleware. Each of these approaches finds applications within the broad range of current modeling activity. However more effort is required in many areas to enable new scientific questions to be addressed. Here we present the conclusions of the &quot;Neuro-IT Interoperability of Simulators&quot; workshop, held at the 11th computational neuroscience meeting in Edinburgh ( July 19-20 2006; http://www.cnsorg.org ). We assess the current state of interoperability of neural simulation software and explore the future directions that will enable the field to advance.
Quantitative neuroanatomical data are important for the study of many areas of neuroscience, and the complexity of problems associated with neuronal structure requires that research from multiple groups across many disciplines be combined. However, existing neuron-tracing systems, simulation environments, and tools for the visualization and analysis of neuronal morphology data use a variety of data formats, making it difficult to exchange data in a readily usable way. The NeuroML project was initiated to address these issues, and here we describe an extensible markup language standard, MorphML, which defines a common data format for neuronal morphology data and associated metadata to facilitate data and model exchange, database creation, model publication, and data archiving. We describe the elements of the standard in detail and outline the mappings between this format and those used by a number of popular applications for reconstruction, simulation, and visualization of neuronal morphology.

Cryptococcal meningitis has emerged as a leading cause of infectious morbidity and mortality in patients with AIDS. Among the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-seropositive subjects, cryptococcal meningitis is the second most common cause of opportunistic neuro-infection. Current trends are changing due to the marked improvement of quality and length of life produced by highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The introduction of generic HAART in India has resulted in an increase in the number of individuals getting treatment for HIV infection, as the cost of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has decreased 20- fold. Cryptococcal meningitis occurs in non-HIV patients who are immunodeficient due to diabetes, cancer, solid organ transplants, chemotherapeutic drugs, hematological malignancies etc and rarely in healthy individuals with no obvious predisposing factors. Diagnosis of cryptococcal meningitis is fairly straightforward once the diagnosis is considered in the differential diagnosis of chronic meningitis. Treatment of a patient with cryptococcal infection is a challenge for both the physician and the patient, but rewarding, as many would recover with timely and adequate antifungal therapy.
Ubiquitously present fungi in the environment find a nidus in the human body and adopt its metabolic machinery to be in symbiosis or become pathogenic. Immunocompromised states like human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) / acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), systemic neoplasia and organ transplantation have enhanced the frequency of fungal infections. High-risk behavior, IV drug abuse and air travel have led to the emergence of new fungal infections hitherto geographically localized. The pathology in the central nervous system (CNS) is dictated largely by the size of the fungus - the yeast forms, by virtue of their small size enter the microcirculation to cause meningitis and microabscesses, while hyphal forms invade the vasculature to manifest as large pale or hemorrhagic infarcts. The growth kinetics of fungi, the antigenic character of the capsule. the proteases secreted by the mycelial forms and the biochemical milieu in the host also determine clinical manifestations. A hospital-based analysis of the available information from India suggests that in the non-HIV patient population, hyphal forms like Aspergillosis and Zygomycosis are the most common pathogens, while yeast forms like Cryptococcus and Candida are the prime pathogens in cases of HIV/AIDS, the altered macrophage function acting in synergy with suppressed cell-mediated immunity. In Northeastern states, systemic infection by Penicillium marneffei is reported in association with HIV though CNS involvement is not recorded. Although fungal infections of the CNS are reported from various hospitals in India, studies are limited by non-availability of relevant microbiological studies and the reported prevalence data is biased by the surgical practices, availability of postmortem and microbiology and laboratory support. Detailed clinical and mycological investigations related to the interaction between the fungus and host environment is a fertile area of research to understand the basic pathogenetic mechanisms.

Objectives. Electrical brain stimulation is used as a treatment for patients with intractable chronic pain and movement disorders. However, the implantation of electrodes and electrical stimulation may induce histological changes around the electrode tip. We aimed to review the histological changes in humans that were electrically stimulated in the brain. Methods. We traced 26 autopsy studies of which 19 patients received cerebellar stimulation and 37 patients deep brain stimulation. Results. Electrode implantation and electrical stimulation induced in part of the cases formation of a fibrous sheath around the electrode, loss of fairly large neurons, and limited gliosis. Macroscopic lesions were present in only some cases, mostly due to pulling at the extension cable in the postoperative evaluation period preceding definite implantation of the electrode wire and stimulator. Conclusions. Electrical brain stimulation induces histological changes in some patients. According to electrical brain stimulation studies in animals, these changes can be related to the charge and charge density per phase (and their interaction).
Objective. Employing [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) to assess the correlation between the effect of deep brain stimulation (DBS) on the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRGlc) in advanced Parkinson's disease patients (N=8). Materials and Methods. On the basis of patients' diary records, we performed FDG-PET during the off-period of motor activity with on- or off-stimulation by STN-DBS on separate days and analyzed the correlation between changes in motor symptoms and alterations in the rCMRGlc. Result. When FDG-PET was performed, the motor score on the unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS) was 64% lower with on-stimulation than with off-stimulation (p&lt;0.001, Wilcoxon single-rank test). STN-DBS increased the rCMRGlc in the posterior part of the right middle frontal gyrus, which corresponded to the premotor area, and the right anterior lobe of the cerebellum (p&lt;0.005, paired t-test). No region exhibited a decrease in rCMRGlc. Among the items of the UPDRS motor score, the changes in resting tremor and rigidity of the left extremities showed a significant correlation with the changes in rCMRGlc observed in the right premotor area (p&lt;0.02 and p&lt;0.05, respectively, Spearman's rank correlation). Conclusions. STN-DBS either activates the premotor area or normalizes the deactivation of the premotor area. These FDG-PET findings obtained are consistent with the idea that STN-DBS modifies the activities of neural circuits involved in motor control.
Melatonin is a hormone that controls circadian rhythms and seasonal behavioral changes in vertebrates. Recent studies indicate that melatonin participates in diverse physiological functions including the modulation of neural activities. Melatonin is also detected in many other organisms that do not exhibit obvious circadian rhythms, but their precise functions are not known. To understand the role of melatonin and its genetic pathway in vivo, we examined the effects of melatonin and its receptor antagonists on various behaviors in Caenorhabditis elegans. Exogenously applied melatonin specifically decreased locomotion rates in 15-min treatments, suggesting that melatonin directly regulates neural activities for locomotion. This melatonin signaling functions through MT1-like melatonin receptors, because the MT1/2 receptor antagonist luzindole effectively blocked the effect of melatonin on locomotion, while MT2-specific antagonist 4-phenyl-2-propionamidotetralin (4-P-PDOT) and MT3-selective antagonist prazosin had no effect. Alternatively, long-term treatment with prazosin specifically altered homeostatic states of the worm, suggesting another melatonin-signaling pathway through MT3-like receptors. We also found that two G-protein alpha subunit mutants and newly isolated five mutants exhibited defects in response to melatonin. Our findings imply that melatonin acts as a neuromodulator by regulating locomotion behavior and as a ligand for homeostatic control through distinct receptor pathways in C. elegans.
The activation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) triggers long-term changes in AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in the CNS. These long-lasting changes occur via the addition or removal of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) at the synaptic membrane and are mediated by a number of regulatory proteins including the GluR2 AMPAR-interacting proteins n-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor (NSF) and Protein Interacting with C Kinase (PICK1). We have shown that the potent activation of NMDARs drives unclustering of PICK1 and PICK1-GluR2 dissociation in dendrites resulting in increased surface delivery of AMPARs. Here we show that the dispersal of PICK1 is mediated by the actions of NSF. We find that elevated NMDAR signaling leads to the S-nitrosylation of NSF and increased NSF-GluR2 association. Both NMDAR-dependent unclustering of PICK1 and the delivery of surface AMPARs are dependent on release of nitric oxide (NO). Our data suggest that NMDAR activation can drive the surface delivery of AMPARs from a pool of intracellular AMPARs retained by PICK1 through the NO-dependent modification of NSF.
Activity-dependent regulation of BDNF expression plays important roles in synaptic plasticity and neuronal function. We have investigated glutamate receptor-mediated regulation of BDNF expression in the cerebellum of wild-type and stargazer (stg) mice. Both in vivo and in vitro studies revealed that BDNF response kinetics in the cerebellum were much delayed with reversed sensitivity to NMDA versus non-NMDA agonist exposures significantly different from those in the cortex and hippocampus of wild-type mice. In stg mice, the severely impaired BDNF expression was restricted to the cerebellum while responses in the forebrain were intact. A selective failure of BDNF mRNA response to AMPA stimulation, but not NMDA, was evident in cultured stg cerebellar granule cells. These results demonstrate that BDNF expression is differentially regulated with region-specific kinetics. It indicates that the BDNF expression defect in the stg cerebellum is attributable to the AMPA receptor defect caused by the stargazin mutation.
Owing to multiple anatomical connections and functional interactions between the habenulo-interpeduncular and the mesolimbic pathways, it has been proposed that these systems could together mediate the reinforcing properties of addictive drugs. 18-Methoxycoronaridine, an agent that reduces morphine self-administration and attenuates dopamine sensitization in the nucleus accumbens in response to repeated morphine, has been shown to produce these effects by acting in the medial habenula and interpeduncular nucleus. Acetylcholine, one of the predominant neurotransmitters in the interpeduncular nucleus, may be a major determinant of these interactions. To determine if and how morphine acts in the interpeduncular nucleus, the effects of acute and repeated administration of morphine on extracellular acetylcholine levels in this brain area were assessed. In addition, the motor behavior of rats receiving repeated morphine administration was monitored during microdialysis sessions. Acutely, morphine produced a biphasic effect on extracellular acetylcholine levels in the interpeduncular nucleus such that low and high doses of morphine (i.e., 5 and 20mg/kg i.p.) significantly increased and decreased acetylcholine levels, respectively. Repeated administration of the same doses of morphine resulted in tolerance to the inhibitory but not to the stimulatory effects; tolerance was accompanied by sensitization to morphine-induced changes in locomotor activity and stereotypic behavior. The latter results suggest that tolerance to morphine's effect on the cholinergic habenulo-interpeduncular pathway is related to its sensitizing effects on the mesostriatal dopaminergic pathways.
Normal aging has been associated with executive control deficits, but it is as yet unclear whether different executive subprocesses are differentially affected during the course of aging. The present study aimed to investigate age effects on a range of executive control subcomponents. Four consecutive age groups (20-30 years, 31-45 years, 46-60 years, 61-75 years), matched on present state IQ and mood, were compared on tasks of strategic memory processing, verbal fluency, reasoning, inhibition, task management, and self-rating of executive abilities. Deficits concerning the suppression of habitual and experimentally induced prepotent response tendencies and the ability to efficiently divide attention were observed in subjects over 60 years of age compared to the younger groups, while memory, verbal fluency, and reasoning were largely unaffected. Results suggest a sharp decline of executive function after age 60 and a differential course of different executive subcomponents across aging, adding further support to a multi-dimensional model of executive function.
Central dopaminergic (DA) systems appear to be particularly vulnerable to disruption by exposure to stressors in early life, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. As endogenous glucocorticoids (GCs) are implicated in other aspects of neurobiological programming, this study aimed to characterize the effects of perinatal GC exposure on the cytoarchitecture of DA populations in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Dexamethasone was administered non-invasively to rat pups via the mothers' drinking water during embryonic days 16-19 or postnatal days 1-7, with a total oral intake circa 0.075 or 0.15 mg/kg/day, respectively; controls received normal drinking water. Analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cell counts and regional volumes in adult offspring identified notable sex differences in the shape and volume of the SNc and VTA, as well as the topographical organization and size of the DA populations. Perinatal GC treatments increased the DA population size and altered the shape of the SNc and VTA as well as the organization of the DA neurons by expanding and/or shifting them in a caudal direction. This response was sexually dimorphic and included a feminization or demasculinization of the three-dimensional cytoarchitecture in males, and subtle differences that were dependent on the window of exposure. These findings demonstrate that inappropriate perinatal exposure to GCs have enduring effects on the organization of midbrain DA systems that are critically important for normal brain function throughout life.
We test our neurocomputational model of fronto-striatal dopamine (DA) and noradrenaline (NA) function for understanding cognitive and motivational deficits in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Our model predicts that low striatal DA levels in ADHD should lead to deficits in 'Go' learning from positive reinforcement, which should be alleviated by stimulant medications, as observed with DA manipulations in other populations. Indeed, while nonmedicated adult ADHD participants were impaired at both positive (Go) and negative (NoGo) reinforcement learning, only the former deficits were ameliorated by medication. We also found evidence for our model's extension of the same striatal DA mechanisms to working memory, via interactions with prefrontal cortex. In a modified AX-continuous performance task, ADHD participants showed reduced sensitivity to working memory contextual information, despite no global performance deficits, and were more susceptible to the influence of distractor stimuli presented during the delay. These effects were reversed with stimulant medications. Moreover, the tendency for medications to improve Go relative to NoGo reinforcement learning was predictive of their improvement in working memory in distracting conditions, suggestive of common DA mechanisms and supporting a unified account of DA function in ADHD. However, other ADHD effects such as erratic trial-to-trial switching and reaction time variability are not accounted for by model DA mechanisms, and are instead consistent with cortical noradrenergic dysfunction and associated computational models. Accordingly, putative NA deficits were correlated with each other and independent of putative DA-related deficits. Taken together, our results demonstrate the usefulness of computational approaches for understanding cognitive deficits in ADHD.
Schizophrenia is associated with impairments of attentional control on classic experimental paradigms such as the Stroop task. However, at a basic level the neurochemical mechanisms that may be responsible for such impairments are poorly understood. In this study, we sought to investigate the influence of brain monoamine function on Stroop task performance in healthy participants using the established methods of acute dietary serotonin, dopamine, and combined monoamine depletion. The study was a double-blind placebo controlled design in which 12 healthy male participants completed the Stroop task under four acute treatment conditions: (a) balanced/placebo control, (b) acute tryptophan depletion, (c) acute tyrosine/phenylalanine depletion, and (d) acute tyrosine/phenylalanine/tryptophan depletion (combined monoamine depletion). Decreased Stroop interference indicating improved attentional control was observed after both tryptophan depletion and tyrosine/phenylalanine depletion, while there was no significant change in interference after combined monoamine depletion. Findings suggest that reduced tonic dopamine or serotonin activity within specific neural circuits (such as the striatum, anterior cingulate, or prefrontal cortex) may play a critical role in attentional control, possibly by improving gating of information via reducing noise in monoaminergic systems. These findings enhance our understanding of the neurochemical basis of attentional control and the possible cause of attentional control deficits in schizophrenia.

Neural stem cell is presently the research hotspot in neuroscience. Recent progress indicates that epigenetic modulation is closely related to the self-renewal and differentiation of neural stem cell. Epigenetics refer to the study of mitotical/meiotical heritage changes in gene function that cannot be explained by changes in the DNA sequence. Major epigenetic mechanisms include DNA methylation, histone modification, chromatin remodeling, genomic imprinting, and non-coding RNA. In this review, we focus on the new insights into the epigenetic mechanism for neural stem cells fate.

In this article we investigate the distributions of kainate glutamate receptor subtypes GluR5-7 and KA1, 2 on the dendritic arbors of direction-selective (DS) retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of the rabbit retina to search for anisotropies, which might contribute to a directional preference of DS RGCs. The distribution of the kainate receptor subunits on the DS RGCs was determined using antibody immunocytochemistry. DS RGCs were injected with Lucifer yellow and the cells were identified by their characteristic morphology. The double-labeled images of dendrites and receptors were visualized using confocal microscopy and were reconstructed from high-resolution confocal images. We found no evidence of asymmetry in any of the kainate receptor subunits examined on the dendritic arbors of both On and Off layers of DS RGCs. Our results indicate that direction selectivity appears to lie in the neuronal circuitry afferent to the ganglion cell.



Extramedullary hematopoiesis is a common phenomenon in thalassemia. During the disease there are very rare occasions when compensatory hematopoietic tissue is located in the intraspinal epidural space, causing spinal cord compression. This complication requires urgent neurosurgical consideration and decision for further treatment. We present a case of thoracic spinal cord compression secondary to extramedullary hematopoiesis in thalassemia intermedia, treated with irradiation therapy. The therapeutic options are discussed, and the need for more explicit therapeutic directions is highlighted.
Behcet`s disease is characterized by small vessel vasculitis and involvement of multiple systems. In neuro-Behcet cases, spinal cord involvement is approximately 10-18%. Spinal cord lesions are often associated with cerebral or brainstem lesions, and isolated spinal cord involvement in Behcet`s disease is very rare. Here, we report a case with an isolated lesion of the cervical spine.
Meningeal carcinomatosis is an uncommon metastatic complication of systemic solid tumors. The diagnosis is based on the presence of malignant cells in the cerebrospinal fluid. The sensibility of cerebrospinal fluid testing in detecting the neoplastic cells improves when repeating lumbar punctures. Magnetic resonance imaging could help in establishing the diagnosis. The prognosis of carcinomatous meningitis is poor, especially when the primitive neoplasm is initially unknown. We report the case of a patient presenting with sudden bilateral visual decrease, headaches, and vomiting. Signs of meningeal irritation were found. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed malignant cells consistent with an adenocarcinoma. Abdominal echography and MRI concluded in a nodule of the cephalic portion of the pancreas. Carcinomatous meningitis rarely complicates pancreatic cancers.
We report a 2.5-year-old girl who presented with acute history of fluctuating level of consciousness in the form of drowsiness, extreme irritability, and involuntary abnormal movements in the form of shaking of the whole body. She was treated with acyclovir empirically, contemplating herpes simplex virus encephalitis. Overtime she improved substantially. The opsoclonus, myoclonus, and ataxia disappeared without treatment. However, 6 weeks later she presented again with classic opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome. The investigations revealed neuroblastoma. This case illustrates that transient opsoclonus-myoclonus may occur with neuroblastoma and should not be assumed to be due to viral cause. Thus, a thorough search for occult neuroblastoma should be initiated even if opsoclonus-myoclonus resolves spontaneously.
Intracranial hydatid disease is a parasitic infection that affects children in endemic areas such as the Mediterranean, South America, and Australia. In non-endemic areas, it is rare and may pose a diagnostic dilemma. We review a boy who presented with a right cerebral cyst. All investigations were negative, and hydatid cyst was encountered upon intra-operative exploration. We review the available diagnostic modalities, and the difficulty in reaching a preoperative diagnosis. We also review the surgical and medical treatment strategies. A cerebral hydatid cyst should be considered in children with cystic brain lesions even in non-endemic areas. Since serologic tests are frequently negative, the most reliable methods in reaching a diagnosis are radiological evaluation and histopathological examination. The cyst has a typical appearance on CT and MRI and this bears special importance on the treatment strategy where the cyst is best removed intact to avoid recurrence or anaphylaxis.
We present a case of unilateral vocal cord paralysis in a 76-year-old Saudi male presenting with hoarseness of voice caused by thoracic aortic aneurysm. Here, we are illustrating a rare entity of thoracic aortic aneurysm presenting only with hoarseness of voice to draw attention to unusual clinical manifestations of this serious underlying aortic pathology.










Diagnosing epilepsy depends heavily on a detailed, and accurate description of the abnormal transient neurological manifestations. Observing the seizures yields important semiologic features that characterize epilepsy. Video-EEG monitoring allows the identification of important lateralizing (left versus right), and localizing (involved brain region) semiologic features. This information is vital for identifying the seizure origin for possible surgical interventions. The aim of this review is to present a summary of important semiologic characteristics of various seizures that are important for accurate seizure lateralization and localization. This would most likely help during reviewing video-EEG recorded seizures of intractable patients for possible epilepsy surgery. Semiologic features of partial and secondarily generalized seizures can be grouped into one of 4 categories including; automatism, speech, motor, and autonomic features. These features will be discussed in detail in this review. However, seizure semiology should be correlated with EEG and MRI findings. Accurate identification of the seizure origin is more likely if focal EEG onset and MRI findings were concordant with the clinical semiology.
Safe and beneficial surgery of the human cerebrum is arguably one of mankind's most notable achievements and one of the great testimonials to human creativity, intelligence, and character. In many ways, it is a testimony to the climates of civilization that have marked human history. In historical terms, in the year 2007, cranial surgery celebrated its 12,000th birthday, with cranial manipulation for various religious, mystical, and therapeutic reasons being evident in Africa more than 10 millennia before the birth of Christ. This article traces the major developments and attitudes that have laid the foundations of modernity in what is currently surgery and medicine's most exciting and complex technical exercise. It is in fact a 12,000 year prelude to the modernity that we currently enjoy. Before attempting to define our modernity and emerging futurism with reinvention, examination of the prolonged and tedious invention is appropriate for perspective. The following examines and recounts the accrual of data and changes in attitude over the stream of history that have allowed refined surgery of the human cerebrum to become a reality.
Understanding why we produce labels for neuropsychiatric conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), and how we use those words to tell stories about our brain, as well as which groups control such diagnostic discourse, is important to a wise understanding of our cognitive abilities, their limitations, and even our very human nature. Here, we explore the history and current focus of a newly emerging field called neuroethics and explore its relationship (or lack thereof) to a newly created clinical syndrome called involuntary emotional expressive disorder (IEED). The main argument concerns the lack of neuroethical discussion of issues pertinent to social influences on disease and the construction of professional specialization. We are critical of the processes associated with the creation of both the field and the syndrome, and express concern about their eventual outcomes. The interaction of social, political, and business institutions, the inherent interests of the advancement of larger research projects (and the individuals that compose them), their potential for profit, and other incentives to enhance marketability and public attention toward certain research programs will be examined as we discuss the development of the field of neuroethics. Similarly, we argue that these social factors and forces are instrumental in the development of IEED as a recognizable category and condition. Our critique is guided by the hope that through such analyses we can improve our understanding of how we go about our academic activities in cognitive neuroscience and also improve our efforts to help people suffering from neuropsychiatric conditions, such as dementia.
Some neuroscientists argue that advances in neuroscience threaten to undermine our freedom. The argument here is that those concerns are instances of a more general concern about the compatibility of freedom with causal determinism, and that denying that our choices are fully determined under causal laws presents a different set of problems for the claim that we have free will. An alternative account of freedom is presented, consistent with determinism in general, and with advances in neuroscience in particular.
A patient-centered paradigm for clinical research and medical care is presented as a solution to the problem of declining innovation and increasing costs and development time in the pipeline for new therapies. Fundamental differences in values and motivations among scientists, clinicians, industry sponsor, and patients in neurotherapeutics provide a framework for analysis of ethical conflicts and the loss of public confidence in medical research. Parkinson advocates' views on clinical trial participation, perceived risks and benefits, placebo controls, and sham surgery are presented. These views reflect the sense of urgency and the unique perspective that comes from living with this progressive, debilitating condition full time. A patient-centered paradigm that includes authentic voices of patients as collaborators at every stage of development will help to resolve conflicts, build trust, recruit trial participants, and accelerate new therapies. Key elements are adaptive clinical trial methods and the development of information technology for the assessment of outcomes and surveillance of safety over the life cycle of a medical product. Supported by the Parkinson's Disease Foundation, the Parkinson Pipeline Project is a grassroots group of Parkinson's patients whose goal is to represent an authentic voice for patients in the treatment development process. This group promotes education and communication between members of the Parkinson's community and active stakeholders in medical research, industry, and regulatory agencies. Its members are an example of a new breed of knowledgeable consumers, armed with first-hand access to research findings and reinforced by on-line connections to like-minded peers throughout the world.
In the diseased brain, upon activation microglia express binding sites for synthetic ligands designed to recognize the 18-kDa translocator protein TP-18, which is part of the so-called peripheral benzodiazepine receptor complex. PK11195 [1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide], the prototype synthetic ligand, has been widely used for the functional characterization of TP-18. Its cellular source in activated microglia has been established using high-resolution, single-cell autoradiography with the R-enantiomer [3H](R)-PK11195. Radiolabeled [11C](R)-PK11195 has been used to image active brain disease with positron emission tomography. Consistent with experimental and postmortem observations of a characteristically distributed pattern of microglia activation in areas of focal pathology, as well as in anterograde and retrograde projection areas, the in vivo regional [11C](R)-PK11195 signal is found in active focal lesions and over time also along the affected neural tracts and their respective cortical and subcortical projection areas. Thus, a profile of active disease emerges that matches some of the typical distribution patterns known from structural neuroimaging techniques, but additionally shows involvement of brain regions linked through neural pathways. In the context of cell-based in vivo neuropathology, the image data are thus best interpreted in the context of the emerging cellular understanding of brain disease or damage, rather than the definitions of clinical diagnosis. One important observation, borne out by experiment, is the long latency with which activated microglia or increased PK11195 retention appear to gradually emerge and remain in distal areas secondarily affected by disease, supporting speculations that the presence of activated microglia is an important corollary of brain plasticity.
Paraoxon, the active metabolite of parathion, is an acetylcholinesterases (AChE) inhibitor that kills cultured cerebellar granule cell neurons via an apoptotic mechanism. Protein kinase C is an enzyme with diverse functions but its role in paraoxon-induced cell death is unknown. We show that a neurotoxic concentration of paraoxon increases PKC phosphorylation. We tested whether PKC is involved in paraoxon-induced neuronal cell death by using the PKC activator, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (TPA). TPA increases PKC activity and enhances the neurotoxic effect of paraoxon by 28%. In sharp contrast, addition of the PKC inhibitor Ro-31-8220 protects more than 30% neurons that would otherwise die from paraoxon-induced neuronal cell death in either a pretreatment or post-treatment paradigm and markedly reduces phospho-PKC pan levels. We also show that the pretreatment of Ro-31-8220 blocks paraoxon-induced caspase-3 activity completely. These results suggest that activation of protein kinase C is required for paraoxon neurotoxicity.
We report a case of solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) in the cerebral convexity, and present characteristic radiological and surgical findings to determine its origin. The patient was a 59-year-old man with mental dullness and mild gait disturbance. CT scan and MR images showed a highly enhanced large mass lesion mimicking a meningioma in the left parietal convexity. However, neither dural enhancement nor tail sign indicative of meningioma was observed. Angiography showed prominent feedings from branches of the internal carotid and basilar arteries rather than the external carotid artery. For this reason, presurgically, we suggested hemangiopericytoma or other specific meningiomas as a differential diagnoses. Surgery confirmed that the tumor had no attachment to the dura mater and was covered by the arachnoid membrane. The bottom of the tumor adhered tightly to brain tissue. The origin was considered to be the brain surface, pia mater or a part of the arachnoid membrane. Histopathologically, the tumor was diagnosed as a SFT with findings of &quot;attemless pattern&quot; and diffuse CD34 staining. The radiological and surgical findings of the present case indicated in the cerebral convexity as a unique site of origin of SFT.

An attempt was made to explore the validity of the Hess-Gullstrand and Duane-Fincham models of presbyopia development, on the assumption that accommodative miosis could be used as an indicator of ciliary muscle effort. Monocular accommodation response and pupil size were measured as a function of accommodation demand over the range 0-4 D, in 48 normal subjects with ages between 17 and 56 years. The slope of the response/stimulus curve was found to decrease only slowly with age up to about 35 years and then to decline more rapidly. Accommodative miosis per dioptre of accommodation response did not change systematically with age up to about 35 years, this being apparently more in accord with the Hess-Gullstrand model. However, accommodative miosis varied very widely between younger subjects of similar age and accommodative amplitude (from zero to around 1 mm per dioptre of accommodation response for subjects in their twenties). It is concluded that miosis does not necessarily accompany accommodation and that its magnitude is not related in any simple general way to ciliary muscle contraction. Hence it cannot be used to support or refute particular theories of presbyopia.
The effect of Botulinum Toxin type A (BoNT/A) on pain and neurogenic vasodilatation induced by application to the human skin of thermal stimuli and capsaicin was evaluated in a double blind study. A capsaicin cream (0.5 ml of a 0.075%) was applied to the skin of both forearms of eighteen subjects randomly pretreated with either BoNT/A (Botox) or 0.9% saline (NS). Capsaicin was applied to a skin area either inside (protocol A) or adjacent to the BoNT/A treated area (protocol B). Pre-treatment with BoNT/A did not affect thermal-specific and thermal-pain thresholds (by quantitative sensory testing). However, capsaicin-induced pain sensation (by a visual analogue scale), flare area (by acetate sheet) and changes in cutaneous blood flow (CBF, by laser Doppler flowmetry) were reduced when capsaicin was administered inside (protocol A) the BoNT/A treated area. In Protocol B, capsaicin-induced pain was unchanged, and capsaicin-induced flare/increase in CBF were reduced only in the area treated with BoNT/A, but not in the BoNT/A untreated area. Results indicate that (i) BoNT/A reduces capsaicin-induced pain and neurogenic vasodilatation without affecting the transmission of thermal and thermal-pain modalities; (ii) reduction in capsaicin-induced pain occurs only if capsaicin is administered into the BoNT/A pretreated area; (iii) reduction in neurogenic vasodilatation by BoNT/A does not contribute to its analgesic action. BoNT/A could be tested for the treatment of conditions characterised by neurogenic inflammation and inflammatory pain.
Ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is a neuron-specific enzyme that removes ubiquitin from the C-terminal end of substrates and a component of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. A protective effect of a UCH-L1 variant, S18Y, was suggested since the common variant was found to be inversely associated with sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). We investigated the association of S18Y in our Swedish PD material. The tyrosine variant was significantly inversely associated with PD (P=0.049) and with a low age of onset (50 years) (P=0.017) in the case-control material, supporting the hypothesis of a protective function.
Dopamine active transporter (DAT) single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT) is considered a useful and practical technique for early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) and assessment of its progression. The application of this technique, particularly as a surrogate marker for therapeutic and neuroprotective trials in Parkinsonism, however, is dependent on pathological validation. In the absence of human studies, we used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) primate models of Parkinsonism to verify correlation between the SPECT, immunohistochemical and behavioural data. The DAT SPECT data correlated strongly and significantly with the substantia nigra pars compacta tyrosine hydroxylase and Nissl cell counts as well as the behavioural scores. Within the limitations of small numbers inherent to such studies, this data provides the first attempt at pathological validation of SPECT in primates.

It was investigated whether an observer would simulate another person's inhibitory and error processes. Two participants sitting next to each other performed a stop signal task in which they occasionally had to try and inhibit their response when indicated to do so by a stop signal. They could either successfully stop the response or fail to stop and, thereby, make an error. An aftereffect of the other person's successful action inhibition and error was obtained: The participants became slower and more accurate when they observed the other person make an error on the previous trial and when they observed a successful stop. The results suggest that observing another person successfully inhibit an action or make an error evokes processes similar to those that occur when these behaviors are produced.


One of the grand puzzles in neuroscience is establishing the link between cognition and the disparate patterns of spontaneous and task-induced brain activity that can be measured clinically using a wide range of detection modalities such as scalp electrodes and imaging tomography. High-level brain function is not a single-neuron property, yet emerges as a cooperative phenomenon of multiply-interacting populations of neurons. Therefore a fruitful modeling approach is to picture the cerebral cortex as a continuum characterized by parameters that have been averaged over a small volume of cortical tissue. Such mean-field cortical models have been used to investigate gross patterns of brain behavior such as anesthesia, the cycles of natural sleep, memory and erasure in slow-wave sleep, and epilepsy. There is persuasive and accumulating evidence that direct gap-junction connections between inhibitory neurons promote synchronous oscillatory behavior both locally and across distances of some centimeters, but, to date, continuum models have ignored gap-junction connectivity. In this paper we employ simple mean-field arguments to derive an expression for D2, the diffusive coupling strength arising from gap-junction connections between inhibitory neurons. Using recent neurophysiological measurements reported by Fukuda [J. Neurosci. 26, 3434 (2006)], we estimate an upper limit of D2 approximately 0.6cm2. We apply a linear stability analysis to a standard mean-field cortical model, augmented with gap-junction diffusion, and find this value for the diffusive coupling strength to be close to the critical value required to destabilize the homogeneous steady state. Computer simulations demonstrate that larger values of D2 cause the noise-driven model cortex to spontaneously crystalize into random mazelike Turing structures: centimeter-scale spatial patterns in which regions of high-firing activity are intermixed with regions of low-firing activity. These structures are consistent with the spatial variations in brain activity patterns detected with the BOLD (blood oxygen-level-dependent) signal detected with magnetic resonance imaging, and may provide a natural substrate for synchronous gamma-band rhythms observed across separated EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.
Placental oxidative stress has been implicated in many complications of human pregnancy, including preterm delivery and preeclampsia. It is now appreciated that reactive oxygen species can induce a spectrum of changes, ranging from homeostatic induction of enzymes to apoptotic cell death. Little is known regarding the occurrence of placental oxidative stress in other species. We investigated markers of oxidative stress in the labyrinthine (LZ) and junctional (JZ) zones of the murine placenta across gestational age, and correlated these with expression of the cyclooxygenase enzymes COX-1 and COX-2, and apoptosis. We tested a causal link between the two by subjecting placental explants to hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R) in vitro, a known stimulus for generation of oxidative stress. Western blotting demonstrated significant increases in the concentrations of hydroxynonenal (HNE), COX-1 and COX-2 with gestational age. Dual-labelling demonstrated co-localisation of HNE, and COX-1 and COX-2 within the trophoblast of the LZ, and glycogen cells of the JZ. An apoptotic index based on TUNEL-positivity demonstrated an increase with gestational age, and dual-labelling showed co-localisation of TUNEL labelling with HNE and active caspase-3 within the trophoblast of the LZ. H/R significantly increased oxidative stress, induction of COX-1 and COX-2, and the apoptotic index. Co-localisation demonstrated the increases in COX to be within the trophoblast of the LZ, and in particular the glycogen cells of the JZ. Apoptosis was restricted to the LZ. We speculate that the induction of COX enzymes is a physiological response to oxidative stress, and may play a role in initiating or augmenting parturition. Generation of oxidative stress may also play a role in influencing the growth trajectory of the placenta, and its component cell types. The mouse may provide an experimental genetic model in which to investigate these phenomena.
Human walking is a dynamic, partly self-stabilizing process relying on the interaction of the biomechanical design with its neuronal control. The coordination of this process is a very difficult problem, and it has been suggested that it involves a hierarchy of levels, where the lower ones, e.g., interactions between muscles and the spinal cord, are largely autonomous, and where higher level control (e.g., cortical) arises only pointwise, as needed. This requires an architecture of several nested, sensori-motor loops where the walking process provides feedback signals to the walker's sensory systems, which can be used to coordinate its movements. To complicate the situation, at a maximal walking speed of more than four leg-lengths per second, the cycle period available to coordinate all these loops is rather short. In this study we present a planar biped robot, which uses the design principle of nested loops to combine the self-stabilizing properties of its biomechanical design with several levels of neuronal control. Specifically, we show how to adapt control by including online learning mechanisms based on simulated synaptic plasticity. This robot can walk with a high speed (&gt;3.0 leg length/s), self-adapting to minor disturbances, and reacting in a robust way to abruptly induced gait changes. At the same time, it can learn walking on different terrains, requiring only few learning experiences. This study shows that the tight coupling of physical with neuronal control, guided by sensory feedback from the walking pattern itself, combined with synaptic learning may be a way forward to better understand and solve coordination problems in other complex motor tasks.
Insulator or enhancer-blocking elements are proposed to play an important role in the regulation of transcription by preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter interaction. The zinc-finger protein CTCF is well studied in vertebrates as an enhancer blocking factor, but Drosophila CTCF has only been characterised recently. To date only one endogenous binding location for CTCF has been identified in the Drosophila genome, the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the Bithorax complex (BX-C). We carried out chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the Drosophila genome, including the 3-Mb Adh region, the BX-C, and the Antennapedia complex. Location of in vivo CTCF binding within these regions enabled us to construct a robust CTCF binding-site consensus sequence. CTCF binding sites identified in the BX-C map precisely to the known insulator elements Mcp, Fab-6, and Fab-8. Other CTCF binding sites correlate with boundaries of regulatory domains allowing us to locate three additional presumptive insulator elements; &quot;Fab-2,&quot; &quot;Fab-3,&quot; and &quot;Fab-4.&quot; With the exception of Fab-7, our data indicate that CTCF is directly associated with all known or predicted insulators in the BX-C, suggesting that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism. Comparison of the locations of the CTCF sites with characterised Polycomb target sites and histone modification provides support for the domain model of BX-C regulation.
The membrane potential (E(m)) is a fundamental cellular parameter that is primarily determined by the transmembrane permeabilities and concentration gradients of various ions. However, ion gradients are themselves profoundly influenced by E(m) due to its influence upon transmembrane ion fluxes and cell volume (V(c)). These interrelationships between E(m), V(c) and intracellular ion concentrations make computational modelling useful or necessary in order to guide experimentation and to achieve an integrated understanding of experimental data, particularly in complex, dynamic, multi-compartment systems such as skeletal and cardiac myocytes. A variety of quantitative techniques exist that may assist such understanding, from classical approaches such as the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation and the Gibbs-Donnan equilibrium, to more recent &quot;current-summing&quot; models as exemplified by cardiac myocyte models including those of DiFrancesco &amp; Noble, Luo &amp; Rudy and Puglisi &amp; Bers, or the &quot;charge-difference&quot; modelling technique of Fraser &amp; Huang so far applied to skeletal muscle. In general, the classical approaches provide useful and important insights into the relationships between E(m), V(c) and intracellular ion concentrations at steady state, providing their core assumptions are fully understood, while the more recent techniques permit the modelling of changing values of E(m), V(c) and intracellular ion concentrations. The present work therefore reviews the various approaches that may be used to calculate E(m), V(c) and intracellular ion concentrations with the aim of establishing the requirements for an integrated model that can both simulate dynamic systems and recapitulate the key findings of classical techniques regarding the cellular steady state. At a time when the number of cellular models is increasing at an unprecedented rate, it is hoped that this article will provide a useful and critical analysis of the mathematical techniques fundamental to each of them.
Injuries to the peripheral nerves result in partial or total loss of motor, sensory and autonomic functions conveyed by the lesioned nerves to the denervated segments of the body, due to the interruption of axons continuity, degeneration of nerve fibers distal to the lesion and eventual death of axotomized neurons. Injuries to the peripheral nervous system may thus result in considerable disability. After axotomy, neuronal phenotype switches from a transmitter to a regenerative state, inducing the down- and up-regulation of numerous cellular components as well as the synthesis de novo of some molecules normally not expressed in adult neurons. These changes in gene expression activate and regulate the pathways responsible for neuronal survival and axonal regeneration. Functional deficits caused by nerve injuries can be compensated by three neural mechanisms: the reinnervation of denervated targets by regeneration of injured axons, the reinnervation by collateral branching of undamaged axons, and the remodeling of nervous system circuitry related to the lost functions. Plasticity of central connections may compensate functionally for the lack of specificity in target reinnervation; plasticity in human has, however, limited effects on disturbed sensory localization or fine motor control after injuries, and may even result in maladaptive changes, such as neuropathic pain, hyperreflexia and dystonia. Recent research has uncovered that peripheral nerve injuries induce a concurrent cascade of events, at the systemic, cellular and molecular levels, initiated by the nerve injury and progressing throughout plastic changes at the spinal cord, brainstem relay nuclei, thalamus and brain cortex. Mechanisms for these changes are ubiquitous in central substrates and include neurochemical changes, functional alterations of excitatory and inhibitory connections, atrophy and degeneration of normal substrates, sprouting of new connections, and reorganization of somatosensory and motor maps. An important direction for ongoing research is the development of therapeutic strategies that enhance axonal regeneration, promote selective target reinnervation, but are also able to modulate central nervous system reorganization, amplifying those positive adaptive changes that help to improve functional recovery but also diminishing undesirable consequences.


Depression and suicidality after first episode of psychosis are well-documented responses in patients with schizophrenia (Addington, Williams, Young, &amp; Addington, 2004). The understanding of depression and suicidality has been increasingly refined through careful study. Researchers have identified a number of factors that may cause depression such as insight into the illness, feelings of loss and inferiority about the illness as a damaging life event, hopelessness about having a viable future with the illness and mourning for losses engendered by the illness. The authors argue that grief and mourning are not just an occasional reaction to the diagnosis of schizophrenia, but are a necessary part of coming to terms with having the illness. They offer three case examples, each of which illuminates a distinct way in which psychosis and mourning may be related--psychosis as a loss of former identity, psychosis as offering meaning and transformation, and psychosis as a way of coping with the inability to mourn. In their view, recovery depends on mourning illness-related losses, developing personal meaning for the illness, and moving forward with &quot;usable insight&quot; and new identity (Lewis, 2004) that reflects a new understanding of one's strengths and limitations with the illness.
During social interactions, people's eyes convey a wealth of information about their direction of attention and their emotional and mental states. This review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of past and current research into the perception of gaze behavior and its effect on the observer. This encompasses the perception of gaze direction and its influence on perception of the other person, as well as gaze-following behavior such as joint attention, in infant, adult, and clinical populations. Particular focus is given to the gaze-cueing paradigm that has been used to investigate the mechanisms of joint attention. The contribution of this paradigm has been significant and will likely continue to advance knowledge across diverse fields within psychology and neuroscience.
The prevalence and cost of chronic pain is a major physical and mental health care problem in the United States today. As a result, there has been a recent explosion of research on chronic pain, with significant advances in better understanding its etiology, assessment, and treatment. The purpose of the present article is to provide a review of the most noteworthy developments in the field. The biopsychosocial model is now widely accepted as the most heuristic approach to chronic pain. With this model in mind, a review of the basic neuroscience processes of pain (the bio part of biopsychosocial), as well as the psychosocial factors, is presented. This spans research on how psychological and social factors can interact with brain processes to influence health and illness as well as on the development of new technologies, such as brain imaging, that provide new insights into brain-pain mechanisms.
Because learned associations are quickly renewed following extinction, the extinction process must include processes other than unlearning. However, reinforcement learning models, such as the temporal difference reinforcement learning (TDRL) model, treat extinction as an unlearning of associated value and are thus unable to capture renewal. TDRL models are based on the hypothesis that dopamine carries a reward prediction error signal; these models predict reward by driving that reward error to zero. The authors construct a TDRL model that can accommodate extinction and renewal through two simple processes: (a) a TDRL process that learns the value of situation-action pairs and (b) a situation recognition process that categorizes the observed cues into situations. This model has implications for dysfunctional states, including relapse after addiction and problem gambling.
Both positive and negative social interactions can modulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and influence recovery from injuries and illnesses, such as wounds, stroke, and cardiac arrest. Stress exacerbates neuronal death following stroke and cardiac arrest, and delays cutaneous wound healing, via a common mechanism involving stress-induced increases in corticosterone, acting on glucocorticoid receptors. In contrast, hamsters and mice that form social bonds are buffered against stress and heal cutaneous wounds more quickly than socially isolated animals, presumably because the physical contact experienced by the pairs releases oxytocin, which in turn suppresses the HPA axis and facilitates wound healing. Social housing also decreases stroke-induced neuronal death and improves functional recovery, but the mechanism appears to involve suppressing the inflammatory response that accompanies stroke, rather than alterations in HPA axis activity. An interaction between the HPA axis and immune system determines stroke outcome in neonatally manipulated mice that exhibit life-long dampening of the HPA axis. Taken together, these studies provide support for the detrimental effects of stress and identify potential mechanisms underlying the well-documented clinical observation that social support positively influences human health.
Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is characterized by the recurrence of a cluster of physical and negative mood symptoms, especially irritability, appearing when estrogen and progesterone levels decrease during the late luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. The aim of the present study was to explore a new potential model of premenstrual irritability. It has been suggested that burying of harmless objects by rodents may reflect a form of impulsive or anxiety-like behavior. This study demonstrates changes in burying behavior during various phases of the estrous cycle in some but not all female rats. Burying behavior was found to be enhanced at metestrus and decreased at proestrus, characterized by low and high ovarian hormone levels, respectively. No habituation of the cycle-dependent burying was observed. Enhanced burying was not observed in reproductive senescent and ovariectomized females characterized by stable, low levels of ovarian hormones. Increased marble burying at metestrus was reversed by acute treatment with antidepressants fluoxetine, desipramine, nomifensine, the benzodiazepine agonist diazepam, and progesterone, while the neuroleptic chlorpromazine was without effect. Reversal of cycle-dependent burying was unrelated to the drugs' effects on locomotor activity. These results indicate that estrous cycle-dependent marble-burying behavior displayed by a subgroup of female rats might be a manifestation of ovarian hormone-dependent irritability. This manifestation may be used to elucidate the neuroendocrine mechanisms triggering premenstrual irritability, and the detailed mode of action of antidepressants when used for PMDD.







Reviewed are studies using event-related potentials to examine when and how sentence context information is used during language comprehension. Results suggest that, when it can, the brain uses context to predict features of likely upcoming items. However, although prediction seems important for comprehension, it also appears susceptible to age-related deterioration and can be associated with processing costs. The brain may address this trade-off by employing multiple processing strategies, distributed across the two cerebral hemispheres. In particular, left hemisphere language processing seems to be oriented toward prediction and the use of top-down cues, whereas right hemisphere comprehension is more bottom-up, biased toward the veridical maintenance of information. Such asymmetries may arise, in turn, because language comprehension mechanisms are integrated with language production mechanisms only in the left hemisphere (the PARLO framework).
Cortical processing of interaural timing differences (ITDs) was investigated with event-related potential (ERP) measurements in 16 human participants who were required in separate tasks to detect or to spatially localize dichotically embedded pitches. ITDs elicited three ERP components labeled ORN, N2, and P400. The ORN occurred at a latency of 150-250 ms and was elicited by ITDs regardless of location or task. In contrast, the N2 response (250-350 ms) was strongly modulated by location and showed larger amplitudes for the localization task than for the detection task. Finally, ITDs in the detection task elicited a P400 at a latency of 400-500 ms, but this response was entirely absent from ERPs elicited by identical stimuli in the localization task. These results are consistent with a sequential model of auditory perception in which segregation of concurrent sounds is followed by domain-specific processing of object location and identity.

Hydrogen is the source of energy that unites the metabolisms and fuels the innovative potentials of all living organisms. Autotrophs use hydrogen emitted into hydrothermal vents, where symbiotic communities that share hydrogen thrive. On the surface, life developed using photons to cleave water, releasing hydrogen carried into a reverse Krebs cycle to produce carbohydrates, from which hydrogen and its constituent electron and proton are extracted. Fluctuant electrogenic power is harnessed by extensive exchanges and symbiotic sharing schemes of hydrogen sources and carriers. These communicate with electrostatic nuclear centres, forming a positive feedback loop. If the proton-motive circuitry fails from loss of Redox potential, premature ageing and all-category disease can result.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by rigidity, bradykinesia, postural instability and resting tremor. The major symptoms are related to the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The recent discovery of PARK genes causing familial forms of PD has led to a new approach in the study of the disease. The cause and pathogenesis of PD remains unknown; mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage, endoplasmic reticulum stress, failure of the ubiquitin-proteasome system, environmental factors and genetic predisposition might all be involved. Toxin-induced PD animal models and genetic mouse models that mimic familial PD have contributed to investigating the molecular pathogenesis and treatment of the disease. Recently, neurogenesis in the striatum and subventricular zones in PD animal models have been reported. This review discusses molecular pathogenesis, experimental disease models and recent cell-based therapeutic approaches for PD.
Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease are the most common neurodegenerative diseases in the elderly population. Given that age is the most important risk factor in these diseases, the number of patients is expected to rise dramatically in the coming years. Therefore, an effective therapy for these diseases is highly sought. Current treatment brings only temporary symptomatic relief and does not result in halting the progression of these diseases. The increasing knowledge on the molecular mechanisms that underlie these diseases enables the design of novel therapies, targeted at degenerating neurons by creating an optimal regenerative cellular environment. Here, we review the progress made in the field of cell-replacement and gene-therapy strategies. New developments in the application of embryonic stem cells and adult neuronal progenitors are discussed. We also discuss the use of genetically engineered cells in neuronal rescuing strategies that have recently advanced into the clinic. The first trials for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease with this approach are ongoing.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a key component of a kinase cascade that regulates energy balance at the cellular level. Our recent research has raised the possibility that AMPK may also function to couple hypoxic inhibition of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to O(2)-sensitive K(+) channel inhibition and hence underpin carotid body type I cell excitation. Thus, in addition to maintaining the cellular energy state AMPK may act as the primary metabolic sensor and effector of hypoxic chemotransduction in type I cells. These findings provide a unifying link between two previously separate theories pertaining to O(2)-sensing in the carotid body, namely the 'membrane hypothesis' and the 'mitochondrial hypothesis'. Furthermore, our data suggest that in addition to its effects at the cellular level the AMPK signalling cascade can mediate vital physiological mechanisms essential for meeting the metabolic needs of the whole organism.
Acetylcholine (ACh) has been considered an important excitatory neurotransmitter in the carotid body (CB). Its physiological and pharmacological effects, metabolism, release, and receptors have been well documented in several species. Various nicotinic and muscarinic ACh receptors are present in both afferent nerve endings and glomus cells. Therefore, ACh can depolarize or hyperpolarize the cell membrane depending on the available receptor type in the vicinity. Binding of ACh to its receptor can create a wide variety of cellular responses including opening cation channels (nicotinic ACh receptor activation), releasing Ca(2+) from intracellular storage sites (via muscarinic ACh receptors), and modulating activities of K(+) and Ca(2+) channels. Interactions between ACh and other neurotransmitters (dopamine, adenosine, nitric oxide) have been known, and they may induce complicated responses. Cholinergic biology in the CB differs among species and even within the same species due to different genetic composition. Development and environment influence cholinergic biology. We discuss these issues in light of current knowledge of neuroscience.

We report the case of a 40-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus who presented with spontaneous thrombosis of the superior ophthalmic vein resulting in permanent vision loss. The diagnosis was established by noncontrast CT scanning, gadolinium-enhanced MRI, and conventional catheter angiography.
The endophenotype is a construct that has utility for the study of postmortem brains from patients with psychotic disorders. By identifying networks of genes that show changes in expression within specific neuronal populations implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, it may be possible to move toward understanding these disorders at the cellular and molecular levels. The ultimate goal is to characterize their respective underlying genotypes.
The development of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition, and International Classification of Diseases, Eleventh Edition, deserves a significant conceptual step forward. There is a clear need to improve and refine the current diagnostic criteria, but also to introduce dimensions, perhaps not as an alternative but rather as a useful complement to categorical diagnosis. Laboratory, family, and treatment response data should also be systematically included in the diagnostic assessment when available. We have critically reviewed the content, concurrent, discriminant, and predictive validity of bipolar disorder, and to overcome the validity problems of the current classifications of mental disorders, we propose a modular system which may integrate categorical and dimensional issues, laboratory data, associated nonpsychiatric medical conditions, psychological assessment, and social issues in a comprehensive and nevertheless practical approach.
Most models of schizophrenia are based on basal ganglia-thalamocortical (BGTC) neuronal circuits or brain structures that project to them. Two new neuronal networks have been described which include many of the brain regions associated with BGTC neuronal circuits. These networks have been characterized with a new brain-imaging technique based on low-frequency fluctuations of the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal. The new network associated with attention-demanding tasks is referred to as the task-related network and the network associated with stimulus-independent thought during the resting state is referred to as the default network. The 2 networks have been proposed to be negatively correlated or anticorrelated. This article critically reviews the rationale for these anticorrelated networks, the technique with which they are characterized, and preliminary findings in schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Regions associated with the default network overlap with regions important in motivation and are activated by memory retrieval, auditory hallucinations, and ketamine. Task-related networks are necessary for performance of neurocognitive tasks on which schizophrenic patients often perform poorly. It is concluded that anticorrelated networks can be viewed as complementary ways of understanding self-monitoring and task performance which extend present models of schizophrenia based on BGTC circuits. However, there are some limitations with regard the present understanding of brain structures involved in self-monitoring and the lack of asymmetry in the network which may mediate stimulus-independent thought. Further investigations of the default network assessed by low-frequency fluctuations in the BOLD signal seem warranted.
Schizophrenia is widely considered a neurodevelopmental disorder. The timing of psychosis onset may determine the degree of functional and biological deficits. In this study, the association between age of onset of psychosis and in vivo biochemical levels was assessed in first-episode, antipsychotic-naive (FEAN) schizophrenia subjects. We hypothesized greater biochemical deficits in the younger-onset FEAN subjects. In vivo, (1)H spectroscopy measurements of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) were conducted on FEAN subjects (15 schizophrenia and 3 schizoaffective subjects) and healthy comparison subjects of comparable age and gender distribution (N=61). N-acetyl-aspartate was significantly lower in the left DLPFC of FEAN subjects as compared to healthy comparison subjects. However, there was a significant subject group-by-age interaction for N-acetyl-aspartate. Early-onset FEAN subjects showed lower N-acetyl-aspartate levels compared to the younger healthy comparison subjects, while adult-onset FEAN and older healthy comparison subjects did not differ. The lower N-acetyl-aspartate levels in the DLPFC of early-onset subjects suggest a reduction in functioning neurons or specifically a reduction in the proliferation of dendrites and synaptic connections, which is not apparent in the adult-onset schizophrenia subjects.
Impairments in feedback processing and reinforcement learning appear to be prominent aspects of schizophrenia (SZ), which may relate to symptoms of the disorder. Evidence from cognitive neuroscience investigations indicates that disparate brain systems may underlie different kinds of feedback-driven learning. The ability to rapidly shift response tendencies in the face of negative feedback, when reinforcement contingencies are reversed, is an important type of learning thought to depend on ventral prefrontal cortex (PFC). Schizophrenia has long been associated with dysfunction in dorsolateral areas of PFC, but evidence for ventral PFC impairment in more mixed. In order to assess whether SZ patients experience particular difficulty in carrying out a cognitive function commonly linked to ventral PFC function, we administered to 34 patients and 26 controls a modified version of an established probabilistic reversal learning task from the experimental literature [Cools, R., Clark, L., Owen, A.M., Robbins, T.W., 2002. Defining the neural mechanisms of probabilistic reversal learning using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. J. Neurosci. 22, 4563-4567]. Although SZ patients and controls performed similarly on the initial acquisition of probabilistic contingencies, patients showed substantial learning impairments when reinforcement contingencies were reversed, achieving significantly fewer reversals [chi(2)(6)=15.717, p=0.008]. Even when analyses were limited to subjects who acquired all probabilistic contingencies initially (22 patients and 20 controls), patients achieved significantly fewer reversals [chi(2)(3)=9.408, p=0.024]. These results support the idea that ventral PFC dysfunction is a prevalent aspect of schizophrenic pathophysiology, which may contribute to deficits in reinforcement learning exhibited by patients. Further studies are required to investigate the roles of dopaminergic systems in these impairments.
The presence of an additional X-chromosome in Klinefelter patients provides an opportunity to study the influence of this chromosome on psychiatric disorders. Previous studies have reported an excess of Klinefelter patients in psychiatric patient groups. We report an increased prevalence of psychiatric disorders including psychotic disorders in a sample of Klinefelter patients but could not find evidence of an effect of the parental origin of the extra X-chromosome on the psychiatric phenotype. Nevertheless, these findings provide further support for the role of the X-chromosome in the susceptibility to psychiatric disorders in general and psychotic disorders in particular.
Apoptosis is thought to contribute to neuronal loss in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, although empiric evidence in support of this idea has been lacking. In this study, we investigated whether or not apoptosis is associated with GABAergic interneurons in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia (n=14) and bipolar disorder (n=14) when compared to normal controls (n=14). A double-labeling technique using the Klenow method of in situ end-labeling (ISEL) of single-stranded DNA breaks was combined with an in situ hybridization localization of mRNA for the 67 kDa isoform of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67) and applied to the anterior cingulate cortex of 14 normal controls, 14 schizophrenics, and 14 patients with bipolar disorder matched for age and postmortem interval. An increase in Klenow-positive, GAD67-negative nuclei were observed in layer V/VI of patients with bipolar disorder, but not schizophrenics. Klenow-positive cells that were also positive for GAD67 mRNA did not show differences in either patient group. Conclusions: This is the first demonstration that there is more DNA fragmentation in cells showing no detectable GAD67 mRNA in patients with bipolar disorder than in schizophrenics or controls. These findings suggest that non-GABAergic cells may be selectively vulnerable to oxidative stress in patients with bipolar disorder.
Based on the evidence that lamotrigine added to clozapine in refractory schizophrenic patients has reported promising results, the present 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial had the aim to explore the efficacy of lamotrigine add-on pharmacotherapy on clinical symptomatology and cognitive functioning in a sample of treatment-resistant schizophrenic patients receiving clozapine. After clinical and neurocognitive assessments patients were randomly allocated to receive, in a double-blind design, either up to 200 mg/day of lamotrigine or a placebo. A final sample of fifty-one patients completed the study. The results obtained indicate that lamotrigine added to stable clozapine treatment showed a beneficial effect on the negative, positive and general psychopathological symptomatology in a sample of treatment-resistant schizophrenic patients. Regarding cognitive functions, improvement was observed in some explored areas, such as attentional resistance to interference, verbal fluency and executive functioning. The findings provide evidence that lamotrigine augmentation of clozapine treatment is well tolerated and may be proposed as an effective therapeutic strategy to improve outcome in treatment-resistant schizophrenia.
The heterogeneity of the schizophrenia phenotype is often considered an obstacle for genetic research. We therefore aim to identify subgroups of psychosis patients with a shared symptom profile by means of a fully data-driven analysis, which may serve as an alternative phenotype. We investigated the symptoms of 1056 patients that were referred to our hospital with a psychosis. The lifetime symptoms scores were derived from the current and lifetime ratings of the comprehensive assessment of psychiatric history (CASH) interview. We used latent class analysis (LCA) to identify clusters of patients with a shared symptom profile. The five indicators in our analysis were the total number of symptoms present for each of the five factors identified in a factor analysis of lifetime symptoms. We also analysed the discriminating power of these symptom dimensions in previous LCAs. A six-cluster division of psychotic phenotypes showed substantial overlap with earlier LCA analyses and findings from genetic association studies. The results included a bipolar and a depression subgroup in psychosis and showed that mood symptoms are the best discriminators of subgroups of psychosis. The distinction of subgroups of psychosis patients, in particular those with major mood symptoms could facilitate the unravelling of the genetics of psychotic disorders.
The incidence of epilepsy is the same in men and women yet more time and energy has been expended on &quot;women's issues&quot; in recent times. In 2004, Epilepsy Action (The British Epilepsy Association) conducted a nationwide survey of men with epilepsy (MWE), who had contacted their helpline in the previous year. The men were comfortable discussing their epilepsy and confident in asking for information. They felt keenly the lack of driving privileges and the type of work available to them. A majority felt the condition adversely affected their self-esteem and quality of life. Most men expressed satisfaction with the quality of care and information they got from their general practitioners and their neurologist.

Ischemic optic neuropathies (IONs) are the most frequent acute optic neuropathy in patients older than 50 years. They are classified according to the location of the ischemic damage into anterior ION and posterior ION. Ischemic optic neuropathies may also be categorized based on the presence or absence of temporal arteritis as an underlying etiology. Anterior ION presents with sudden, painless visual loss developing over hours to days. Examination findings usually include decreased visual acuity, a visual field defect, color vision loss, a relative afferent pupillary defect, and a swollen optic nerve head. Posterior ION occurs in arteritic, nonarteritic, and surgical settings. It is characterized by acute vision loss without initial disc edema but with subsequent optic disc atrophy.

Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are part of the bone marrow that provides signals supporting survival and growth of bystander hematopoietic stem cells (HSC). MSC modulate also the immune response, as they inhibit proliferation of lymphocytes. In order to investigate whether MSC can support survival of T cells, we investigated MSC capacity of rescuing T lymphocytes from cell death induced by different mechanisms. We observed that MSC prolong survival of unstimulated T cells and apoptosis-prone thymocytes cultured under starving conditions. MSC rescued T cells from activation induced cell death (AICD) by downregulation of Fas receptor and Fas ligand on T cell surface and inhibition of endogenous proteases involved in cell death. MSC dampened also Fas receptor mediated apoptosis of CD95 expressing Jurkat leukemic T cells. In contrast, rescue from AICD was not associated with a significant change of Bcl-2, an inhibitor of apoptosis induced by cell stress. Accordingly, MSC exhibited a minimal capacity of rescuing Jurkat cells from chemically induced apoptosis, a process disrupting the mitochondrial membrane potential regulated by Bcl-2. These results suggest that MSC interfere with the Fas receptor regulated process of programmed cell death. Overall, MSC can inhibit proliferation of activated T cells while supporting their survival in a quiescent state, providing a model of their activity inside the HSC niche. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.


Edme Mariotte, a Roman Catholic priest and a founding member of l'Acadmie des sciences de Paris in 1666, is mainly remembered as the first scientist to discover the blind spot, known as Mariotte's Spot, in visual fields. His extensive work on optics and color perception is less well remembered. In addition, he made other important discoveries in different areas of science such as physics, mechanics, hydraulics, optics, plant physiology, meteorology, surveying, and research methodology. Mariotte was an active experimenter whose experimental principles separated science from metaphysics. His work was known to many of his fellow great scientists of his day, including Newton and Descartes, and his lengthy correspondence was a pioneering form of scientific international cooperation. Mariotte's observations, experiments, and demonstration of the blind spot led to a lively debate in the scientific community as to its explanation. Although he falsely assumed that it was the choroid, not the retina, that was the site of perception in the eye, he may be considered as a forerunner of neuro-ophthalmology due to his experiments and interest in the fundus.
18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a novel iboga alkaloid congener, is a potential treatment for drug addiction. 18-MC has been shown to decrease self-administration of drugs (e.g., morphine, methamphetamine, nicotine) and attenuate opioid withdrawal in rats. In previous studies, systemic pretreatment with 18-MC abolished the sensitized increase in accumbens dopamine levels induced by chronic morphine administration. In vitro studies have shown that 18-MC is a potent antagonist of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors, and alpha3beta4 antagonism is believed to be the primary mechanism responsible for 18-MC's effects on drug self-administration and possibly on morphine-induced changes in mesolimbic dopamine. While there are very low densities of alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors in the mesolimbic pathway, these receptors are prominently localized in the medial habenula (MHb) and in the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN). These nuclei and the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway connecting them are believed to function as part of an alternate reward pathway modulating the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway known to be involved in drug addiction. In the present study, to determine if 18-MC acts in the MHb or in the IPN, the effects of local infusion of 18-MC into these brain areas were assessed on mesolimbic dopamine responses to acute and repeated morphine treatment. Administration of 18-MC (10 mug) into either the IPN or MHb blocked the sensitized dopamine response to repeated morphine in the nucleus accumbens; 18-MC had no effect on the dopamine response to acute morphine. The results suggest that 18-MC acts in the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway to modulate the effects of repeated morphine in the dopaminergic mesolimbic system.
The psychostimulant 3,4-methylendioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;ecstasy&quot;) evokes degeneration of telencephalic serotonin innervations in rodents, nonhuman primates, and human recreational drug users. However, there has been no alternative to nonhuman primates for studies of the cognitive and neurochemical consequences of serotonin depletion in a large-bodied animal. Therefore, we used positron emission tomography (PET) with [(11)C]DASB to map the distribution of plasma membrane serotonin transporters in brain of Gttingen minipigs, first in a baseline condition, and again at 2 weeks after treatment with MDMA (i.m.), administered at a range of doses. In parallel PET studies, [(11)C]WAY-100635 was used to map the distribution of serotonin 5HT(1A) receptors. The acute MDMA treatment in awake pigs evoked 1 degrees C of hyperthermia. MDMA at total doses greater than 20 mg/kg administered over 2-4 days reduced the binding potential (pB) of [(11)C]DASB for serotonin transporters in porcine brain. A mean total dose of 42 mg/kg MDMA in four animals evoked a mean 32% decrease in [(11)C]DASB pB in mesencephalon and diencephalon, and a mean 53% decrease in telencephalic structures. However, this depletion of serotonin innervations was not associated with consistent alterations in the binding of [(11)C]WAY-100635 to serotonin 5HT(1A) receptors. Stereological cell counting of serotonin-positive neurons, which numbered 95,000 in the dorsal raph nucleus of normal animals, was unaffected in MDMA-treated group. group.
The microtubule (MT) motor protein kinesin is a vital component of cells and organs expressing acrylamide (ACR) toxicity. As a mechanism of its potential carcinogenicity, we determined whether kinesins involved in cell division are inhibited by ACR similar to neuronal kinesin [Sickles, D.W., Brady, S.T., Testino, A.R., Friedman, M.A., and Wrenn, R.A. (1996). Direct effect of the neurotoxicant acrylamide on kinesin-based microtubule motility. Journal of Neuroscience Research 46, 7-17.] Kinesin-related genes were isolated from rat testes [Navolanic, P.M., and Sperry, A.O. (2000). Identification of isoforms of a mitotic motor in mammalian spermatogenesis. Biology of Reproduction 62, 1360-1369.], their kinesin-like proteins expressed in bacteria using recombinant DNA techniques and the effects of ACR, glycidamide (GLY) and propionamide (a non-neurotoxic metabolite) on the function of two of the identified kinesin motors were tested. KIFC5A MT bundling activity, required for mitotic spindle formation, was measured in an MT-binding assay. Both ACR and GLY caused a similar concentration-dependent reduction in the binding of MT; concentrations of 100 microM ACR or GLY reduced its activity by 60%. KRP2 MT disassembling activity was assayed using the quantity of tubulin disassembled from taxol-stabilized MT. Both ACR and GLY inhibited KRP2-induced MT disassembly. GLY was substantially more potent; significant reductions of 60% were achieved by 500 microM, a comparable inhibition by ACR required a 5 mM concentration. Propionamide had no significant effect on either kinesin, except KRP2 at 10 mM. This is the first report of ACR inhibition of a mitotic/meiotic motor protein. ACR (or GLY) inhibition of kinesin may be an alternative mechanism to DNA adduction in the production of cell division defects and potential carcinogenicity. We conclude that ACR may act on multiple kinesin family members and produce toxicities in organs highly dependent on microtubule-based functions.
How do children acquire humankind's remarkable cognitive skills? Why are the abilities children acquire readily, such as native-language fluency, harder for adults? Although attitudes to these questions span the continuum from nativism to learning theory, answers remain elusive. We relate a recent model of language acquisition in childhood to advances in the neuroscience of adult cognitive control, to propose a domain-general shift in the architecture of learning in childhood. The timing of this supports children's imitative, unsupervised learning of social and linguistic conventions before the maturation of cognitive control gives individuals greater self-direction, which causes learning to become less conventionalized and more idiosyncratic. These changes might represent an important adaptation supporting the development and learning of cultural and linguistic conventions.
Little is known about the neural systems that subserve human loss aversion. A recent neuroimaging study by Tom, Poldrack and colleagues reports that this pattern of behaviour is directly tied to the greater sensitivity of the brain to potential losses compared with potential gains and uncovers a brain network whose activity increases with potential gains and decreases with potential losses. These results challenge the common view that loss aversion engages a distinct emotion-related brain network (e.g. amygdala and insula).
Anxiety can be hugely disruptive to everyday life. Anxious individuals show increased attentional capture by potential signs of danger, and interpret expressions, comments and events in a negative manner. These cognitive biases have been widely explored in human anxiety research. By contrast, animal models have focused upon the mechanisms underlying acquisition and extinction of conditioned fear, guiding exposure-based therapies for anxiety disorders. Recent neuroimaging studies of conditioned fear, attention to threat and interpretation of emotionally ambiguous stimuli indicate common amygdala-prefrontal circuitry underlying these processes, and suggest that the balance of activity within this circuitry is altered in anxiety, creating a bias towards threat-related responses. This provides a focus for future translational research, and targeted pharmacological and cognitive interventions.
Rather than passively 'waiting' to be activated by sensations, it is proposed that the human brain is continuously busy generating predictions that approximate the relevant future. Building on previous work, this proposal posits that rudimentary information is extracted rapidly from the input to derive analogies linking that input with representations in memory. The linked stored representations then activate the associations that are relevant in the specific context, which provides focused predictions. These predictions facilitate perception and cognition by pre-sensitizing relevant representations. Predictions regarding complex information, such as those required in social interactions, integrate multiple analogies. This cognitive neuroscience framework can help explain a variety of phenomena, ranging from recognition to first impressions, and from the brain's 'default mode' to a host of mental disorders.
Rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC) is a large brain region, and is unusually large in humans. Therefore, it seems likely that it might support functions that are central to cognition. However, until recently, almost nothing was known about what these functions might be. The 'gateway hypothesis' places these abilities at the centre of human mental processing. It maintains that rostral PFC supports mechanisms that enable us to attend, to a novel degree, either to environmental stimuli, or by contrast, to self-generated or maintained representations (i.e. the 'thoughts in our head'). In this way, investigations into the functions of rostral PFC will reveal key new insights into how human and non-human mental abilities differ.
The slow (&lt;1 Hz) oscillation, with its alternating 'up' and 'down' states in individual neurons, is a defining feature of the electroencephalogram (EEG) during slow-wave sleep (SWS). Although this oscillation is well preserved across mammalian species, its physiological role is unclear. Electrophysiological and computational evidence from the cortex and thalamus now indicates that slow-oscillation 'up' states and the 'activated' state of wakefulness are remarkably similar dynamic entities. This is consistent with behavioural experiments suggesting that slow-oscillation 'up' states provide a context for the replay, and possible consolidation, of previous experience. In this scenario, the T-type Ca(2+) channel-dependent bursts of action potentials that initiate each 'up' state in thalamocortical (TC) neurons might function as triggers for synaptic and cellular plasticity in corticothalamic networks. This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue Physiogenic and pathogenic oscillations: the beauty and the beast, based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com).
Most smokers repeatedly fail in their attempts to stop smoking because of the addictive nature of the nicotine in tobacco products. Nicotine dependence is probably mediated through the activation of multiple subtypes of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), among which the mesolimbic alpha(4)beta(2) subtype has a pivotal role. Here, we discuss the rationale for and the design of alpha(4)beta(2) nAChR partial agonists as novel treatments for tobacco addiction. Such agents are expected to exhibit a dual action by sufficiently stimulating alpha(4)beta(2)-nAChR-mediated dopamine release to reduce craving when quitting and by inhibiting nicotine reinforcement when smoking. Potent and selective alpha(4)beta(2) nAChR partial agonists that exhibit dual agonist and antagonist activity in preclinical models can be identified. The validity of this approach is demonstrated by the clinical efficacy of the alpha(4)beta(2) nAChR partial agonist varenicline, which has significantly better quit rates than do other treatments and offers a new option for smoking cessation pharmacotherapy.
Although several hypothesis and theories have been advanced as explanations for the functions of sleep, a unified theory of sleep function remains elusive. Sleep has been implicated in the plastic cerebral changes that underlie learning and memory, in particular those related to memory consolidation of recently acquired new information. Despite steady accumulations of positive findings over the last ten years, the precise role of sleep in memory and brain plasticity is unproven at all. This situation might be solved by more integrated approaches that combine behavioral and neurophysiological measurements in well described in vivo models of neuronal activity and brain plasticity.
The spatial and temporal interactions in the receptive fields of On-Off directionally selective (DS) ganglion cells endow them with directional selectivity. Using a variety of stimuli, such as sinusoidal gratings, we show that these interactions make directional selectivity of the DS ganglion cell robust with respect to stimulus parameters such as contrast, speed, spatial frequency, and extent of motion. Moreover, unlike the directional selectivity of striate-cortex cells, On-Off DS ganglion cells display directional selectivity to motions not oriented perpendicularly to the contour of the objects. We argue that these cells may achieve such high robustness by combining multiple mechanisms of directional selectivity.
A GABA- or glycine-induced increase in Cl(-) permeability can produce either a depolarization or hyperpolarization, depending on the Cl(-) equilibrium potential. It has been shown that retinal neurons express the chloride cotransporters, Na-K-2Cl (NKCC) and K-Cl (KCC), the primary molecular mechanisms that control the intracellular Cl(-) concentration. We thus studied (1) the localization of these cotransporters in the fish retina, and (2) how suppression of cotransporter activity in the fish retina affects function. Specific antibodies against NKCC and KCC2 revealed that both cotransporters were expressed in the outer and inner plexiform layers, and colocalized in many putative amacrine cells and in cells of the ganglion cell layer. However, the somata of putative horizontal cells displayed only NKCC immunoreactivity and many bipolar cells were only immunopositive for KCC2. In the outer retina, application of bumetanide, a specific inhibitor of NKCC activity, (1) increased the steady-state extracellular concentration of K+ ([K+](o)) and enhanced the light-induced decrease in the [K+](o), (2) increased the sPIII photoreceptor-dependent component of the ERG, and (3) reduced the extracellular space volume. In contrast, in the outer retina, application of furosemide, a specific inhibitor of KCC activity, decreased sPIII and the light-induced reduction in [K+](o), but had little effect on steady-state [K+](o). In the inner retina, bumetanide increased the sustained component of the light-induced increase in [K+](o). These findings thus indicate that NKCC and KCC2 control the [K+](o) and extracellular space volume in the retina in addition to regulating GABA- and glycine-mediated synaptic transmission. In addition, the anatomical and electrophysiological results together suggest that all of the major neuronal types in the fish retina are influenced by chloride cotransporter activity.
We evaluated the contributions of somatic and dendritic impulses to the receptive field dimensions of amacrine cells in the amphibian retina. For this analysis, we used the NEURON simulation program with a multicompartmental, multichannel model of an On-Off amacrine cell with a three-dimensional structure obtained through computer tracing techniques. Simulated synaptic inputs were evenly spaced along the dendritic branches and organized into eight annuli of increasing radius. The first set of simulations activated each ring progressively to simulate an area summation experiment, while a second approach activated each annulus individually. Both sets of simulations were done with and without the presence of Na channels in the dendrites and soma. Unexpectedly, the receptive field dimensions observed in the area summation simulations was often smaller than that predicted from the summation of the annular simulations. Collisions of action potentials moving in opposite directions in the dendrites largely accounted for this contraction in receptive field size for the area summation studies. The presence of dendritic Na channels increased the size of the receptive field beyond that achieved in their absence and allowed the physiological size of the receptive field to approximate the physical dimensions of the dendritic tree. This receptive field augmentation was the result of impulse generating ability in the dendrites which enhanced the signal observed at the soma. These simulations provide a plausible mechanistic explanation for physiological recordings from amacrine cells that show similar phenomena.
We studied the morphology and physiology of a unique wide-field amacrine cell in the rabbit retina. These cells displayed a stereotypic dendritic morphology consisting of a large, circular and monostratified arbor that often extended over 2 mm. Their responses contained both somatic and dendritic sodium spikes suggesting active propagation of synaptic signals within the dendritic arbor. This idea is supported by the enormous size of their ON-OFF receptive fields. Interestingly, these cells exhibited separate ON and OFF receptive fields that, while concentric, were vastly different in size. Whereas the ON receptive field of these cells extended nearly 2 mm, the OFF receptive field was typically 75% smaller. Blockade of voltage-gated sodium channels with QX-314 dramatically reduced the large ON receptive field, but had little effect on the smaller OFF receptive field. These results indicate a spatial disparity in the location of on- and off-center bipolar cell inputs to the dendritic arbor of wide-field amacrine cells. In addition, the active propagation of signals suggests that synaptic inputs are integrated both locally and globally within the dendritic arbor.
Design in engineering begins with the problem of robustness-by what factor should intrinsic capacity exceed normal demand? Here we consider robustness for a neural circuit that crosses the retina from cones to ganglion cells. The circuit's task is to represent the visual scene at many successive stages, each time by modulating a stream of stochastic events: photoisomerizations, then transmitter quanta, then spikes. At early stages, the event rates are high to achieve some critical signal-to-noise ratio and temporal bandwidth, which together set the information rate. Then neural circuits concentrate the information and repackage it, so that nearly the same total information can be represented by modulating far lower event rates. This is important for spiking because of its high metabolic cost. Considering various measurements at the outer and inner retina, we conclude that the &quot;safety factors&quot; are about 2-10, similar to other tissues.
Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is the degradative enzyme for anandamide (AEA), an endogenous ligand for the vanilloid receptor (TRPV1) and cannabinoid receptor 1. As FAAH and TRPV1 are integral membrane proteins, FAAH activity could modulate the availability of AEA for TRPV1 activation. Previous studies in this laboratory reported an extensive endocannabinoid system in goldfish retina. Immunocytochemistry was used to determine the relative distributions of FAAH-immunoreactivity (IR) and TRPV1-IR in goldfish retina. Here, we show the first example in an intact neural system in which TRPV1-IR co-localizes in subpopulations of FAAH-immunoreactive neurons, in this case amacrine cells. These cells are rare and consist of three subtypes: 1. ovoid cell with granular-type dendrites restricted to sublamina a, 2. pyriform cell with smooth processes in sublamina b, and 3. fusiform cell with smooth processes that project to sublaminae a and b. The varied appearances of reaction product in the dendrites suggest different subcellular localization of TRPV1, and hence function of FAAH activity regarding TRPV1 stimulation among the cell types. Ovoid and pyriform amacrine cells, but not fusiform cells, labeled with GAD-IR and constituted subsets of GABAergic amacrine cells. TRPV1 amacrine cells, though rare, are represented in the ON, OFF and ON/OFF pathways of the retina. As TRPV1 stimulation increases intracellular calcium with numerous downstream effects, co-localization of TRPV1 and FAAH suggests an autoregulatory function for anandamide. Due to the rarity of these cells, the three vanilloid amacrine cell types may be involved in global effects rather than feature extraction, for example: sampling of ambient light or maintaining homeostasis.
We investigated how saccade target selection by humans and macaque monkeys reacts to unexpected changes of the image. This was explored using double step and search step tasks in which a target, presented alone or as a singleton in a visual search array, steps to a different location on infrequent, random trials. We report that human and macaque monkey performance are qualitatively indistinguishable. Performance is stochastic with the probability of producing a compensated saccade to the final target location decreasing with the delay of the step. Compensated saccades to the final target location are produced with latencies relative to the step that are comparable to or less than the average latency of saccades on trials with no target step. Noncompensated errors to the initial target location are produced with latencies less than the average latency of saccades on trials with no target step. Noncompensated saccades to the initial target location are followed by corrective saccades to the final target location following an intersaccade interval that decreases with the interval between the target step and the initiation of the noncompensated saccade. We show that this pattern of results cannot be accounted for by a race between two stochastically independent processes producing the saccade to the initial target location and another process producing the saccade to the final target location. However, performance can be accounted for by a race between three stochastically independent processes--a GO process producing the saccade to the initial target location, a STOP process interrupting that GO process, and another GO process producing the saccade to the final target location. Furthermore, if the STOP process and second GO process start at the same time, then the model can account for the incidence and latency of mid-flight corrections and rapid corrective saccades. This model provides a computational account of saccade production when the image changes unexpectedly.
Psychophysical and fMRI studies have indicated that visual processing of global symmetry has distinctive scaling properties, and proceeds more slowly than analysis of contrast, spatial frequency, and texture. We therefore undertook a visual evoked potential (VEP) study to directly compare the dynamics of symmetry and texture processing, and to determine the extent to which they interact. Stimuli consisted of interchange between structured and random black-and-white checkerboard stimuli. For symmetry, structured stimuli were colored with 2-fold symmetry (horizontal or vertical mirror), 4-fold symmetry (both mirror axes), and 8-fold symmetry (oblique mirror axes added). For texture, structured stimuli were colored according to the &quot;even&quot; isodipole texture [Julesz, B., Gilbert, E. N., &amp; Victor, J. D. (1978). Visual discrimination of textures with identical third-order statistics. Biological Cybernetics, 31, 137-140]. Thus, all stimuli had the same contrast, and check size, but differed substantially in correlation structure. To separate components of the VEP related to symmetry and texture from components that could be generated by local luminance and contrast changes, we extracted the odd-harmonic components of the VEP (recorded at C(z)-O(z), C(z)-O(1), C(z)-O(2), C(z)-P(z)) elicited by structured-random interchange. Responses to symmetry were largest for the 8-fold patterns, and progressively smaller for 4-fold, vertical, and horizontal symmetry patterns. Eightfold patterns were therefore used in the remainder of the study. The symmetry response is shifted to larger checks and lower temporal frequencies compared to the response to texture, and its temporal tuning is broader. Processing of symmetry makes use of neural mechanisms with larger receptive fields, and slower, more sustained temporal tuning characteristics than those involved in the analysis of texture. Sparse stimuli were used to dissociate check size and check density. VEP responses to sparse symmetry stimuli showed that there is no difference between first- and second-order symmetry for densities less than 12.5%. We discuss these findings in relation to local and global visual processes.
Faces reversed in contrast cannot be readily recognized, an effect absent in object recognition. Why? Four factors: expertise, reflectance (pigmentation), high similarity, and the need to discriminate metrically varying smooth surfaces have been offered as explanations. Observers achieved expertise on discriminating smoothly shaped, pigmented, non-face blobs with positive contrast, where distractor similarity matched that of a set of faces in shape and reflectance. On a match-to-sample task, reversal of contrast between sample and matching images had no effect when matching such blobs, but markedly degraded performance when matching faces suggesting that this effect is unique to faces.
Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) have been found to have impairments in some face recognition tasks [e.g., Boucher, J., &amp; Lewis, V. (1992). Unfamiliar face recognition in relatively able autistic children. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 33, 843-859.], and it has been suggested that this impairment occurs because these individuals do not spontaneously attend to the eyes [e.g., Pelphrey, K. A., Sasson, N. J., Reznick, J. S., Paul, G., Goldman, B. D., &amp; Piven, J. (2002). Visual scanning of faces in autism. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 32, 249-261.], or attend selectively to the mouth [e.g., Langdell, T. (1978). Recognition of faces-approach to study of autism. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry and Allied Disciplines, 19, 255-268; Joseph, R. M., &amp; Tanaka J. (2003). Holistic and part-based face recognition in children with autism. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 44, 529-542.]. Here, we test whether the eyes or the mouth are attended to preferentially by 16 males with ASD and 19 matched controls. Participants discriminated small spatial displacements of the eyes and the mouth. If the mouth region were attended to preferentially by individuals with ASD, we would expect ASD observers to be better at detecting subtle changes in mouth than eye displacements, relative to controls. Further, following Barton [Barton, J. J. S., Keenan, J. P., &amp; Bass, T. (2001). Discrimination of spatial relations and features in faces: Effects of inversion and viewing duration. British Journal of Psychology, 92, 527-549.], we would expect to see differences in inversion effects as a function of feature manipulation between ASD and control groups. We found that individuals with ASD performed significantly differently than controls for the eye, but not the mouth, trials. However, we found no difference in inversion effects between the two groups of observers. Furthermore, we found evidence of distinct subclasses of individuals with ASD: those who performed normally, and those who were impaired. These results suggests that typical individuals are better able to make use of information in the eyes than some individuals with ASD, but that there is no clear autism &quot;advantage&quot; in the use of information in the mouth region.
People often experience age-related declines in cone-based visual capacities despite an absence of apparent visual pathology. Although mice are used as models of human visual pathologies associated with aging, little is known about how age impacts vision in animals with disease-free retinas since most studies have heretofore examined relatively young mice. We examined the effects of age on cone-based vision by assessing opsin gene transcription, cone densities, the flicker electroretinogram (ERG), and behavioral increment thresholds in mice. ERG measurements of cone function showed age-related declines in maximum voltage (Vmax), while opsin gene transcription, cone density, and increment thresholds were unchanged even in extremely old mice. The age-related decline in Vmax seen in mice is qualitatively similar to that documented for human subjects. It is notable that Vmax, a commonly used index of ERG activity, does not predict behavioral performance in the mouse.
Computational models suggest that features of intermediate complexity (IC) play a central role in object categorization [Ullman, S., Vidal-Naquet, M., &amp; Sali, E. (2002). Visual features of intermediate complexity and their use in classification. Nature Neuroscience, 5, 682-687.]. The critical aspect of these features is the amount of mutual information (MI) they deliver. We examined the relation between MI, human categorization and an electrophysiological response to IC features. Categorization performance correlated with MI level as well as with the amplitude of a posterior temporal potential, peaking around 270 ms. Hence, an objective MI measure predicts human object categorization performance and its underlying neural activity. These results demonstrate that informative IC features serve as categorization features in human vision.

All reported GnRH receptor mutants (causing human hypogonadotropic hypogonadism) are misfolded proteins that cannot traffic to the plasma membrane. Pharmacoperones correct misfolding and rescue mutants, routing them to the plasma membrane where they regain function. Because pharmacoperones are often peptidomimetic antagonists, these must be removed for receptor function after rescue; in vivo this necessitates pulsatile pharmacoperone administration. As an antecedent to in vivo studies, we determined whether pharmacoperones need to be present at the time of synthesis or whether previously misfolded proteins could be refolded and rescued. Accordingly, we blocked either protein synthesis or intra-cellular transport. Biochemical and morphological studies using 12 mutants and 10 pharmacoperones representing three different chemical classes show that previously synthesized mutant proteins, retained by the quality control system (QCS), are rescued by pharmacoperones, showing that pharmacoperone administration in vivo likely need not consider whether the target protein is being synthesized at the time of drug administration.

Bipolar disorder is a pathological disturbance of mood, characterized by waxing and waning manic, depressive and, sometimes distinctly mixed states. A diagnosis of bipolar disorder can only be made with certainty when the manic syndrome declares itself. Most individuals who are diagnosed with this disorder will experience both poles of the illness recurrently, but depressive episodes are the commonest cause of morbidity and, indeed, of death by suicide. Twin, adoption and epidemiological studies suggest a strongly genetic aetiology. It is a genetically and phenotypically complex disorder. Thus, the genes contributing are likely to be numerous and of small effect. Individuals with bipolar disorder also display deficits on a range of neuropsychological tasks in both the acute and euthymic phases of illness and correlations between number of affective episodes experienced and task performance are commonly reported. Current self-report and observer-rated scales are optimized for unipolar depression and hence limited in their ability to accurately assess bipolar depression. The development of a specific depression rating scale will improve the assessment of bipolar depression in both research and clinical settings. It will improve the development of better treatments and interventions. Guidelines support the use of antidepressants for bipolar depression. With regard to the adverse effects of antidepressants for bipolar depression, double-blind, placebo-controlled data suggest that antidepressant monotherapy or the addition of a tricyclic antidepressant may worsen the course of bipolar disorder. Importantly, adjunctive psychotherapies add significantly (both statistically and clinically) to the efficacy of pharmacological treatment regimens. The successful management of bipolar disorder clearly demands improved recognition of bipolar disorder and effective long-term treatment for bipolar depression as well as mania.


The present study has examined the effect of metals, such as iron and copper on the cytotoxicity of amyloid beta protein 1-40 (Abeta40). First, we showed that monomeric Abeta40 has stronger cytotoxicity than various type of aggregated Abeta40. Next we showed the addition of metals into the monomeric Abeta40 reduced the cytotoxicity of either monomeric Abeta40 or metals (iron and copper) although the addition of metals into monomeric Abeta40 resulted in a marked increase of aggregated form of Abeta40, which composed of beta-sheeted Abeta40 and Abeta40 aggregation not characterized by beta-sheet fibrils (coagrated Abeta40). Taken together, the metals and monomeric Abeta40 affect on each other and cause the reduction of their cell toxicity.


Germ line or hypothalamus-specific deletion of Y2 receptors in mice results in a doubling of trabecular bone volume. However, the specific mechanism by which deletion of Y2 receptors increases bone mass has not yet been identified. Here we show that cultured adherent bone marrow stromal cells from Y2(-/-) mice also demonstrate increased mineralization in vitro. Isolation of two populations of progenitor cell types, an immature mesenchymal stem cell population and a more highly differentiated population of progenitor cells, revealed a greater number of the progenitor cells within the bone of Y2(-/-) mice. Analysis of Y receptor transcripts in cultured stromal cells from wild-type mice revealed high levels of Y1 but not Y2, Y4, Y5, or y6 receptor mRNA. Interestingly, germ line Y2 receptor deletion causes Y1 receptor down-regulation in stromal cells and bone tissue possibly due to the lack of feedback inhibition of NPY release and subsequent overstimulation of Y1 receptors. Furthermore, deletion of Y1 receptors resulted in increased bone mineral density in mice. Together, these findings indicate that the greater number of mesenchymal progenitors and the altered Y1 receptor expression within bone cells in the absence of Y2 receptors are a likely mechanism for the greater bone mineralization in vivo and in vitro, opening up potential new treatment avenues for osteoporosis.
Immunotherapy against beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is a leading therapeutic direction for Alzheimer disease (AD). Experimental studies in transgenic mouse models of AD have demonstrated that Abeta immunization reduces Abeta plaque pathology and improves cognitive function. However, the biological mechanisms by which Abeta antibodies reduce amyloid accumulation in the brain remain unclear. We provide evidence that treatment of AD mutant neuroblastoma cells or primary neurons with Abeta antibodies decreases levels of intracellular Abeta. Antibody-mediated reduction in cellular Abeta appears to require that the antibody binds to the extracellular Abeta domain of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and be internalized. In addition, treatment with Abeta antibodies protects against synaptic alterations that occur in APP mutant neurons.
Interstitial cystitis (IC) is a chronic pelvic-perineal pain syndrome of unknown etiology that mainly targets the lower urinary tract. Pain is the most prominent feature of IC and current therapies provide limited relief. Novel treatment options for IC could be identified if more predictive animal models were available. A rat model based on administration of cyclophosphamide (CP) mimics the symptoms of IC and has been well characterized. However, experiments in mice have not consistently reported both the spontaneous and evoked pain behaviors. The current series of studies demonstrate that CP (200-400mg, i.p.) increased both spontaneous and evoked pain behaviors in mice. Additionally, clinically relevant compounds: morphine (1-10mg/kg), ketorolac (1-5.6mg/kg) and duloxetine (3-30mg/kg) all significantly reversed pain behaviors. In contrast, gabapentin (56mg/kg) had no effect. Thus, CP-induced cystitis in mice may be used to evaluate novel therapeutics for the treatment of pain due to interstitial cystitis.
The expression of two vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs), VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, was studied with immunohistochemistry in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRGs), the lumbar spinal cord and the skin of the adult mouse. About 12% and 65% of the total number of DRG neuron profiles (NPs) expressed VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, respectively. VGLUT1-immunoreactive (IR) NPs were usually medium- to large-sized, in contrast to a majority of small- or medium-sized VGLUT2-IR NPs. Most VGLUT1-IR NPs did not coexpress calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or bound isolectin B4 (IB4). In contrast, approximately 31% and approximately 42% of the VGLUT2-IR DRG NPs were also CGRP-IR or bound IB4, respectively. Conversely, virtually all CGRP-IR and IB4-binding NPs coexpressed VGLUT2. Moderate colocalization between VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 was also observed. Sciatic nerve transection induced a decrease in the overall number of VGLUT1- and VGLUT2-IR NPs (both ipsi- and contralaterally) and, in addition, a parallel, unilateral increase of VGLUT2-like immunoreactivity (LI) in a subpopulation of mostly small NPs. In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, strong VGLUT1-LI was detected, particularly in deep dorsal horn layers and in the ventral horns. VGLUT2-LI was abundant throughout the gray spinal matter, 'radiating' into/from the white matter. A unilateral dorsal rhizotomy reduced VGLUT1-LI, while apparently leaving unaffected the VGLUT2-LI. Transport through axons for both VGLUTs was confirmed by their accumulation after compression of the sciatic nerve or dorsal roots. In the hind paw skin, abundant VGLUT2-IR nerve fibers were observed, sometimes associated with Merkel cells. Lower numbers of VGLUT1-IR fibers were also detected in the skin. Some VGLUT1-IR and VGLUT2-IR fibers were associated with hair follicles. Based on these data and those by Morris et al. [Morris JL, Konig P, Shimizu T, Jobling P, Gibbins IL (2005) Most peptide-containing sensory neurons lack proteins for exocytotic release and vesicular transport of glutamate. J Comp Neurol 483:1-16], we speculate that virtually all DRG neurons in adult mouse express VGLUTs and use glutamate as transmitter.
A yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) mouse model of Huntington's disease (YAC128) develops motor abnormalities, age-dependent striatal atrophy and neuronal loss. Alteration of neurotransmitter receptors, particularly glutamate and dopamine receptors, is a pathological hallmark of Huntington's disease. We therefore analyzed neurotransmitter receptors in symptomatic YAC128 Huntington's disease mice. We found significant increases in N-methyl-d-aspartate, AMPA and metabotropic glutamate receptor binding, which were not due to increases in receptor subunit mRNA expression levels. Subcellular fractionation analysis revealed increased levels of glutamate receptor subunits in synaptic membrane fractions from YAC128 mice. We found no changes in dopamine, GABA or adenosine receptor binding, nor did we see alterations in dopamine D1, D2 or adenosine A2a receptor mRNA levels. The receptor abnormalities in YAC128 transgenic mice thus appear limited to glutamate receptors. We also found a significant decrease in preproenkephalin mRNA in the striatum of YAC128 mice, which contrasts with the lack of change in levels of mRNA encoding neurotransmitter receptors. Taken together, the abnormal and selective increases in glutamate receptor subunit expression and binding are not due to increases in receptor subunit expression and may exert detrimental effects. The decrease in preproenkephalin mRNA suggests a selective transcriptional deficit, as opposed to neuronal loss, and could additionally contribute to the abnormal motor symptoms in YAC128 mice.
Depolarization of 7-8-day-old mouse cerebellar granule neurons in primary cultures, a glutamatergic preparation, by elevation of the extracellular potassium ion concentration ([K+]e) to 45 mM induces an increase of phosphorylation of extracellular-signal regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) at two time periods: 20 min and 60 min after the [K+]e increase. This effect can be mimicked by 5 min of exposure to 50 microM glutamate, suggesting that ERK1/2 phosphorylation in response to the depolarization is brought about by the resulting glutamate release. This concept is supported by the observation that the K+ -mediated stimulation of phosphorylation at both times is inhibited by MK-801, an NMDA antagonist, and by CNQX, an AMPA/kainate antagonist. These antagonists also inhibit the response to glutamate. Both increases in ERK1/2 phosphorylation are also inhibited by GM 6001 (a metalloproteinase inhibitor, preventing 'shedding' of growth factors), by AG 1478 (a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, preventing epidermal growth factor [EGF] receptor activation), and also partly by heparin (inactivating heparin-binding epidermal growth factor [HB-EGF]), suggesting transactivation of epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR). Transactivation is an intracellular/extracellular signal transduction pathway in which release from receptor- or depolarization-stimulated cells of EGFR ligand(s) (including HB-EGF), catalyzed by a metalloproteinase, stimulates receptor tyrosine kinases on the same (an autocrine effect) or adjacent (a paracrine effect) cells. The expression of HB-EGF as well as of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), two of the EGFR ligands, in the cells was confirmed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, and the only partial inhibition by heparin suggests that both of these EGFR agonists are involved. Such a transactivation may play a major role in glutamate-mediated signaling and plasticity.
Adult cats lack ocular dominance plasticity, showing little change in the ocular dominance distribution following monocular deprivation. Ocular dominance plasticity is also lost in kitten visual cortex that has been continuously infused with either catecholaminergic neurotoxin, beta-adrenoreceptor blocker, or inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase A). Complementarily, in adult cats we showed earlier that pharmacological activation of protein kinase A, albeit partially, restored ocular dominance plasticity. In the present study, we first asked whether, mediated by protein kinase A activation, the same molecular mechanisms could restore ocular dominance plasticity to kitten cortex that once lost the expression of plasticity due to prior pharmacological treatments. Concurrently with monocular deprivation, two kinds of cyclic AMP-related drugs (cholera toxin A-subunit or dibutyryl cyclic AMP) were directly infused in two types of aplastic kitten cortex pretreated with either 6-hydroxydopamine or propranolol. The combined treatment resulted in clear ocular dominance shift to the non-deprived eye, indicating that cortical plasticity was fully restored to aplastic kitten cortex. Next, to directly prove the sensitivity difference in protein kinase A activation between the immature and mature cortex, we compared the thus-obtained data in kittens with the published data derived from adult cats under the comparable experimental paradigm. The extent of ocular dominance changes following monocular deprivation was compared at different drug concentrations in the two preparations: the shifted ocular dominance distribution in aplastic kitten cortex infused with dibutyryl cyclic AMP at the lowest concentration tested and the W-shaped distribution in similarly treated adult cortex at a thousandfold-higher drug concentration that induced nearly maximal changes. We conclude that, irrespective of the animal's age, activation of protein kinase A cascades is a general mechanism to maintain ocular dominance plasticity high, their sensitivity being substantially higher in the immature than mature cortex.
Circadian clock genes are rhythmically expressed in many areas of the brain and body and are thought to underlie most endogenous circadian behaviors and physiological processes. Daily rhythms of clock gene expression throughout the brain and body are normally coordinated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), but they are also strongly influenced by daily temporal restrictions of food availability. Here, we studied the effects of a daily restricted presentation of highly palatable complete meal replacement, chocolate Ensure Plus (Ensure) in food-deprived (restricted feeding, RF) and free-fed (restricted treat, RT) rats, on the expression of the clock protein, Period2 (PER2) in regions of the brain involved in motivational and emotional regulation; these include the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTov), the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA), the basolateral amygdala (BLA), the dentate gyrus (DG) and the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH). RF and RT rats consumed similar amounts of Ensure, but changes in the pattern of PER2 expression were seen only in the RF condition, suggesting that changes in PER2 expression in these regions are triggered by the daily alleviation of a negative metabolic state associated with RF and are independent of the positive incentive properties of the consumed substance, per se. In contrast, the expression of the immediate early gene, Fos, was increased in these regions by both RF and RT schedules, showing that signals concerning the incentive value of the consumed food reach these regions. No changes in either PER2 or Fos expression were observed in the SCN of RF or RT rats. These findings demonstrate that mechanisms leading to changes in the expression of PER2 and those affecting the induction of Fos under RF and RT are, at least in part, dissociable.
Opioids are extensively used analgesics yet can paradoxically increase pain sensitivity in humans and rodents. This hyperalgesia is extensively conceptualized to be a consequence of opioid receptor activity, perhaps providing an adaptive response to analgesia, and to utilize N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. These assumptions were tested here in opioid receptor triple knock-out (KO) mice lacking all three genes encoding opioid receptors (mu, delta, and kappa) by comparing their thermal nociceptive responses to the opioids morphine and oxymorphone with those of B6129F(1) controls. Injecting acute opioid bolus doses in controls caused maximal analgesia that was completely abolished in KO mice, confirming the functional consequence of the KO mouse opioid receptor deficiency. Continuous opioid infusion by osmotic pump in control mice also initially caused several consecutive days of analgesia that was shortly thereafter followed by several consecutive days of hyperalgesia. In contrast, continuously infusing KO mice with opioids caused no detectable analgesic response, but only immediate and steady declines in nociceptive thresholds culminating in several days of unremitting hyperalgesia. Finally, injecting the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 during opioid infusion markedly reversed hyperalgesia in control but not KO mice. These data demonstrate that sustained morphine and oxymorphone delivery causes hyperalgesia independently of prior or concurrent opioid or NMDA receptor activity or opioid analgesia, indicating the contribution of mechanisms outside of current conceptions, and are inconsistent with proposals of hyperalgesia as a causative factor of opioid analgesic tolerance.
There is increasing evidence indicating that estrogen replacement therapy produces neuroprotective actions but has undesirable side effects on the reproductive system. Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator that exerts estrogen agonist action in the brain while acting as an estrogen antagonist in the reproductive system. In the present study, we investigated whether raloxifene affected the glutamate-induced calcium (Ca2+) overload in rat cultured cortical neurons. The bulk cytosolic intracellular Ca2+ level was measured by using confocal microscopy with fluorescent Ca2+ probe fluo3. Whole-cell recording technique was used to observe the effects of raloxifene on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked and voltage-activated Ca2+ currents in cultured cortical neurons. Pre-exposure of cortical neurons to raloxifene (0.5 microM-10 microM) for 3 min attenuated intracellular Ca2+ increase induced by application of glutamate (300 microM) for 1 min. The action of raloxifene was reversible after washout. ICI 182,780 and thapsigargin did not block the action of raloxifene. In whole-cell recording experiments, raloxifene (10 microM) significantly reduced the amplitude of the high-voltage-activated Ca2+ current but had no effect on NMDA-evoked Ca2+ current. The present study demonstrates that raloxifene acutely reduces glutamate-induced intracellular Ca2+ increase probably via inhibition of high-voltage-activated calcium channels.
Sensation-seeking is a human personality trait associated with a greater propensity to use psychoactive substances. A rat model showing face validity of this human trait has been developed. The model is based on the variety of behavioral responses that rats exhibit in a novel and inescapable environment, with some animals (high-responders, HR) being highly active, and others (low-responders, LR) showing less exploration. More active rats (HR) also show increased drug-taking and decreased anxiety-like behavior. There is evidence that response to novelty may rely on differential 5-HT-mediated neurotransmission. This research focuses on the recently discovered 5-HT6 and 5-HT7 receptors which share affinity for neuroleptic drugs and hallucinogens. To date, emerging evidence suggests that 5-HT6 and 5-HT7 may be involved in cognition and mood regulation, respectively. To further our knowledge of their behavioral attributes, we compared patterns of gene expression for these receptors in the brains of HR and LR rats. As a control, gene expression for the 5-HT3 receptor was investigated because its contribution to anxiety and addiction is only weakly demonstrated. Transcript levels for 5-HT6 in the olfactory tubercle inversely correlated with the level of locomotion in a novel environment. Phenotype differences in mRNA signal for 5-HT6 showed a complex pattern in the dentate gyrus. LR rats were statistically higher in the most anterior region of the dentate gyrus, while HR rats were higher in median areas of the dentate gyrus. Levels of 5-HT7 transcript in HR rats were significantly lower than LR rats in pivotal areas for information trafficking, such as thalamo-cortical projection areas and dorsal hippocampus. By contrast, phenotype differences in 5-HT3 expression were not found in areas of the limbic cortex and mesolimbic system. Taken together, these results provide new insight into the potential contribution of 5-HT to novelty-seeking behavior and associated behaviors such as substance abuse.
The processing of many peptides for their maturation in target tissue depends upon the presence of sorting receptor. Several previous studies have predicted that carboxypeptidase-E (CPE), prohormone convertase 1 (PC1) and prohormone convertase 2 (PC2) may function as sorting elements for somatostatin (SST) for its maturation and processing to appropriate targets. However, nothing is currently known about whether brain, neuronal culture or even endocrine cells express SST, CPE, PC1 and PC2 and exhibit colocalization. Accordingly, in the present study using peroxidase immunohistochemistry, double-labeled indirect immunofluorescence immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis, we mapped the distributional pattern of SST, CPE, PC1 and PC2 in different rat brain regions. Additionally, we also determined the colocalization of SST with CPE, PC1 and PC2 as well as colocalization of CPE with PC1 and PC2. The localization of SST, CPE, PC1 and PC2 reveals a distinct and region specific distribution pattern in the rat brain. Using an indirect double-label immunofluorescence method we observed selective neuron specific colocalization in a region specific manner in cortex, striatum and hippocampus. These studies provide the first evidence for colocalization between SST, CPE, PC1 and PC2 as well as CPE with PC1 and PC2. SST in cerebral cortex colocalized in pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons with CPE, PC1 and PC2. Most importantly, in striatum and hippocampus colocalization was mostly observed selectively and preferentially in interneurons. CPE is also colocalized with PC1 and PC2 in a region specific manner. The data presented here provide a new insight into the distribution and colocalization of SST, CPE, PC1 and PC2 in rat brain. Taken together, our data anticipate the possibility that CPE, PC1 and PC2 might be potential target for the maturation of SST.
The neurotransmitter 5-HT regulates early developmental processes in the CNS. In the present study we followed the embryonic and postnatal development of serotonergic raphe neurons and catecholaminergic target systems in the brain of 5-HT1A receptor knockout (KO) and overexpressing (OE) in comparison with wild-type (WT) mice from embryonic day (E) 12.5 to postnatal day (P) 15.5. Up to P15.5 no differences were apparent in the differentiation and distribution of serotonergic neurons in the raphe area as revealed by the equal number of serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe in all three genotypes. However, the establishment of serotonergic projections to the mesencephalic tegmentum and hypothalamus was delayed at E12.5 in KO and OE animals and projections to the cerebral cortex between E16.5 and E18.5 were delayed in OE mice. This delay was only transient and did not occur in other brain areas including septum, hippocampus and striatum. Moreover, OE mice caught up with WT and KO animals postnatally such that at P1.5 serotonergic innervation of the cortex was more extensive in the OE than in KO and WT mice. Tissue levels of 5-HT and of its main metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid as well as 5-HT turnover were considerably higher in brains of OE mice and slightly elevated in KO mice in comparison with the WT, starting at E16.5 through P15.5. The initial differentiation of dopaminergic neurons and fibers in the substantia nigra at E12.5 was transiently delayed in KO and OE mice as compared with WT mice, but no abnormalities in noradrenergic development were apparent in later stages. The present data indicate that 5-HT1A receptor deficiency or overexpression is associated with increased 5-HT synthesis and turnover in the early postnatal period. However, they also show that effects of 5-HT1A KO or OE on the structural development of the serotonergic system are at best subtle and transient. They may nonetheless contribute to the establishment of increased or reduced anxiety-like behavior, respectively, in adult mice.
Spinal cord ischemic injury usually results in paraplegia, which is a major cause of morbidity after thoracic aorta operations. Ample evidence indicates that massive release of excitatory amino acids (EAAs; glutamate) plays an important role in the development of neuronal ischemic injuries. However, there is a lack of direct evidence to indicate the involvement of EAAs in the glutamate metabolizing system (including the glutamate transporter isoforms, i.e. the Glu-Asp transporter (GLAST), Glu transporter-1 (GLT-1), and excitatory amino acid carrier one (EAAC1); glutamine synthetase (GS); and glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH)) in spinal cord ischemia. In the present results, we found that methylprednisolone (MP; intrathecal (i.t.) injection, 200 mug twice daily administered for 3 days before ischemia), a synthetic glucocorticoid, is the therapeutic agent for the treatment of spinal injuries in humans, can significantly reduce the ischemia-induced motor function defect and down-regulate the glutamate metabolizing system (including GLAST, GLT-1, GS, and GDH) in male Wistar rats. The spinal cord ischemia-induced down-regulation of EAAC1 protein expression in the ventral portion of the lumbar spinal cord was partly inhibited by pretreatment with i.t. MP. However, MP did not affect the down-regulation of EAAC1 in the dorsal portion of the lumbar spinal cord after spinal cord ischemia. The i.t. injection of MP alone did not change the neurological functions and the expression of proteins of the glutamate metabolizing system in the spinal cord. Our results indicate that spinal cord ischemia-induced neurological deficits accompany the decrease in the expression of proteins of the glutamate metabolizing system in the lumbar portion of the spinal cord. The i.t. MP pretreatment significantly prevented these symptoms. These results support the observation that MP delivery through an i.t. injection, is beneficial for the treatment of spinal cord ischemic injuries.
Several lines of evidence suggest that extracellular ATP plays a role in pain signaling through the activation of ionotropic P2X-receptors, especially homomeric P2X3- and heteromeric P2X2/3-receptors on capsaicin-sensitive and -insensitive primary afferent neurons, respectively, at peripheral and spinal sites. We investigated the mechanisms of the induction and maintenance of mechanical allodynia produced by a single intrathecal (i.t.) administration of ATP in rats. We found that i.t. administration of ATP and the P2X-receptor agonist alpha,beta-methylene-ATP produced tactile allodynia which lasted more than 1 week. The i.t. ATP- and alpha,beta-methylene-ATP-produced long-lasting allodynia remained in neonatal capsaicin-treated adult rats. I.t. administration of a P2X3/P2X2/3-receptor selective antagonist completely prevented the induction (co-administration on day 0) and partially attenuated the early phase (day 1 post-ATP administration), but not the late phase (day 7 post-ATP administration) of maintenance of allodynia. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 completely prevented the induction phase, but not the early and late phases of maintenance of allodynia. Immunohistochemical and immunoblotting studies for microglial and astrocytic markers revealed that i.t. ATP administration caused spinal microglial activation within 1 day, and astrocytic activation which peaked at 1-3 days after ATP administration. Furthermore, minocycline, a microglial inhibitor, attenuated the induction but not the early and late phases of maintenance, while fluorocitrate, a glial metabolic inhibitor, attenuated the induction and the early phase but not the late phase of maintenance. Taken together, these results suggest that the activation of P2X-receptors, most likely spinal P2X2/3-receptors on capsaicin-insensitive primary afferent neurons, triggers the induction of long-lasting allodynia through NMDA receptors, and the induction and early maintenance phase, but not the late phase, is mediated through the functions of spinal glial cells.
Children exposed to cocaine during gestation have a higher incidence of neurobehavioral deficits. The neurochemical bases of these deficits have not been determined, but the pharmacology of cocaine and the nature of the abnormalities suggest that disruptions in catecholaminergic systems may be involved. In the current study, we used a rat model of prenatal cocaine exposure to examine the impact that this exposure has on the locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic system in offspring. Pregnant rats received twice-daily i.v. injections of cocaine (3 mg/kg) or saline between gestational days 10 and 20, and progeny were tested as juveniles. Exposure to a mild stressor elevated an index of norepinephrine turnover in the prefrontal cortex and also increased Fos expression in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive LC neurons in rats exposed to prenatal cocaine but not in rats exposed to prenatal saline. No change in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the LC was observed between the two prenatal treatment groups. Specific binding of [125I]-para-iodoclonidine, a radioligand with specificity for high affinity alpha2A-adrenergic receptors, was decreased in the LC of rats exposed to prenatal cocaine compared with prenatal saline controls. As alpha2-adrenergic receptors on LC norepinephrine neurons function as autoreceptors, their down-regulation by prenatal cocaine exposure provides a plausible mechanism for the observed heightened reactivity of norepinephrine neurons in these animals. These data indicate that prenatal cocaine exposure results in lasting changes to the regulation and responsivity of rat LC norepinephrine neurons. A similar dysregulation of LC norepinephrine neurons may occur in children exposed to cocaine during gestation, and this may explain, at least partly, the increased incidence of cognitive deficits that have been observed in these subjects.
Development of cerebral edema (intracellular and/or extracellular water accumulation) following traumatic brain injury contributes to mortality and morbidity that accompanies brain injury. Chronic intermittent vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) initiated at either 2 h or 24 h (VNS: 30 s train of 0.5 mA, 20 Hz, biphasic pulses every 30 min) following traumatic brain injury enhances recovery of motor and cognitive function in rats in the weeks following brain injury; however, the mechanisms of facilitated recovery are unknown. The present study examines the effects of VNS on development of acute cerebral edema following unilateral fluid percussion brain injury (FPI) in rats, concomitant with assessment of their behavioral recovery. Two hours following FPI, VNS was initiated. Behavioral testing, using both beam walk and locomotor placing tasks, was conducted at 1 and 2 days following FPI. Edema was measured 48 h post-FPI by the customary method of region-specific brain weights before and after complete dehydration. Results of this study replicated that VNS initiated at 2 h after FPI: 1) effectively facilitated the recovery of vestibulomotor function at 2 days after FPI assessed by beam walk performance (P&lt;0.01); and 2) tended to improve locomotor placing performance at the same time point (P=0.18). Most interestingly, results of this study showed that development of edema within the cerebral cortex ipsilateral to FPI was significantly attenuated at 48 h in FPI rats receiving VNS compared with non-VNS FPI rats (P&lt;0.04). Finally, a correlation analysis between beam walk performance and cerebral edema following FPI revealed a significant inverse correlation between behavior performance and cerebral edema. Together, these results suggest that VNS facilitation of motor recovery following experimental brain injury in rats is associated with VNS-mediated attenuation of cerebral edema.
It has been suggested that in mammals, trigeminal lamina I neurons play a role in the processing and transmission of sensory information from the orofacial region. We investigated the physiological and morphological properties of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Sp5C) lamina I neurons in slices prepared from the medulla oblongata of 13- to 15-day-old postnatal rats using patch-clamp recordings and subsequent biocytin-streptavidin-Alexa labeling. Twenty-five neurons were recorded and immunohistochemically stained. The Sp5C lamina I consisted of several types of neurons which, on the basis of their responses to somatic current injection, can be classified into four groups: tonic neurons, which fired throughout the depolarizing pulse; phasic neurons, which expressed an initial burst of action potentials; delayed onset neurons, which showed a significant delay of the first action potential; and single spike neurons, characterized by only one to five action potentials at the very beginning of the depolarizing pulse even at high levels of stimulation intensity. Electrical stimulation of the spinal trigeminal tract evoked AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSC) exhibiting a strong polysynaptic component. AMPA receptor-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSC) were characterized by a 10-90% rise time of 0.50+/-0.06 ms and a decay time constant of 2.5+/-0.5 ms. The kinetic properties of NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs were measured at +40 mV. The 10-90% rise time was 8+/-2 ms and the deactivation time constants were 94+/-31 and 339+/-72 ms, respectively. Intracellular staining and morphological analysis revealed three groups of neurons: fusiform, pyramidal, and multipolar. Statistical analysis indicated that the electrophysiological properties and morphological characteristics are correlated. Tonic and phasic neurons were fusiform or pyramidal and delayed onset and single spike neurons were multipolar. Our results show that both the physiological and morphological properties of Sp5C lamina I neurons exhibit significant differences, indicating their specific integration in the processing and transmission of sensory information from the orofacial region.
The midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG), and its descending projections to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), provide an essential neural circuit for opioid-produced antinociception. Recent anatomical studies have reported that the projections from the PAG to the RVM are sexually dimorphic and that systemic administration of morphine significantly suppresses pain-induced activation of the PAG in male but not female rats. Given that morphine antinociception is produced in part by disinhibition of PAG output neurons, it is hypothesized that a differential activation of PAG output neurons mediates the sexually dimorphic actions of morphine. The present study examined systemic morphine-induced activation of PAG-RVM neurons in the absence of pain. The retrograde tracer Fluorogold (FG) was injected into the RVM to label PAG-RVM output neurons. Activation of PAG neurons was determined by quantifying the number of Fos-positive neurons 1 h following systemic morphine administration (4.5 mg/kg). Morphine produced comparable activation of the PAG in both male and female rats, with no significant differences in either the quantitative or qualitative distribution of Fos. While microinjection of FG into the RVM labeled significantly more PAG output neurons in female rats than male rats, very few of these neurons (20%) were activated by systemic morphine administration in comparison to males (50%). The absolute number of PAG-RVM neurons activated by morphine was also greater in males. These data demonstrate widespread disinhibition of PAG neurons following morphine administration. The greater morphine-induced activation of PAG output neurons in male compared with female rats is consistent with the greater morphine-induced antinociception observed in males.
We explored frequency and intensity encoding in the inferior colliculus (IC) of the C57 mouse model of sensorineural hearing loss. Consistent with plasticity reported in the IC of other models of hearing loss, frequency response areas (FRAs) in hearing-impaired (HI) mice were broader with fewer high-frequency units than normal-hearing (NH) mice. The broad FRAs recorded from HI mice had lower cutoffs on the low frequency edge of the FRA. Characteristic frequency (CF) and sharpness of tuning (Q10) calculated from the FRA were used to divide the sample into four categories: low-CF sharp-FRA, low-CF broad-FRA, high-CF sharp-FRA, and high-CF broad-FRA units. Rate-intensity functions (RIFs) for CF tones and noise were used to determine the minimum and maximum response counts as well as the sound pressure levels resulting in 10%, 50%, and 90% of the maximum spike count. Tone RIFs of broad FRA units were shifted to the right of tone RIFs of sharp FRA units in both NH and HI mouse IC, regardless of the unit CF. The main effects of hearing loss were seen in the noise RIFs. The low-CF broad-FRA units in HI mice had elevated responses to noise, and the high-CF sharp-FRA units in HI mice had lower maximum rates, as compared with the units recorded from NH mice. These results suggest that, as the IC responds to peripheral hearing loss with changes in the representation of frequency, an altered balance between inhibitory and excitatory inputs to the neurons recorded from the HI mice alters aspects of the units' intensity encoding. This altered balance likely occurs, at least in part, outside of the IC.
Nervous system formation integrates control of cellular proliferation and differentiation and is mediated by multipotent neural progenitor cells that become progressively restricted in their developmental potential before they give rise to differentiated neurons and glial cells. Evidence from different experimental systems suggests that Geminin is a candidate molecule linking proliferation and differentiation during nervous system development. We show here that Geminin and its binding partner Cdt1 are expressed abundantly by neural progenitor cells during early mouse neurogenesis. Their expression levels decline at late developmental stages and become undetectable upon differentiation. Geminin and Cdt1 expressing cells also express Sox2 while no overlap is detected with cells expressing markers of a differentiated neuronal phenotype. A fraction of radial glial cells expressing RC2 and Pax6 are also immunoreactive for Geminin and Cdt1. The majority of the Geminin and Cdt1 expressing cell populations appears to be distinct from fate-restricted precursor cells expressing Mash1 or Neurogenin2. Bromo-deoxy-uridine (BrdU) incorporation experiments reveal a cell cycle specific expression in neural progenitor cells, with Geminin being present from S to M phase, while Cdt1 expression characterizes progenitor cells in G1 phase. Furthermore, in vitro differentiation of adult neurosphere cultures shows downregulation of Geminin/Cdt1 in the differentiated state, in line with our data showing that Geminin is present in neural progenitor cells of the CNS during mouse embryogenesis and adulthood and becomes downregulated upon cell fate specification and differentiation. This suggests a role for Geminin in the formation and maintenance of the neural progenitor cells.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are principal reflections of synaptic plasticity that have been implicated in learning and memory. We have previously shown that spatial learning in a newly validated complex maze is accompanied by depression of hippocampal CA1 synaptic activity in hippocampal slices of trained mice (&quot;behavioral LTD&quot;). In the present study, we investigated whether behavioral LTD is accompanied by alterations of subsequent LTP induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS). Moreover, we were interested in the time course of such alterations in relation to training stage. Animals underwent 1, 2, and 8 days of spatial training in the complex maze, respectively. Hippocampal slices were taken 24 h after the last training session. We found a simultaneous decrease of basal synaptic response and increase of HFS induced LTP magnitude compared with slices of untrained animals. Synaptic plasticity was not influenced by repeated running wheel exercise in an additional control group without spatial learning. The mentioned alterations occurred already after day 2 of maze exploration parallel to the most pronounced improvement of behavioral performance but did not change thereafter until day 8 despite further learning progress. They were also found when animals were trained for 2 days and kept at rest for a subsequent 6 days. In conclusion, spatial learning may be reflected by distinct and persistent measurable alterations of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal CA1 neurons at early training stages.
In the months following transection of adult rat peripheral nerve some sensory neurons undergo apoptosis. Two weeks after sciatic nerve transection some neurons in the L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia begin to show immunoreactivity for nestin, a filament protein expressed by neuronal precursors and immature neurons, which is stimulated by neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) administration. The aim of this study was to examine whether NT-3 administration could be compensating for decreased production of neurotrophins or their receptors after axotomy, and to determine the effect on nestin synthesis. The levels of mRNA in the ipsilateral and contralateral L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia were analyzed using real-time polymerase chain reaction, 1 day, 1, 2 and 4 weeks after unilateral sciatic nerve transection and NT-3 or vehicle administration via s.c. micro-osmotic pumps. In situ hybridization was used to identify which cells and neurons expressed mRNAs of interest, and the expression of full-length trkC and p75NTR protein was investigated using immunohistochemistry. Systemic NT-3 treatment increased the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nestin, trkA, trkB and trkC mRNA in ipsilateral ganglia compared with vehicle-treated animals. Some satellite cells surrounding neurons expressed trkA and trkC mRNA and trkC immunoreactivity. NT-3 administration did not affect neurotrophin mRNA levels in the contralateral ganglia, but decreased the expression of trkA mRNA and increased the expression of trkB mRNA and p75NTR mRNA and protein. These data suggest that systemically administered NT-3 may counteract the decrease, or even increase, neurotrophin responsiveness in both ipsi- and contralateral ganglia after nerve injury.
When rats are exposed to heat, they adapt themselves to the stressor with a wide inter-individual variability. Such differences in heat tolerance may be related to particularities in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activation. To further this hypothesis, 80 rats instrumented with a telemetric device for abdominal temperature (Tabd) measurement were separated into two groups. Sixty-eight rats were exposed during 90 min at an ambient temperature of 40 degrees C, and 12 rats to an ambient temperature of 22 degrees C. Heat-exposed rats were then divided into three groups using the a posteriori k-means clustering method according to their Tabd level at the end of heat exposure. Heat tolerant rats (Tol, n=30) exhibiting the lowest Tabd showed a slight dehydration, a moderate triglyceride mobilization, but the highest plasma adrenocorticotropic-hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone levels. Conversely, heat exhausted rats (HE, n=14) presented the highest Tabd, a higher degree of dehydration, a greater metabolic imbalance with the lowest plasma triglyceride level and the highest lactate concentration, as well as a lowest plasma corticosterone and ACTH levels. The fact that the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA content within the pituitary was low despite of a high c-fos mRNA level is also relevant. Current inflammatory processes in HE rats were underlined by lower inhibitory factor kappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha) mRNA and higher tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) mRNA. In conclusion, data show that intolerance to heat exposure is associated to an HPA axis impairment, possibly related to changes occurring in the IkappaBalpha and TNF-alpha mRNA levels.
Women are more vulnerable to develop depression and anxiety disorders than men. This may be related to higher serotonergic vulnerability in women. Serotonergic vulnerability entails that differences between people in the regulation of serotonin (5-HT) determine the vulnerability of an individual to develop depression or other 5-HT-related disorders. The aim of the present experiment was to evaluate whether male and female Wistar rats differ in serotonergic vulnerability. Here, a stronger behavioral response to acute tryptophan (TRP) depletion was assumed to reflect serotonergic vulnerability. Twenty-four male and 48 female rats were repeatedly subjected to treatment with a gelatin-based protein-carbohydrate mixture, either with or without L-tryptophan. Female estrous cycle phase was determined by means of vaginal smears and the females were divided into two groups based on their estrous cycle phase: pro-estrus/estrus and met-estrus/di-estrus. Blood samples showed stronger TRP depletion in males than females. There was no effect of estrous cycle on plasma TRP concentrations. In contrast, treatment effects on some brain TRP concentrations were influenced by estrous cycle phase, females in pro-estrus/estrus showed the strongest response to TRP depletion. In the open field test and home cage emergence test, females in pro-estrus/estrus also showed the strongest behavioral response to acute TRP depletion. In general, females showed more activity than males in anxiety-related situations and this effect appeared to be enhanced by TRP depletion. In the social interaction test, passive body contact in males and females in pro-estrus/estrus was decreased after TRP depletion whereas it was increased in females in the met-estrus/di-estrus phase. Acute TRP depletion affected object recognition, but did not affect behavior in the forced swimming test and a reaction time task. It is concluded that sex and estrous cycle phase can influence the behavioral response to TRP depletion, and that females in pro-estrus/estrus show the strongest behavioral response to acute TRP depletion.
Transient spinal cord ischemia in humans can lead to the development of permanent paraplegia with prominent spasticity and rigidity. Histopathological analyses of spinal cords in animals with ischemic spastic paraplegia show a selective loss of small inhibitory interneurons in previously ischemic segments but with a continuing presence of ventral alpha-motoneurons and descending cortico-spinal and rubro-spinal projections. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of human spinal stem cells (hSSCs) implanted spinally in rats with fully developed ischemic paraplegia on the recovery of motor function and corresponding changes in motor evoked potentials. In addition the optimal time frame for cell grafting after ischemia and the optimal dosing of grafted cells were also studied. Spinal cord ischemia was induced for 10 min using aortic occlusion and systemic hypotension. In the functional recovery study, hSSCs (10,000-30,000 cells/0.5 mul/injection) were grafted into spinal central gray matter of L2-L5 segments at 21 days after ischemia. Animals were immunosuppressed with Prograf (1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg) for the duration of the study. After cell grafting the recovery of motor function was assessed periodically using the Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan (BBB) scoring system and correlated with the recovery of motor evoked potentials. At predetermined times after grafting (2-12 weeks), animals were perfusion-fixed and the survival, and maturation of implanted cells were analyzed using antibodies recognizing human-specific antigens: nuclear protein (hNUMA), neural cell adhesion molecule (hMOC), neuron-specific enolase (hNSE) and synapthophysin (hSYN) as well as the non-human specific antibodies TUJ1, GFAP, GABA, GAD65 and GLYT2. After cell grafting a time-dependent improvement in motor function and suppression of spasticity and rigidity was seen and this improvement correlated with the recovery of motor evoked potentials. Immunohistochemical analysis of grafted lumbar segments at 8 and 12 weeks after grafting revealed intense hNSE immunoreactivity, an extensive axo-dendritic outgrowth as well as rostrocaudal and dorsoventral migration of implanted hNUMA-positive cells. An intense hSYN immunoreactivity was identified within the grafts and in the vicinity of persisting alpha-motoneurons. On average, 64% of hSYN terminals were GAD65 immunoreactive which corresponded to GABA immunoreactivity identified in 40-45% of hNUMA-positive grafted cells. The most robust survival of grafted cells was seen when cells were grafted 21 days after ischemia. As defined by cell survival and laminar distribution, the optimal dose of injected cells was 10,000-30,000 cells per injection. These data indicate that spinal grafting of hSSCs can represent an effective therapy for patients with spinal ischemic paraplegia.
The cortically generated slow oscillation consists of long-lasting hyperpolarizations associated with depth-positive electroencephalogram (EEG) waves and neuronal depolarizations accompanied by firing during the depth-negative EEG waves. It has previously been shown that, during the prolonged hyperpolarizations, the transfer of information from prethalamic pathways to neocortex is impaired, whereas the intracortical dialogue is maintained. To study some of the factors that may account for the maintenance of the intracortical information transfer during the hyperpolarization, intracellular recordings from association areas 5 and 7 were performed in anesthetized cats, and the synaptic responsiveness of fast-rhythmic-bursting, regular-spiking and fast-spiking neurons was tested using single pulses to the homotopic sites in the contralateral areas. During the long-lasting hyperpolarizations callosal volleys elicited in fast-rhythmic-bursting neurons, but not in regular-spiking or fast-spiking neurons, large-amplitude excitatory post-synaptic potentials crowned by single action potentials or spike clusters. Our data show that callosal volleys excite and lead to spiking in fast-rhythmic-bursting neurons during prolonged hyperpolarizations, thus enabling them to transmit information within intracortical networks during slow-wave sleep.
The nocebo effect is a phenomenon that is opposite to the placebo effect, whereby expectation of a negative outcome may lead to the worsening of a symptom. Thus far, its study has been limited by ethical constraints, particularly in patients, as a nocebo procedure is per se stressful and anxiogenic. It basically consists in delivering verbal suggestions of negative outcomes so that the subject expects clinical worsening. Although some natural nocebo situations do exist, such as the impact of negative diagnoses upon the patient and the patient's distrust in a therapy, the neurobiological mechanisms have been understood in the experimental setting under strictly controlled conditions. As for the placebo counterpart, the study of pain has been fruitful in recent years to understand both the neuroanatomical and the neurochemical bases of the nocebo effect. Recent experimental evidence indicates that negative verbal suggestions induce anticipatory anxiety about the impending pain increase, and this verbally-induced anxiety triggers the activation of cholecystokinin (CCK) which, in turn, facilitates pain transmission. CCK-antagonists have been found to block this anxiety-induced hyperalgesia, thus opening up the possibility of new therapeutic strategies whenever pain has an important anxiety component. Other conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, although less studied, have been found to be affected by nocebo suggestions as well. All these findings underscore the important role of cognition in the therapeutic outcome, and suggest that nocebo and nocebo-related effects might represent a point of vulnerability both in the course of a disease and in the response to a therapy.
Life science and biotechnology have become a top priority in research and development in many countries as the world marches into the new century. China as a developing country with a 1.3 billion population and booming economy is actively meeting the challenge of a new era in this area of research. Owing to support from the government and the scientific community, and reform to improve the infrastructure, recent years have witnessed a rapid progress in some important fields of life science and biotechnology in China, such as genomics and protein sciences, neuroscience, systematics, super-hybrid rice research, stem cell and cloning technology, gene therapy and drug/vaccine development. The planned expansion and development of innovation in related sectors and the area of bioethics are described and discussed.
Neuroscience as a distinct discipline or research programme has been a rather recent event in most Chinese universities and in the Chinese Academy of Sciences. However, the last few years have witnessed increased funding and an improved research environment for neuroscience, both of which facilitated an influx of Chinese neuroscientists trained abroad. In this review, we have highlighted some recent research advances made by neuroscientists in China. Based on our own expertise, this review is focused mainly on findings that have contributed to our understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain development, neural plasticity and cognitive processes, and neural degeneration.
Drosophila melanogaster can make appropriate choices among alternative flight options on the basis of the relative salience of competing visual cues. We show that this choice behavior consists of early and late phases; the former requires activation of the dopaminergic system and mushroom bodies, whereas the latter is independent of these activities. Immunohistological analysis showed that mushroom bodies are densely innervated by dopaminergic axons. Thus, the circuit from the dopamine system to mushroom bodies is crucial for choice behavior in Drosophila.


Neuronal progenitors in the mammalian brain derive from radial glia or specialized astrocytes. In developing neural retina, radial glia-like Mller cells are generated late in neurogenesis and are not considered to be neuronal progenitors, but they do proliferate after injury and can express neuronal markers, suggesting a latent neurogenic capacity. To examine the neurogenic capacity of retinal glial cells, we used lineage tracing in transgenic zebrafish with a glial-specific promoter (gfap, for glial fibrillary acid protein) driving green fluorescent protein in differentiated Mller glia. We found that all Mller glia in the zebrafish retina express low levels of the multipotent progenitor marker Pax6 (paired box gene 6), and they proliferate at a low frequency in the intact, uninjured retina. Mller glia-derived progenitors express Crx (cone rod homeobox) and are late retinal progenitors that generate the rod photoreceptor lineage in the postembryonic retina. These Mller glia-derived progenitors also remain competent to produce earlier neuronal lineages, in that they respond to loss of cone photoreceptors by specifically regenerating the missing neurons. We conclude that zebrafish Mller glia function as multipotent retinal stem cells that generate retinal neurons by homeostatic and regenerative developmental mechanisms.
The molecular basis of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID), one of the major hindrances in the current therapy for Parkinson's disease, is still unclear. We show that attenuation of cAMP signaling in the medium spiny neurons of the striatum, achieved by genetic inactivation of the dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32), reduces LID. We also show that, in dyskinetic mice, sensitized cAMP/cAMP-dependent protein kinase/DARPP-32 signaling leads to phosphorylation/activation of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). The increase in ERK1/2 phosphorylation associated with dyskinesia results in activation of mitogen- and stress-activated kinase-1 (MSK-1) and phosphorylation of histone H3, two downstream targets of ERK involved in transcriptional regulation. In line with these observations, we found that c-Fos expression is abnormally elevated in the striata of mice affected by LID. Persistent enhancement of the ERK signaling cascade is implicated in the generation of LID. Thus, pharmacological inactivation of ERK1/2 achieved using SL327 (alpha-[amino[(4-aminophenyl)thio]methylene]-2-(trifluoromethyl)benzeneacetonitrile), an inhibitor of the mitogen-activated kinase/ERK kinase, MEK, during chronic L-DOPA treatment counteracts the induction dyskinesia. Together, these results indicate that a significant proportion of the abnormal involuntary movements developed in response to chronic L-DOPA are attributable to hyperactivation in striatal medium spiny neurons of a signaling pathway including sequential phosphorylation of DARPP-32, ERK1/2, MSK-1, and histone H3.
The unique properties of single-wall carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) and the application of nanotechnology to the nervous system may have a tremendous impact in the future developments of microsystems for neural prosthetics as well as immediate benefits for basic research. Despite increasing interest in neuroscience nanotechnologies, little is known about the electrical interactions between nanomaterials and neurons. We developed an integrated SWNT-neuron system to test whether electrical stimulation delivered via SWNT can induce neuronal signaling. To that aim, hippocampal cells were grown on pure SWNT substrates and patch clamped. We compared neuronal responses to voltage steps delivered either via conductive SWNT substrates or via the patch pipette. Our experimental results, supported by mathematical models to describe the electrical interactions occurring in SWNT-neuron hybrid systems, clearly indicate that SWNTs can directly stimulate brain circuit activity.


The purpose of the present experiment was to investigate whether the sensory weighting of a plantar pressure-based, tongue-placed tactile biofeedback for controlling posture could be subject to inter-individual variability. To achieve this goal, 60 young healthy adults were asked to stand as immobile as possible with their eyes closed in two conditions of No-biofeedback and Biofeedback. Centre of foot pressure (CoP) displacements were recorded using a force platform. Overall, results showed reduced CoP displacements in the Biofeedback relative to the No-biofeedback condition, evidencing the ability of the central nervous system to efficiently integrate an artificial plantar-based, tongue-placed tactile biofeedback for controlling posture during quiet standing. Results further showed a significant positive correlation between the CoP displacements measured in the No-biofeedback condition and the decrease in the CoP displacements induced by the use of the biofeedback. In other words, the degree of postural stabilization appeared to depend on each subject's balance control capabilities, the biofeedback yielding a greater stabilizing effect in subjects exhibiting the largest CoP displacements when standing in the No-biofeedback condition. On the whole, by evidencing a significant inter-individual variability in sensory weighting of an additional tactile information related to foot sole pressure distribution for controlling posture, the present findings underscore the need and the necessity to address the issue of inter-individual variability in the field of neuroscience.
Although alterations in the function of the neurotransmitter system have been implicated in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanisms that underlie this pathological change are not well understood. Beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is a key protease in the generation of beta-amyloid, an important trigger protein in the pathogenesis of AD. The expression and activity of BACE1 are increased in the brains of sporadic AD patients, and a role for BACE1 in neurotransmission has been suggested recently. This study examines whether BACE1 plays a role in regulated exocytosis in PC12 cells. Treatment of PC12 cells with a beta-secretase inhibitor reduced stimulus-dependent secretion of neurotransmitters, suggesting a potential role of BACE1 in regulated exocytosis. Using transfected human growth hormone as a reporter for a regulated secretory pathway in PC12 cells, we found that the transient overexpression of BACE1 increased basal secretion in the absence of a stimulus and reduced stimulus-dependent secretion in intact PC12 cells. In digitonin-permeabilized PC12 cells, an overexpression of BACE1 enhanced the Ca2+-independent and ATP-independent component of the secretory pathway. Furthermore, expression of the glycosylation-deficient mutant of BACE1, BACE1N354Q, led to an elevation of basal secretions over that by BACE1 wild-type, suggesting a role of BACE1 glycosylation in basal secretion. These results demonstrate an unknown role for BACE1 in secretion, and suggest that elevated levels of BACE1 in AD brains may contribute to the altered neurotransmitter pathology of AD through stimulation of spontaneous basal secretion under resting conditions.
The present study examined whether N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), 5-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) subunits and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are constitutively expressed in trigeminal ganglia (TG) using Western blot analysis in male Sprague-Dawley rats. We then investigated whether experimental induction of masseter inflammation influences glutamate receptor expressions by comparing the protein levels from nave rats to those from complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) inflamed rats. Our results showed that NMDAR1 (NR1), NMDAR2A (NR2A), NMDAR2B (NR2B), AMPAR1 (GluR1) and AMPAR2 (GluR2) subunits, and group I metabotropic glutamate receptor, mGluR5, are constitutively expressed in TG. Masseter inflammation significantly down-regulated NR1 subunit expression that persisted to 7 days post-CFA inflammation. NR2A and NR2B expressions were not significantly changed. GluR1 receptor subunit expression was slightly increased in TG 3 days after CFA-induced inflammation, but the change was not statistically significant. GluR2 protein level was not affected by CFA inflammation. The level of mGluR5 protein was significantly up-regulated in TG 3 days after CFA-induced masseter inflammation. There were no inflammation-induced changes in any of the proteins we analyzed in the contralateral, non-inflamed TG. These results suggested that muscle inflammation differentially modulates glutamate receptor subunits at the primary afferent level in male rats and that these inflammation-induced transcriptional changes may contribute to functionally different aspects of craniofacial muscle pain.


Circulating levels of the cytokine interleukin 18 (IL-18) are elevated in obesity. Here, we show that administration of IL-18 suppresses appetite, feed efficiency, and weight regain in food-deprived male and female C57BL/6J mice. Intraperitoneal vs. intracerebroventricular routes of IL-18 administration had similar potency and did not promote formation of a conditioned taste aversion (malaise-like behavior). Mice partially (Il18(+/-)) or totally (Il18(-/-)) deficient in IL-18 were hyperphagic by young adulthood, with null mutants then becoming overweight by the fifth month of life. Adult Il18(-/-) mice gained 2- to 3-fold more weight than WT mice per unit energy consumed of low- or high-fat diet. Indirect calorimetry revealed reduced energy expenditure in female Il18(-/-) mice and increased respiratory exchange ratios [volume of carbon dioxide production (VCO(2))/volume of oxygen consumption (VO(2))] in mutants of both sexes. Hyperphagia continued in maturity, with overeating greatest during the mid- to late-dark cycle. Relative white fat-pad mass of Il18(-/-) mice was approximately 2- to 3-fold greater than that of WT, with gonadal, mesenteric, and inguinal depots growing most. The data suggest that endogenous IL-18 signaling modulates food intake, metabolism, and adiposity during adulthood and might be a central or peripheral pharmacological target for controlling energy homeostasis.
The regional distribution of PRMT8 transcript was examined in mouse brain using in situ hybridization (ISH) histochemistry. The PRMT8 cRNA probe was specifically hybridized with CNS and the signals were observed only in the neurons. The distribution of the neurons expressing PRMT8 mRNA was not even throughout the brain. All of the regions related to general somatosensory system expressed PRMT8 mRNA strongly. Most of the relay nuclei intervening the special somatosensory system, such as the auditory, visual, and vestibular systems, were packed with PRMT8 mRNA expressing neurons. Forebrain limbic areas and thalamic nuclei relevant to limbic areas were also strongly labeled with the probe. Some areas related to the motor system, such as the caudate putamen, Purkinje cells, inferior olivary nucleus and cerebellar nuclei expressed PRMT8 mRNA strongly. These findings suggest that PRMT8 is chiefly involved in the somatosensory and limbic systems, and a part of motor system.
Mutations in the LRRK2 gene cause autosomal dominant, late-onset parkinsonism, which presents with pleomorphic pathology including alpha-synucleopathy. To promote our understanding of the biological role of LRRK2 in the brain we examined the distribution of LRRK2 mRNA and protein in postmortem human brain tissue from normal and neuropathological subjects. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analysis demonstrate the expression and localization of LRRK2 to various neuronal populations in brain regions implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) including the cerebral cortex, caudate-putamen and substantia nigra pars compacta. Immunofluorescent double labeling studies additionally reveal the prominent localization of LRRK2 to cholinergic-, calretinin- and GABA(B) receptor 1-positive, dopamine-innervated, neuronal subtypes in the caudate-putamen. The distribution of LRRK2 in brain tissue from sporadic PD and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) subjects was also examined. In PD brains, LRRK2 immunoreactivity localized to nigral neuronal processes is dramatically reduced which reflects the disease-associated loss of dopaminergic neurons in this region. However, surviving nigral neurons occasionally exhibit LRRK2 immunostaining of the halo structure of Lewy bodies. Moreover, LRRK2 immunoreactivity is not associated with Lewy neurites or with cortical Lewy bodies in sporadic PD and DLB brains. These observations indicate that LRRK2 is not a primary component of Lewy bodies and does not co-localize with mature fibrillar alpha-synuclein to a significant extent. The localization of LRRK2 to key neuronal populations throughout the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway is consistent with the involvement of LRRK2 in the molecular pathogenesis of familial and sporadic parkinsonism.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) induces analgesic-like effects after central administration across diverse pain models in rodents. In spinal pain models, previous studies indicate a prominent role for Y(1) receptors at mediating this effect of NPY. In supraspinal pain models like the hot plate test, the NPY receptors involved have not been thoroughly explored. By intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of selective NPY receptor ligands, the possible involvement of Y(5) receptors in analgesic-like mechanisms was investigated using the hot plate test in rats. Both NPY and selective Y(5) agonists induced analgesic-like effects as revealed by prolonged hot plate latencies. Further consistent with a role for Y(5) receptors, pretreatment with a selective Y(5) receptor antagonist blocked the Y(5) agonist-induced analgesic-like effect. The present study indicates involvement of Y(5) receptors probably at the supraspinal level in mediation of NPY agonist-induced analgesic-like effects in the hot plate test.
Astrocytes maintain homeostasis of neuronal microenvironment, provide metabolic and trophic support to neurons and modulate neuronal responses to injury. Rotenone specifically inhibits mitochondrial complex I, and long exposure to rotenone may increase the risk for Parkinson's disease (PD) and cause Parkinsonism. However, little is known about the role of astrocytes in the process of rotenone-induced dopaminergic neuron injury. In order to investigate this issue, we used MN9D cells as a cell model of dopaminergic neurons and rotenone as a toxin to initiate mitochondrial deficiency. MN9D cells treated with the normal medium or astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) were exposed to different concentrations of rotenone for different time followed by cell viability measurement by MTT assay. Besides, various concentrations of ACM and temporally different treatments were devised to evaluate protective efficiency of ACM. Growth curve of cells in the normal medium or ACM was continuously assessed by cell counting for 8 d. The influence of rotenone and ACM on cellular oxidative stress was determined by DCFH-DA staining followed by flow cytometric analysis. Glutathione (GSH) content after treatment of ACM or rotenone was measured by GSH assay kit. Our results showed that rotenone decreased viability of MN9D cells in a dose-dependent manner and ACM treatment significantly attenuated rotenone toxicity at each concentration. No significant difference in growth rate was observed between the normal medium and ACM treatment. Four concentrations of ACM, namely 1/3ACM, 1/2ACM, 2/3ACM and pure ACM, all displayed protection, increasing cell viability to (124.15+/-0.79)%, (126.59+/-0.82) %, (125.84+/-0.61) % and (117.15+/-1.63) % of the cells exposed directly to rotenone, respectively. Treatment with ACM through the whole experiment except the initial 24 h, 24 h before or at the same time of rotenone addition all exerted protective effects, with cell viability being (110.11+/-2.52)%, (113.30+/-2.36) %, (114.42+/-2.00)% of the cells exposed directly to rotenone, respectively. Conversely, ACM treatment 12 h after rotenone addition had no protective effect, with cell viability being (102.54+/-1.36)% of the cells exposed directly to rotenone. Moreover, ACM treatment up-regulated GSH level in MN9D cells nearly twofold. Incubation with 100 nmol/L rotenone for 24 h depleted GSH level by nearly two thirds of the control, but ACM treatment mitigated the drop of GSH level, maintaining its content at (147.83+/-0.63)% of the control. Consistent with GSH change, rotenone administration resulted in a positive rate of 96.24% of DCF staining, implying a great extent of oxidative stress, whereas treatment with ACM reduced the extent of oxidative stress to a positive rate of 78.31%. Taken together, these findings suggest that astrocytes protect MN9D cells from oxidative stress caused by rotenone, and GSH partially accounts for the protection. Therefore, astrocytes may play a protective role in the process of PD.
The present study investigated expression of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn), a presynaptic protein involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, in erythroid cells. Using various immunological procedures, immunoreactivity of alpha-syn was unambiguously demonstrated in erythroid lineage in murine bone marrows and peripheral erythrocytes. Expression of alpha-syn mRNA was also confirmed by in situ hybridization. Furthermore, flow cytometry analysis revealed that approximately 80% of erythroid cells in murine bone marrows expressed alpha-syn, while more than 90% of peripheral erythrocytes expressed alpha-syn. Nonetheless, alpha-syn null mice exhibited apparently no phenotypic changes in erythroid cells as was the case in their brains, suggesting that there might be underlying some redundant mechanisms. Together with previous reports showing the expression of alpha-syn in lymphocytes and platelets, the present finding supports a contention that alpha-syn might play some important functions in hematopoietic system.
Zinc in the pancreas is co-released with insulin from beta-cells reaching concentrations similar to those found in the vicinity of glutamatergic synapses. In the brain, the role of zinc in excitotoxic brain damage is well established. In contrast, its role in islet destruction during diabetes is poorly understood. We have studied the efficacy of zinc homeostatic proteins and an intracellular zinc chelator, clioquinol, in conferring resistance against zinc toxicity in pancreatic islets. We further assessed the ability of clioquinol to protect the islets in an experimental model of type I diabetes. Our results indicate that endogenous mechanisms for lowering [Zn]i are deficient in the insulinoma cell line, MIN6, and that permeation of Zn2+ triggered cell death. Application of the low affinity, intracellular zinc chelator, clioquinol, reduced Zn2+-induced cell death by 80%. In addition, chelation of zinc ions by clioquinol in vivo prevented onset of multiple low dose streptozotocin-induced diabetes, and reduced the insulitis and hyperglycemia associated with this model. Furthermore, the glucose tolerance test (GTT) score of multiple low dose streptozotocin (MLD-STZ) mice pretreated with clioquinol was, statistically indistinguishable from that of untreated, control mice. Taken together, our results point to the potential utility of in vivo zinc chelation as a therapeutic strategy for treatment of idiopathic type I diabetes.
Cardiac voltage-gated Ca2+ channels regulate the intracellular Ca2+ concentration and are therefore essential for muscle contraction, second messenger activation, gene expression and electrical signaling. As a first step in accessing the structural versus functional properties of the L-type Ca2+ channel in the heart, we have expressed a dihydropyridine (DHP)-insensitive CaV1.2 channel in rat ventricular myocytes and fibroblasts. Following isolation and culture, cells were infected with adenovirus expressing either LacZ or a mutant CaV1.2 channel (CaV1.2DHPi) containing the double mutation (T1039Y &amp; Q1043M). This mutation renders the channel insensitive to neutral DHP compounds such as nisoldipine. The whole-cell, L-type Ca2+ current (ICa) measured in control myocytes was inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by nisoldipine with an IC50 of 66 nM and complete block at 250 nM. In contrast, ICa in cells infected with AdCaV1.2DHPi was inhibited by only 35% by 500 nM nisoldipine but completely blocked by 50 microM diltiazem. In order to study CaV1.2DHPi in isolation, myocytes infected with AdCaV1.2DHPi were incubated with nisoldipine. Under this condition the cells expressed a large ICa (12 pA/pF) and displayed Ca2+ transients during field stimulation. Furthermore, addition of 2 microM forskolin and 100 microM 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX), to stimulate protein kinase A, strongly increased IBa in the AdCaV1.2DHPi-infected cells. A Cd2+-sensitive IBa was also recorded in cardiac fibroblasts infected with AdCaV1.2DHPi. Thus, expression of CaV1.2DHPi will provide an important tool in studies of cardiac myocyte and fibroblast function.
There is evidence in the literature that the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs indomethacin and ibuprofen can interact with the cannabinoid system both in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, a series of analogues of ibuprofen and indomethacin have been investigated with respect to their ability to inhibit fatty acid amide hydrolase, the enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide. Of the fourteen compounds tested, the 6-methyl-pyridin-2-yl analogue of ibuprofen (&quot;ibu-am5&quot;) was selected for further study. This compound inhibited rat brain anandamide hydrolysis in a non-competitive manner, with IC50 values of 4.7 and 2.5 microM being found at pH 6 and 8, respectively. By comparison, the IC50 values for ibuprofen were 130 and 750 microM at pH 6 and 8, respectively. There was no measurable N-acylethanolamine hydrolyzing acid amidase activity in rat brain membrane preparations. In intact C6 glioma cells, ibu-am5 inhibited the hydrolysis of anandamide with an IC50 value of 1.2 microM. There was little difference in the potencies of ibu-am5 and ibuprofen towards cyclooxygenase-1 and -2 enzymes, and neither compound inhibited the activity of monoacylglycerol lipase. Ibu-am5 inhibited the binding of [3H]-CP55,940 to rat brain CB1 and human CB2 cannabinoid receptors more potently than ibuprofen, but the increase in potency was less than the corresponding increase in potency seen for inhibition of FAAH activity. It is concluded that ibu-am5 is an analogue of ibuprofen with a greater potency towards fatty acid amide hydrolase but with a similar cyclooxygenase inhibitory profile, and may be useful for the study of the therapeutic potential of combined fatty acid amide hydrolase-cyclooxygenase inhibitors.
Chronic restraint stress affects hippocampal and amygdalar synaptic plasticity as determined by electrophysiological, morphological and behavioral measures, changes that are inhibited by some but not all antidepressants. The efficacy of some classes of antidepressants is proposed to involve increased phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), leading to increased expression of neurotrophic factors, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Conversely, some studies suggest that acute and chronic stress downregulate BDNF expression and activity. Accordingly, the aim of the current study was to examine total and phosphorylated CREB (pCREB), as well as BDNF mRNA and protein levels in the hippocampus and amygdala of rats subjected to chronic restraint stress in the presence and absence of the antidepressant tianeptine. In the hippocampus, chronic restraint stress increased pCREB levels without affecting BDNF mRNA or protein expression. Tianeptine administration had no effect upon these measures in the hippocampus. In the amygdala, BDNF mRNA expression was not modulated in chronic restraint stress rats given saline in spite of increased pCREB levels. Conversely, BDNF mRNA levels were increased in the amygdala of chronic restraint stress/tianeptine rats in the absence of changes in pCREB levels when compared to non-stressed controls. Amygdalar BDNF protein increased while pCREB levels decreased in tianeptine-treated rats irrespective of stress conditions. Collectively, these results demonstrate that tianeptine concomitantly decreases pCREB while increasing BDNF expression in the rat amygdala, increases in neurotrophic factor expression that may participate in the enhancement of amygdalar synaptic plasticity mediated by tianeptine.
Among the numerous effects of lithium on intracellular targets, its possible action on mitochondria remains poorly explored. In the experiments with suspension of isolated brain mitochondria, replacement of KCl by LiCl suppressed mitochondrial swelling, depolarization, and a release of cytochrome c induced by a single Ca2+ bolus. Li+ robustly protected individual brain mitochondria loaded with rhodamine 123 against Ca2+-induced depolarization. In the experiments with slow calcium infusion, replacement of KCl by LiCl in the incubation medium increased resilience of synaptic and nonsynaptic brain mitochondria as well as resilience of liver and heart mitochondria to the deleterious effect of Ca2+. In LiCl medium, mitochondria accumulated larger amounts of Ca2+ before they lost the ability to sequester Ca2+. However, lithium appeared to be ineffective if mitochondria were challenged by Sr2+ instead of Ca2+. Cyclosporin A, sanglifehrin A, and Mg2+, inhibitors of the mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT), increased mitochondrial Ca2+ capacity in KCl medium but failed to do so in LiCl medium. This suggests that the mPT might be a common target for Li+ and mPT inhibitors. In addition, lithium protected mitochondria against high Ca2+ in the presence of ATP, where cyclosporin A was reported to be ineffective. SB216763 and SB415286, inhibitors of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta, which is implicated in regulating reactive oxygen species-induced mPT in cardiac mitochondria, did not increase Ca2+ capacity of brain mitochondria. Altogether, these findings suggest that Li+ desensitizes mitochondria to elevated Ca2+ and diminishes cytochrome c release from brain mitochondria by antagonizing the Ca2+-induced mPT.
Using the classification image technique, the present experiments revealed several characteristics of human observers' spatiotemporal templates for the detection of orientation-defined targets. The stimulus consisted of a spatial 5 x 5 array of elements displayed in 5 (Experiments 1 and 2) or 15 (Experiment 3) temporal frames. A target was defined by the first- or the second-order characteristics of the textures. In Experiment 1, a target signal was presented across all five frames, and observers typically relied on the most reasonable cues in all five frames for detecting targets. In other words, they used the first-order cue for detecting the first-order target and used the second-order cue for detecting the second-order target. Moreover, the spatial profile for detecting the first-order sustained target was localized at the border of the target area, but that for the second-order sustained target showed broader spatial tuning. Presenting the target in just the third temporal frame, as was done in Experiment 2, changed the temporal profile of the observers' templates in the expected manner: Observers used the first-order cue for the first-order target detection and the second-order cue for the second-order target detection only in the third frame. However, changing the temporal characteristics also affected the kinds of spatial cues that were used to detect a target. For example, the classification images revealed that observers used second-order cues (as well as first-order cues) to detect a first-order target, and there was a trend toward increasing the extent of spatial information used when the temporal information was restricted. In Experiment 3, we found similar results for detecting the first-order flashed target with finer, 15-temporal-frame presentation. Lastly, we showed that the classification image is a useful way to reveal individual differences that are not shown with traditional psychophysical techniques.

How natural speech is represented in the auditory cortex constitutes a major challenge for cognitive neuroscience. Although many single-unit and neuroimaging studies have yielded valuable insights about the processing of speech and matched complex sounds, the mechanisms underlying the analysis of speech dynamics in human auditory cortex remain largely unknown. Here, we show that the phase pattern of theta band (4-8 Hz) responses recorded from human auditory cortex with magnetoencephalography (MEG) reliably tracks and discriminates spoken sentences and that this discrimination ability is correlated with speech intelligibility. The findings suggest that an approximately 200 ms temporal window (period of theta oscillation) segments the incoming speech signal, resetting and sliding to track speech dynamics. This hypothesized mechanism for cortical speech analysis is based on the stimulus-induced modulation of inherent cortical rhythms and provides further evidence implicating the syllable as a computational primitive for the representation of spoken language.
Neuroligins enhance synapse formation in vitro, but surprisingly are not required for the generation of synapses in vivo. We now show that in cultured neurons, neuroligin-1 overexpression increases excitatory, but not inhibitory, synaptic responses, and potentiates synaptic NMDAR/AMPAR ratios. In contrast, neuroligin-2 overexpression increases inhibitory, but not excitatory, synaptic responses. Accordingly, deletion of neuroligin-1 in knockout mice selectively decreases the NMDAR/AMPAR ratio, whereas deletion of neuroligin-2 selectively decreases inhibitory synaptic responses. Strikingly, chronic inhibition of NMDARs or CaM-Kinase II, which signals downstream of NMDARs, suppresses the synapse-boosting activity of neuroligin-1, whereas chronic inhibition of general synaptic activity suppresses the synapse-boosting activity of neuroligin-2. Taken together, these data indicate that neuroligins do not establish, but specify and validate, synapses via an activity-dependent mechanism, with different neuroligins acting on distinct types of synapses. This hypothesis reconciles the overexpression and knockout phenotypes and suggests that neuroligins contribute to the use-dependent formation of neural circuits.
In lower vertebrates, like fishes and amphibians, retina is able to self-regenerate whereas Mammalian retina has lost this property. Nevertheless, recently, it has turned out that retinal glial Mller cells were playing a role in neuronal regeneration of the adult rodent retina, in case of acute damages, by dedifferentiating and redifferentiating in glial and neural cells. The purpose of this study was to analyse the ability of mammalian Mller cells for forming neurospheres. First of all, rats Mller cells were isolated in a primary culture. Second, these cells were resuspended in two different culture media: the cells cultures in the Neurobasal-A medium kept a typical Mller cells morphology even after 15 days of EGF treatment, and the cells plated in the DMEM-F12 medium formed neurospheres from the third day in culture. The neurosphere cells expressed nestin, cellular retinaldehyde binding protein (CRALBP) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). These results showed our capacity to isolate and propagate Mller cells-derived progenitor cells. Moreover, it allows us to control the number of progenitor cells and, in the future, to study their differentiation capacity.

RP58, a novel zinc finger protein containing a POZ domain, is a sequence-specific transcriptional repressor. To understand the role of this protein, we examined RP58 gene expression in the developing mouse brain by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and in situ hybridization. RP58 mRNA expression was detected at embryonic day (E) 10 in the neuroepithelium, and subsequently in the ventricular zones of the cerebral cortex in the E12 embryo. Strong expression was observed in the preplate in the cerebral cortex from this stage onward. High levels of expression continued to be detected in the cortical plate and subventricular zone of the neocortex, hippocampus, and parts of the amygdala, but not in the thalamus or striatum. These results suggest that RP58 plays a crucial role in neuronal proliferation, migration, and differentiation in the developing cerebral cortex. RP58 is also expressed in the adult mouse neocortex, hippocampus, parts of the amygdala, and granule cells in the cerebellum. Double in situ hybridization using GAD67 or VGLUT1 probes revealed that RP58 is expressed in glutamatergic excitatory neurons.
Following proximal axotomy, several types of neurons sprout de novo axons from distal dendrites. These processes may represent a means of forming new circuits following spinal cord injury. However, it is not know whether mammalian spinal interneurons, axotomized as a result of a spinal cord injury, develop de novo axons. Our goal was to determine whether spinal commissural interneurons (CINs), axotomized by 3-4-mm midsagittal transection at C3, form de novo axons from distal dendrites. All experiments were performed on adult cats. CINs in C3 were stained with extracellular injections of Neurobiotin at 4-5 weeks post injury. The somata of axotomized CINs were identified by the presence of immunoreactivity for the axonal growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43). Nearly half of the CINs had de novo axons that emerged from distal dendrites. These axons lacked immunoreactivity for the dendritic protein, microtubule-associated protein2a/b (MAP2a/b); some had GAP-43-immunoreactive terminals; and nearly all had morphological features typical of axons. Dendrites of other CINs did not give rise to de novo axons. These CINs did, however, each have a long axon-like process (L-ALP) that projected directly from the soma or a very proximal dendrite. L-ALPs were devoid of MAP2a/b immunoreactivity. Some of these L-ALPs projected through the lesion and formed bouton-like swellings. These results suggest that proximally axotomized spinal interneurons have the potential to form new connections via de novo axons that emerge from distal dendrites. Others may be capable of regeneration of their original axon.
Male prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) display mating-induced pair bonding indicated by social affiliation with their female partners and aggression toward unfamiliar conspecifics. In the present study, we characterized their aggression associated with pair bonding and examined the related neuronal activation and neurochemical architecture. Males that were pair-bonded for 2 weeks displayed intense levels of aggression toward a female or male conspecific stranger but maintained a high level of social affiliation with their familiar female partners. These social interactions induced increases in neural activation, indicated by increased density of Fos-immunoreactive staining (Fos-ir) in several brain regions including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), medial preoptic area (MPOA), paraventricular nucleus (PVN), anterior cortical (AcA), and medial nuclei (MeA) of the amygdala. In the anterior hypothalamus (AH), increased density of Fos-ir staining was found specifically to be associated with aggression toward unfamiliar female or male strangers. In addition, higher densities of AH cells that were stained for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or vasopressin (AVP) were also labeled with Fos-ir in these males displaying aggression toward a conspecific stranger compared with males displaying social affiliation toward their female partner. Together, our results indicate that dopamine and vasopressin in the AH may be involved in the regulation of enduring aggression associated with pair bonding in male prairie voles.
Olfactory epithelial cells from olfactory marker protein-green fluorescent protein (OMP-GFP) mice were separated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting into a GFP+ sample enriched in mature olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and a GFP- sample enriched in all other cells. GeneChip expression profiling of these samples provided a predictive measure of expression in OSNs. Validation tests comparing the ratio of GFP+/GFP- signal intensity against expression patterns from in situ hybridization for 189 mRNAs proved statistically significant and provided probabilities of expression in OSNs scaled according to the signal intensity ratios. These probabilities predict that, among 11,596 mRNAs detected in the GFP+ sample, more than 10,000 are expressed in OSNs. Transcripts and overrepresented categories of mRNAs detected in the GFP+ sample agreed with known properties of OSNs and predict additional properties. For example, ciliogenesis and spermatogenesis were overrepresented, consistent with similarities between OSN cilia and sperm flagella. Chromatin assembly mRNAs were expressed throughout the OSN cell lineage, consistent with the hypothesis that chromatin remodeling plays a role in OSN differentiation. We detected numerous signaling proteins and receptors, such as 30 nonchemosensory G-protein-coupled receptors, including the presynaptic glutamate receptor mGlur4 and the Wnt receptor Fzd3. The largest group of mRNAs, however, was the hundreds of transcriptional regulators that presumably determine the OSN phenotype. The absence of OMP protein in OMP-GFP mice had no detectable effect on mRNA abundance. Within limits prescribed by the nature of microarray data and the in situ hybridization validation, these data should be useful in directing further experiments on OSN function.
Kv3.3 proteins are pore-forming subunits of voltage-dependent potassium channels, and mutations in the gene encoding for Kv3.3 have recently been linked to human disease, spinocerebellar ataxia 13, with cerebellar and extracerebellar symptoms. To understand better the functions of Kv3.3 subunits in brain, we developed highly specific antibodies to Kv3.3 and analyzed immunoreactivity throughout mouse brain. We found that Kv3.3 subunits are widely expressed, present in important forebrain structures but particularly prominent in brainstem and cerebellum. In forebrain and midbrain, Kv3.3 expression was often found colocalized with parvalbumin and other Kv3 subunits in inhibitory neurons. In brainstem, Kv3.3 was strongly expressed in auditory and other sensory nuclei. In cerebellar cortex, Kv3.3 expression was found in Purkinje and granule cells. Kv3.3 proteins were observed in axons, terminals, somas, and, unlike other Kv3 proteins, also in distal dendrites, although precise subcellular localization depended on cell type. For example, hippocampal dentate granule cells expressed Kv3.3 subunits specifically in their mossy fiber axons, whereas Purkinje cells of the cerebellar cortex strongly expressed Kv3.3 subunits in axons, somas, and proximal and distal, but not second- and third-order, dendrites. Expression in Purkinje cell dendrites was confirmed by immunoelectron microscopy. Kv3 channels have been demonstrated to rapidly repolarize action potentials and support high-frequency firing in various neuronal populations. In this study, we identified additional populations and subcellular compartments that are likely to sustain high-frequency firing because of the expression of Kv3.3 and other Kv3 subunits.
Neural responses are variable, yet motor performance can be quite precise. To ask how neural signal and noise are processed in the brain during sensory-motor behavior, we have evaluated the trial-by-trial variation of Purkinje cell (PC) activity in the floccular complex of the cerebellum, an intermediate stage in the neural circuit for smooth-pursuit eye movements. We find strong correlations between small trial-by-trial variations in the simple spike activity of individual PCs and the eye movements at the initiation of pursuit. The correlation is lower but still present during steady-state pursuit. Recordings from a few pairs of PCs verified the predictions of a model of the PC population, that there is a transition from highly covariant PC activity during movement initiation to more independent activity later on. Application to the data of a theoretical and computational analysis suggests that variation in pursuit initiation arises mostly from variation in visual motion signals that provide common inputs to the PC population. Variation in eye movement during steady-state pursuit can be attributed primarily to signal-dependent motor noise that arises downstream from PCs.
Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been applied as a probe to test functional connectivity within distinct cortical areas of the human motor system. Here, we tested the interaction between the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) and ipsilateral motor cortex (M1). A conditioning TMS pulse over the right PPC potentiates motor evoked-potentials evoked by a test TMS pulse over the ipsilateral motor cortex, with a time course characterized by two phases: an early peak at 4 ms interstimulus interval (ISI) and a late peak at 15 ms ISI. Activation of this facilitatory pathway depends on the intensity of stimulation, because the effects are induced with a conditioning stimulus of 90% resting motor threshold but not at lower or higher intensities. Similar results were obtained testing the ipsilateral interaction in the left hemisphere with a slightly different time course. In control experiments, we found that activation of this facilitatory pathway depends on the direction of induced current in the brain and is specific for stimulation of the caudal part of the inferior parietal sulcus (cIPS) site, because it is not observed for stimulation of adjacent scalp sites. Finally, we found that by using poststimulus time histogram analysis of single motor unit firing, the PPC conditioning increases the excitability of ipsilateral M1, enhancing the relative amount of late I wave input recruited by the test stimulus over M1, suggesting that such interaction is mediated by specific interneurons in the motor cortex. The described facilitatory connections between cIPS and M1 may be important in a variety of motor tasks and neuropsychiatric disorders.
An important area of research in neuroscience is understanding what properties of brain structure and function are stimulated by sensory experience and behavioral performance. We tested the roles of experience and behavior in seasonal plasticity of the neural circuits that regulate learned song behavior in adult songbirds. Neurons in these circuits receive auditory input and show selective auditory responses to conspecific song. We asked whether auditory input or song production contribute to seasonal growth of telencephalic song nuclei. Adult male Gambel's white-crowned sparrows were surgically deafened, which eliminates auditory input and greatly reduces song production. These birds were then exposed to photoperiod and hormonal conditions that regulate the growth of song nuclei. We measured the volumes of the nuclei HVC, robust nucleus of arcopallium (RA), and area X at 7 and 30 d after exposure to long days plus testosterone in deafened and normally hearing birds. We also assessed song production and examined protein kinase C (PKC) expression because previous research reported that immunostaining for PKC increases transiently after deafening. Deafening did not delay or block the growth of the song nuclei to their full breeding-condition size. PKC activity in RA was not altered by deafening in the sparrows. Song continued to be well structured for up to 10 months after deafening, but song production decreased almost eightfold. These results suggest that neither auditory input nor high rates of song production are necessary for seasonal growth of the adult song control system in this species.
Changes in synaptic strength at striatal synapses, such as long-term depression (LTD), may be involved in striatal-based learning and memory. Several molecular mechanisms have been implicated in striatal LTD, but it is not clear which mechanisms are crucial for LTD induction. We found that the activation of L-type calcium channels by 2,5-dimethyl-4-[2-(phenylmethyl)benzoyl]-1H-pyrrole-3-carboxylic acid methylester (FPL64176), combined with modest postsynaptic depolarization and synaptic activation, is sufficient to induce robust LTD (FPL-LTD). The L-channel activator 1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyridine-3-carboxylic acid methyl ester (Bay K 8644) has a similar action. FPL-LTD occludes LTD induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS-LTD) and requires elevated postsynaptic calcium and retrograde endocannabinoid signaling, properties similar to those of HFS-LTD. In contrast, FPL-LTD does not require the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), phospholipase C, or dopamine D2 receptors. FPL-LTD induction also requires afferent stimulation. These findings suggest a scenario in which L-type calcium channel activation is a crucial switch for LTD induction, and mGluRs and D2 receptors can be bypassed if this channel is activated.
Neuromodulation changes the cellular and synaptic properties of neurons, thereby enabling individual neuronal circuits to generate multiple activity patterns. However, distinct modulatory inputs could conceivably also cona different motor circuits to generate similar activity patterns. Using the isolated stomatogastric ganglion (STG) of the crab Cancer borealis, we showed previously that pyrokinin (PK) peptides activate the gastric mill (chewing) rhythm without the participation of the projection neuron modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1). MCN1, which does not contain the PK peptide, also activates the gastric mill rhythm and, at these times, is a gastric mill central pattern generator (CPG) neuron. Here, we show that the gastric mill rhythms elicited by PK superfusion and MCN1 stimulation in the isolated STG are comparable, in contrast to the distinct gastric mill rhythms elicited by other input pathways. We also identified several cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying the PK- and MCN1-elicited gastric mill rhythms that are distinct, including additional differences in their core CPG neurons. For example, the presence of the inhibitory synapse from the pyloric pacemaker neuron anterior burster onto the gastric mill CPG was necessary only for generation of the PK-elicited gastric mill rhythm. Similarly, the dorsal gastric motor neuron regulated only the PK rhythm, apparently because of PK-mediated enhancement of its synaptic actions. Thus, we demonstrate that different modulatory inputs can elicit comparable, as well as distinct activity patterns from the same neuronal ensemble. Moreover, these comparable rhythms can result from distinct CPGs using overlapping, but distinct sets of cellular and synaptic mechanisms.


Three recent studies show that centrosome asymmetry correlates with self-renewal of Drosophila neural and germline stem cells and that equalizing centrosomes disrupts asymmetric cell division.
The G protein-coupled receptor GPR54 (AXOR12, OT7T175) is central to acquisition of reproductive competency in mammals. Peptide ligands (kisspeptins) for this receptor are encoded by the Kiss1 gene, and administration of exogenous kisspeptins stimulates hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release in several species, including humans. To establish that kisspeptins are the authentic agonists of GPR54 in vivo and to determine whether these ligands have additional physiological functions we have generated mice with a targeted disruption of the Kiss1 gene. Kiss1-null mice are viable and healthy with no apparent abnormalities but fail to undergo sexual maturation. Mutant female mice do not progress through the estrous cycle, have thread-like uteri and small ovaries, and do not produce mature Graffian follicles. Mutant males have small testes, and spermatogenesis arrests mainly at the early haploid spermatid stage. Both sexes have low circulating gonadotropin (luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone) and sex steroid (beta-estradiol or testosterone) hormone levels. Migration of GnRH neurons into the hypothalamus appears normal with appropriate axonal connections to the median eminence and total GnRH content. The hypothalamic-pituitary axis is functional in these mice as shown by robust luteinizing hormone secretion after peripheral administration of kisspeptin. The virtually identical phenotype of Gpr54- and Kiss1-null mice provides direct proof that kisspeptins are the true physiological ligand for the GPR54 receptor in vivo. Kiss1 also does not seem to play a vital role in any other physiological processes other than activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, and loss of Kiss1 cannot be overcome by compensatory mechanisms.
Presenilins (PS, PS1/PS2) are necessary for the proteolytic activity of gamma-secretase, which cleaves multiple type I transmembrane proteins including Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), Notch, ErbB4, etc. Cleavage by PS/gamma-secretase releases the intracellular domain (ICD) of its substrates. Notch ICD translocates into the nucleus to regulate expression of genes important for development. However, the patho/physiological role of other ICDs, especially APP ICD (AICD), in regulating gene expression remains controversial because evidence supporting this functionality stems mainly from studies performed under supraphysiological conditions. EGF receptor (EGFR) is up-regulated in a wide variety of tumors and hence is a target for cancer therapeutics. Abnormal expression/activation of EGFR contributes to keratinocytic carcinomas, and mice with reduced PS dosages have been shown to develop skin tumors. Here we demonstrate that the levels of PS and EGFR in the skin tumors of PS1(+/-)/ PS2(-/-) mice and the brains of PS1/2 conditional double knockout mice are inversely correlated. Deficiency in PS/gamma-secretase activity or APP expression results in a significant increase of EGFR in fibroblasts. Importantly, we show that AICD mediates transcriptional regulation of EGFR. Furthermore, we provide in vivo evidence demonstrating direct binding of endogenous AICD to the EGFR promoter. Our results indicate an important role of PS/gamma-secretase-generated APP metabolite AICD in gene transcription and in EGFR-mediated tumorigenesis.
Mice self-administer morphine into the lateral septum (LS), but the neuronal connections underlying this behaviour remain unknown. The present study tested whether the acquisition of intra-LS morphine self-administration depends on dopaminergic mechanisms. Mice were allowed to self-inject morphine (5 or 20ng/50nl) or vehicle directly into the LS using a spatial discrimination Y-maze task. Fos imaging was used to evaluate neuronal activation in cerebral structures directly connected to the LS or belonging to the dopaminergic system. The involvement of dopaminergic and opioidergic mechanisms was assessed by pre-treating naive mice peripherally with the D1 antagonist SCH23390, the D2/D3 antagonist sulpiride or the opiate antagonist naloxone before daily self-administration sessions. Mice acquired self-administration behaviour for intra-LS morphine that was associated with increased Fos expression in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), dorsal and ventral striatum and prefrontal cortex. Pre-treating animals with naloxone, SCH23390 or sulpiride completely prevented them from acquiring intra-LS morphine self-administration. All three antagonists consistently blocked Fos expression in the prefrontal cortex, but not in the VTA and striatum. Taken together, our results show that morphine self-administration into the LS depends on dopaminergic (D1 and D2/D3) and opioidergic mechanisms. Furthermore, they suggest that opioid peptides released in the LS could participate in regulating the activity of mesotegmental dopaminergic neurons.
We have recently described two rat mutants, ci2 and ci3, in which abnormal lateralized rotational behavior and locomotor hyperactivity occur either spontaneously or in response to external stimuli, such as new environment. While cochlear and vestibular defects are found in ci2 rats, ci3 rats do not exhibit any inner ear abnormalities. Both mutants show abnormal lateralities in striatal dopamine and in the density of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra or ventral tegmental area, which may be involved in the behavioral phenotype of these rats. In line with this hypothesis, the circling behavior of the ci2 and ci3 mutants is intensified by amphetamine. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of dopamine receptor blockade on the abnormal behaviors of ci2 and ci3 rats. Haloperidol blocked the hyperactivity in both mutants, but this was most likely due to the known inhibitory effect on locomotion by this drug. When animals were observed during the light phase, the abnormal rotational behavior of the mutants was not significantly affected by haloperidol, whereas the dopamine D2 receptor-preferring antagonist raclopride significantly reduced rotations in ci2 rats. When the behavior of the ci3 rats was video-monitored during the dark phase, circling was significantly inhibited by haloperidol. The most striking difference between the two mutants was that ci2 rats were less susceptible than the unaffected littermates to the cataleptogenic effects of haloperidol and raclopride, whereas no such difference was observed in ci3 rats. These data demonstrate that, although there are several similarities between the ci2 and ci3 rat mutants, their cataleptogenic response to dopamine receptor blockade strikingly differs. The comparative evaluation of these two rat mutants may help to increase our understanding of the relationship between developmental anomalies of cerebral asymmetry and brain disorders.
Recent evidence suggests that sickness behaviors following lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treatment may be modulated by environmental factors such as the light-dark (LD) cycle. The present study characterized LPS-induced hypoactivity and behavioral tolerance development across individual phases of the light-dark cycle and the transitions between phases. On days 1, 4 and 7, male rats were treated with LPS (200microg/kg i.p.) or saline 30min prior to the onset of either the dark period (dark-tested group) or the light period (light-tested group). Following treatment, rats were placed in non-novel automated open-fields where various aspects of locomotor activity were monitored for 16h. On day 1, LPS-treated rats in both the dark and light tested groups showed significant hypoactivity. However, temporal differences in the onset of hypoactivity were observed between the groups. In dark tested animals significant hypoactivity started 60min after LPS treatment and continued until the light period when hypoactivity was diminished. In contrast, the light tested LPS-treated animals did not exhibit a prolonged period of hypoactivity until the transition between the light and dark periods, 750min following LPS injection. On days 4 and 7, light tested animals showed complete tolerance to LPS as evidenced by the absence of significant activity reductions, whereas dark tested animals continued to show significant periods of hypoactivity. These results indicate that there are day-night differences in both the initial LPS-induced hypoactivity response as well as behavioral tolerance development. The rate of tolerance development to LPS may be a critical factor to survival and the prevention of sepsis, as organisms are repeatedly exposed to pathogens across the life cycle.
The Tolloid metalloproteases are pleiotropic enzymes that are important for many developmental processes. This study describes the isolation and characterization of a novel Tolloid family member from the pond turtle Pseudemys scripta elegans. The turtle Tolloid, designated tTll, is found in two forms. The first, tTlls, contains a signal sequence which may provide a mechanism for secretion. The second, tTllc, does not contain a signal sequence and is likely cytoplasmic. Sequence analysis of tTll revealed that it is most closely related to chicken Tll-2 although tTll domain structure is different. We examined the expression of tTll mRNA by real-time RT-PCR and found the highest expression in the cerebellum with lower levels in the brain stem and cortex. This expression pattern is similar to the expression of the Tolloid mouse orthologues Tll-1 and Tll-2 with highest levels of expression in the cerebellum and lower levels in the brain stem and cortex.
Rectal probe thermometry is commonly used to measure body core temperature in rodents because of its ease of use. Although previous studies suggest that rectal measurement is stressful and results in long-lasting elevations in body temperatures, we evaluated how this procedure affects brain, muscle, skin, and core temperatures measured with chronically implanted thermocouple electrodes in rats. Our data suggest that the procedure of rectal measurement results in powerful locomotor activation, rapid and strong increases in brain, muscle, and deep body temperatures, as well as a biphasic, down-up fluctuation in skin temperature, matching the response pattern observed during tail-pinch, a representative stressful procedure. This response, moreover, did not habituate after repeated day-to-day testing. Repeated rectal probe insertions also modified temperature responses induced by intravenous cocaine. Under quiet resting conditions, cocaine moderately increased brain, muscle, and deep body temperatures. However, during repeated rectal measurements, which increased temperatures, cocaine induced both hyperthermic and hypothermic responses. Direct comparisons revealed that body temperatures measured by a rectal probe are typically lower (approximately 0.6 degrees C) and more variable than body temperatures recorded by chronically implanted electrodes; the difference is smaller at low and greater at high basal temperatures. Because of this difference and temperature increases induced by the rectal probe per se, cocaine had no significant effect on rectal temperatures compared to control animals exposed to repeated rectal probes. Therefore, although rectal temperature measurements provide a decent correlation with directly measured deep body temperatures, the arousing influence of this procedure may drastically modulate the effects of other arousing stimuli and drugs.
Angiocidin, a tumor-secreted protein, was measured in serum of 27 healthy volunteers and 33 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. Healthy controls either hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive or negative showed undetectable levels. Patients had levels of angiocidin ranging from 15.09 to 195.73 pg/ml. Patients with stages III-IV had higher levels of angiocidin (97+/-13 pg/ml, n=17) compared to those with stages I-II (63+/-37 pg/ml, n=16), p&lt;0.043. Patients with microsatellite tumor nodules had higher average levels (98+/-55 pg/ml, n=17) compared to those without microsatellite nodules (51+/-27 pg/ml, n=20), p&lt;0.032. Our studies suggest that angiocidin predicts advanced stage and intra-hepatic metastasis.
Declarative memory allows an organism to discriminate between previously encountered and novel items, and to place past encounters in time. Numerous imaging studies have investigated the neural processes supporting item recognition, whereas few have examined retrieval of temporal information. In the present study, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was conducted while subjects engaged in temporal recency and item novelty decisions. Subjects encountered three-alternative forced-choice retrieval trials, each consisting of two words from a preceding study phase and one novel word, and were instructed to either identify the novel item (Novelty trials) or the more recently presented study item (Recency trials). Relative to correct Novelty decisions, correct Recency decisions elicited greater activation in a network of left-lateralized regions, including frontopolar and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and intraparietal sulcus. A conjunction analysis revealed that these left-lateralized regions overlapped with those previously observed to be engaged during source recollection versus novelty detection, suggesting that during Recency trials subjects attempted to recollect event details. Consistent with this interpretation, correct Recency decisions activated posterior hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex, whereas incorrect Recency decisions elicited greater anterior cingulate activation. The magnitude of this latter effect positively correlated with activation in right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Finally, correct Novelty decisions activated the anterior medial temporal lobe to a greater extent than did correct Recency decisions, suggesting that medial temporal novelty responses are not obligatory but rather can be modulated by the goal-directed allocation of attention. Collectively, these findings advance understanding of how subjects strategically engage frontal and parietal mechanisms in the service of attempting to remember the temporal order of events, and how retrieval goals impact novelty processing within the medial temporal lobe.
Tourette's syndrome (TS) is a developmental disorder characterized by motor and verbal tics. The tics, which are fast and involuntary, result from frontal/basal-ganglia abnormalities that lead to unsuppressed behaviors. Language has not been carefully examined in TS. We tested the processing of two basic aspects of language: idiosyncratic and rule-governed linguistic knowledge. Evidence suggests that idiosyncratic knowledge (e.g., in irregular past tense formation; bring-brought) is stored in a mental lexicon that depends on the temporal-lobe-based declarative memory system that also underlies conceptual knowledge. In contrast, evidence suggests that rule-governed combination (e.g., in regular past tenses; walk+-ed) takes place in a mental grammar that relies on the frontal/basal-ganglia-based procedural memory system, which also underlies motor skills such as how to use a hammer. We found that TS children were significantly faster than typically developing control children in producing rule-governed past tenses (slip-slipped, plim-plimmed, bring-bringed) but not irregular and other unpredictable past tenses (bring-brought, splim-splam). They were also faster than controls in naming pictures of manipulated (hammer) but not non-manipulated (elephant) items. These data were not explained by a wide range of potentially confounding subject- and item-level factors. The results suggest that the processing of procedurally based knowledge, both of grammar and of manipulated objects, is particularly speeded in TS. The frontal/basal-ganglia abnormalities may thus lead not only to tics, but also to a wider range of rapid behaviors, including the cognitive processing of rule-governed forms in language and other types of procedural knowledge.
Humans have the striking capacity to predict actions performed by their conspecifics. But how exactly do we perform such predictions? Do we use our own action repertoire and our own body to simulate the reaching range of others? In this functional magnetic resonance imaging study static photographs depicting side views of seated human models were presented to participants, who had to predict whether the models could reach a target placed in front of them. The predictions were performed both fast and accurate, but with an overestimation bias as well as higher error rates and slower predictions for targets close to the models' actual reaching ranges. Specific hemodynamic signal changes were detected in primary and secondary somatosensory cortices, inferior and superior parietal areas, and in right ventral premotor cortex. These findings demonstrate that action prediction in the current context activates a network of areas involved in action recognition, visuo-spatial transformation and somatosensory anticipation. The results are in line with the mirror-neuron system account of action understanding and the notion of the common coding theory that actions are coded in terms of their perceivable effects.
Perspective taking is a crucial ability that guides our social interactions. In this study, we show how the specific patterns of errors of brain-damaged patients in perspective taking tasks can help us further understand the factors contributing to perspective taking abilities. Previous work [e.g., Samson, D., Apperly, I. A., Chiavarino, C., &amp; Humphreys, G. W. (2004). Left temporoparietal junction is necessary for representing someone else's belief. Nature Neuroscience, 7, 499-500; Samson, D., Apperly, I. A., Kathirgamanathan, U., &amp; Humphreys, G. W. (2005). Seeing it my way: A case of a selective deficit in inhibiting self-perspective. Brain, 128, 1102-1111] distinguished two components of perspective taking: the ability to inhibit our own perspective and the ability to infer someone else's perspective. We assessed these components using a new nonverbal false belief task which provided different response options to detect three types of response strategies that participants might be using: a complete and spared belief reasoning strategy, a reality-based response selection strategy in which participants respond from their own perspective, and a simplified mentalising strategy in which participants avoid responding from their own perspective but rely on inaccurate cues to infer the other person's belief. One patient, with a self-perspective inhibition deficit, almost always used the reality-based response strategy; in contrast, the other patient, with a deficit in taking other perspectives, tended to use the simplified mentalising strategy without necessarily transposing her own perspective. We discuss the extent to which the pattern of performance of both patients could relate to their executive function deficit and how it can inform us on the cognitive and neural components involved in belief reasoning.


A simple synthesis and biological properties of 1,3-diphenyl-2-propen-1-ones 18-22 and 25-26 are described. The key synthetic strategies involve Grignard reaction of aldehyde 2 and oxidation reaction of 8-12 in high yields. The prepared compounds 18-22 and 25-26 were evaluated for free-radical scavenging, suppression of LPS-induced NO generation, and anti-excitotoxicity in vitro. It was found that a couple of compounds, especially 21 and 26, were potent suppressors of NO generation and demonstrated anti-excitotoxicity with the concentration range 10-20 microM in vitro.
Lesions of the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus often lead to impairment of the same behavioural tasks (e.g., allocentric as well as egocentric spatial orientation and spatial delayed alternation). In case of allocentric and egocentric spatial orientation we have previously found that the two structures mutually contribute to the posttraumatic functional recovery of such tasks. We therefore presently tested the hypothesis that this would even be true in case of spatial delayed alternation. The acquisition of a spatial delayed alternation task in a T-maze was studied in four groups of rats: animals in which the fimbria-fornix had been transected bilaterally, rats who had received bilateral ablations of the anteromedial prefrontal cortex, animals in which both of these structures had been lesioned, and a sham operated control group. All three lesion groups demonstrated an impaired task acquisition. The group given prefrontal cortical lesions in isolation underwent a complete functional recovery. Both of the fimbria-fornix transected groups were significantly impaired even when compared to the group given prefrontal cortical ablations in isolation. The two fimbria-fornix lesioned groups did, however, exhibit levels of functional recovery. The group in which both structures had been lesioned demonstrated a task acquisition, which was significantly inferior to that of the group given fimbria-fornix transections in isolation. After completion of the task acquisition period, all animals were subjected to two behavioural challenges including a session on which the duration of the inter-trial delay was doubled. This expansion of the inter-trial delay rather selectively impaired the task performance of the group given fimbria-fornix transections in isolation. Consequently, both during the acquisition period and in one of the challenges a differentiation of functional recovery was seen between the combined lesioned group and the group given fimbria-fornix lesions only. This indicates that even in case of a spatial delayed alternation task the prefrontal cortex normally contributes significantly to mediation of posttraumatic functional recovery after isolated lesions of the fimbria-fornix. The results are discussed in the context of models of posttraumatic functional recovery.
It is well known that some epileptic patients does not respond to conventional treatments, despite multiple combination of antiepileptic drugs, and they are therefore considered drug-resistant. For these patients, vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) represents a successful alternative to traditional therapy, and it is generally well tolerated; beside benefits on seizure frequency, VNS showed positive effects on cognition and mood. Aim of this study was to investigate short-term memory changes in a group of 12 patients implanted with VNS, through Mismatch Negativity wave (MMN). After 1 year of follow-up, MMN latencies and amplitudes did not show significant changes following VNS implantation, independently on current intensity, as compared with pre-implantation values. In two patients, MMN values, which were abnormal before VNS implantation, showed a major reduction in latency and an increase in amplitude after implantation, suggesting a likely positive effect of VNS on pre-attentive processes investigated by MMN.
The establishment of axon-dendrite polarity in mammalian neurons has recently been shown to involve the kinases Akt and GSK-3beta. Here we report the function of the integrin-linked kinase (ILK) in neuronal polarization. ILK distribution is differential: with more of it present in the axonal tips than that in the dendritic tips of a polarized neuron. Inactivation of ILK by chemical inhibitors, a kinase-inactive mutant or siRNAs inhibited axon formation, whereas a kinase hyperactive ILK mutant induced the formation of multiple axons. Biochemical studies indicate that ILK is upstream of Akt and GSK-3beta. Manipulations of multiple intracellular components indicate that ILK is functionally upstream of Akt and GSK-3beta but downstream of PI3K in neuronal polarity. These results reveal a key role of ILK in the formation of neuronal polarity and suggest a signaling pathway important for neuronal polarity.
Dlk1 and Gtl2 are reciprocally imprinted neighboring genes located within a 1 Mb imprinted domain on murine distal chromosome 12. The two genes are expressed and developmentally regulated during mammalian embryogenesis. Dlk1/Pref1 encodes a transmembrane protein with homology to members of the Notch/Delta developmental signaling pathway and Gtl2 generates alternatively spliced poly-adenylated transcripts lacking a conserved open reading frame. An intergenic differentially methylated region (IG-DMR) located 13 kb upstream of Gtl2 has been shown to regulate imprinting throughout the domain by an as yet unknown mechanism. In order to gain insights into regulation at this domain and to compare it with imprinting control at other loci, we compared the expression profile of Dlk1 with Gtl2 during mouse embryogenesis in normal conceptuses and in those with uniparental disomy for chromosome 12. The expression profile of these genes suggests a causative role for Dlk1 and Gtl2 in the pathologies found in uniparental disomy animals, characterized by defects in skeletal muscle maturation, bone formation, placenta size and organization and prenatal lethality. Here, we show restricted overlap in cellular expression of these two genes throughout development. Dlk1 is imprinted and expressed in cell types within the lung, liver and placenta where Gtl2 is not expressed. Gtl2 is highly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS), whereas Dlk1 is found localized to specific regions such as the hypothalamus. Co-expression is observed in most of the mesodermal-derived tissues, notably the skeletal muscle where both genes are strongly co-expressed. In this tissue, Dlk1 shows a relaxation of imprinting with some expression from the maternal allele. These findings indicate that the general mechanism of imprinting at the stages analyzed is not through the co-ordinate non-coding RNA or insulator mechanisms observed for other imprinted domains, and suggest that the two genes have independent tissue-specific functions.
The science of mathematical modeling aims to describe and evaluate complex phenomena. In epidemiology, modeling allows scientists to simulate the consequences of various intervention and prevention scenarios. In biology, modeling allows one to describe and simulate complex neurophysiologic processes. Similar modeling techniques apply to both scenarios. At the 2006 College on Problems of Drug Dependence (CPDD) workshop, we presented four types of models: traditional epidemiologic, traditional neurobiological/behavioral, knowledge repository epidemiologic, and knowledge repository neurological/behavioral. We discussed commonality and differences in the approaches, interpretations, utility, and limitations. The authors believe that both traditional and knowledge repository models can be very useful in complementary ways to the general scientific community studying substance abuse.
HIV-associated dementia, like several other neurodegenerative diseases, is characterized by selective degeneration of neurons amidst survival of glial cells like astroglia. The molecular basis of such selective susceptibility within the same milieu remains largely unknown. Neurons are rarely infected by the virus. However, they are vulnerable to viral products, like HIV-1 coat protein gp120. Interestingly, gp120 induced oxidative stress in neurons, but not in astroglia. This led us to postulate that astroglia were armed with a more efficient antioxidant system than neurons. Here, we report that the constitutive level of MnSOD (SOD2), the major cellular antioxidant enzyme, is significantly higher in astroglia than in neurons. Furthermore, gp120 treatment enhanced MnSOD levels in astroglia but decreased the same in neurons. This increase in astroglial MnSOD was dependent on NF-kappaB, the crucial transcription factor required for sod2 gene transcription. Blocking NF-kappaB with p65-antisense, p65-si-RNA, or a specific inhibitor, NBD peptide, led to reduced MnSOD levels and enhanced vulnerability of astroglia to gp120. Additionally, neurons were found to have a lower constitutive level of NF-kappaB p65 than astrocytes. Overexpression of p65 increased the level of MnSOD in neurons. This, in turn, elicited greater neuronal resistance to gp120. Taken together, our study suggests that astroglia manifest a higher threshold for gp120-induced lethality than neurons due to greater MnSOD availability, which is demonstrated due to greater level of NF-kappaB p65.
Phosphorylation is an important timekeeping mechanism in the circadian clock that has been closely studied at the level of the kinases involved but may also be tightly controlled by phosphatase action. Here we demonstrate a role for protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) in the regulation of the major timekeeping molecules in the Drosophila clock, TIMELESS (TIM) and PERIOD (PER). Flies with reduced PP1 activity exhibit a lengthened circadian period, reduced amplitude of behavioral rhythms, and an altered response to light that suggests a defect in the rising phase of clock protein expression. On a molecular level, PP1 directly dephosphorylates TIM and stabilizes it in both S2R(+) cells and clock neurons. However, PP1 does not act in a simple antagonistic manner to SHAGGY (SGG), the kinase that phosphorylates TIM, because the behavioral phenotypes produced by inhibiting PP1 in flies are different from those achieved by overexpressing SGG. PP1 also acts on PER, and TIM regulates the control of PER by PP1, although it does not affect PP2A action on PER. We propose a modified model for post-translational regulation of the Drosophila clock, in which PP1 is critical for the rhythmic abundance of TIM/PER while PP2A also regulates the nuclear translocation of TIM/PER.
Niemann-Pick C (NPC) disease is an autosomal recessive lipid storage disorder characterized by a disruption of sphingolipid and cholesterol trafficking that produces cognitive impairment, ataxia and death, often in childhood. Most cases are caused by loss of function mutations in the Npc1 gene, which encodes a protein that localizes to late endosomes and functions in lipid sorting and vesicle trafficking. Here, we demonstrate that NPC1-deficient primary human fibroblasts, like npc1(-/-) mice fibroblasts, showed increased autophagy as evidenced by elevated LC3-II levels, numerous autophagic vacuoles and enhanced degradation of long-lived proteins. Autophagy because of NPC1 deficiency was associated with increased expression of Beclin-1 rather than activation of the Akt-mTOR-p70 S6K signaling pathway, and siRNA knockdown of Beclin-1 decreased long-lived protein degradation. Induction of cholesterol trafficking defects in wild-type fibroblasts by treatment with U18666A increased Beclin-1 and LC3-II expression, whereas treatment of NPC1-deficient fibroblasts with sphingolipid-lowering compound NB-DGJ failed to alter the expression of either Beclin-1 or LC3-II. Primary fibroblasts from patients with two other sphingolipid storage diseases, NPC2 deficiency and Sandhoff disease, characterized by sphingolipid trafficking defects also showed elevation in Beclin-1 and LC3-II levels. In contrast, Gaucher disease fibroblasts, which traffic sphingolipids normally, showed wild-type levels of Beclin-1 and LC3-II. Our data define a critical role for Beclin-1 in the activation of autophagy because of NPC1 deficiency, and reveal an unexpected role for lipid trafficking in the regulation of this pathway in patients with several sphingolipid storage diseases.
Recent reports have shown that IL-17-producing CD4+ T cells (Th17 cells) belong to a distinct helper T cell lineage and are critically involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases and allergies. However, the chemokine receptor profile of Th17 cells remains to be clarified. In this study, we report that human Th17 cells are identified as CCR2+CCR5- memory CD4+ T cells. Analysis of PBMC from healthy donors showed that CCR2+ cells produce much larger amounts of IL-17 than CCR2- cells, indicating the preferential expression of CCR2 on Th17 cells. Notably, CCR2+CCR5- memory CD4+ T cells produced a large amount of IL-17 and little IFN-gamma, whereas CCR2+CCR5+ cells reciprocally produced an enormous amount of IFN-gamma but little IL-17. Moreover, a higher expression of T-bet was seen in the CCR5+ memory T cells. These results indicate that absence of CCR5 distinguishes human Th17 cells from Th1 cells.
It has been argued that in late-onset Alzheimer's disease a disturbance in the control of neuronal glucose metabolism consequent to impaired insulin signalling strongly resembles the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes in non-neural tissue. The fact that mitochondria are the major generators and direct targets of reactive oxygen species led several investigators to foster the idea that oxidative stress and damage in mitochondria are contributory factors to several disorders including Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. Since brain possesses high energetic requirements, any decline in brain mitochondria electron chain could have a severe impact on brain function and particularly on the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases. This review is primarily focused in the discussion of brain mitochondrial dysfunction as a link between diabetes and Alzheimer's disease.
The tricyclic antidepressants, including desipramine (DMI), are no better than placebo in treating childhood and adolescent depression, but are effective in adult depression. Animal studies comparing the effects of DMI in juveniles and adults are complicated by age-related variations in elimination rates. Thus, different dosing regiments are needed to achieve similar brain drug levels in juvenile and adult rats. We compared the half-life of DMI as well as the brain and serum concentrations of DMI and its active metabolite desmethyldesipramine in juvenile and adult rats after various drug administration paradigms. After acute i.p. administration DMI is eliminated from the brain more slowly in postnatal day (PND) 21 and 28 rats as compared to adults. After chronic i.p. administration (for 4-5 days between PND 9 and 28), lower doses of DMI are needed with juvenile rats to obtain the same brain DMI concentrations as adults. By contrast, 2 weeks of continuous drug delivery (minipump) to PND 21-35 and adult rats result in similar brain DMI concentrations. Thus, the pharmacokinetic properties of DMI varies with the age of the animal and dosing of DMI and needs to be carefully adjusted in order to have appropriate brain levels of the drug.
Many important questions in neuroscience are about interactions between neurons or neuronal groups. These interactions are often quantified by coherence, which is a frequency-indexed measure that quantifies the extent to which two signals exhibit a consistent phase relation. In this paper, we consider the statistical testing of the difference between coherence values observed in two experimental conditions. We pay special attention to problems induced by (1) unequal sample sizes and (2) the fact that coherence is typically evaluated at a large number of frequency bins and between large numbers of pairs of neurons or neuronal groups (the multiple comparisons problem). We show that nonparametric statistical tests provide convincing and elegant solutions for both problems. We also show that these tests allow to incorporate biophysically motivated constraints in the test statistic, which may drastically increase the sensitivity of the test. Finally, we explain why the nonparametric test is formally correct. This means that we formulate a null hypothesis (identical probability distribution in the different experimental conditions) and show that the nonparametric test controls the false alarm rate under this null hypothesis. The proposed methodology is illustrated by analyses of data collected in a study on cortico-spinal coherence [Schoffelen JM, Oostenveld R, Fries P. Neuronal coherence as a mechanism of effective corticospinal interaction. Science 2005;308(5718):111-3].
N-acetylaspartate (NAA) was discovered in mammalian brain 50 years ago but its functions remain debated. One reason for the relatively slow progress of NAA research is the paucity of tools to specifically modify NAA concentrations. In this work we evaluated the use of the monomethyl ester of NAA (NAA MME) to increase the relatively low level of NAA in cultured hippocampal slices. When slices were treated with 30 mM NAA MME for 3 days the NAA concentration increased from 31.6 to 185.3 nmol/mg protein. Incubation with NAA alone increased the NAA concentration non-significantly to 65.6 nmol/mg protein. NAA MME treatment increased NAA in neurons and the increase was non-toxic as determined by the low uptake of propidium iodide, a dye that only enters damaged cells. NMDA-mediated excitotoxicity which is initiated by influx of Ca(2+) was unaltered by increased NAA levels indicating poor intracellular Ca(2+)-chelation by NAA.
Capillary electrophoresis with end-column amperometric detection (CE-EC) was used to determine the regional distribution of norepinephrine (NE) in the hearts of sympathetically innervated (control) and chemically sympathectomized rats. Key features of the method are (i) the sample preparation and clean-up step that involved the application of off-line solid phase extraction (SPE) with a 95% NE recovery and (ii) the use of a diamond microelectrode for detection. NE was quantified in the left and right ventricle, the ventricular septum, and the left and right atrium. The NE concentration in the atria was three to five times higher than in the ventricles and ventricular septum of control rats. Basal NE levels in the left and right ventricle and the ventricular septum were reduced to below the detection limit (0.034 microg/g tissue) in tissues treated with the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), while only a moderate reduction was observed in the left and right atrium. Importantly, the diamond microelectrode provided low and stable background current and low peak-to-peak noise &lt;or=0.65 pA at a detection potential of +0.86 V versus Ag/AgCl. A reproducible electrode response was observed for multiple injections of tissue homogenates with minimal response attenuation due to electrode fouling.
Chronic joint pain affects physical well being and can lead to severe psychological and social problems, therefore successful long-term management is highly sought-after. No current behavioural measures of pain used in pre-clinical models mimic the clinical dolorimeter, which provides an objective measure of joint hypersensitivity. In this study we aim to use a novel behavioural readout alongside an established measure to mimic the multifactorial measurements taken in the clinic. Using the pressure application measurement (PAM) device a gradually increasing squeeze was applied across the knee joint of rats until the animal gave an indication of pain or discomfort. PAM and the incapacitance tester were used to detect joint hypersensitivity in a well-established rodent model of adjuvant-induced arthritis. Subsequently, the analgesic effects of prednisolone (1, 3 or 10 mg kg(-1)), morphine (3 mg kg(-1)) and celecoxib (15 mg kg(-1)) were assessed. Both PAM and the incapacitance tester detected a reversal of hypersensitivity 1h post-drug administration. Furthermore, the two readouts were highly correlated, and power analysis indicated that PAM was highly reproducible. In conclusion, PAM provides a novel, accurate behavioural tool for detecting a primary mechanical hypersensitivity in a rat model of chronic inflammatory joint pain.
In a recent study we have adapted for the first time available software used in spatial neuronal organization studies to represent the complete fiber distribution of a brain projection [Leite-Almeida H, Valle-Fernandes A, Almeida A. Brain projections from the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus: an anterograde and retrograde tracing study in the rat. Neuroscience 2006;140:577-95]. Here we describe the technique in detail using the injection of biotinylated-dextran amine (BDA) in the rat cuneate nucleus and its projection through the pyramidal decussation as an example. Camera-lucida-like computer drawings were produced with StereoInvestigator software. Using high magnification lens, rat brain sections were screened and lines superimposed with virtually all fibers and terminal boutons present in each brain section. Additionally, in each screening field of the section, all focal planes were inspected and lines depicted only on focused fibers and/or fiber segments. Later, NeuroExplorer software was used to interpret fiber depth information and obtain the three-dimensional pathway of each fiber bundle along the rostrocaudal extension of each section. This computer methodology presents several advantages over classical camera-lucida hand-made drawings: (i) the software is prepared to work interchangeably in different magnifications without misplacements, which allows the representation of virtually all labelled fibers and, therefore, results in a much more accurate fiber location in each brain section; (ii) three-dimensional information of all individual fibers and fiber bundles is recorded; (iii) the method is more flexible allowing, for example, to colour differently labelled fibers according to their profiles (e.g. terminal or ramified fiber arborizations and terminal boutons).

Mutations in the TTX-sensitive voltage-gated sodium channel subtype Nav1.7 have been implicated in the painful inherited neuropathy, hereditary erythromelalgia. Hereditary erythromelalgia can be difficult to treat and, although sodium channels are targeted by local anaesthetics such as lidocaine (lignocaine), some patients do not respond to treatment with local anaesthetics. This study examined electrophysiological differences in Nav1.7 caused by a hereditary erythromelalgia mutation (N395K) that lies within the local anaesthetic binding site of the channel. The N395K mutation produced a hyperpolarized voltage dependence of activation, slower kinetics of deactivation, and impaired steady-state slow inactivation. Computer simulations indicate that the shift in activation is the major determinant of the hyperexcitability induced by erythromelalgia mutations in sensory neurons, but that changes in slow inactivation can modulate the overall impact on excitability. This study also investigated lidocaine inhibition of the Nav1.7-N395K channel. We show that the N395K mutation attenuates the inhibitory effects of lidocaine on both resting and inactivated Nav1.7. The IC50 for lidocaine was estimated at 500 microM for inactivated wild-type Nav1.7 and 2.8 mM for inactivated Nav1.7-N395K. The N395K mutation also significantly reduced use-dependent inhibition of lidocaine on Nav1.7 current. In contrast, a different hereditary erythromelalgia mutation (F216S), not located in the local anaesthetic binding site, had no effect on lidocaine inhibition of Nav1.7 current. Our observation of reduced lidocaine inhibition on Nav1.7-N395K shows that the residue N395 is critical for lidocaine binding to Nav1.7 and suggests that the response of individuals with hereditary erythromelalgia to lidocaine treatment may be determined, at least in part, by their specific genotype.
In pregnant women with type 1 diabetes, suboptimal glucose control in the first trimester is a strong predictor for giving birth to a large fetus. However, the mechanisms underlying this association are unknown. We hypothesized that transient hyperglycaemia in early pregnancy results in (1) increased placental growth and (2) an up-regulation of placental nutrient transport capacity, which leads to fetal overgrowth at term. In order to test this hypothesis, pregnant rats were given intraperitoneal injections of glucose (2 g kg(-1), resulting in a 50-100% increase in blood glucose level during 90 min) or saline (control) in either early or late gestation using four different protocols: one single injection on gestational day (GD) 10 (n=5), three injections on GD 10 (n=8-9), six injections on GD 10 and 11 (n=9-11) or three injections on GD 19 (n=7-8). Multiple injections were given approximately 4 h apart. Subsequently, animals were studied on GD 21. Three glucose injections in early pregnancy significantly increased placental weight by 10%, whereas fetal weight was found to be increased at term in response to both three (9% increase in fetal weight, P&lt;0.05) and six glucose injections (7%, P=0.05) in early gestation. A single glucose injection on GD 10 or three injections of glucose on GD 19 had no effect on placental or fetal growth. In groups where a change in feto-placental growth was observed, we measured placental system A and glucose transport activity in the awake animals on GD 21 and placental expression of the glucose and amino acid transporters GLUT1, GLUT3, SNAT2 (system A), LAT1 and LAT 2 (system L). Placental system A transport at term was down-regulated by six glucose injections in early pregnancy (by -33%, P&lt;0.05), whereas placental mRNA and protein levels were unchanged. No long-term alterations in maternal metabolic status were detected. In conclusion, we demonstrate that transient hyperglycaemia in early pregnancy is sufficient to increase fetal weight close to term. In contrast, brief hyperglycaemia in late pregnancy did not stimulate fetal growth. Increased fetal growth may be explained by a larger placenta, which would allow for more nutrients to be transferred to the fetus. These data suggest that maternal metabolic control in early pregnancy is an important determinant for feto-placental growth and placental function throughout the remainder of gestation. We speculate that maternal metabolism in early pregnancy represents a key environmental cue to which the placenta responds in order to match fetal growth rate with the available resources of the mother.
Glutamate AMPA receptors (AMPARs) are major excitatory receptors in the vertebrate CNS. In many biological systems there is a developmental speeding in AMPAR kinetics, which occurs either because of a switch in AMPAR subunits or a change in synaptic morphology. We studied the development of AMPAR-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (AMPAR-mEPSCs) in zebrafish Mauthner cells (M-cells) to determine the reasons underlying the speeding of AMPA mEPSCs in this preparation. We recorded AMPAR-mEPSCs in zebrafish ranging in age from 33 h postfertilization (hpf) to 72 hpf. We found that the glutamate waveform in the synaptic cleft did not change during development, suggesting that synaptic morphology played little role in shaping the mEPSC. The current-voltage (I-V) relationship was linear at 33 hpf and outwardly rectified in older animals, while AMPAR decay kinetics were slower at positive potentials, compared with negative potentials. The relative change in tau with depolarization was found to be greater at 48 hpf than at 33 hpf. AMPARs in 33 hpf fish had a conductance of approximately 9 pS, and in older fish approximately 15 pS. Finally, the desensitization blocker, cyclothiazide, increased tau by approximately 4-fold in 48 hpf preparations, but only 1.5-fold in 33 hpf fish. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the major mechanism underlying the developmental speeding in AMPAR kinetics in zebrafish CNS is a switch in receptor subunits. To our knowledge this is the first study to suggest that AMPARs change subunits during development in fish.
Dopamine (DA) effects on prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons are essential for the cognitive functions mediated by this cortical area. However, the cellular mechanisms of DA neuromodulation in neocortex are not well understood. We characterized the effects of D1-type DA receptor (D1R) activation on the amplification (increase in duration and area) of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) at depolarized potentials, in layer 5 pyramidal neurons from rat PFC. Simulated EPSPs (sEPSPs) were elicited by current injection, to determine the effects of D1R activation independent of modulation of transmitter release or glutamate receptor currents. Application of the D1R agonist SKF81297 attenuated sEPSP amplification at depolarized potentials in a concentration-dependent manner. The SKF81297 effects were inhibited by the D1R antagonist SCH23390. The voltage-gated Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX) abolished the effects of SKF81297 on sEPSP amplification, suggesting that Na+ currents are necessary for the D1R effect. Furthermore, blockade of 4-AP- and TEA-sensitive K+ channels in the presence of TTX significantly increased EPSP amplification, arguing against the possibility that SKF81297 up-regulates currents that attenuate sEPSP amplification. SKF81297 application attenuated the subthreshold response to injection of depolarizing current ramps, in a manner consistent with a decrease in the persistent Na+ current. In addition, D1R activation decreased the effectiveness of temporal EPSP summation during 20 Hz sEPSP trains, selectively at depolarized membrane potentials. Therefore, the effects of D1R activation on Na+ channel-dependent EPSP amplification may regulate the impact of coincidence detection versus temporal integration mechanisms in PFC pyramidal neurons.
As the origin of a 'life-and-death' signal that reflects central cardiovascular regulatory failure during brain stem death, the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is a suitable neural substrate for mechanistic delineation of this vital phenomenon. Using a clinically relevant animal model that employed the organophosphate pesticide mevinphos (Mev) as the experimental insult, we evaluated the hypothesis that transcriptional up-regulation of nitric oxide synthase I or II (NOS I or II) gene expression by nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) on activation of muscarinic receptors in the RVLM underlies brain stem death. In Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anaesthesia, co-microinjection of muscarinic M2R (methoctramine) or M4R (tropicamide), but not M1R (pirenzepine) or M3R (4-diphenylacetoxy-N-dimethylpiperidinium) antagonist significantly reduced the enhanced NOS I-protein kinase G signalling ('pro-life' phase) or augmented NOS II-peroxynitrite cascade ('pro-death' phase) in ventrolateral medulla, blunted the biphasic increase and decrease in baroreceptor reflex-mediated sympathetic vasomotor tone that reflect the transition from life to death, and diminished the elevated DNA binding activity or nucleus-bound translocation of NF-kappaB in RVLM neurons induced by microinjection of Mev into the bilateral RVLM. However, NF-kappaB inhibitors (diethyldithiocarbamate or pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate) or double-stranded kappaB decoy DNA preferentially antagonized the augmented NOS II-peroxynitrite cascade and the associated cardiovascular depression exhibited during the 'pro-death' phase. We conclude that transcriptional up-regulation of NOS II gene expression by activation of NF-kappaB on selective stimulation of muscarinic M2 or M4 subtype receptors in the RVLM underlies the elicited cardiovascular depression during the 'pro-death' phase in our Mev intoxication model of brain stem death.
Depression is a common comorbid condition in Parkinson's disease (PD) and a major contributor to poor quality of life and disability. However, depression can be difficult to assess in patients with PD due to overlapping symptoms and difficulties in the assessment of depression in cognitively impaired patients. As several rating scales have been used to assess depression in PD (dPD), the Movement Disorder Society commissioned a task force to assess their clinimetric properties and make clinical recommendations regarding their use. A systematic literature review was conducted to explore the use of depression scales in PD and determine which scales should be selected for this review. The scales reviewed were the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Hamilton Depression Scale (Ham-D), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS), Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part I, Cornell Scale for the Assessment of Depression in Dementia (CSDD), and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). Seven clinical researchers with clinical and research experience in the assessment of dPD were assigned to review the scales using a structured format. The most appropriate scale is dependent on the clinical or research goal. However, observer-rated scales are preferred if the study or clinical situation permits. For screening purposes, the HAM-D, BDI, HADS, MADRS, and GDS are valid in dPD. The CES-D and CSDD are alternative instruments that need validation in dPD. For measurement of severity of depressive symptoms, the Ham-D, MADRS, BDI, and SDS scales are recommended. Further studies are needed to validate the CSDD, which could be particularly useful for the assessment of severity of dPD in patients with comorbid dementia. To account for overlapping motor and nonmotor symptoms of depression, adjusted instrument cutoff scores may be needed for dPD, and scales to assess severity of motor symptoms (e.g., UPDRS) should also be included to help adjust for confounding factors. The HADS and the GDS include limited motor symptom assessment and may, therefore, be most useful in rating depression severity across a range of PD severity; however, these scales appear insensitive in severe depression. The complex and time-consuming task of developing a new scale to measure depression specifically for patients with PD is currently not warranted.
Psychogenic movement disorders remain a frequent and important clinical problem. First described in the Middle Ages, the dancing mania is considered to be one form of mass hysteria characterized by outbreaks of collective movement disorders. Patients may exhibit a wide variety of movement and gait disturbances, including tremulousness, jerks, or convulsions, usually with a sudden onset. Arthur Van Gehuchten (1861-1914), a distinguished Belgian neuroanatomist and neurologist, reported an outbreak of sudden involuntary movements in 13 adolescent girls residing in an orphanage. The description is to be found in his book Les Maladies nerveuses, completed before 1914 and published posthumously in 1920. The chapter is illustrated with sequential photographs of a girl exhibiting a peculiar gait, which is descriptively referred to as &quot;chore salutatoire&quot; (saluting chorea). The original film with these pictures has been retrieved and is presented here together with a very similar film excerpt also found in Van Gehuchten's film collection. Van Gehuchten's movie documentation of a psychogenic movement disorder--labeled chorea but which should probably be considered as dystonia according to contemporary classification--appears to be unique. This report illustrates the tremendous value of moving pictures in recording and analyzing movement disorders.
We describe two affected individuals in a family with myoclonus-dystonia syndrome complicated with severe depression. One individual committed suicide. Molecular genetic analysis revealed a heterozygous point mutation in the epsilon-sarcoglycan gene, which we show leads to skipping of exon 5. This report suggests that the psychiatric spectrum of MDS includes more severe depression.
The purpose of this study was to determine punding prevalence in an ambulatory Parkinson's disease (PD) population. We conducted a patient-and-caregiver-completed punding survey in 373 consecutive patients in an academic ambulatory center. Completion rate was 78%. Only four patients were identified as punding. Patients did not retain insight to their behavior. Forty patients with high-dose levodopa monotherapy or levodopa and dopamine agonist treatment had physician-administered interview. None had punding. Punding incidence was low in this patient group (1.4%) in contrast with previous reports of 14%. Despite the low incidence, this behavior is disruptive and should be carefully elicited by physicians caring for Parkinson's disease patients.
Repair strategies for spinal cord injury often focus on promoting regeneration of injured axons and stimulating subsequent functional recovery. Although many of these strategies have proven their merits, less is known about potential unwanted side-effects, such as sprouting of nociceptive CGRP immunoreactive axons, which may bring about pain-related behavior. Sprouting of CGRP axons into lesion sites spontaneously occurs after spinal cord injury (SCI). Using L1-deficient mice we show a reduction of such CGRP growth response. This reduction was specific for CGRP axons since the overall neurofilament positive fibre in-growth into the spinal lesion site was not affected. Our results may have important implications on the development and assessment of repair strategies that should not only stimulate functional recovery, but also prevent the development of pain or autonomic dysreflexia.
Mitochondrial (mt) dysfunction has been implicated in Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) is needed for mtDNA maintenance, regulating mtDNA copy number and is absolutely required for transcriptional initiation at mtDNA promoters. Two genetic variants in TFAM have been reported to be associated with AD in a Caucasian case-control material collected from Germany, Switzerland and Italy. One of these variants was reported to show a tendency for association with AD in a pooled Scottish and Swedish case-control material and the other variant was reported to be associated with AD in a recent meta-analysis. We investigated these two genetic variants, rs1937 and rs2306604, in an AD and a PD case-control material, both from Sweden and found significant genotypic as well as allelic association to marker rs2306604 in the AD case-control material (P=0.05 and P=0.03, respectively), where the A-allele appears to increase risk for developing AD. No association was observed for marker rs1937. We did not find any association in the PD case-control material for either of the two markers. The distribution of the two-locus haplotype frequencies (based on rs1937 and rs2306604) did not differ significantly between affected individuals and controls in the two sample sets. However, the global P-value for haplotypic association testing indicated borderline association in the AD sample set. Our data suggests that the rs2306604 A-allele could be a moderate risk factor for AD, which is supported by the recent meta-analysis.
The regulation of fluid and electrolyte homeostasis involves the participation of several neuropeptides and hormones that utilize hypothalamic cholinergic, alpha-adrenergic and angiotensinergic neurotransmitters and pathways. Additionally, it has been suggested that hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis activity modulates hormonal responses to blood volume expansion. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of dexamethasone on atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) responses to i.c.v. microinjections of 0.15 M and 0.30 M NaCl, angiotensin-II (ANG-II) and carbachol. We also evaluated the Fos protein immunoreactivity in the median preoptic (MnPO), paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei. Male Wistar rats received an i.p. injection of dexamethasone (1 mg/kg) or vehicle (0.15 M NaCl) 2 h before the i.c.v. microinjections. Blood samples for plasma ANP, OT, AVP and corticosterone determinations were collected at 5 and 20 min after stimulus. Another set of rats was perfused 120 min after stimulation. A significant increase in plasma ANP, OT, AVP and corticosterone levels was observed at 5 and 20 min after each central stimulation compared with isotonic saline-injected group. Pre-treatment with dexamethasone decreased plasma corticosterone and OT levels, with no changes in the AVP secretion. On the other hand, dexamethasone induced a significant increase in plasma ANP levels. A significant increase in the number of Fos immunoreactive neurons was observed in the MnPO, PVN and SON after i.c.v. stimulations. Pre-treatment with dexamethasone induced a significant decrease in Fos immunoreactivity in these nuclei compared with the vehicle. These results indicate that central osmotic, cholinergic, and angiotensinergic stimuli activate MnPO, PVN and SON, with a subsequent OT, AVP, and ANP release. The present data also suggest that these responses are modulated by glucocorticoids.
Retinoic acids (RAs), including all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and 9-cis retinoic acid (9-cis RA), play fundamental roles in a variety of physiological events in vertebrates, through their specific nuclear receptors: retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR). Despite the physiological importance of RA, their functional significance under pathological conditions is not well understood. We examined the effect of ATRA on oxygen/glucose-deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/Rep)-induced neuronal damage in cultured rat hippocampal slices, and found that ATRA significantly reduced neuronal death. The cytoprotective effect of ATRA was observed not only in cornu ammonis (CA) 1 but also in CA2 and dentate gyrus (DG), and was attenuated by selective antagonists for RAR or RXR. By contrast, in the CA3 region, no protective effects of ATRA were observed. The OGD/Rep also increased phosphorylated forms of c-jun-N-terminal kinase (P-JNK) and p38 (P-p38) in hippocampus, and specific inhibitors for these kinases protected neurons. ATRA prevented the increases in P-JNK and P-p38 after OGD/Rep, as well as the decrease in NeuN and its shrinkage, all of which were inhibited by antagonists for RAR or RXR. These findings suggest that the ATRA signaling via retinoid receptors results in the inhibition of JNK and p38 activation, leading to the protection of neurons against OGD/Rep-induced damage in the rat hippocampus.
Long-term memory formation depends on protein and mRNA synthesis that subserves synaptic reorganization. The removal of pre-existing inhibitory proteins by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is proposed as a crucial step to support these modifications. The activation of the constitutive transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) depends on the degradation of the inhibitor of NF-kappaB (IkappaB) by the UPS. Here we study the effect of a UPS inhibitor, MG132, on long-term memory consolidation and NF-kappaB activation in the learning paradigm of the crab Chasmagnathus, a model in which this transcription factor plays a key role. Here we found that administration of MG132 interferes with long-term memory but not with short-term memory, and no facilitatory effects were found. Then we studied the effect of the UPS inhibitor on NF-kappaB pathway, finding that MG132 blocks the activation of NF-kappaB induced by training. These results suggest that the UPS is necessary for long-term memory consolidation, allowing for the activation of NF-kappaB as one of the target molecular pathways.
Fyn, a member of the Src-family protein tyrosine kinase (PTK), is an essential factor in myelination in the CNS and is involved in murine embryonic stem (ES) cell growth and differentiation. Although dysfunctions of Fyn have been comparatively studied, the gain of function by ectopic expression, especially using ES cells, has seldom been investigated. In this article, we give the first report of the involvement of Fyn alteration in the sphere formation ability of murine ES cells. First, transient transfection of Fyn hardly affected multiplication and specialization. Then, we investigated Fyn overexpression using ES cells, which stably express Fyn. As a result, altered sphere formation capability was observed in all clones stably expressing Fyn. These results may provide important information for reproduction medical treatment using ES cells.
In pre-clinical models intended to evaluate nociceptive processing, acute stress suppresses reflex responses to thermal stimulation, an effect previously described as stress-induced &quot;analgesia.&quot; Suggestions that endogenous opioids mediate this effect are based on demonstrations that stress-induced hyporeflexia is enhanced by high dose morphine (&gt;5 mg/kg) and is reversed by naloxone. However, reflexes and pain sensations can be modulated differentially. Therefore, in the present study direct comparisons were made of opioid agonist and antagonist actions, independently and in combination with acute restraint stress in Long Evans rats, on reflex lick-guard (L/G) and operant escape responses to nociceptive thermal stimulation (44.5 degrees C). A high dose of morphine (&gt;8 mg/kg) was required to reduce reflex responding, but a moderate dose of morphine (1 mg/kg) significantly reduced escape responding. The same moderate dose (and also 5 mg/kg) of morphine significantly enhanced reflex responding. Naloxone (3 mg/kg) significantly enhanced escape responding but did not affect L/G responding. Restraint stress significantly suppressed L/G reflexes (hyporeflexia) but enhanced escape responses (hyperalgesia). Stress-induced hyperalgesia was significantly reduced by morphine and enhanced by naloxone. In contrast, stress-induced hyporeflexia was blocked by both naloxone and 1 mg/kg of morphine. Thus, stress-induced hyperalgesia was opposed by endogenous opioid release and by administration of morphine. Stress-induced hyporeflexia was dependent upon endogenous opioid release but was counteracted by a moderate dose of morphine. These data demonstrate a differential modulation of reflex and operant outcome measures by stress and by separate or combined opioid antagonism or administration of morphine.
Large conductance voltage and calcium-activated K(+) channels play critical roles in neuronal excitability and vascular tone. Previously, we showed that coexpression of the transmembrane beta2 subunit, KCNMB2, with the human pore-forming alpha subunit of the large conductance voltage and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel (hSlo) yields inactivating currents similar to those observed in hippocampal neurons [Hicks GA, Marrion NV (1998) Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation of large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels in rat hippocampal neurones produced by pore block from an associated particle. J Physiol (Lond) 508 (Pt 3):721-734; Wallner M, Meera P, Toro L (1999b) Molecular basis of fast inactivation in voltage and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels: A transmembrane beta-subunit homolog. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 96:4137-4142]. Herein, we report that coexpression of beta2 subunit with hSlo can also modulate hSlo surface expression levels in HEK293T cells. We found that, when expressed alone, beta2 subunit appears to reach the plasma membrane but also displays a distinct intracellular punctuated pattern that resembles endosomal compartments. beta2 Subunit coexpression with hSlo causes two biological effects: i) a shift of hSlo's intracellular expression pattern from a relatively diffuse to a distinct punctated cytoplasmic distribution overlapping beta2 expression; and ii) a decrease of hSlo surface expression that surpassed an observed small decrease in total hSlo expression levels. beta2 Site-directed mutagenesis studies revealed two putative endocytic signals at the C-terminus of beta2 that can control expression levels of hSlo. In contrast, a beta2 N-terminal consensus endocytic signal had no effect on hSlo expression levels. Thus, beta2 subunit not only can influence hSlo currents but also has the ability to limit hSlo surface expression levels via an endocytic mechanism. This new mode of beta2 modulation of hSlo may depend on particular coregulatory mechanisms in different cell types.
Dopamine D(2)-like receptor agonists cause hypothermia. We investigated whether inhibiting heat production by interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT), a major thermogenic organ in rats, contributes to hypothermia caused by dopamine D(2)-like receptor agonists. Temperature of iBAT and tail artery blood flow were measured in conscious rats. Activity in postganglionic sympathetic nerves supplying iBAT was assessed in anesthetized rats. Conscious rats were housed in a warm cage maintained at 26-28 degrees C and then transferred to a cold cage at 5-10 degrees C to induce iBAT thermogenesis. Cold exposure increased iBAT temperature (+0.7+/-0.1 degrees C, 30 min after transferring to the cold cage, P&lt;0.01, n=54). The mixed dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist, 7-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (7-OH-DPAT, 0.5 mg/kg s.c.) reversed the cold-induced increase in iBAT temperature (-2.8+/-0.2 degrees C at 30 min after 7-OH-DPAT treatment during cold exposure vs. +0.3+/-0.1 degrees C at 30 min after vehicle treatment during cold exposure, n=8). These temperature changes were blocked by pre-treatment with the D(2) receptor antagonists spiperone (20 microg/kg i.p.) and L-741,626 (2.5 mg/kg i.p.), but not by the selective D(3) receptor antagonist SB-277011A (10 mg/kg i.p.). Another mixed dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist, quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) also reversed cold-induced iBAT thermogenesis, and this effect was also prevented by pre-treatment with spiperone, but not with a peripherally acting dopamine receptor antagonist, domperidone (2 mg/kg s.c.). Neither 7-OH-DPAT nor quinpirole reversed cutaneous vasoconstriction elicited by cold exposure. In anesthetized rats, quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg i.v.) abolished iBAT sympathetic nerve discharge elicited by cooling the trunk, and this change was reversed by spiperone (20 microg/kg i.v.). These results demonstrate that activation of CNS dopamine D(2) receptors inhibits sympathetically-mediated iBAT thermogenesis in response to cold exposure. Furthermore, they suggest that in rats hypothermia induced by dopamine D(2) receptor agonists in cold environments is mainly due to decreased heat production rather than to increased heat loss.
Evidence accumulates suggesting that 9-O-acetylated gangliosides, recognized by a specific monoclonal antibody (Jones monoclonal antibody), are involved in neuronal migration and axonal growth. These molecules are expressed in rodent embryos during the period of axon extension of peripheral nerves and are absent in adulthood. We therefore aimed at verifying if these molecules are re-expressed in adult rats during peripheral nerve regeneration. In this work we studied the time course of ganglioside 9-O-acetyl GD3 expression during regeneration of the crushed sciatic nerve and correlated this expression with the time course of axonal regeneration as visualized by immunohistochemistry for neurofilament 200 in the nerve. We have found that the ganglioside 9-O-acetyl GD3 is re-expressed during the period of regeneration and this expression correlates spatio-temporally with the arrival of axons to the lesion site. Confocal analysis of double and triple labeling experiments allowed the localization of this ganglioside to Schwann cells encircling growing axons in the sciatic nerve. Explant cultures of peripheral nerves also revealed ganglioside expressing reactive Schwann cells migrating from the normal and previously crushed nerve. Ganglioside 9-O-acetyl GD3 is also upregulated in DRG neurons and motoneurons of the ventral horn of spinal cord showing that the reexpression of this molecule is not restricted to Schwann cells. These results suggest that ganglioside 9-O-acetyl GD3 may be involved in the regrowth of sciatic nerve axons after crush being upregulated in both neurons and glia.
Symptoms of high altitude sickness including headache and neuropsychological dysfunction are thought to result from prolonged exposure to hypoxia. In order to explain how the brain adapts to lower oxygen pressure at high altitude, CD1 mice were exposed to 3 weeks of hypobaric hypoxic conditions. Analyses of the neuronal morphology of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) revealed a significant decrease in dendritic length, yet no change in dendritic volume, in hypoxic mice relative to normoxic mice. Vascular data indicated an increase in blood vessel area in the striatum of mice exposed to prolonged hypoxia. A mouse model of high altitude exposure may assist in elucidating the mechanisms of cerebral adaptation to high altitudes in humans, and therefore aid in developing successful prevention techniques and treatment of problems associated with high altitude disease.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG1) has been identified as a candidate susceptibility gene for schizophrenia. In the present study the functional role of the NRG1 gene, as it relates to cognitive and social processes known to be disrupted in schizophrenia, was assessed in mice with heterozygous deletion of transmembrane (TM)-domain NRG1 in comparison with wildtypes (WT). Social affiliative behavior was assessed using the sociability and preference for social novelty paradigm, in terms of time spent in: (i) a chamber containing an unfamiliar conspecific vs. an empty chamber (sociability), or (ii) a chamber containing an unfamiliar conspecific vs. a chamber containing a familiar conspecific (preference for social novelty). Social dominance and aggressive behavior were examined in the resident-intruder paradigm. Spatial learning and memory were assessed using the Barnes maze paradigm, while spatial working memory was measured using the continuous variant of the spontaneous alternation task. Barnes maze data revealed intact spatial learning in NRG1 mutants, with elevated baseline latency to enter the escape hole in male NRG1 mutants reflecting an increase in activity level. Similarly, although a greater number of overall arm entries were found, spontaneous alternation was unaffected in NRG1 mice. Social affiliation data revealed NRG1 mutants to evidence a specific loss of WT preference for spending time with an unfamiliar as opposed to a familiar conspecific. This suggests that NRG1 mutants show a selective impairment in response to social novelty. While spatial learning and working memory processes appear intact, heterozygous deletion of TM-domain NRG1 was associated with disruption to social novelty behavior. These data inform at a novel phenotypic level on the functional role of this gene in the context of its association with risk for schizophrenia.
Accumulation of mutant ubiquitin-B (UBB(+1)) in neurons is considered the hallmark of proteasomal dysfunction in neurodegenerative disorders, however no such evidence in ischemic brain has been reported. We investigated the contribution of UBB(+1) in delayed neuronal death after transient global ischemia. Transient global ischemia was achieved by occlusion of bilateral common carotid arteries for 5 min and reperfusion in male Mongolian gerbils (n=6 per each time point). In the CA1 region, UBB(+1) immunoreactivity appeared in the cytoplasm of pyramidal cells at 30 min post-ischemia, and the density of these neurons increased at day 2 (P&lt;0.001) and further increased at day 4 post-ischemia. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive (apoptotic) cells appeared selectively in the CA1 region at day 3 and their density increased further at day 4 post-ischemia (P&lt;0.001). In contrast, UBB(+1) immunoreactivity was only transiently detected from 30 min to 1 day post-ischemia in CA3, dentate gyrus, and frontal cortex, but disappeared at day 2 post-ischemia. No TUNEL-positive cells were observed in these three regions. UBB(+1) mRNA was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in every region of the hippocampus and frontal cortex of ischemic gerbils and even in the non-ischemic control animals, and its expression level was independent of brain region and time after ischemia. Our results indicate induction and selective accumulation of UBB(+1) protein in dying neurons of the CA1 region and suggest that UBB(+1) expression may be induced by proteasomal dysfunction after transient global ischemia.
To determine effects of APOE epsilon4 (epsilon4) on cognitive performance of healthy elderly, 116 nondemented elders (mean age 81 years) were cognitive tested. The established tests Faces, Family Pictures, Spatial Span Forward and Backward, and the object recognition and spatial navigation tests developed in our laboratory were used as cognitive tests. Salivary samples were collected to determine APOE genotype and salivary testosterone and cortisol levels. Non-epsilon4- and epsilon4-carrying men and women did not differ in age, Mini-Mental State Examination, Wide Range Achievement Test-Reading, Beck Anxiety Inventory, or reaction time scores. There was an effect of epsilon4 on the object recognition and spatial navigation tests, with non-epsilon4 carriers outperforming epsilon4 carriers, but not in the other cognitive tests. No relationship was found for sex and epsilon4 status or sex and performance during the hidden session of Memory Island. In men, salivary cortisol levels correlated with object recognition. These results show that object recognition and spatial navigation tests are useful to assess cognitive function in the elderly.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and the expression of their different splice variants and subunits were previously characterized in the brain and spinal cord. However, knowledge on the NMDA receptor expression and function in the enteric nervous system is limited. Previous work suggested that NMDA receptors were involved in a rat model of visceral hypersensitivity. The aim of this study was to characterize the expression of the NMDA receptor NR1 splice variants and the NR2 subunit subtypes in the rat colon. We visualized the expression of NR1 protein in the rat submucosal and myenteric plexuses. The NR1 splice variants found in the colon of rats lacked the N1 and C1 cassettes and contained the C2 and C2' cassettes (NR1(000) and NR1(001)). The NR2B and NR2D subunits were also found in the rat colon. Moreover, NMDA receptors in the rat colon were heteromeric, since NR1 was co-localized with NR2B and NR2D subunits using fluorescent immunohistochemistry. The identification of the NMDA receptors in the enteric nervous system could lead to the development of drugs that selectively modulate bowel function.
Neurotransmitters released by myenteric neurons regulate movements of intestinal smooth muscles. There has been little pharmacological evidence for a role of purinergic mechanisms in the non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic (NANC) relaxation of the human large intestine. We used P(2) purinoceptor antagonists to assess whether such receptors are involved in the NANC relaxation of the circular muscle of the human sigmoid colon. It was also investigated whether the guanylate cyclase enzyme mediates the NANC response. Human colonic circular strips were tested in organ bath experiments with isotonic recording. NANC, non-nitrergic relaxations induced by electrical field stimulation (1 and 10 Hz, in the presence of atropine, guanethidine, and 100 microM N(G)-nitro-L-arginine [L-NOARG]) were strongly inhibited by a combination of the P(2) purinoceptor antagonists pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-sulfonic acid (PPADS) (50 microM) and suramin (100 microM). PPADS plus suramin was ineffective in the absence of L-NOARG. L-NOARG alone significantly reduced the NANC relaxation to electrical stimulation. PPADS plus suramin strongly inhibited the relaxation in response to exogenous alpha,beta-methylene ATP. The guanylate cyclase inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) (3 microM) inhibited the NANC relaxation, but did not add to its reduction by L-NOARG. L-NOARG was still slightly effective in the presence of ODQ. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide tachyphylaxis failed to influence the non-nitrergic NANC relaxation. It is concluded that nitric oxide (NO) and ATP co-mediate, in a non-additive manner, the NANC relaxation. NO probably acts through the guanylate cyclase, though a small fraction of its effect might be mediated by other mechanisms. Activators of the guanylate cyclase other than NO do not seem to participate in the NANC relaxation.
Recent renewed interest in the study of rhythmic behaviors and pattern-generating circuits has been inspired by the currently well-established role of oscillating neuronal networks in all aspects of the function of our nervous system: from sensory integration to central processing, and of course motor control. An integrative rather than reductionist approach in the study of pattern-generating circuits is in accordance with current developments. The lamprey spinal cord, a relatively simple and much-studied preparation, is a useful model for such a study. It is an example of a chain of coupled oscillatory units that is characterized by its ability to demonstrate robust coordinated rhythmic output when isolated in vitro. The preparation allows maximum control over the chemical (neuromodulators and hormones) as well as neuronal environment (sensory and descending inputs) of the single oscillatory unit: the pattern-generating circuit. The current study made use of recently developed tools for nonlinear analysis of time-series, specifically neurophysiological signals. These tools allow us to reveal and characterize biological-functional complexity and information capacity of the neuronal output recorded from the lamprey model network. We focused on the importance of different types of inputs to an oscillatory network and their effect on the network's functional output. We show that the basic circuit, when isolated from short- and long-range neuronal inputs, demonstrates its full potential of information capacity: maximal variation quantities and elevated functional complexity. Morphological and functional constraints result in the network exhibiting only a limited range of the above. This constitutes an important substrate for plasticity in neuronal network function.
Riluzole, an anti-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis drug, known to decrease presynaptic glutamate release, is viewed as a candidate supplementary medication for epilepsy. In the present study, we compared the effects of riluzole and valproate (VPA) in the pilocarpine-induced limbic seizure model and in the gamma-hydroxybutyrate lactone (GBL)-induced absence seizure model. We applied immunohistochemical study for vesicular transporter 1 (VGLUT1) and extracellular recording in the rat dentate gyrus of both pilocarpine- and GBL-induced seizure models to measure effects of riluzole and VPA. Both VPA and riluzole treatments reduced VGLUT1 immunoreactivity. Riluzole treatment completely inhibited pre-ictal spikes and spike-wave discharges in the pilocarpine- and GBL-induced epilepsy models, whereas VPA partially inhibited these phenomena. In both seizure models, the anti-epileptic effects of VPA and riluzole are basically related to anti-glutamatergic (reducing field excitatory postsynaptic potential slope and excitability ratio), not GABAergic (paired-pulse inhibition) effect. Riluzole was more effective at reducing seizure activity in both epilepsy models than VPA. These results suggest that riluzole is a potential antiepileptic drug with activity against limbic seizure and absence seizure.
[N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxyamide] (SR 141716A), a selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) of male rats, induces penile erection. This effect is mediated by the release of glutamic acid, which in turn activates central oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection. Double immunofluorescence studies with selective antibodies against CB1 receptors, glutamic acid transporters (vesicular glutamate transporters 1 and 2 (VGlut1 and VGlut2), glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 (GAD67) and oxytocin itself, have shown that CB1 receptors in the PVN are located mainly in GABAergic terminals and fibers surrounding oxytocinergic cell bodies. As GABAergic synapses in the PVN impinge directly on oxytocinergic neurons or on excitatory glutamatergic synapses, which also impinge on oxytocinergic neurons, these results suggest that the blockade of CB1 receptors decreases GABA release in the PVN, increasing in turn glutamatergic neurotransmission to activate oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection. Autoradiography studies with [(3)H](-)-CP 55,940 show that chronic treatment with SR 141716A for 15 days twice daily (1 mg/kg i.p.) significantly increases the density of CB1 receptors in the PVN. This increase occurs concomitantly with an almost twofold increase in the pro-erectile effect of SR 141716A injected into the PVN as compared with control rats. The present findings confirm that PVN CB1 receptors, localized mainly in GABAergic synapses that control in an inhibitory fashion excitatory synapses, exert an inhibitory control on penile erection, demonstrating for the first time that chronic blockade of CB1 receptors by SR 141716A increases the density of these receptors in the PVN. This increase is related to an enhanced pro-erectile effect of SR 141716A, which is still present 3 days after the end of the chronic treatment.
Previous studies in our laboratory demonstrated a reversal of anesthetic actions on aged neurons by decreasing extracellular [Ca(2+)] in hippocampal slices. Such maneuver indirectly attenuated Ca(2+) influx, hence decreased exogenous intraneuronal Ca(2+) loads during neuronal activity and consequently improved intracellular Ca(2+) concentration homeostasis. Therefore, in the present study we hypothesized that decreasing exogenous Ca(2+) loads by blocking voltage-gated calcium influx in aged neurons would oppose isoflurane actions. Conversely, increasing endogenous Ca(2+) loads by suppressing calcium efflux during forced reversal of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger function would enhance anesthetic effects. Hippocampal slices were prepared from young (2-4 months) and old (24-26 months) Fischer 344 rats. Isoflurane depressed the evoked dendritic field excitatory postsynaptic potentials by approximately 45% in slices taken from old animals. However, application of isoflurane in addition with CoCl(2) or nifedipine opposed the anesthetic actions, which then depressed the evoked dendritic field postsynaptic potentials by only 15%. Selective blockade of the N-type and P/Q-type calcium channels with omega-conotoxin GVIA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC respectively caused rapid but partial depression of synaptic transmission in slices taken from old Fischer 344 rats. However, isoflurane actions in these aged slices were not affected compared with slices perfused only with normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Young and aged slices were then exposed to a low sodium perfusate that forces the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger protein into a reverse mode, thus increasing intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. Isoflurane actions under such conditions were profoundly potentiated in aged slices but were not altered in young hippocampi. The current results show that in aged central neurons, selectively blocking L-type calcium channels opposes anesthetic-induced depression of excitatory synaptic transmission. On the contrary, increasing calcium loads in aged neurons potentiates these actions.
The transcriptional factor Nrf2 has a unique role in various physiological stress conditions, but its contribution to ischemia/reperfusion injury has not been fully explored. Therefore, wildtype (WT) and Nrf2 knockout (Nrf2(-/-)) mice were subjected to 90-min occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) followed by 24-h reperfusion to elucidate Nrf2 contribution in protecting against ischemia/reperfusion injury. Infarct volume, represented as percent of hemispheric volume, was significantly (P&lt;0.05) larger in Nrf2(-/-) mice than in WT mice (30.8+/-6.1 vs. 17.0+/-5.1%). Furthermore, neurological deficit was significantly greater in the Nrf2(-/-) mice. To examine whether neuronal protection was mediated by Nrf2, neurons were treated with various compounds to induce excitotoxic or oxidative stress. Translocation of Nrf2 into the nucleus was increased by the free-radical donor tert-butylhydroperoxide, but not by glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA). In addition, a common Nrf2 inducer, tert-butylhydroquinone, significantly attenuated neuronal cell death induced by tert-butylhydroperoxide (83.6+/-1.6 vs. 62.0+/-7.7%) but not as substantially when excitotoxicity was induced by NMDA (91.9+/-1.6 vs. 79.3+/-3.3%) or glutamate (87.8+/-1.5 vs. 80.2+/-2.6%). The results suggest that Nrf2 reduces ischemic brain injury by protecting against oxidative stress.
Rodent models of Parkinson's disease (PD) are usually assessed using measures of akinesia, but other important parkinsonian symptoms such as rigidity are only rarely quantified. This is in part due to technical difficulties in obtaining such measures in small animals. In the present study we developed quantitative methods to provide time-course assessment of the alternations of muscle tone of parkinsonian rats. A portable and miniature biomechanical stretching device was established to manually stretch the hindlimb of awake rats with muscle rigidity induced by dopamine D2-receptor antagonist raclopride (5 mg/kg, i.p.). From the measured angular displacement angle and reactive torque of sinusoidal stretches at five varied frequencies, viscoelastic components of the muscle tone can be derived. In addition, non-invasive multielectrode was applied to record the tonic and phasic components of the gastrocnemius muscle electromyogram (EMG). Our biomechanical measurements showed not only increase in stiffness (P&lt;0.05) but also increase in viscous components (P&lt;0.05) that matched the time course of increased amplitude of EMG activity (P&lt;0.05). There was a significant positive correlation between all of these measures and akinesia, as measured by the conventional bar-test for catalepsy (with a correlation coefficient of 0.87 at stiffness, 0.92 at viscosity and 0.96 at amplitude of EMG). Phasic contraction counts (PCC) of voluntary EMG exhibited a significantly negative correlation with the bar test scores (correlation coefficient=-0.78). These results confirm that akinesia induced by D2-receptor blockade also induces a rigidity that shares many features with human PD. These novel techniques for quantifying biomechanical and electromyographic parameters provide objective assessment methods for investigating the time-course changes of abnormal muscle tone in rat models of PD that will be useful for evaluating novel treatments.
It is well known that the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) sends serotonergic and nonserotonergic projections to target regions in the brain stem and forebrain, including the vestibular nuclei. Although retrograde tracing studies have reported consistently that there are differences in the relative innervation of different target regions by serotonergic and nonserotonergic DRN neurons, the relative termination patterns of these two projections have not been compared using anterograde tracing methods. The object of the present investigation was to trace anterogradely the individual serotonergic and nonserotonergic components of the projection from DRN to the vestibular nuclei in rats. To trace nonserotonergic DRN projections, animals were pretreated with the serotonergic neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), and then, after 7 days, the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was iontophoretically injected into the DRN. In animals treated with 5,7-DHT, nonserotonergic BDA-labeled fibers were found to descend exclusively within the ventricular plexus and to terminate predominantly within the periventricular aspect of the vestibular nuclei. Serotonergic DRN projections were traced by injecting 5,7-DHT directly into DRN, and amino-cupric-silver staining was used to visualize the resulting pattern of terminal degeneration. Eighteen hours after microinjection of 5,7-DHT into the DRN, fine-caliber degenerating serotonergic terminals were found within the region of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) that borders the fourth ventricle, and a mixture of fine- and heavier-caliber degenerating serotonergic terminals was located further laterally within the vestibular nuclear complex. These findings indicate that fine-caliber projections from serotonergic and nonserotonergic DRN neurons primarily innervate the periventricular regions of MVN, whereas heavier-caliber projections from serotonergic DRN neurons innervate terminal fields located in more lateral regions of the vestibular nuclei. Thus, serotonergic and nonserotonergic DRN axons target distinct but partially overlapping terminal fields within the vestibular nuclear complex, raising the possibility that these two DRN projection systems are organized in a manner that permits regionally-specialized regulation of processing within the vestibular nuclei.
Neuronal death leading to gross brain atrophy is commonly seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Yet, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the pathogenesis of AD involves early and more discrete synaptic changes in affected brain areas. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie such synaptic dysfunction remain largely unknown. Recently, we have identified dynamin 1, a protein that plays a critical role in synaptic vesicle endocytosis, and hence, in the signaling properties of the synapse, as a potential molecular determinant of such dysfunction in AD. In the present study, we analyzed beta-amyloid (Abeta)-induced changes in synaptic vesicle recycling in rat cultured hippocampal neurons. Our results showed that Abeta, the main component of senile plaques, caused ultrastructural changes indicative of impaired synaptic vesicle endocytosis in cultured hippocampal neurons that have been stimulated by depolarization with high potassium. In addition, Abeta led to the accumulation of amphiphysin in membrane fractions from stimulated hippocampal neurons. Moreover, experiments using FM1-43 showed reduced dye uptake in stimulated hippocampal neurons treated with Abeta when compared with untreated stimulated controls. Similar results were obtained using a dynamin 1 inhibitory peptide suggesting that dynamin 1 depletion caused deficiency in synaptic vesicle recycling not only in Drosophila but also in mammalian neurons. Collectively, these results showed that Abeta caused a disruption of synaptic vesicle endocytosis in cultured hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, we provided evidence suggesting that Abeta-induced dynamin 1 depletion might play an important role in this process.
The motor deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD) have been primarily associated with internally guided (IG), but not externally guided (EG), tasks. This study investigated the functional mechanisms underlying this phenomenon using genetically-matched twins. Functional magnetic resonance images were obtained from a monozygotic twin pair discordant for clinical PD. Single-photon emission computed tomography neuroimaging using [(123)I](-)-2-beta-carboxymethoxy-3-beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane confirmed their disease-discordant status by demonstrating a severe loss of transporter binding in the PD-twin, whereas the non-PD-twin was normal. Six runs of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data were acquired from each twin performing EG and IG right-hand finger sequential tasks. The percentage of voxels activated in each of several regions of interest (ROI) was calculated. Multiple analysis of variance was used to compare each twin's activity in ROIs constituting the striato-thalamo-cortical motor circuits [basal ganglia (BG)-cortical circuitry, but including the globus pallidus/putamen, thalamus, supplementary motor area, and primary motor cortex] and cerebello-thalamo-cortical circuits (cerebellar-cortical circuitry, including the cerebellum, thalamus, somatosensory cortex, and lateral premotor cortex). During the EG task, there were no significant differences between the twins in bilateral BG-cortical pathways, either basally or after levodopa, whereas the PD-twin had relatively increased activity in the cerebellar-cortical pathways basally that was normalized by levodopa. During the IG task, the PD-twin had less activation than the non-PD-twin in ROIs of the bilateral BG-cortical and cerebellar-cortical pathways. Levodopa normalized the hypoactivation in the contralateral BG-cortical pathway, but &quot;over-corrected&quot; the activation in the ipsilateral BG-cortical and bilateral cerebellar-cortical pathways. In this first fMRI study of twins discordant for PD, the data support the hypothesis that BG-cortical and cerebellar-cortical pathways are task-specifically influenced by PD. The levodopa-induced &quot;over-activation&quot; of BG-cortical and cerebellar-cortical pathways, and its relevance to both compensatory changes in PD and the long-term effects of levodopa in PD, merit further exploration.
Memory consolidation involves a sequence of temporally defined and highly regulated changes in the activation state of several signaling pathways that leads to the lasting storage of an initially labile trace. Despite appearances, consolidation does not make memories permanent. It is now known that upon retrieval well-consolidated memories can become again vulnerable to the action of amnesic agents and in order to persist must undergo a protein synthesis-dependent process named reconsolidation. Experiments with genetically modified animals suggest that some PKC isoforms are important for spatial memory and earlier studies indicate that several PKC substrates are activated following spatial learning. Nevertheless, none of the reports published so far analyzed pharmacologically the role played by PKC during spatial memory processing. Using the conventional PKC and PKCmu inhibitor 12-(2-cyanoethyl)-6,7,12,13-tetrahydro-13-methyl-5-oxo-5H-indolo[2,3-a]pyrrollo[3,4-c]carbazole (G6976) we found that the activity of these kinases is required in the CA1 region of the rat dorsal hippocampus for acquisition and consolidation of spatial memory in the Morris water maze learning task. Our results also show that when infused into dorsal CA1 after non-reinforced retrieval, G6976 produces a long-lasting amnesia that is independent of the strength of the memory trace, suggesting that post-retrieval activation of hippocampal PKC is essential for persistence of spatial memory.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the presence of senile plaques in the brain, composed mainly of aggregated amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta), which plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and is a potential target for therapeutic intervention. Amyloid plaques occur in an increasing number of brain structures during the progression of the disease, with a heavy load in regions of the temporal cortex in the early phases. Here, we investigated the cognitive deficits specifically associated with amyloid pathology in the entorhinal cortex. The amyloid peptide Abeta(1-42) was injected bilaterally into the entorhinal cortex of rats and behavioral performance was assessed between 10 and 17 days after injection. We found that parameters of motor behavior in an open-field as well as spatial working memory tested in an alternation task were normal. In contrast, compared with naive rats or control rats injected with saline, rats injected with Abeta(1-42) showed impaired recognition memory in an object recognition task and delayed acquisition in a spatial reference memory task in a water-maze, despite improved performance with training in this task and normal spatial memory in a probe test given 24 h after training. This profile of behavioral deficits after injection of Abeta(1-42) into the entorhinal cortex was similar to that observed in another group of rats injected with the excitotoxic drug, N-methyl-d-aspartate. Immunohistochemical analysis after behavioral testing revealed that Abeta(1-42) injection induced a reactive astroglial response and plaque-like deposits in the entorhinal cortex. These results show that experimentally-induced amyloid pathology in the entorhinal cortex induces selective cognitive deficits, resembling those observed in early phases of Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, injection of protofibrillar-fibrillar Abeta(1-42) into the entorhinal cortex constitutes a promising animal model for investigating selective aspects of Alzheimer's disease and for screening drug candidates designed against Abeta pathology.
Similar to kappa-opioids, nociceptin/orphanin FQ (OFQ) exerts anti-mu-opioid actions. This may involve interactions within the circuitry controlling 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) that project to the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). To test this hypothesis, we compared the effects of OFQ and kappa-opioids on 5-HT efflux in the CNS of freely behaving rats. First, OFQ (30-300 microM) infused into the DRN for 120 min dose-dependently decreased 5-HT efflux in the DRN. The opioid receptor-like 1 (ORL-1) antagonist [Nphe(1)]nociceptin(1-13)NH(2) blocked this effect. Using dual-probe microdialysis we observed that OFQ (300 microM) infused into the DRN for 120 min produced parallel decreases in 5-HT efflux in the DRN and NAcc, suggesting that ORL-1 receptors in the DRN inhibit serotonergic neurons projecting to the NAcc. Also, 5-HT efflux in the NAcc was dose-dependently decreased during OFQ (30-300 microM) infusion into the NAcc. This suggests that OFQ can reduce 5-HT efflux in the NAcc both by inhibiting serotonergic neurons in the DRN and by stimulating ORL-1 receptors in the NAcc. Similar to OFQ, the kappa-opioids U-50,488 (300 microM) and dynorphin A(1-13) (300 microM) infused into the DRN for 120 min decreased 5-HT efflux in the DRN. This effect was blocked only by the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist nor-BNI. Lastly, we compared the ability of OFQ and U-50,488 to block mu-opioid-induced increases in 5-HT. The kappa-opioid U-50,488 (1000 microM) attenuated the increase in 5-HT induced by the mu-opioid agonist endomorphin-1 (300 microM) in the DRN. In contrast, OFQ (300-1000 microM) did not alter mu-opioid-induced increases in 5-HT efflux. In summary, kappa-opioids and OFQ both decreased 5-HT efflux in the CNS. However, in contrast to kappa-opioids, which reversed mu-opioid-induced increases in 5-HT efflux, the anti-mu-opioid effects of OFQ apparently do not involve changes in 5-HT transmission under our experimental conditions.
A thorough history and physical examination are fundamental to the assessment of patients with brachial and pelvic plexus tumors. Typical of most peripheral nerve tumors, the presenting symptoms and signs are few, and if present, can be subtle. Presenting complaints may include a palpable mass lesion, either symptomatic or asymptomatic; sensory alterations; pain; motor deficits; visceral symptoms; or autonomic dysfunction. Motor deficits are usually a late feature in the pathogenesis of this lesion, and a progressive course of pain and significant sensory and motor deficits suggests a malignant pathological process. A detailed family history may reveal familial syndromes and neurocutaneous disorders that predispose the patient to neoplasia, such as neurofibromatosis. The physical examination should be conducted in a systematic fashion, looking for any cutaneous features and motor and sensory deficits. The mass should also be examined for form, consistency, and mobility. An irregular, firm, and immobile mass suggests a malignant lesion. Complete and accurate clinical information must be gathered to pinpoint the anatomical localization of the lesion and formulate a differential diagnosis.
Discovery that the Schwann cell is the primary cell type responsible for both the neurofibroma as well as the schwannoma has proven to represent a crucial milestone in understanding the pathogenesis of peripheral nerve tumor development. This information and related findings have served as a nidus for research aimed at more fully characterizing this family of conditions. Recent discoveries in the laboratory have clarified an understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of benign peripheral nerve tumors. Similarly, the mechanisms whereby idiopathic and syndromic (NF1- and NF2-associated) nerve sheath tumors progress to malignancy are being elucidated. This detailed understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of peripheral nerve tumors provides the information necessary to create a new generation of therapies tailored specifically to the prevention, cessation, or reversal of pathological conditions at the fundamental level of dysfunction. The authors review the data that have helped to elucidate the molecular pathogenesis of this category of conditions, explore the current progress toward exploitation of these findings, and discuss potential therapeutic avenues for future research.


Preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that anxiolytic effects are observed after chronic administration of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. In contrast, acute treatment may increase signs of anxiety. The present study examined the effects of acute and chronic administration of fluoxetine on a physiological measure of anxiety, stress-induced hyperthermia, in rats and mice using radiotelemetry to record core temperature and locomotor activity and ethologically relevant stressors to evoke the hyperthermic response. In both species, the benzodiazepine agonist chlordiazepoxide reduced stress-induced hyperthermia at doses (5 mg/kg i.p. rat, 10 mg/kg p.o. mouse) that had no significant effect on locomotor activity. Similarly, in both species, chronic (21 days) treatment with fluoxetine attenuated the hyperthermic response without significantly affecting locomotor activity. However, acute fluoxetine elicited species-specific effects. Thus in mice, stress-induced hyperthermia and activity were unaffected by fluoxetine (20 mg/kg p.o.) consistent with a lack of anxiolytic or anxiogenic activity. In contrast, in rats, fluoxetine (10 mg/kg i.p.) caused a significant baseline hypothermia in the absence of stress, confounding further interpretation. In conclusion, stress-induced hyperthermia in mice was unaffected by acute treatment and significantly reduced by chronic treatment with fluoxetine. However, in rats chronic administration of fluoxetine significantly reduced stress-induced hyperthermia while the effects of acute treatment were confounded by a decrease in body temperature in the absence of stress. Together, these observations support the view that chronic administration of fluoxetine is anxiolytic; however, the stress-induced hyperthermia assay does not reveal anxiogenic effects of acute administration of fluoxetine in rats or mice.
Cannabis is the most commonly used illegal drug of abuse in Western society. Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, the psychoactive ingredient of marijuana, regulates a variety of neuronal processes including neurotransmitter release and synaptic transmission. An increasing body of evidence suggests that cannabinoids play a key role in the regulation of neuronal viability. In cortical neurons tetrahydrocannabinol has a neurodegenerative effect, the mechanisms of which are poorly understood, but involve the cannabinoid receptor subtype, CB(1). In this study we report that tetrahydrocannabinol (5 muM) evokes a rapid phosphorylation, and thus activation, of the tumour suppressor protein, p53, in a manner involving the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor, and the stress-activated protein kinase, c-jun N-terminal kinase, in cultured cortical neurons. Tetrahydrocannabinol increased expression of the p53-transcriptional target, Bax and promoted Bcl phosphorylation. These events were abolished by the p53 inhibitor, pifithrin-alpha (100 nM). The tetrahydrocannabinol-induced activation of the pro-apoptotic cysteine protease, caspase-3, and DNA fragmentation was also blocked by pifithrin-alpha. A siRNA knockdown of p53 further verified the role of p53 in tetrahydrocannabinol-induced apoptosis. This study demonstrates a novel cannabinoid signalling pathway involving p53 that culminates in neuronal apoptosis.
Computational neurobiology was born over half a century ago, and has since been consistently at the forefront of modelling in biology. The recent progress of computing power and distributed computing allows the building of models spanning several scales, from the synapse to the brain. Initially focused on electrical processes, the simulation of neuronal function now encompasses signalling pathways and ion diffusion. The flow of quantitative data generated by the &quot;omics&quot; approaches, alongside the progress of live imaging, allows the development of models that will also include gene regulatory networks, protein movements and cellular remodelling. A systems biology of brain functions and disorders can now be envisioned. As it did for the last half century, neuroscience can drive forward the field of systems biology.

Much data suggests that hippocampal-medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) interactions support memory consolidation. This process is thought to involve the gradual transfer of transient hippocampal-dependent memories to distributed neocortical sites for long-term storage. However, hippocampal projections to the neocortex involve a multisynaptic pathway that sequentially progresses through the entorhinal and perirhinal regions before reaching the neocortex. Similarly, the mPFC influences the hippocampus via the rhinal cortices, suggesting that the rhinal cortices occupy a strategic position in this network. The present study thus tested the idea that the mPFC supports memory by facilitating the transfer of hippocampal activity to the neocortex via an enhancement of entorhinal to perirhinal communication. To this end, we simultaneously recorded mPFC, perirhinal, and entorhinal neurons during the acquisition of a trace-conditioning task in which a visual conditioned stimulus (CS) was followed by a delay period after which a liquid reward was administered. At learning onset, correlated perirhinal-entorhinal firing increased in relation to mPFC activity, but with no preferential directionality, and only after reward delivery. However, as learning progressed across days, mPFC activity gradually enhanced rhinal correlations in relation to the CS as well, and did so in a specific direction: from entorhinal to perirhinal neurons. This suggests that, at late stages of learning, mPFC activity facilitates entorhinal to perirhinal communication. Because this connection is a necessary step for the transfer of hippocampal activity to the neocortex, our results suggest that the mPFC is involved in the slow iterative process supporting the integration of hippocampal-dependent memories into neocortical networks.
Plateau potentials can be elicited in nigral GABAergic neurons by injection of 500 ms depolarizing current pulses from hyperpolarized holding potentials in whole-cell recordings in vitro. In approximately one-third of these neurons, plateau potentials were observed under control conditions and could be elicited in the remaining neurons after blocking potassium conductances. Application of the L-type calcium channel agonist Bay K 8644 or activation of NMDA receptors enhanced plateau potentials observed under control conditions and caused a plateau to be elicited in neurons not exhibiting it previously. The plateau potential was abolished in calcium-free buffer, as well as by nickel or cadmium. The L-type calcium channel blockers nimodipine and nifedipine abolished the plateau potential observed under control conditions but did not affect plateaus unmasked by tetraethylammonium. Plateau potentials observed under control conditions as well as those observed in the presence of Bay K 8644, NMDA, or tetraethylammonium were abolished in low-sodium buffer and by the calcium-activated nonselective cation conductance blocker flufenamic acid. These data suggest that nigral plateau potentials are mediated by a calcium-activated nonselective cation conductance (I(CAN)) that is activated by calcium entry predominantly through L-type calcium channels. In many nigral neurons, I(CAN) is masked by tetraethylammonium-sensitive potassium conductances, but plateaus can be evoked after increasing calcium conductances. The I(CAN)-mediated plateau potential in nigral GABAergic neurons likely affects the way these neurons integrate input and may represent a mechanism contributing to the rhythmic firing of these neurons seen in pathological conditions such as Parkinson's disease.
Left-right alternation depends on activity in commissural interneurons (CINs) that have axons crossing in the midline. In this study, we investigate the CIN connectivity to local motor neurons using a newly developed preparation of the in vitro neonatal mouse spinal cord that allows us to identify all classes of CINs. Nineteen of 29 short-range CINs with axonal projections &lt;1.5 segments (sCINs) directly excited, directly inhibited, or indirectly inhibited contralateral motor neurons in the quiescent spinal cord. Excitation was glutamatergic and inhibition was mixed glycinergic and/or GABAergic. Long-range CINs were also found to have input to local, contralateral motor neurons. Thirteen of 29 descending CINs had similar synaptic connectivity to contralateral motor neurons as the sCINs, including direct excitation and direct and indirect inhibition. Some (9 of 23) rostrally projecting ascending CINs, and a few (2 of 10) CINs with bifurcating axons that both ascend and descend, indirectly inhibited local, contralateral motor neurons. Rhythmic firing during locomotor-like activity was observed in a number of CINs with segmental synaptic effects on contralateral motor neurons. This study outlines the basic connectivity pattern of CINs in the mouse spinal cord on a segmental level. Our study suggests that, based on observed synaptic connectivity, both short- and long-range CINs are likely involved in segmental left-right coordination and that the CIN system is organized into a dual-inhibitory and single-excitatory system. These systems are organized in a way that they could provide appropriate coordination during locomotion.
In the mammalian brain, astrocytes modulate neuronal function, in part, by synchronizing neuronal firing and coordinating synaptic networks. Little, however, is known about how this is accomplished from a structural standpoint. To investigate the structural basis of astrocyte-mediated neuronal synchrony and synaptic coordination, the three-dimensional relationships between cortical astrocytes and neurons was investigated. Using a transgenic and viral approach to label astrocytes with enhanced green fluorescent protein, we performed a three-dimensional reconstruction of astrocytes from tissue sections or live animals in vivo. We found that cortical astrocytes occupy nonoverlapping territories similar to those described in the hippocampus. Using immunofluorescence labeling of neuronal somata, a single astrocyte enwraps on average four neuronal somata with an upper limit of eight. Single-neuron dye-fills allowed us to estimate that one astrocyte contacts 300-600 neuronal dendrites. Together with the recent findings showing that glial Ca2+ signaling is restricted to individual astrocytes in vivo, and that Ca2+ signaling leads to gliotransmission, we propose the concept of functional islands of synapses in which groups of synapses confined within the boundaries of an individual astrocyte are modulated by the gliotransmitter environment controlled by that astrocyte. Our description offers a new structurally based conceptual framework to evaluate functional data involving interactions between neurons and astrocytes in the mammalian brain.
Lack of axon regeneration in the adult CNS has been attributed partly to myelin inhibitors and the properties of astrocytes. After spinal cord injury, proliferating astrocytes not only represent a physical barrier to regenerating axons but also express and secrete molecules that inhibit nerve growth, including chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activation triggers astrocytes into becoming reactive astrocytes, and EGFR ligands stimulate the secretion of CSPGs as well as the formation of cribriform astrocyte arrangements that contribute to the formation of glial scars. Recently, it was shown that EGFR inhibitors promote nerve regeneration in vitro and in vivo. Blocking a novel Nogo receptor interacting mechanism and/or effects of EGFR inhibition on astrocytes may underlie these effects. Here we show that rats subjected to weight-drop spinal cord injury can be effectively treated by direct delivery of a potent EGFR inhibitor to the injured area, leading to significantly better functional and structural outcome. Motor and sensory functions are improved and bladder function is restored. The robust effects and the fact that other EGFR inhibitors are in clinical use in cancer treatments make these drugs particularly attractive candidates for clinical trials in spinal cord injury.
As the major brain circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is known to influence the timing of sleep and waking. We thus investigated here the effect of SCN stimulation on neurons of the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO) thought to be involved in promoting sleep. Using an acute in vitro preparation of the rat anterior hypothalamus/preoptic area, we found that whereas single-pulse stimulations of the SCN evoked standard fast ionotropic IPSPs and EPSPs, train stimulations unexpectedly evoked a long-lasting inhibition (LLI). Such LLIs could also be evoked in VLPO neurons by pressure application of NMDA within the SCN, indicating the specific activation of SCN neurons. This LLI was shown to result from the presynaptic facilitation of noradrenaline release, because it was suppressed in presence of yohimbine, a selective antagonist of alpha2-adrenoreceptors. The LLI depended on the opening of a potassium conductance, because it was annulled at E(K) and could be reversed below E(K). These results show that the SCN can provide an LLI of the sleep-promoting VLPO neurons that could play a role in the circadian organization of the sleep-waking cycle.
The CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR-141716A (Rimonabant) markedly diminishes the behavioral effects of opiates and nicotine and has been an important tool to ascertain the role of cannabinoid receptors in drug addiction. The present goal was to determine the less-explored interaction of SR-141716A and d-amphetamine in neurochemical and behavioral assays. Additionally, the effect of the substituents and substitution patterns on the phenyl ring located at the 5 position of SR-141716A (4-chlorophenyl), and of the CB(1)/CB(2) cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN-55,212-2, was determined. SR-141716A, AM-251 (4-iodophenyl) and NIDA-41020 (4-methoxyphenyl) did not alter amphetamine-evoked [(3)H]overflow from rat striatal slices preloaded with [(3)H]dopamine. MRI-8273-30-1 (4-fluorophenyl; 0.1-10 microM) attenuated amphetamine (3 microM)-evoked [(3)H]overflow, and MRI-8273-59 (3,4-dichlorphenyl; 0.01-10 microM) augmented amphetamine (0.3-3 microM)-evoked [(3)H]overflow. WIN-55,212-2 was without effect. In a locomotor activity experiment, SR-141716A and MRI-8273-30-1 did not alter amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. However, MRI-8273-59 (1-3 mg/kg) dose-dependently attenuated amphetamine (1 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity. The present results suggest that SR-141716A is less efficacious to alter amphetamine effects than its reported efficacy to diminish the effects of opiates and nicotine. Modification of the 5-phenyl position of SR-141716A affords compounds that do interact with amphetamine in vitro and in vivo.
GluR2, a major subunit in AMPA receptor, plays an important role in brain functional activity. We studied the effect of music exposure during development on the expression level of GluR2 proteins in the auditory cortex (AC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) of SD rats. Rats were divided into three groups, Music1 (exposed to Nostalgy) group, Music2 (exposed to Wishmaster) group, and control (no music exposure) group. For music exposure groups, rats were exposed to music from postnatal day (PND) 14, and the expression levels of GluR2 proteins were determined at PND 28, 42 and 56. For the control group, the expression levels of GluR2 proteins were determined at PND1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 14, 21, 28, 42, and 56. Results showed an age-dependent expression of GluR2 proteins in control rats. In AC, exposure to Music2 dramatically increased the expression of GluR2, while exposure to Music1 had no effect. In ACC, we found remarkable discrepancies in time-dependent expression of GluR2 between music exposed rats and control rats. These results indicate that exposure to music can modify the expression level of GluR2 protein in AC and ACC.
Amyotropic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal and progressive neurodegenerative disease causing the loss of motoneurons of the brain and the spinal cord. The etiology of ALS is still uncertain, but males are at increased risk for the disease than females. Several studies have suggested that motoneurons in ALS might be subjected to the double insult of increased DNA oxidative damage and deficiencies in DNA repair systems. Particularly, increased levels of 8-oxoguanine and impairments of the DNA base excision repair system have been observed in neurons of ALS patients. There is evidence that the Ser326Cys polymorphism of the human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (hOGG1) gene is associated with a reduced DNA repair activity. To evaluate the role of the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism in sporadic ALS (sALS), we screened 136 patients and 129 matched controls. In the total population, we observed association between both the Cys326 allele (p=0.02) and the combined Ser326Cys+Cys326Cys genotype (OR=1.65, 95% CI=1.06-2.88) and increased risk of disease. After stratification by gender, the Cys326 allele (p=0.01), both the Ser326Cys genotype (OR=2.14, 95% CI=1.09-4.19) and the combined Ser326Cys+Cys326Cys genotype (OR=2.15, 95% CI=1.16-4.01) were associated with sALS risk only in males. No significant association between the Ser326Cys polymorphism and disease phenotype, including age and site of onset and disease progression, was observed. Present results suggest a possible involvement of the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism in sALS pathogenesis.
The R7 family of RGS proteins (RGS6, -7, -9, -11) is characterized by the presence of three domains: DEP, GGL, and RGS. The RGS domain interacts with Galpha subunits and exhibits GAP activity. The GGL domain permanently associates with Gbeta5. The DEP domain interacts with the membrane anchoring protein, R7BP. Here we provide evidence for a novel interaction within this complex: between the DEP domain and Gbeta5. GST fusion of the RGS7 DEP domain (GST-R7DEP) binds to both native and recombinant Gbeta5-RGS7, recombinant Gbetagamma complexes, and monomeric Gbeta5 and Gbeta1 subunits. Co-immunoprecipitation and FRET assays supported the GST pull-down experiments. GST-R7DEP reduced FRET between CFP-Gbeta5 and YFP-RGS7, indicating that the DEP-Gbeta5 interaction is dynamic. In transfected cells, R7BP had no effect on the Gbeta5/RGS7 pull down by GST-R7DEP. The DEP domain of RGS9 did not bind to Gbeta5. Substitution of RGS7 Glu-73 and Asp-74 for the corresponding Ser and Gly residues (ED/SG mutation) of RGS9 diminished the DEP-Gbeta5 interaction. In the absence of R7BP both the wild-type RGS7 and the ED/SG mutant attenuated muscarinic M3 receptor-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. In the presence of R7BP, wild-type RGS7 lost this inhibitory activity, whereas the ED/SG mutant remained active. Taken together, our results are consistent with the following model. The Gbeta5-RGS7 molecule can exist in two conformations: &quot;closed&quot; and &quot;open&quot;, when the DEP domain and Gbeta5 subunit either do or do not interact. The closed conformation appears to be less active with respect to its effect on Gq-mediated signaling than the open conformation.
Romantic and maternal love are highly rewarding experiences. Both are linked to the perpetuation of the species and therefore have a closely linked biological function of crucial evolutionary importance. The newly developed ability to study the neural correlates of subjective mental states with brain imaging techniques has allowed neurobiologists to learn something about the neural bases of both romantic and maternal love. Both types of attachment activate regions specific to each, as well as overlapping regions in the brain's reward system that coincide with areas rich in oxytocin and vasopressin receptors. Both deactivate a common set of regions associated with negative emotions, social judgment and 'mentalizing' that is, the assessment of other people's intentions and emotions. Human attachment seems therefore to employ a push-pull mechanism that overcomes social distance by deactivating networks used for critical social assessment and negative emotions, while it bonds individuals through the involvement of the reward circuitry, explaining the power of love to motivate and exhilarate. Yet the biological study of love, and especially romantic love, must go beyond and look for biological insights that can be derived from studying the world literature of love, and thus bring the output of the humanities into its orbit.



GABAergic dysfunction is present in the hippocampus in schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BD). The trisynaptic pathway was &quot;deconstructed&quot; into various layers of sectors CA3/2 and CA1 and gene expression profiling performed. Network association analysis was used to uncover genes that may be related to regulation of glutamate decarboxylase 67 (GAD(67)), a marker for this system that has been found by many studies to show decreased expression in SZs and BDs. The most striking change was a down-regulation of GAD(67) in the stratum oriens (SO) of CA2/3 in both groups; CA1 only showed changes in the SO of schizophrenics. The network generated for GAD(67) contained 25 genes involved in the regulation of kainate receptors, TGF-beta and Wnt signaling, as well as transcription factors involved in cell growth and differentiation. In SZs, IL-1beta, (GRIK2/3), TGF-beta2, TGF-betaR1, histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), death associated protein (DAXX), and cyclin D2 (CCND2) were all significantly up-regulated, whereas in BDs, PAX5, Runx2, LEF1, TLE1, and CCND2 were significantly down-regulated. In the SO of CA1 of BDs, where GAD67 showed no expression change, TGF-beta and Wnt signaling genes were all up-regulated, but other transcription factors showed no change in expression. In other layers/sectors, BDs showed no expression changes in these GAD(67) network genes. Overall, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that decreased expression of GAD(67) may be associated with an epigenetic mechanism in SZ. In BD, however, a suppression of transcription factors involved in cell differentiation may contribute to GABA dysfunction.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OBFc) has been suggested to code the motivational value of environmental stimuli and to use this information for the flexible guidance of goal-directed behavior. To examine whether information regarding reward prediction is quantitatively represented in the rat OBFc, neural activity was recorded during an olfactory discrimination &quot;go&quot;/&quot;no-go&quot; task in which five different odor stimuli were predictive for various amounts of reward or an aversive reinforcer. Neural correlates related to both actual and expected reward magnitude were observed. Responses related to reward expectation occurred during the execution of the behavioral response toward the reward site and within a waiting period prior to reinforcement delivery. About one-half of these neurons demonstrated differential firing toward the different reward sizes. These data provide new and strong evidence that reward expectancy, regardless of reward magnitude, is coded by neurons of the rat OBFc, and are indicative for representation of quantitative information concerning expected reward. Moreover, neural correlates of reward expectancy appear to be distributed across both motor and nonmotor phases of the task.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism are two neurodevelopmental disorders associated with prominent executive dysfunction, which may be underpinned by disruption within fronto-striatal and fronto-parietal circuits. We probed executive function in these disorders using a sustained attention task with a validated brain-behaviour basis. Twenty-three children with ADHD, 21 children with high-functioning autism (HFA) and 18 control children were tested on the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART). In a fixed sequence version of the task, children were required to withhold their response to a predictably occurring no-go target (3) in a 1-9 digit sequence; in the random version the sequence was unpredictable. The ADHD group showed clear deficits in response inhibition and sustained attention, through higher errors of commission and omission on both SART versions. The HFA group showed no sustained attention deficits, through a normal number of omission errors on both SART versions. The HFA group showed dissociation in response inhibition performance, as indexed by commission errors. On the Fixed SART, a normal number of errors was made, however when the stimuli were randomised, the HFA group made as many commission errors as the ADHD group. Greater slow-frequency variability in response time and a slowing in mean response time by the ADHD group suggested impaired arousal processes. The ADHD group showed greater fast-frequency variability in response time, indicative of impaired top-down control, relative to the HFA and control groups. These data imply involvement of fronto-parietal attentional networks and sub-cortical arousal systems in the pathology of ADHD and prefrontal cortex dysfunction in children with HFA.
The purpose of the study was to investigate simple calculation in the two cerebral hemispheres of a split-brain patient. In a series of four experiments, the left hemisphere was superior to the right in simple calculation, confirming the previously reported left hemisphere specialization for calculation. In two different recognition paradigms, right hemisphere performance was at chance for all arithmetic operations, with the exception of subtraction in a two-alternative forced choice paradigm (performance was at chance when the lure differed from the correct answer by a magnitude of 1 but above chance when the magnitude difference was 4). In a recall paradigm, the right hemisphere performed above chance for both addition and subtraction, but performed at chance levels for multiplication and division. The error patterns in that experiment suggested that for subtraction and addition, the right hemisphere does have some capacity for approximating the solution even when it is unable to generate the exact solution. Furthermore, right hemisphere accuracy in addition and subtraction was higher for problems with small operands than with large operands. An additional experiment assessed approximate and exact addition in the two hemispheres for problems with small and large operands. The left hemisphere was equally accurate in both tasks but the right hemisphere was more accurate in approximate addition than in exact addition. In exact addition, right hemisphere accuracy was higher for problems with small operands than large, but the opposite pattern was found for approximate addition.
This study aims to investigate the neural mechanism of visual perceptual learning in grating orientation discrimination. We recorded event-related potentials of human adults when they were trained with a grating orientation discrimination task. Although psychophysical thresholds decreased significantly across training sessions, event-related potentials showed larger P2 and P3 amplitudes and smaller N1 amplitudes over the parietal/occipital areas with more practice. In line with the psychophysical thresholds, the training effect on the P2 and P3 were specific to stimulus orientation. The N1 effect, however, was generalized over differently oriented gratings. Our findings show that several stages of visual processing are involved in perceptual learning and provide an illustration of the temporal relationship between specific and generalized perceptual learning in human adults.
Nicotine (from cigarette smoke) and caffeine (from coffee) have analgesic effects in humans and experimental animals. We investigated the combined effects of coffee drinking and cigarette smoking on pain experience in a group of moderate nicotine-dependent, coffee drinking, young smokers. Pain threshold and pain tolerance were measured during cold pressor test following the habitual nocturnal deprivation of smoking and coffee drinking. Smoking increased pain threshold and pain tolerance in both men and women. Coffee drinking, at a dose that had no independent effect, doubled the increase in pain threshold induced by smoking. The effect could not be explained by a cumulative raise in blood pressure. Our data suggest that caffeine enhances the analgesic effect of nicotine.
Deficits in processing of auditory stimuli are known to play an important role in the aetiology of dyslexia. To specify the auditory deficit in children at risk for dyslexia, 19 children with a phonological deficit and 15 controls were tested using the mismatch negativity event-related potential, which reflects preattentive auditory processing. Children with a phonological deficit, not yet suffering from dyslexia, had similar mismatch negativity patterns to dyslexics. The deficit was speech specific, because there were significant group differences only with syllables but not with pure tones.
This is the first systematic study of Chinese children's brain development. Using optimized voxel-based morphometry, we investigated age-related changes in gray and white matter in Chinese children and adolescents aged 7 to 23 years. Results showed mostly linear reductions, but also some linear increases, in gray matter in many regions of the brain. Gray matter changes were more evident in the parietal and temporal regions than in the frontal and occipital regions. White matter showed significant linear increases in internal capsule, arcuate fasciculus, superior and inferior longitudinal fasciculus, and cingulate fasciculus.
We investigated the feasibility of viral vector-mediated expression and axonal transport of the glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor, a potential antiepileptic agent, to the hippocampus and the piriform cortex, areas involved in the induction and spread of seizure activity. Glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor overexpression was induced by injections of recombinant vectors derived from serotype 2 adeno-associated virus or lentivirus. We found that recombinant adeno-associated viral vector was able to effectively transduce mitral cells of the olfactory bulb and pyramidal cells of CA1, resulting in transport of glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor to the piriform cortex and to the contralateral CA1 area, respectively. These data suggest that the recombinant adeno-associated viral vector vector system is an optimal alternative for therapeutic glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor gene transduction and transport of the protein to the epileptogenic brain areas.
Before we can explain why so many closely related intermediate filament genes have evolved in vertebrates, while maintaining such dramatically tissue specific expression, we need to understand their function. The best evidence for intermediate filament function comes from observing the consequences of mutation and mis-expression, primarily in human tissues. Mostly these observations suggest that intermediate filaments are important in allowing individual cells, the tissues and whole organs to cope with various types of stress, in health and disease. Exactly how they do this is unclear and many aspects of cell dysfunction have been associated with intermediate filaments to date. In particular, it is still not clear whether the non-mechanical functions now being attributed to intermediate filaments are primary functions of these structural proteins, or secondary consequences of their function to respond to mechanical stress. We discuss selected situations in which responses to stress are clearly influenced by intermediate filaments.
Tight coordination of the expression of neurofilament subunits is integral to the normal development and function of the nervous system. Imbalances in their expression are increasingly implicated in the induction of neurodegeneration in which formation of neurofilamentous aggregates is central to the pathology. Neurofilament expression can be controlled not only at the transcriptional level but also through post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA localization, stability, and translational efficiency. The critical role that post-transcriptional mechanisms play in maintaining neurofilament homeostasis is highlighted, for example, by the human disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in which selective destabilization of NF-L mRNA (or failure to stabilize it) is associated with the formation of neurofilamentous aggregates - a hallmark of the disease process. This review discusses the post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms and associated ribonucleoproteins that have been implicated to date in controlling neurofilament expression during normal development and in disrupting neurofilament homeostasis during neurodegenerative disease.
Dehydration (DE)-anorexia is stimulated by chronic consumption of hypertonic saline. Spontaneous nocturnal food intake is markedly reduced with this treatment but is rapidly reversed upon the return of drinking water. Here we examined the neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) of chronically dehydrated rats for their peptidergic phenotype, colocalization, and activation profiles following the rapid reversal of anorexia. To do this, we used double-labeling combinations of Fos immunocytochemistry and radioisotopic- and digoxigenin-labeled in situ hybridization. We found that lateral hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons show extensive coexpression with neurotensin mRNA, but they are distinct from hypocretin/orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons. Chronic dehydration increases Fos-ir in large numbers of neurons in dorsal regions of the LHA. Some of these LHA neurons also show increased CRH, but not hypocretin/orexin or MCH gene expression, as dehydration-anorexia develops. Furthermore, the behavioral sequence of eating and increased activity exhibited by DE animals in the minutes following water drinking is accompanied by a further increase in the number of Fos-ir nuclei in the LHA. Increased Fos activation occurs in a significant number of LHA hypocretin/orexin neurons, but not CRH or MCH neurons, in the LHA. Together these data implicate CRH but not hypocretin/orexin or MCH neurons in the LHA in the motor events associated with dehydration. However, when water is returned, contributions to the network controlling responses evidently come from hypocretin/orexin, but not CRH or MCH, neurons in the LHA.
A simple nervous system combined with stereotypic behavioral responses to tastants, together with powerful genetic and molecular tools, have turned Drosophila larvae into a very promising model for studying gustatory coding. Using the Gal4/UAS system and confocal microscopy for visualizing gustatory afferents, we provide a description of the primary taste center in the larval central nervous system. Essentially, gustatory receptor neurons target different areas of the subesophageal ganglion (SOG), depending on their segmental and sensory organ origin. We define two major and two smaller subregions in the SOG. One of the major areas is a target of pharyngeal sensilla, the other one receives inputs from both internal and external sensilla. In addition to such spatial organization of the taste center, circumstantial evidence suggests a subtle functional organization: aversive and attractive stimuli might be processed in the anterior and posterior part of the SOG, respectively. Our results also suggest less coexpression of gustatory receptors than proposed in prior studies. Finally, projections of putative second-order taste neurons seem to cover large areas of the SOG. These neurons may thus receive multiple gustatory inputs. This suggests broad sensitivity of secondary taste neurons, reminiscent of the situation in mammals.
The rostral portion of the ventral medial medulla (RVM) is a crucial site for the supraspinal antinociceptive actions of opioids. Previous studies have reported that serotonergic antagonists block the analgesia induced by microinjection of morphine into the RVM (Hammond and Yaksh [1984] Brain Res 298:329-337) and that spinally projecting serotonergic RVM neurons express mu-opioid receptors (MOR) (Kalyuzhny et al. [1996] J Neurosci 16:6490-6503; Wang and Wessendorf [1999] J Comp Neurol 404:183-196). In addition, axons immunoreactive for the endogenous MOR ligand endomorphin-2 (Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH2) (EM-2) have been reported to be in the RVM (Martin-Schild et al. [1999] J Comp Neurol 405:450-471; Pierce and Wessendorf [2000] J Chem Neuroanat 18:181-207). In the present study we examined the relationship of EM-2-immunoreactive (EM-2-ir) axons to serotonergic and nonserotonergic RVM neurons in rats, including neurons projecting to the dorsal spinal cord. We also examined the origins of EM-2-ir in the RVM. Using unbiased methods we estimated the total number of cells in the RVM to be 1.50 x 10(4) and of these up to 70% were retrogradely labeled from the dorsal spinal cord. EM-2-ir fibers apposed both serotonergic and nonserotonergic RVM neuronal profiles. However, serotonergic profiles were significantly more likely to be apposed than nonserotonergic profiles. Thus, although serotonergic neurons comprise a minority of RVM neurons (23% of the total RVM neurons), they appear to be selectively apposed by EM-2-ir fibers. We also found that hypothalamic EM-2-ir neurons, but not EM-2-ir neurons, in the nucleus of the solitary tract projected their axons to the RVM.
The C-terminus of Hsp70 interacting protein (CHIP) is being considered to be a cellular quality control E3 ubiquitin ligase because of its ability to degrade misfolded proteins in association with heat shock chaperones. The neuroprotective role of CHIP also has been implicated in several familial neurodegenerative diseases including polyglutamine diseases. However, the regulation of the expression of CHIP under different stress conditions and its protective role thereon is unknown. Here we have shown that the mRNA level of CHIP is significantly increased in the cells exposed to oxidative, endoplasmic reticulum and proteasomal stress. CHIP also protected from various stress-induced cell death. Finally, we have demonstrated upregulation of CHIP mRNA levels in the expanded polyglutamine protein expressing cells. Our result suggests that the upregulation of CHIP under various stress environments is an adaptive response of the cells to deal with the excess burden of misfolded protein.
Lysosomal degradation of the receptor-tyrosine kinase cMet requires receptor ubiquitination by the E3 ubiquitin ligase Cbl followed by clathrin-dependent internalization. A role for Cbl as an adaptor for cMet internalization has been previously reported. However, the requirement for Cbl ubiquitin ligase activity in this process and its mode of recruitment to cMet has yet to be determined. Cbl can directly bind cMet at phosphotyrosine 1003 or indirectly via Grb2 to phosphotyrosine 1356 in the multisubstrate binding domain of cMet. The direct binding of Cbl with cMet is critical for receptor degradation and not receptor internalization. Here we show a strict requirement for Grb2 and the ubiquitin ligase activity of Cbl for cMet endocytosis. Receptor internalization was impaired by small interfering RNA depletion of Grb2, overexpression of dominant negative Grb2 mutants, and point mutations in the cMet multisubstrate docking site that inhibits the direct association of Grb2 with cMet. The requirement for Grb2 was specific and did not involve the multiadaptor Gab1. cMet internalization was impaired in cells expressing an ubiquitin ligase-deficient Cbl mutant or conjugation-deficient ubiquitin but was unaffected in cells expressing a Cbl mutant that is unable to bind cMet directly. Expression of a Cbl-Grb2 chimera rescued impaired cMet endocytosis in cells depleted of endogenous Grb2. These results indicate that the ubiquitin ligase activity of Cbl is critical for clathrin-dependent cMet internalization and suggest a role for Grb2 as an intermediary linking Cbl ubiquitin ligase activity to this process.
Active regulation of gene expression in the nervous system plays an important role in the development and/or maintenance of inflammatory pain. MicroRNA (miRNA) negatively regulates gene expression via posttranscriptional or transcriptional inhibition of specific genes. To explore the possible involvement of miRNA in gene regulation during inflammatory pain, we injected complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) unilaterally into the rat masseter muscle and quantified changes in neuron-specific mature miRNAs in the trigeminal ganglion (TG). Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction revealed significant, but differential, downregulation of mature miR-10a, -29a, -98, -99a, -124a, -134, and -183 in the ipsilateral mandibular division (V3) of the TG within 4 hr after CFA. In contrast, levels of tested miRNAs did not change significantly in the contralateral V3 or the ipsilateral ophthalmic and maxillary divisions of the TG from inflamed rats, nor in the ipsilateral V3 of saline-injected animals. The downregulated miRNAs recovered differentially to a level equal to or higher than that in naive animals. Full recovery time varied with miRNA species but was at least 4 days. Expression and downregulation of some miRNAs were further confirmed by in situ hybridization of TG neurons that innervate the inflamed muscle. Although neurons of all sizes expressed these miRNAs, their signals varied between neurons. Our results indicate that miRNA species specific to neurons are quickly regulated following inflammatory muscle pain.
A common intronic single nucleotide polymorphism (T102C) in the 5-HT2A receptor gene is associated with the development of different neuropsychiatric symptoms, including hallucinations and depressive symptoms in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Differential 5-HT2A receptor binding has also been associated with the development of these symptoms in AD. However, the relationship between 5-HT2A (T102C) genotype and 5-HT2A receptor binding in AD and control human brains has not been examined. We examined the association between different 5-HT2A (T102C) genotypes and [(3)H] ketanserin binding in the temporal and frontal cortex of 20 AD and 14 control human brains. In homozygotes, but not heterozygotes, there was a significant reduction in B(max) values for [(3)H] ketanserin binding in both areas of cortex in AD compared with control subjects. This study suggests a mechanism for the generation of different neuropsychiatric symptoms in AD from a single nucleotide polymorphism with reduced receptor binding in T102C 5-HT2A receptor gene homozygotes correlating with susceptibility to depressive symptoms, whereas the relative preservation of receptor binding in heterozygotes with AD correlating with susceptibility to hallucinations.
Prepulse inhibition of the startle response to auditory stimulation (AS) is a measure of sensorimotor gating that is disrupted by the dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist, apomorphine. The apomorphine effect on prepulse inhibition is ascribed in part to altered synaptic transmission in the limbic-associated shell and motor-associated core subregions of the nucleus accumbens (Acb). We used electron microscopic immunolabeling of dopamine D1 receptors (D1Rs) in the Acb shell and core to test the hypothesis that region-specific redistribution of D1Rs is a short-term consequence of AS and/or apomorphine administration. Thus, comparisons were made in the Acb of rats killed 1 h after receiving a single s.c. injection of vehicle (VEH) or apomorphine (APO) alone or in combination with startle-evoking AS (VEH+AS, APO+AS). In both regions of all animals, the D1R immunoreactivity was present in somata and large, as well as small, presumably more distal dendrites and dendritic spines. In the Acb shell, compared with the VEH+AS group, the APO+AS group had more spines containing D1R immunogold particles, and these particles were more prevalent on the plasma membranes. This suggests movement of D1Rs from distal dendrites to the plasma membrane of dendritic spines. Small- and medium-sized dendrites also showed a higher plasmalemmal density of D1R in the Acb shell of the APO+AS group compared with the APO group. In the Acb core, the APO+AS group had a higher plasmalemmal density of D1R in medium-sized dendrites compared with the APO or VEH+AS group. Also in the Acb core, D1R-labeled dendrites were significantly smaller in the VEH+AS group compared with all other groups. These results suggest that alerting stimuli and apomorphine synergistically affect distributions of D1R in Acb shell and core. Thus adaptations in D1R distribution may contribute to sensorimotor gating deficits that can be induced acutely by apomorphine or develop over time in schizophrenia.
During the past two decades a close relationship between the energy state of the cell and glutamate neurotoxicity has been suggested. We have previously shown that increasing the extracellular concentration of glutamate does not cause neuronal death unless a deficit in energy metabolism occurs. The mechanisms of glutamate-induced neuronal death have been extensively studied in vitro and it has been associated with a rapid and severe decrease in ATP levels, accompanied with mitochondrial dysfunction. In this study we aimed to investigate the time course of the changes in energy metabolites during glutamate-induced neuronal death, in the presence of a moderate inhibition of mitochondrial metabolism in the rat striatum in vivo. We also aimed to study whether or not, as reported in vitro, changes in ATP levels are related to the extension of neuronal death. Results show that glutamate-induced lesions are exacerbated when rats are previously treated with a subtoxic dose of the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP). However, changes in nucleotide levels were similar in rats injected with glutamate alone and in rats injected with glutamate and previously treated with 3-NP. In spite of the presence of an extensive striatal lesion, nucleotide levels were recovered in 3-NP-treated rats 24 h after glutamate injection. Results show that 3-NP pre-treatment induced an imbalance in nucleotide levels that predisposed cells to glutamate toxicity; however it did not influence the bioenergetic changes induced by glutamate alone. Enhancement of glutamate neurotoxicity in 3-NP pre-treated rats is more related to a sustained nucleotide imbalance than just to a rapid decrease in ATP levels.
Chronic ethanol consumption increases oxidative stress, which accounts for the striking neurological changes seen in this condition. Notwithstanding, there is well-documented evidence that polyphenols, present in grape skin and seeds, exhibit a strong antioxidant activity. As red wine is rich in polyphenols, the aim of the present work was to evaluate their putative protective effects on the hippocampal formation by applying biochemical, morphological and behavioral approaches. Six-month old male Wistar rats were fed with red wine (ethanol content adjusted to 20%) and the results were compared with those from ethanol-treated (20%) rats and pair-fed controls. Biochemical markers of oxidative stress (lipid peroxidation, glutathione levels and antioxidant enzyme activities) were assessed on hippocampal homogenates. Lipofuscin pigment, an end product of lipid peroxidation, was quantified in hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 and 3 (CA1 and CA3) pyramidal neurons using stereological methods. All animals were behaviorally tested on the Morris water maze in order to assess their spatial learning and memory skills. In red wine-treated rats, lipid peroxidation was the lowest while presenting the highest levels of reduced glutathione and an induction of antioxidant enzyme activities. Morphological findings revealed that, contrary to ethanol, red wine did not increase lipofuscin deposition in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons. Besides, red wine-treated animals learned the water maze task at a higher rate than ethanol group and had better performance scores by the end of the training period and on a probe trial. Actually, no significant differences were found between pair-fed controls and red wine-treated rats in morphological and behavioral data. Thus, our findings demonstrate that chronic consumption of red wine, unlike the ethanol solution alone, does not lead to a decline in hippocampal-dependent spatial memory. This may be due to the ability of red wine polyphenols to improve the antioxidant status in the brain and to prevent free radical-induced neuronal damage.
The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) serves as a critical link in bulbo-spinal nociceptive modulation. Within the RVM, 'off-cells' pause and 'on-cells' discharge immediately prior to a nocifensive reflex. These neurons are also activated and inactivated, respectively, by local or systemic application of opioids. Off-cell activation leads to behavioral anti-nociception and on-cell activation to hyperalgesia. Thus, on- and off-cell populations allow bi-directional modulation of nociception by the RVM. A third neuronal population, neutral cells, shows no reflex-related change in discharge. The role of neutral cells in nociception, if any, is unknown. We investigated the responses of on-, off- and neutral cells to the iontophoretic application of purinergic ligands in lightly anesthetized rats. On-cell firing increased rapidly in response to application of ATP and to the P2X-receptor agonist, alpha,beta-methylene ATP. Off-cell firing increased gradually in response to ATP and to the P2Y-receptor agonist, 2-methylthio-ATP. All of these responses were attenuated or reversed by the non-specific P2-receptor antagonists, suramin and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS). Activation of off-cells was preferentially antagonized by the relatively selective P2Y antagonist, MRS2179. By contrast with activation of on- and off-cells by ATP, neutral cell firing was depressed by ATP, adenosine and the P1-receptor agonist, 5'-(N-ethylcarboxamido) adenosine (NECA). Neutral cell responses to these agonists were at least partially reversed by the adenosine-receptor antagonist, 8-phenyltheophylline (8PT). These data imply that on-cells preferentially express P2X-receptors, off-cells P2Y-receptors and neutral cells P1-receptors. Immunohistochemical localization of purinergic receptors confirms the presence of some subtypes of P2X, P2Y and A1 receptors on neuronal cell bodies and fibers within the RVM. The differential responses of on-, off- and neutral-cells to purinergic ligands highlight the value of pharmacological signatures in further delineation of the anatomy, connectivity and function of this therapeutically important system.

The striatum is critically important in motor, cognitive and emotional functions, as highlighted in neurological disorders such as Huntington's disease (HD) where these functions are compromised. The R6/2 mouse model of HD shows progressive motor and cognitive impairments and alterations in striatal dopamine and glutamate release. To determine whether or not dopamine-dependent neuronal plasticity is also altered in the dorsolateral striatum of R6/2 mice, we compared long term potentiation (LTP) and long term depression (LTD) in striatal slices from R6/2 mice with that seen in slices from wild type (WT) mice. In adult WT mice (aged 8-19 weeks), frequency-dependent bidirectional plasticity was observed. High frequency stimulation (four 0.5 s trains at 100 Hz, inter-train interval 10 s) induced LTP (134+/-5% of baseline), while low frequency stimulation (4 Hz for 15 min) induced LTD (80+/-5% of baseline). LTP and LTD were significantly blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) (to 93+/-6% and 103+/-8% of baseline respectively), indicating that they are both dependent on NMDA glutamate receptor activation. LTP was significantly blocked by the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH-23390) (98+/-8% of baseline), indicating that LTP is dependent on activation of dopamine D(1)-type receptors, whereas LTD was not significantly different (90+/-7%). In adult R6/2 mice (aged 8-19 weeks), LTP was significantly reduced (to 110+/-4% of baseline), while LTD was not significantly different from that seen in WT mice (85+/-6%). These data show that R6/2 mice have impaired dopamine-dependent neuronal plasticity in the striatum. As dopamine-dependent plasticity is a proposed model of striatum-based motor and cognitive functions, this impairment could contribute to deficits seen in R6/2 mice.
Antioxidative properties of alpha-lipoic acid (LA) are widely investigated in different in vivo and in vitro models. The aim of this study was to examine whether LA attenuates oxidative stress induced in rats by reserpine, a model substance frequently used to produce Parkinsonism in animals. Male Wistar rats were treated with reserpine (5 mg/kg) and LA (50 mg/kg) separately or in combination. The levels of reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione disulfide (GSSG), nitric oxide (NO) and S-nitrosothiols as well as activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and L-gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) were determined in the striatum and prefrontal cortex homogenates. In the striatum and prefrontal cortex a single dose of reserpine significantly enhanced levels of GSSG and NO but not that of S-nitrosothiols when compared with control. In the striatum, LA administered jointly with reserpine markedly increased the concentration of GSH and decreased GSSG level. In the prefrontal cortex, such treatment produced only an increasing tendency in GSH level but caused no changes in GSSG content. In both structures LA injected jointly with reserpine markedly decreased NO concentrations but did not cause significant changes in S-nitrosothiol levels when compared with control. Enzymatic activities of GPx and GST were intensified by LA in the striatum. In the prefrontal cortex, GPx activity was not altered, while that of GST was decreased. Gamma-GT activity was attenuated by reserpine in the striatum while LA reversed this effect. Such changes were not observed in the prefrontal cortex. The mode of LA action in the striatum during the reserpine-evoked oxidative stress strongly suggests that this compound may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Recent evidence suggests that human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-induced pathogenesis is exacerbated by opioid abuse and that the synergistic toxicity may result from direct actions of opioids in immature glia or glial precursors. To assess whether opioids and HIV proteins are directly toxic to glial-restricted precursors (GRPs), we isolated neural stem cells from the incipient spinal cord of embryonic day 10.5 ICR mice. GRPs were characterized immunocytochemically and by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). At 1 day in vitro (DIV), GRPs failed to express mu opioid receptors (MOR or MOP) or kappa-opioid receptors (KOR or KOP); however, at 5 DIV, most GRPs expressed MOR and KOR. The effects of morphine (500 nM) and/or Tat (100 nM) on GRP viability were assessed in GRPs at 5 DIV by examining the apoptotic effector caspase-3 and cell viability (ethidium monoazide exclusion) at 96 h following continuous exposure. Tat or morphine alone or in combination caused significant increases in GRP cell death at 96 h, but not at 24 h, following exposure. Although morphine or Tat caused increases in caspase-3 activity at 4 h, this was not accompanied with increased cleaved caspase-3 immunoreactive or ethidium monoazide-positive dying cells at 24 h. The results indicate that prolonged morphine or Tat exposure is intrinsically toxic to isolated GRPs and/or their progeny in vitro. Moreover, MOR and KOR are widely expressed by Sox2 and/or Nkx2.2-positive GRPs in vitro and the pattern of receptor expression appears to be developmentally regulated. The temporal requirement for prolonged morphine and HIV-1 Tat exposure to evoke toxicity in glia may coincide with the attainment of a particular stage of maturation and/or the development of particular apoptotic effector pathways and may be unique to spinal cord GRPs. Should similar patterns occur in vivo then we predict that immature astroglia and oligodendroglia may be preferentially vulnerable to HIV-1 infection or chronic opiate exposure.
Neuronal oscillations and population waves (OWs) may be important for the maturation of neural circuits in the cortex and other developing areas of the CNS. We examined endogenous network activity by whole-cell and paired extracellular recordings in the thalamorecipient auditory cortex (ACx) in slices of gerbil pups during the first three postnatal weeks. Separately, we examined network ensemble correlates of the OWs using population intracellular free calcium (Ca2+) imaging in slices bulk-loaded with fura-2 AM. In slices devoid of physiological or pharmacological manipulations, spontaneous multi-neuronal bursts recorded extracellularly at the perirhinal cortex precede bursts simultaneously recorded at the ACx, suggesting their caudorostral propagation. OWs waned after postnatal day (P) 7, ceased following hearing onset (P12), and accompanied altered membrane properties. Population imaging from P2-5 slices with fura-2 AM revealed endogenously generated waves that spread from the perirhinal cortex toward the thalamorecipient ACx. Wave incidence varied between 5 waves/min to 0.4 waves/min. OWs were disrupted by treatment of slices with [Ca2+]i chelator 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, the gap junction blocker mefloquine or the GABAA receptor blocker bicuculline. These results suggest that propagating activity involving calcium, gap junctions and GABAergic transmission exists in the gerbil ACx and it correlates with key developmental events in vivo. We speculate such activity may be integral to postnatal maturation of ACx.
Activation of alpha1- and beta-adrenoceptors modulates excitatory neural transmission in the cerebral cortex in opposite manners. Our in vitro optical imaging study using a voltage sensitive dye has revealed that an alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist, phenylephrine, suppresses the excitatory propagation evoked by stimulation of the white matter, whereas a beta-adrenoceptor agonist, isoproterenol, tends to potentiate the excitatory propagation especially in the deeper layers. The present study aimed to explore what kind of second messengers are involved in noradrenergic modulation of synaptic transmission by using intracellular recording in rat cerebrocortical slice preparation. Evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (eEPSPs) were recorded from regular spiking and bursting pyramidal neurons in layer V, which generate single and complex action potentials in response to a short (5 ms) depolarizing current pulse injection, respectively. Application of phenylephrine attenuated eEPSPs, and prazosin, an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist, precluded the phenylephrine-induced suppression of eEPSPs. The EPSPs suppression by phenylephrine was blocked by pre-application of a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, chelerythrine, whereas a PKC activator, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (phorbol ester), mimicked the effect of phenylephrine. On the other hand, application of isoproterenol enhanced eEPSPs, and propranolol, a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, precluded the excitatory effect of isoproterenol on eEPSPs. The membrane permeant analog of cyclic-3',5'-AMP (cAMP), N6,2'-O-dibutyryl-AMP (db-cAMP), mimicked the facilitatory effect of isoproterenol. Isoproterenol-induced enhancement of eEPSPs was promoted by pre-application of 4-(3-butoxy-4-methoxybenzyl)-2-imidazolidinone (Ro 20-1724), a cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor. A selective protein kinase A inhibitor, N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-soquinolinesulfonamide (H-89), inhibited the excitatory effect by isoproterenol. There was no significant difference in the effects of adrenergic agonists/antagonists and protein kinase activators/inhibitors between regular spiking and bursting neurons in layer V. Thus, it is likely that the suppressive effect on eEPSPs by activation of alpha1-adrenoceptors was mediated by protein kinase C, and excitatory effect by activation of beta-adrenoceptors was mediated by cAMP/protein kinase A cascade in layer V pyramidal neurons.
In an attempt to improve the survival of implanted dopamine cells, we have readdressed the optimal embryonic donor age for dopamine grafts. In a rat model of Parkinson's disease, animals with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the median forebrain bundle received dopamine-rich ventral mesencephalic grafts derived from embryos of crown to rump length 4, 6, 9, or 10.5 mm (estimated embryonic age (E) 11, E12, E13 and E14 days post-coitus, respectively). Grafts derived from 4 mm embryos survived poorly, with less than 1% of the implanted dopamine cells surviving. Grafts derived from 9 mm and 10.5 mm embryos were similar to those seen in previous experiments with survival rates of 8% and 7% respectively. The best survival was seen in the group that received 6 mm grafts, which were significantly larger than all other graft groups. Mean dopamine cell survival in the 6 mm group (E12) was 36%, an extremely high survival rate for primary, untreated ventral mesencephalic grafts applied as a single placement, and more than fivefold larger than the survival rate observed in the 10.5 mm (E14) group. As E12 ventral mesencephalic tissues contain few, if any, differentiated dopamine cells we conclude that the large numbers of dopamine cells seen in the 6 mm grafts must have differentiated post-implantation. We consider the in vivo conditions which allow this differentiation to occur, and the implications for the future of clinical trials based on dopamine cell replacement therapy.
The Slo1 gene, also known as KCNMA1, encodes the pore-forming subunits of large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (BK(Ca)) channels. Products of this gene are widely expressed in vertebrate tissues, and occur in a large number (&gt;or=20) of alternatively spliced variants that vary in their gating properties, susceptibility to modulation, and trafficking to the plasma membrane. Motifs in the large cytoplasmic C-terminal are especially important in determining the functional properties of BK(Ca) channels. Here we report that chick ciliary ganglion neurons express transcripts and proteins of two Slo1 splice variants that differ at the extreme C-terminal. We refer to these variants as VEDEC and QEDRL (or QEERL for the orthologous mammalian versions), after the five terminal amino acid residues in each isoform. Individual ciliary ganglion neurons preferentially express these variants in different subcellular compartments. Moreover, QEERL channels show markedly higher levels of constitutive expression on the plasma membrane than VEDEC channels in HEK293T and NG108-15 cells. However, growth factor treatment can stimulate surface expression of VEDEC channels to levels comparable to those seen with QEERL. In addition, we show that co-expression of a soluble protein composed of VEDEC C-terminal tail residues markedly increases cell surface expression of full-length VEDEC channels, suggesting that this region binds to proteins that cause retention of the these channels in intracellular stores.
Growing evidence supports a role for the immune system in the induction and maintenance of chronic pain. ATP is a key neurotransmitter in this process. Recent studies demonstrate that the glial ATP receptor, P2X7, contributes to the modulation of pathological pain. To further delineate the endogenous mechanisms that are involved in P2X7-related antinociception, we utilized a selective P2X7 receptor antagonist, A-438079, in a series of in vivo and in vitro experiments. Injection of A-438079 (10-300 micromol/kg, i.p.) was anti-allodynic in three different rat models of neuropathic pain and it attenuated formalin-induced nocifensive behaviors. Using in vivo electrophysiology, A-438079 (80 micromol/kg, i.v.) reduced noxious and innocuous evoked activity of different classes of spinal neurons (low threshold, nociceptive specific, wide dynamic range) in neuropathic rats. The effects of A-438079 on evoked firing were diminished or absent in sham rats. Spontaneous activity of all classes of spinal neurons was also significantly reduced by A-438079 in neuropathic but not sham rats. In vitro, A-438079 (1 microM) blocked agonist-induced (2,3-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)-ATP, 30 microM) current in non-neuronal cells taken from the vicinity of the dorsal root ganglia. Furthermore, A-438079 dose-dependently (0.3-3 microM) decreased the quantity of the cytokine, interleukin-1beta, released from peripheral macrophages. Thus, ATP, acting through the P2X7 receptor, exerts a wide-ranging influence on spinal neuronal activity following a chronic injury. Antagonism of the P2X7 receptor can in turn modulate central sensitization and produce antinociception in animal models of pathological pain. These effects are likely mediated through immuno-neural interactions that affect the release of endogenous cytokines.
Completion of the Human Genome Project and recent developments in proteomics make it possible to systematically generate affinity reagents to a large portion of the proteome. Recently an antibody-based human protein atlas covering many organs including four areas of the brain has been released (www.proteinatlas.org). Due to the heterogeneity, size, and availability of tissue a more thorough analysis of the human brain is associated with considerable difficulties. Here we applied 120 antibodies raised against 112 human gene products to the smaller rat brain, a rodent animal model, where a single section represents a 'superarray' including many brain areas, and consequently allowing analysis of a huge number of cell types and their neurochemicals. Immunoreactive structures were seen in the investigated brain tissue after incubation with 56 antibodies (46.6%), of which 25 (20.8%) showed a clearly discrete staining pattern that was limited to certain areas, or subsets of brain cells. Bioinformatics, pre-adsorption tests and Western blot analysis were applied to identify non-specific antibodies. Eleven antibodies, including such raised against four 'ambiguous' proteins, passed all validation criteria, and the expression pattern and subcellular distribution of these proteins were studied in detail. To further explore the potential of the systematically generated antibodies, all 11 antibodies that passed validation were used to analyze the spinal cord and lumbar dorsal root ganglia after unilateral transection of the sciatic nerve. Discrete staining patterns were observed for four of the proteins, and injury-induced regulation was found for one of them. In conclusion, the study presented here suggests that a significant portion (10%) of the antibodies generated to a human protein can be used to analyze orthologues present in the rodent brain and to produce a protein-based atlas of the rodent brain. It is hoped that this type of antibody-based, high throughput screening of brain tissue from various rodent disease models will provide new information on the brain chemical neuroanatomy and insights in processes underlying neurological pathologies.
Fear conditioning and fear extinction play key roles in the development and treatment of anxiety-related disorders, yet there is little information concerning experiential variables that modulate these processes. Here we examined the impact of exposure to a stressor in a different environment on subsequent fear conditioning and extinction, and whether the degree of behavioral control that the subject has over the stressor is of importance. Rats received a session of either escapable (controllable) tail shock (ES), yoked inescapable (uncontrollable) tail shock (IS), or control treatment (home cage, HC) 7 days before fear conditioning in which a tone and foot shock were paired. Conditioning was measured 24 h later. In a second experiment rats received ES, IS or HC 24 h after contextual fear conditioning. Extinction then occurred every day beginning 7 days later until a criterion was reached. Spontaneous recovery of fear was assessed 14 days after extinction. IS potentiated fear conditioning when given before fear conditioning, and potentiated fear responding during extinction when given after conditioning. Importantly, ES potently interfered with later fear conditioning, decreased fear responding during fear extinction, and prevented spontaneous recovery of fear. Additionally, we examined if the activation of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFCv) by ES is critical for the protective effects of ES on later fear conditioning. Inactivation of the mPFCv with muscimol at the time of the initial experience with control prevented ES-induced reductions in later contextual and auditory fear conditioning. Finally, we explored if the protective effects of ES extended to an unconditioned fear stimulus, ferret odor. Unlike conditioned fear, prior ES increased the fear response to ferret odor to the same degree as did IS.
This study describes the developmental profile of specific aspects of cholinergic and purinergic neurotransmission in key organs of the peripheral chemoreflex: the carotid body (CB), petrosal ganglion (PG) and superior cervical ganglion (SCG). Using real time RT-PCR and Western blot analyses, we assessed both mRNA and protein expression levels for choline-acetyl-transferase (ChAT), nicotinic receptor (subunits alpha3, alpha4, alpha7, and beta2), ATP and purinergic receptors (P2X2 and P2X3). These analyses were performed on tissue from 1- and 15-day-old, 2-month-old, and adult cats. During development, ChAT protein expression level increased slightly in CB; however, this increase was more important in PG and SCG. In CB, mRNA level for alpha4 nicotinic receptor subunit decreased during development (90% higher in 1-day-old cats than in adults). In the PG, mRNA level for beta2 nicotinic receptor subunit increased during development (80% higher in adults than in 1-day-old cats). In SCG, mRNA for alpha7 nicotinic receptor levels increased (400% higher in adults vs. 1-day-old cats). Conversely, P2X2 receptor protein level was not altered during development in CB and decreased slightly in PG; a similar pattern was observed for the P2X3 receptor. Our findings suggest that in cats, age-related changes in cholinergic and purinergic systems (such as physiological expression of receptor function) are significant within the afferent chemoreceptor pathway and likely contribute to the temporal changes of O2-chemosensitivity during development.
Phosphorylation of specific sites in the second intracellular loop and in the C-terminal domain have previously been suggested to cause desensitization and internalization of the mu-opioid receptor (MOP-R). To assess sites of MOP-R phosphorylation in vivo, affinity-purified, phosphoselective antibodies were raised against either phosphothreonine-180 in the second intracellular loop (MOR-P1) or the C-terminal domain of MOP-R containing phosphothreonine-370 and phosphoserine-375 (MOR-P2). We found that MOR-P2-immunoreactivity (IR) was significantly increased within the striatum of wild-type C57BL/6 mice after injection of the agonist fentanyl. Pretreatment with the antagonist naloxone blocked the fentanyl-induced increase. Furthermore, mutant mice lacking MOP-R showed only non-specific nuclear MOR-P2-IR before or after fentanyl treatment, confirming the specificity of the MOR-P2 antibodies. To assess whether MOP-R phosphorylation occurs following endogenous opioid release, we induced chronic neuropathic pain by partial sciatic nerve ligation (pSNL), which caused a significant increase in MOR-P2-IR in the striatum. pSNL also induced signs of mu opioid receptor tolerance demonstrated by a rightward shift in the morphine dose response in the tail withdrawal assay and by a reduction in morphine conditioned place preference (CPP). Mutant mice selectively lacking all forms of the beta-endorphin peptides derived from the proopiomelanocortin (Pomc) gene did not show increased MOR-P2-IR, decreased morphine antinociception, or reduced morphine CPP following pSNL. In contrast gene deletion of either proenkephalin or prodynorphin opioids did not block the effects of pSNL. These results suggest that neuropathic pain caused by pSNL in wild-type mice activates the release of the endogenous opioid beta-endorphin, which subsequently induces MOP-R phosphorylation and opiate tolerance.
The CB1 cannabinoid receptors modulate the addictive processes associated with different drugs of abuse, including psychostimulants. Mice lacking CB1 receptors exhibit an important attenuation of the reinforcing responses produced by cocaine in an operant self-administration paradigm. We have investigated the effect of chronic cocaine treatment on dendrite structure and spine density of the principal cortical neuron, the pyramidal neuron, in CB1 knockout mice and wild type littermates. Layer III pyramidal cells of the motor cortex were injected intracellularly in fixed cortical slices and their morphometric parameters analyzed. Under basal conditions, the field area of the dendritic arbors was more extensive and dendritic spine density was higher in wild type mice than in CB1 knockout mice. Chronic treatment of cocaine diminished the size and length of the basal dendrites and spine density on pyramidal cells from wild type mice. However, the total number of spines in the pyramidal cells of CB1 knockout mice augmented slightly following chronic cocaine treatment, although no changes in the morphology of the dendritic arbor were observed. Our data demonstrate that microanatomy and synaptic connectivity are affected by cocaine, the magnitude and nature of these changes depend on the presence of CB1 receptors.
Serotonergic signaling is involved in many neurobiological processes and disturbed 5-HT homeostasis is implicated in a variety of psychiatric and addictive disorders. Here, we describe the functional characterization of the serotonin transporter (SERT) knockout rat model, that is generated by N-ethyl-N-nitrosurea (ENU)-driven target-selected mutagenesis. Biochemical characterization revealed that SERT mRNA and functional protein are completely absent in homozygous knockout (SERT-/-) rats, and that there is a gene dose-dependent reduction in the expression and function of the SERT in heterozygous knockout rats. As a result, 5-HT homeostasis was found to be severely affected in SERT-/- rats: 5-HT tissue levels and depolarization-induced 5-HT release were significantly reduced, and basal extracellular 5-HT levels in the hippocampus were ninefold increased. Interestingly, we found no compensatory changes in in vitro activity of tryptophan hydroxylase and monoamine oxidase, the primary enzymes involved in 5-HT synthesis and degradation, respectively. Similarly, no major adaptations in non-serotonergic systems were found, as determined by dopamine and noradrenaline transporter binding, monoamine tissue levels, and depolarization-induced release of dopamine, noradrenaline, glutamate and GABA. In conclusion, neurochemical changes in the SERT knockout rat are primarily limited to the serotonergic system, making this novel rat model potentially very useful for studying the behavioral and neurobiological consequences of disturbed 5-HT homeostasis.
Serotonin (5-HT) action via the 5-HT(2C) receptor (5-HT(2C)R) provides an important modulatory influence over neurons of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), which is critically involved in disorders of executive function including substance use disorders. In the present study, we investigated the distribution of the 5-HT(2C)R in the rat prelimbic prefrontal cortex (PrL), a subregion of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), using a polyclonal antibody raised against the 5-HT(2C)R. The expression of 5-HT(2C)R immunoreactivity (IR) was highest in the deep layers (layers V/VI) of the mPFC. The 5-HT(2C)R-IR was typically most intense at the periphery of cell bodies and the initial segment of cell processes. Approximately 50% of the 5-HT(2C)R-IR detected was found in glutamate decarboxylase, isoform 67 (GAD 67)-positive neurons. Of the subtypes of GABA interneurons identified by expression of several calcium-binding proteins, a significantly higher percentage of neurons expressing IR for parvalbumin also expressed 5-HT(2C)R-IR than did the percentage of neurons expressing calbindin-IR or calretinin-IR that also expressed 5-HT(2C)R-IR. Since parvalbumin is located in basket and chandelier GABA interneurons which project to cell body and initial axon segments of pyramidal cells, respectively, these results raise the possibility that the 5-HT(2C)R in the mPFC acts via the parvalbumin-positive GABAergic interneurons to regulate the output of pyramidal cells in the rat mPFC.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) family peptides play key roles in integrating neural responses to stress. Both major CRF receptors have been pharmacologically identified in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), a stress sensitive and internally heterogeneous nucleus supplying many forebrain regions with serotonergic input. Despite the involvement of chronic stress and serotonergic dysfunction in human mood and anxiety disorders, little is known about the effects of chronic CRF receptor activation on the DRN. We infused ovine CRF (1 ng/h), urocortin II (UCNII, 1 ng/h), or vehicle alone into rat DRN over 6 days. During infusion, animals were allowed to freely explore an open field for 15 min on each of 2 days, with the addition of a novel object on the second day. Following behavioral testing, 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT transporter (SERT), and tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (Tph2) expression was examined through the DRN by in situ hybridization. Ovine CRF infusion resulted in significantly decreased novel object touches, climbs, as well as increased latency to first novel object contact. UCNII had a similar but less dramatic effect, decreasing only climbing behavior. Both ovine CRF and UCNII blunted the decrease in corner time expected on re-exposure to the open field. Both peptides also produced regionally specific changes in gene expression: 5-HT1A expression was increased 30% in the mid-rostral ventromedial DRN, while SERT was decreased by 30% in the mid-caudal shell dorsomedial DRN. There also appeared to be a shift in the relative level of Tph2 expression between the ventromedial and core dorsomedial DRN at the mid-rostral level. Changes in 5-HT1A, SERT, and relative Tph2 mRNA abundance were correlated with novel object exploration. These findings suggest chronic intra-DRN administration of CRF agonists decreases exploratory behavior, while producing subregionally limited changes in serotonergic gene expression. These studies may be relevant to mechanisms underlying behavioral changes after chronic stress.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or &quot;ecstasy&quot;), is a widely abused, psychoactive recreational drug that is known to induce neurotoxic effects. Human and rat hepatic metabolism of MDMA involves N-demethylation to 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), which is also a drug of abuse. MDMA and MDA are O-demethylenated to N-methyl-alpha-methyldopamine (N-Me-alpha-MeDA) and alpha-methyldopamine (alpha-MeDA), respectively, which are both catechols that can undergo oxidation to the corresponding ortho-quinones. Ortho-quinones may be conjugated with glutathione (GSH) to form glutathionyl adducts, which can be transported into the brain and metabolized to the correspondent N-acetylcysteine (NAC) adducts. In this study we evaluated the neurotoxicity of nine MDMA metabolites, obtained by synthesis: N-Me-alpha-MeDA, alpha-MeDA and their correspondent GSH and NAC adducts. The studies were conducted in rat cortical neuronal cultures, for a 6 h of exposure period, under normal (36.5 degrees C) and hyperthermic (40 degrees C) conditions. Our findings show that thioether MDMA metabolites are strong neurotoxins, significantly more than their correspondent parent catechols. On the other hand, N-Me-alpha-MeDA and alpha-MeDA are more neurotoxic than MDMA. GSH and NAC conjugates of N-Me-alpha-MeDA and alpha-MeDA induced a concentration dependent delayed neuronal death, accompanied by activation of caspase 3, which occurred earlier in hyperthermic conditions. Furthermore, thioether MDMA metabolites time-dependently increased the production of reactive species, concentration-dependently depleted intracellular GSH and increased protein bound quinones. Finally, thioether MDMA metabolites induced neuronal death and oxidative stress was prevented by NAC, an antioxidant and GSH precursor. This study provides new insights into the neurotoxicity mechanisms of thioether MDMA metabolites and highlights their importance in &quot;ecstasy&quot; neurotoxicity.
The hippocampal formation is a plastic brain structure important for certain types of learning and memory, and also vulnerable to the effects of stress and trauma. Since hippocampal neurons express high levels of corticosteroid receptor, the morphological changes, including alterations in the size of soma, and the length and number of neurites and spines, in response to glucocorticoids released as a result of stress are intriguing. In order to highlight the morphology of neurons that express glucocorticoid receptor (GR), we have generated a transgenic mouse line expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the GR promoter. We found strong green fluorescence in the pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 and CA2 regions and the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in brain sections of the transgenic mice. GFP fluorescence was observed not only in somas, but also in neurites including both dendrites and axons. In dissociated culture, we also observed GFP fluorescence in the soma, neurites including both dendrites and axons, and dendritic spines. Microtubule-associated protein 2 immunopositive pyramidal-shaped neurons clearly showed two different populations, GFP positive and GFP negative neurons. These results indicate that this transgenic mouse line should be useful for live imaging of neuronal structure in animals as well as GR-positive cultured cells using GFP as a specific indicator.
Methylmalonic acid (MMA) is an endogenous convulsing compound that accumulates in methylmalonic acidemia, an inborn error of the metabolism characterized by severe neurological dysfunction, including seizures. The mechanisms by which MMA causes seizures involves the activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, but whether GABAergic mechanisms are involved in the convulsions induced by MMA is not known. Therefore, in the current study we investigated the involvement of GABAergic mechanisms in the convulsions induced by MMA. Adult rats were injected (i.c.v.) with muscimol (46 pmol/1 microl), baclofen (0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 micromol/1 microl), MK-801 (6 nmol/1 microl), pyridoxine (2 micromol/4 microl) or physiological saline (0.15 micromol/1 microl). After 30 min, MMA (0.3, 0.1 and 3 micromol/1 microl) or NaCl (6 micromol/1 microl, i.c.v.) was injected. The animals were immediately transferred to an open field and observed for the appearance of convulsions. After behavioral evaluation, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) activity was determined in cerebral cortex homogenates by measuring the 14CO2 released from l-[14C]-glutamic acid. Convulsions were confirmed by electroencephalographic recording in a subset of animals. MMA caused the appearance of clonic convulsions in a dose-dependent manner and decreased GAD activity in the cerebral cortex ex vivo. GAD activity negatively correlated with duration of MMA-induced convulsions (r=-0.873, P&lt;0.01), in an individual basis. Muscimol, baclofen, MK-801 and pyridoxine prevented MMA-induced convulsions, but only MK-801 and pyridoxine prevented MMA-induced GAD inhibition. These data suggest GABAergic mechanisms are involved in the convulsive action of MMA, and that GAD inhibition by MMA depends on the activation of NMDA receptors. While in this study we present novel data about the role of the GABAergic system in MMA-induced convulsions, the central role of NMDA receptors in the neurochemical actions of MMA is further reinforced since they seem to trigger GABAergic failure.
In the rat spinal cord in vitro, block of synaptic inhibition evokes persistent, regular disinhibited bursting which is a manifestation of the intrinsic network rhythmicity and is readily recorded from ventral roots. This model is advantageous to explore the network mechanisms controlling burst periodicity, and duration. We questioned the relative contribution of K+ conductances to spontaneous rhythmicity by investigating the effects of the broad K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium (TEA). In TEA (10 mM) solution, bursts occurred at the same rate but became substantially longer, thus showing an unusual dissociation between mechanisms of burst periodicity and duration. In the presence of TEA, electrical stimulation of a single dorsal root or N-methyl-D-aspartate application (5 microM) could, however, fasten bursting associated with immediate decrease in burst length, thus demonstrating maintenance of short-term plasticity. Either riluzole (1 microM) or surgical sectioning that isolated a single spinal segment strongly depressed bursting which could, however, be revived by TEA. In the presence of TEA, the L-type channel blocker nifedipine (20 microM) made bursting faster and shorter. Our data are best explained by assuming that TEA increased network excitability to generate rhythmic bursting, an effect that was counteracted by intrinsic mechanisms, partly dependent on L-type channel activity, to retain standard periodicity. TEA-sensitive mechanisms were, nevertheless, an important process to regulate burst duration. Our results are consistent with the proposal of a hierarchical structural of the central pattern generator in which the circuits responsible for rhythmicity (the clock) drive the discharges of those creating the motor commands (pattern).
Information to the cerebellum enters via many afferent sources collectively known as precerebellar nuclei. We investigated the distribution of cholinergic terminal-like structures in the mouse precerebellar nuclei by immunohistochemistry for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). VAChT is involved in acetylcholine transport into synaptic vesicles and is regarded as a reliable marker for cholinergic terminals and preterminal axons. In adult male mice, brains were perfusion-fixed. Polyclonal antibodies for VAChT, immunoglobulin G-peroxidase and diaminobenzidine were used for immunostaining. In the mouse brain, immunoreactivity was seen in almost all major cholinergic cell groups including brainstem motoneurons. In precerebellar nuclei, the signal could be detected as diffusely beaded terminal-like structures. It was seen heaviest in the pontine nuclei and moderate in the pontine reticulotegmental nucleus; however, it was seen less in the medial solitary nucleus, red nucleus, lateral reticular nucleus, inferior olivary nucleus, external cuneate nucleus and vestibular nuclear complex. In particular, VAChT-immunoreactive varicose fibers were so dense in the pontine nuclei that detailed distribution was studied using three-dimensional reconstruction of the pontine nuclei. VAChT-like immunoreactivity clustered predominantly in the medial and ventral regions suggesting a unique regional difference of the cholinergic input. Electron microscopic observation in the pontine nuclei disclosed ultrastructural features of VAChT-immunoreactive varicosities. The labeled bouton makes a symmetrical synapse with unlabeled dendrites and contains pleomorphic synaptic vesicles. To clarify the neurons of origin of VAChT-immunoreactive terminals, VAChT immunostaining combined with wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase retrograde labeling was conducted by injecting a retrograde tracer into the right pontine nuclei. Double-labeled neurons were seen bilaterally in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. It is assumed that mesopontine cholinergic neurons negatively regulate neocortico-ponto-cerebellar projections at the level of pontine nuclei.
The event-related potential (ERP) is one of the most popular measures in human cognitive neuroscience. During the last few years there has been a debate about the neural fundamentals of ERPs. Two models have been proposed: The evoked model states that additive evoked responses which are completely independent of ongoing background electroencephalogram generate the ERP. On the other hand the phase reset model suggests a resetting of ongoing brain oscillations to be the neural generator of ERPs. Here, evidence for either of the two models is presented and validated, and their possible impact on cognitive neuroscience is discussed. In addition, future prospects on this field of research are presented.
A number of studies have demonstrated directed migration of neural progenitor cells to sites of brain injury and disease, however a detailed examination of when a cell is &quot;born&quot; in relation to injury induction and the migratory response of that cell has not previously been determined. This study therefore examined the temporal correlation between progenitor cell proliferation (&quot;birth&quot;) and neuroblast migratory response into the damaged striatum following quinolinic acid (QA) lesioning of the adult rat striatum. Retroviral labeling of subventricular zone (SVZ)-derived progenitor cells demonstrated that cell loss in the QA-lesioned striatum increased progenitor cell migration through the rostral migratory stream (RMS) for up to 30 days. In addition, a population of dividing cells originating from the SVZ generated doublecortin positive neuroblasts that migrated into the damaged striatum in response to cell loss invoked by the QA lesion. Quantification of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled cells co-expressing doublecortin revealed that the majority of cells present in the damaged striatum were generated from progenitor cells dividing within 2 days either prior to or following the QA lesion. In contrast, cells dividing 2 or more days following QA lesioning, migrated into the striatum and exhibited a glial phenotype. These results demonstrate that directed migration of SVZ-derived cells and neuroblast differentiation in response to QA lesioning of the striatum is acute and transient. We propose this is predominantly due to a reduced capacity over time for newly generated neuroblasts to respond to the lesioned environment due to a loss or inhibition of migratory cues.
Allopregnanolone (AP) is a potent GABAergic agonist that suppresses CNS activity, seizure threshold, and excitotoxicity in the adult brain. AP is present in the fetal sheep brain and increases rapidly after asphyxial insult due to increased 5alpha-reductase type-2 (5alphaR-2) expression. The aim of this study was to use finasteride to suppress fetal neurosteroid synthesis, and then determine the effect on brain injury, particularly in the hippocampus, of asphyxia induced in utero by brief occlusion of the umbilical cord. Catheters and an inflatable umbilical cord cuff were implanted in fetal sheep at approximately 125 days gestation. Five days later the fetuses received either finasteride (20 mg/kg/h) or vehicle (40% hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin) for 2 h. The umbilical cord was occluded (UCO) for 5 min at 30 min after starting the infusion. The fetal brain was obtained 24 h later for examination of activated caspase-3 expression as an index of apoptosis, and to measure AP content. Finasteride treatment alone significantly reduced AP content and increased the number of caspase-3 positive cells in the hippocampus, cerebellum, and the subcallosal bundle, indicating that AP modulates the normal rate of apoptosis in the developing brain. UCO in vehicle and finasteride-treated fetuses produced a similar, marked decrease in O2 saturation (5.8+/-0.6%), but after finasteride treatment UCO caused a significantly greater increase in the number of caspase-3 positive cells in the hippocampal cornu ammonis 3 (CA3) (57.3+/-1.6%) compared with the vehicle-treated fetuses. Thus, 5alpha-reduced steroids such as AP may be protective in reducing cell death following acute fetal asphyxia. Perturbation of normal fetal neurosteroid levels in late gestation (e.g. due to preterm birth, or maternal synthetic steroid treatment to induce fetal lung maturation) could adversely affect brain development and increase its vulnerability to injury.
Reinstatement of previously extinguished instrumental responding for drug-related cues has been used as an animal model for relapse of drug abuse, and is disrupted by inactivation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA). However, the role that the BLA plays in reinstatement induced by cues associated with natural rewards is unclear. The present study assessed the effects of inactivation of different regions of the BLA in cue-induced reinstatement of food-seeking behavior and in the extinction of instrumental responding for food. In experiment 1, rats acquired a lever pressing response for food reward paired with a light/tone conditioned stimulus (CS). They were then subjected to extinction training, where both food and the CS were withheld. Reinstatement of extinguished responding was measured during response-contingent presentations of the CS alone. Following saline infusions into the caudal or rostral BLA, rats displayed a significant increase in lever pressing during reinstatement sessions. Inactivation of these subregions with bupivacaine did not attenuate responding for the CS in the absence of food delivery. In fact, inactivation of the caudal BLA potentiated responding relative to vehicle treatments. Analysis of within-session responding revealed that caudal BLA inactivation retarded extinction of lever pressing in response to the CS. In experiment 2, inactivation of the caudal BLA on the first or second day of extinction training significantly retarded the acquisition of extinction learning on the following day. These data indicate that that the caudal BLA may play a specific role in the extinction of appetitive conditioned responses, by monitoring changes in the reinforcing value of pavlovian conditioned stimuli linked to action-outcome associations once these associations have been formed. Moreover, these findings support a growing body of evidence indicating that separate neural circuits incorporating the BLA may play different roles in mediating reinstatement of reward-seeking behaviors induced by either drug or food related stimuli.
Membrane disruption following mechanical injury likely plays a critical role in the pathology of spinal cord trauma. It is known that intracellular calcium is a key factor that is essential to membrane resealing. However, the differential role of calcium influx through the injury site and through voltage dependent calcium channels (VDCC) has not been examined in detail. Using a well-established ex vivo guinea-pig spinal cord white matter preparation, we have found that axonal membrane resealing was significantly inhibited following transection or compression in the presence of cadmium, a non-specific calcium channel blocker, or nimodipine, a specific L-type calcium channel blocker. Membrane resealing was assessed by the changes of membrane potential and compound action potential (CAP), and exclusion of horseradish peroxidase 60 min following trauma. Furthermore, 1 microM BayK 8644, a VDCC agonist, significantly enhanced membrane resealing. Interestingly, this effect was completely abolished when the concentration of BayK 8644 was increased to 30 microM. These data suggest that VDCC play a critical role in membrane resealing. Further, there is likely an appropriate range of calcium influx through VDCC which ensures effective axonal membrane resealing. Since elevated intracellular calcium has also been linked to axonal deterioration, blockage of VDCC is proposed to be a clinical treatment for various injuries. The knowledge gained in this study will likely help us better understand the role of calcium in various CNS trauma, which is critical for designing new approaches or perhaps optimizing the effectiveness of existing methods in the treatment of CNS trauma.
Working memory (WM) deficits are a core feature of schizophrenia. However, it has not been examined whether these deficits are related to altered temporal dynamics of information acquisition and changes in executive cognitive control. Therefore, the present study intended to quantify and model the dynamic process of information acquisition during continuous overlearning of WM information. It also aimed at investigating the relation between overlearning-associated change in behavioral performance and brain activity. Thirteen schizophrenic patients and 13 healthy volunteers were studied with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing a recently developed overlearning paradigm [Koch K, Wagner G, von Consbruch K, Nenadic I, Schultz C, Ehle C, Reichenbach J, Sauer H, Schlsser R (2006) Temporal changes in neural activation during practice of information retrieval from short-term memory: An fMRI study. Brain Res 1107:140-150]. Consistent with the earlier study, short-term learning of stimulus material was associated with significant performance improvements and exponential signal decreases in a fronto-parieto-cerebellar network both in schizophrenic patients and in healthy volunteers. Against expectation patients exhibited stronger signal decreases relative to controls in anterior cingulate (Brodmann area (BA) 32), middle and superior temporal (BA 37, BA 22), superior frontal (BA 8/9, BA 6) and posterior parietal regions (BA 40). Furthermore, the individually modeled exponential decay rate of the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was significantly correlated with exponential decrease in mean behavioral response times in healthy controls while a statistical trend emerged in patients. A relative hyperactivation in the patient group was observable only at the start of the learning process and diminished with continued overlearning. This effect might indicate a gradual reduction of recruited neuronal resources and a practice-associated activation normalization in patients with schizophrenia. Our data suggest that in subacute patients learning and associated decreases in cerebral activation brought about by short-term practice are left unimpaired.
Many neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's (PD) and Huntington's diseases (HD), are caused by different mechanisms but may share a common pathway to neuronal injury as a result of the overstimulation of glutamate receptors. It has been suggested that this pathway can be involved in generation of cognitive deficits associated with normal aging. Previous studies performed in our laboratory have demonstrated that aged rats presented recognition memory deficits. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of memantine, a low-affinity N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, on age-induced recognition memory deficits. Additionally, parameters of oxidative damage in cerebral regions related to memory formation were evaluated. In order to do that, male Wistar rats (24 months old) received daily injections of saline solution or memantine (20 mg/kg i.p.) during 21 days. The animals were submitted to a novel object recognition task 1 week after the last injection. Memantine-treated rats showed normal recognition memory while the saline group showed long-term recognition memory deficits. The results show that memantine is able to reverse age-induced recognition memory deficits. We also demonstrated that memantine reduced the oxidative damage to proteins in cortex and hippocampus, two important brain regions involved in memory formation. Thus, the present findings suggest that, at least in part, age-induced cognitive deficits are related to oxidative damage promoted by NMDA receptor overactivation.
Previous studies have shown oxidative damage resulting from amyloid Abeta exposure to cultured cells and in murine models. A target of oxidation is 14-3-3 which comprises a group of proteins involved in kinase activation and chaperone activity. The present study shows glycoxidative damage, as revealed with mono and bi-dimensional gel electrophoresis and Western blotting, followed by in-gel digestion and mass spectrometry, in the frontal cortex in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), a neurodegenerative disease with deposition of Abeta in cerebral blood vessels and in diffuse plaques unaccompanied by intraneuronal hyper-phosphorylated tau deposition. malondialdehyde-lysine (MDA-Lys)-, but not 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE)-immunoreactive adducts, and N-carboxyethyl-lysine (CEL), but not N-carboxymethyl-lysine (CML)-products, were present in 14-3-3 involving zeta and gamma isoforms in both AD and CAA. These findings demonstrate that 14-3-3 glyco- and lipoxidation occurs in AD and CAA, probably as a direct consequence of Abeta deposition.
Noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) is involved in pain regulation. We studied whether response properties of LC neurons or coeruleospinal antinociception are changed 10-14 days following development of experimental neuropathy. Experiments were performed in spinal nerve-ligated, sham-operated and unoperated male rats under sodium pentobarbital anesthesia. Recordings of LC neurons indicated that responses evoked by noxious somatic stimulation were enhanced in nerve-injured animals, while the effects of nerve injury on spontaneous activity or the response to noxious visceral stimulation were not significant. Microinjection of glutamate into the central nucleus of the amygdala produced a dose-related inhibition of the discharge rate of LC neurons in nerve-injured animals but no significant effect on discharge rates in control groups. Assessment of the heat-induced hind limb withdrawal latency indicated that spinal antinociception induced by electrical stimulation of the LC was significantly weaker in nerve-injured than control animals. The results indicate that peripheral neuropathy induces bidirectional changes in coeruleospinal inhibition of pain. Increased responses of LC neurons to noxious somatic stimulation are likely to promote feedback inhibition of neuropathic hypersensitivity, while the enhanced inhibition of the LC from the amygdala is likely to suppress noradrenergic pain inhibition and promote neuropathic pain. It is proposed that the decreased spinal antinociception induced by direct stimulation of the LC may be explained by pronociceptive changes in the non-noradrenergic systems previously described in peripheral neuropathy. Furthermore, we propose the hypothesis that emotions processed by the amygdala enhance pain due to increased inhibition of the LC in peripheral neuropathy.
Mu opioid (MOP) agonists acting in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) robustly enhance consumption of palatable foods. In addition, the effect on consumption of palatable foods produced by MOP agonists acting in the NAcc depends on both recent flavor exposure and the availability of a choice between different-flavored foods. In contrast, kappa opioid (KOP) agonists have variable effects on feeding and KOP agonists have MOP opposing behavioral actions when microinjected at several brain sites. We previously demonstrated that NAcc MOP agonists reverse the devaluation (satiety) effect of pre-feeding for a given flavor; in fact, NAcc MOP agonists selectively increase consumption of a recently sampled food. In contrast, in the present study, we found that the selective KOP agonist U50488 injected into the NAcc of rats reduced consumption of a recently sampled flavor while increasing consumption of the flavor that was not pre-fed. Intra-NAcc U50488 did not affect overall consumption or flavor preference in the absence of pre-feeding. The present data, in conjunction with our previous findings, highlight the robust and opposing role of NAcc MOP and KOP opioid receptors in palatability-based food choice and consumption and raise the possibility that an endogenous KOP agonist acting in the NAcc contributes to the phenomenon of sensory specific satiety.
We investigated whether cortical glutamatergic and GABAergic release machineries can be differentiated on the basis of the proteins they express, by studying the degree of co-localization of synapsin (SYN) I and II, synaptophysin (SYP) I and II, synaptosomal-associated protein (SNAP)-25 and SNAP-23 in vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) 1-, VGLUT2- and vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT)-positive (+) puncta in the rat cerebral cortex. Co-localization studies showed that SYNI and II were expressed in approximately 90% of VGLUT1+, approximately 30% of VGLUT2+ and 30-50% of VGAT+ puncta; SYPI was expressed in approximately 95% of VGLUT1+, 30% of VGLUT2+, and 45% of VGAT+ puncta; SYPII in approximately 7% of VGLUT1+, 3% of VGLUT2+, and 20% of VGAT+ puncta; SNAP-25 in approximately 94% of VGLUT1+, 5% of VGLUT2+, and 1% of VGAT+ puncta, and SNAP-23 in approximately 3% of VGLUT1+, 86% of VGLUT2+, and 22% of VGAT+ puncta. Since SYPI, which is considered ubiquitous, was expressed in about half of GABAergic axon terminals, we studied its localization electron microscopically and in immunoisolated synaptic vesicles: these studies showed that approximately 30% of axon terminals forming symmetric synapses were SYPI-negative, and that immunoisolated VGAT-positive synaptic vesicles were relatively depleted of SYPI as compared with VGLUT1+ vesicles. Overall, the present investigation shows that in the cerebral cortex of rats distinct presynaptic proteins involved in neurotransmitter release are differentially expressed in GABAergic and in the two major types of glutamatergic axon terminals in the cerebral cortex of rats.
Nardilysin is a metalloendopeptidase that in vitro cleaves peptides such as dynorphin-A, somatostatin-28, alpha-neoendorphin and glucagon at the N-terminus of arginine and lysine residues in dibasic moieties. The enzyme is highly expressed in many endocrine tissues. Nardilysin has also been found in the brain. Previously, we have detected that nardilysin interacts with brain-specific proteins, i.e. p42(IP4)/centaurin-alpha1 [Stricker R, Chow KM, Walther D, Hanck T, Hersh LB, Reiser G (2006) Interaction of the brain specific protein p42(IP4)/centaurin-alpha1 with the peptidase nardilysin is regulated by the cognate ligands of p42(IP4), PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) and Ins(1,3,4,5)P(4), with stereospecificity. J Neurochem 98:343-354]. However, very little is known about the distribution of nardilysin in the brain. The aim of the present study was to reveal its regional distribution and cellular localization in developing and adult human brain. Using immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis we demonstrate that the enzyme is widely, but unevenly, expressed in the human brain. We found high staining intensity in the hypothalamus, neocortex and brain stem nuclei. The cellular localization is almost exclusively confined to neurons. In pre- and perinatal human brain cortex, most neurons express the enzyme. In cortical neurons nardilysin protein was found to be partially co-localized with parvalbumin but not calretinin. No co-expression was seen with somatostatin-28 immunoreactivity. A considerable overlap was revealed between p42(IP4) and nardilysin. Our data support the hypothesis that nardilysin might possibly play a role in brain development, whereas its putative function in brain peptide metabolism remains to be clarified further.
Sleep fragmentation, a feature of sleep apnea as well as other sleep and medical/psychiatric disorders, is thought to lead to excessive daytime sleepiness. A rodent model of sleep fragmentation was developed (termed sleep interruption, SI), where rats were awakened every 2 min by the movement of an automated treadmill for either 6 or 24 h of exposure. The sleep pattern of rats exposed to 24 h of SI resembled sleep of the apneic patient in the following ways: sleep was fragmented (up to 30 awakening/h), total rapid eye movement (REM) sleep time was greatly reduced, non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep episode duration was reduced (from 2 min, 5 s baseline to 58 s during SI), whereas the total amount of NREM sleep time per 24 h approached basal levels. Both 6 and 24 h of SI made rats more sleepy, as indicated by a reduced latency to fall asleep upon SI termination. Electrographic measures in the recovery sleep period following either 6 or 24 h of SI also indicated an elevation of homeostatic sleep drive; specifically, the average NREM episode duration increased (e.g. for 24 h SI, from 2 min, 5 s baseline to 3 min, 19 s following SI), as did the NREM delta power during recovery sleep. Basal forebrain (BF) levels of extracellular adenosine (AD) were also measured with microdialysis sample collection and high performance liquid chromatography detection, as previous work suggests that increasing concentrations of BF AD are related to sleepiness. BF AD levels were significantly elevated during SI, peaking at 220% of baseline during 30 h of SI exposure. These combined findings imply an elevation of the homeostatic sleep drive following either 6 or 24 h of SI, and BF AD levels appear to correlate more with sleepiness than with the cumulative amount of prior wakefulness, since total NREM sleep time declined only slightly. SI may be partially responsible for the symptom of daytime sleepiness observed in a number of clinical disorders, and this may be mediated by mechanisms involving BF AD.
The nicotinic receptor subtypes are important for several physiological functions in brain and may therefore play a critical role in brain development. The alpha7 nicotinic receptors which have high Ca2+ permeability are important for cognitive, neuroprotective and trophic functions. In this study, the brain development and the expression of alpha4, alpha3, alpha7, alpha5 and beta2 nicotinic receptors were investigated in the brains of alpha7 deficient (alpha7 -/-), alpha7 heterozygous null (alpha7 +/-) and alpha7 wild-type (alpha7 +/+) mice from postnatal days (P) 7-84. The specific binding of [3H] cytisine and [3H] epibatidine, as well as the expressions of alpha4 and alpha3 nicotinic receptor subunits at mRNA and protein levels, were significantly increased in the cortex and hippocampus of alpha7 -/- and alpha7 +/- mice compared with alpha7 +/+ mice. Furthermore, the alpha4 and alpha3 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits appeared to co-assemble with the alpha5 nAChR subunit in these above brain regions of these mice. No significant change in synaptophysin level was observed. These data suggest that increased levels of alpha4, alpha3-containing nAChRs, co-assembled with the alpha5 nAChR subunit, may contribute to the normal brain development of alpha7 -/- and alpha7 +/- mice.
The present study investigated the role of several 5-HT receptor subtypes in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) in the control of sodium appetite (i.e. NaCl consumption). Male Holtzman rats had cannulas implanted bilaterally into the LPBN for the injection of 5-HT receptor agonists and antagonists in conjunction with either acute fluid depletion or 24-h sodium depletion. Following these treatments, access to 0.3 M NaCl was provided and the intakes of saline and water were measured for the next 2 h. Bilateral injections of the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, ketanserin or the 5-HT2C receptor antagonist, mianserin into the LPBN increased 0.3 M NaCl intake without affecting water intake induced by acute fluid-depletion. Bilateral injections of the 5-HT2B receptor agonist, BW723C86 hydrochloride, had no effect on 0.3 M NaCl or water intake under these conditions. Treatment of the LPBN with the 5-HT2B/2C receptor agonist, 2-(2-methyl-4-clorophenoxy) propanoic acid (mCPP) caused dose-related reductions in 0.3 M NaCl intake after 24 h sodium depletion. The effects of mCPP were prevented by pretreating the LPBN with the 5-HT2B/2C receptor antagonist, SDZSER082. Activation of 5-HT3 receptors by the receptor agonist, 1-phenylbiguanide (PBG) caused dose-related increases in 0.3 M NaCl intake. Pretreatment of the LPBN with the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, 1-methyl-N-[8-methyl-8-azabicyclo (3.2.1)-oct-3-yl]-1H-indazole-3-carboxamide (LY-278,584) abolished the effects of PBG, but LY-278,584 had no effects on sodium or water intake when injected by itself. PBG injected into the LPBN did not alter intake of palatable 0.06 M sucrose in fluid replete rats. The results suggest that activation of the 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptor subtypes inhibits sodium ingestion. In contrast, activation of the 5-HT3 receptor subtype increases sodium ingestion. Therefore, multiple serotonergic receptor subtypes in the LPBN are implicated in the control of sodium intake, sometimes by mediating opposite effects of 5-HT. The results provide new information concerning the control of sodium intake by LPBN mechanisms.
Nicotine, the major psychoactive ingredient in tobacco interacting with nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR), is believed to have neuroprotective and neurotoxic effects on the developing brain. Neurotoxicity has been attributed to activation of homomeric alpha7 nAChRs, neuroprotection to heteromeric alpha4beta2 nAChRs. Thus, developmental nicotine could have opposite effects in different brain regions, depending on nAChR subtype expression. Here, we determined if chronic neonatal nicotine exposure (CNN), during a period of brain growth corresponding to the third human trimester, differentially regulates nAChR expression, cell death, and morphological properties in hippocampus and cerebellum, two structures maturing postnatally. Rat pups were orally treated with 6 mg/kg/day nicotine from postnatal day (P)1 to P7. On P8, expression for alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 mRNA was determined by in situ hybridization; nAChR binding sites by receptor autoradiography, dying neurons by TUNEL and Fluoro-Jade staining and morphological properties by analysis of Cresyl Violet-stained sections. In control cerebellum, strong expression of alpha4, beta2 mRNA and heteromeric nAChRs labeled with [125I]-epibatidine was found in granule cells, and alpha7 mRNA and homomeric nAChRs labeled with [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin were in the external germinal layer. In control hippocampus, low expression of alpha4 mRNA and heteromeric nAChRs and high expression of alpha7 mRNA and homomeric nAChRs were detected. CNN increased heteromeric nAChR binding in hippocampus but not cerebellum and significantly decreased neuronal soma size and increased packing density in hippocampal principal cells but not in cerebellum. CNN did not increase the number of dying cells in any area, but significantly fewer TUNEL-labeled cells were found in CA3 strata oriens and radiatum and cerebellar granule layer. Thus, the hippocampus seems to be more sensitive than the cerebellum to CNN which could result from different nAChR subtype expression and might explain long-lasting altered cognitive functions correlated with gestational nicotine exposure due to changes in hippocampal cell morphology.
Estrogen has received considerable attention as a potential therapeutic agent against various forms of neurodegenerative diseases including stroke. Experimental data in animal models of stroke have provided exhaustive evidence of the neuroprotective properties of this steroid hormone. Our laboratory in particular has demonstrated that acute estrogen treatment in male rats significantly reduced (approximately 50%) ischemic cell death within 4 h following permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms implicated in the protective actions of estrogen in this experimental model have yet to be elucidated. Accumulating evidence suggests that in various in vivo and in vitro models, estrogen can be pro-apoptotic and that this effect may be mediated by an estrogen-induced up-regulation of the Fas/FasL system and the subsequent activation of caspase-12. We therefore hypothesized that under ischemic conditions following MCAO, estrogen would up-regulate protective endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathways leading to caspase-12 activation, thus limiting infarct volume. Our results showed that estrogen significantly increased activated caspase-12 at 2, 3 and 4 h post-MCAO. Immunostaining of brain sections showed a significantly higher number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labeling positive cells in estrogen-treated animals at 4 h, but not at 2 h, post-MCAO. These findings correlate with previous observations that differences in infarct volume between saline and estrogen-treated animals are not seen until 3 and 4 h post-MCAO. A decrease in m-calpain expression was observed in the infarct region only at 4 h post-MCAO following estrogen pre-treatment, suggesting m-calpain may not be involved in regulating estrogen-induced caspase-12 activation. Based on these cellular changes correlated to estrogen pretreatment, we conclude that estrogen may up-regulate ER-specific apoptotic pathways, thus limiting the extent of necrotic cell death which is responsible for the spreading depression and growth of the infarct volume following MCAO.
Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) is a behavioural response essential to the survival of an individual. The combination of taste and odour of most foods provides a strong conditioned stimulus (CS) for an animal to respond in an appropriate way to any harmful unconditioned stimuli (US) that follow. The most widely used conditioned stimuli are drinkable sweet solutions, such as saccharin and sucrose. CTA-like responses are also found for environmental unconditioned stimuli, but these usually take longer training. In the present study, the aversive nature of a duodenal distention with an implanted balloon catheter was studied in freely moving rats using either CTA against a sucrose solution, or a light-dark passive avoidance (PA) paradigm. In addition, the effect of spinal morphine on CTA and the cardiovascular response to duodenal distention were studied. CTA could be induced by a single, but long-lasting 20-minute duodenal distention, which did not induce PA behaviour in a light-dark box. Spinal infusion of morphine alone induced CTA, suggesting that the model is unsuitable to investigate spinal pharmacological modulation of visceral pain. Spinal morphine did reduce the cardiovascular response to duodenal distention, strengthening its validity as a visceral pain model. Since CTA is a complicating factor in the field of chemotherapy in cancer patients and spinal morphine causes nausea and vomiting in humans, CTA may also complicate spinal drug treatment or anaesthesia.

Knockout studies have shown that the polycomb gene Bmi-1 is important for postnatal, but not embryonic, neural stem cell (NSC) self-renewal and have identified the cell-cycle inhibitors p16/p19 as molecular targets. Here, using lentiviral-delivered shRNAs in vitro and in vivo, we determined that Bmi-1 is also important for NSC self-renewal in the embryo. We found that neural progenitors depend increasingly on Bmi-1 for proliferation as development proceeds from embryonic through adult stages. Acute shRNA-mediated Bmi-1 reduction causes defects in embryonic and adult NSC proliferation and self-renewal that, unexpectedly, are mediated by a different cell-cycle inhibitor, p21. Gene array analyses revealed developmental differences in Bmi-1-controlled expression of genes in the p21-Rb cell cycle regulatory pathway. Our data therefore implicate p21 as an important Bmi-1 target in NSCs, potentially with stage-related differences. Understanding stage-related mechanisms underlying NSC self-renewal has important implications for development of stem cell-based therapies.
The recent increase in activity in the fields of neuroscience and life sciences has been mirrored by the design and synthesis of novel chemically and metabolically stable prostaglandin and prostacyclin analogues. Consequently, convenient and practical access to these important classes of compounds is greatly coveted. Various strategies for the preparation of prostacyclin, prostaglandin and isoprostane analogues are discussed, with particular focus on novel approaches developed in our own laboratories.
microRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small, noncoding RNAs that regulate the stability or translation of mRNA transcripts. Although recent work has implicated miRNAs in development and in disease, the expression and function of miRNAs in the adult mammalian nervous system have not been extensively characterized. Here, we examine the role of two brain-specific miRNAs, miR-219 and miR-132, in modulating the circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. miR-219 is a target of the CLOCK and BMAL1 complex, exhibits robust circadian rhythms of expression, and the in vivo knockdown of miR-219 lengthens the circadian period. miR-132 is induced by photic entrainment cues via a MAPK/CREB-dependent mechanism, modulates clock-gene expression, and attenuates the entraining effects of light. Collectively, these data reveal miRNAs as clock- and light-regulated genes and provide a mechanistic examination of their roles as effectors of pacemaker activity and entrainment.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) have emerged as key activity-dependent signals that, by activating presynaptic cannabinoid receptors (i.e., CB1) coupled to G(i/o) protein, can mediate short-term and long-term synaptic depression (LTD). While the presynaptic mechanisms underlying eCB-dependent short-term depression have been identified, the molecular events linking CB1 receptors to LTD are unknown. Here we show in the hippocampus that long-term, but not short-term, eCB-dependent depression of inhibitory transmission requires presynaptic cAMP/PKA signaling. We further identify the active zone protein RIM1alpha as a key mediator of both CB1 receptor effects on the release machinery and eCB-dependent LTD in the hippocampus. Moreover, we show that eCB-dependent LTD in the amygdala and hippocampus shares major mechanistic features. These findings reveal the signaling pathway by which CB1 receptors mediate long-term effects of eCBs in two crucial brain structures. Furthermore, our results highlight a conserved mechanism of presynaptic plasticity in the brain.
NGF controls survival, differentiation, and target innervation of both peptidergic and nonpeptidergic DRG sensory neurons. The common receptor for GDNF family ligands, Ret, is highly expressed in nonpeptidergic neurons, but its function during development of these neurons is unclear. Here, we show that expression of Ret and its coreceptors GFRalpha1 and GFRalpha2 is dependent on NGF. GFR/Ret signaling, in turn, autoregulates expression of both GFRalpha1 and GFRalpha2 and promotes expression of TrpA1, MrgA1, MrgA3, and MrgB4, acquisition of normal neuronal size, axonal innervation of the epidermis, and postnatal extinction of the NGF receptor TrkA. Moreover, NGF controls expression of several other genes characteristic of nonpeptidergic neurons, such as TrpC3, TrpM8, MrgD, and the transcription factor Runx1, via a Ret-independent signaling pathway. These findings support a model in which NGF controls maturation of nonpeptidergic DRG neurons through a combination of GFR/Ret-dependent and -independent signaling pathways.
We are still far from reaching a complete understanding of the molecular mechanisms that control neuronal diversification during nervous system development. In this issue of Neuron, Luo et al. bring that goal a step closer by revealing how a hierarchical interaction between two neurotrophic factor systems drives the differentiation, maturation, and extension of peripheral projections in a subclass of sensory neurons that mediate pain perception.
A number of hormones, including leptin, have been shown to inhibit food intake in humans and animals. Analogues of 3-guanidinopropionic acid have also been found to reduce total food intake, but their mechanisms of action have not been well studied. The present study investigated the effects of intracerebroventricular infusion of the analogue BVT.3531 on food intake, meal pattern, and body weight in rats during 7 days. Single channel recordings from arcuate neurons and insulinoma cells were used to determine the effects of BVT.3531 on K(ATP) activity. Data analysis showed that BVT.3531 significantly decreased body weight and food intake, primarily by reducing meal size. BVT.3531 activated K(ATP) channels in cell-attached recordings from insulin-secreting cells and rat arcuate neurons but had no effect on K(ATP) channel activity in inside-out membrane patches from either cell type. BVT.3531 did not alter the firing rate or K(+) channel activity of arcuate neurons devoid of K(ATP). The study suggests that small molecules capable of mimicking the effects of leptin on food intake and body weight may utilize output mechanisms similar to those of leptin to elicit changes in arcuate neuron excitability.
The evolutionarily conserved Par-3/Par-6/aPKC complex is essential for the establishment and maintenance of polarity of a wide range of cells. Both Par-3 and Par-6 are PDZ domain containing scaffold proteins capable of binding to polarity regulatory proteins. In addition to three PDZ domains, Par-3 also contains a conserved N-terminal oligomerization domain (NTD) that is essential for proper subapical membrane localization and consequently the functions of Par-3. The molecular basis of NTD-mediated Par-3 membrane localization is poorly understood. Here, we describe the structure of a monomeric form of the Par-3 NTD. Unexpectedly, the domain adopts a PB1-like fold with both type-I and type-II structural features. The Par-3 NTD oligomerizes into helical filaments via front-to-back interactions. We further demonstrate that the NTD-mediated membrane localization of Par-3 in MDCK cells is solely attributed to its oligomerization capacity. The data presented in this study suggest that the Par-3 NTD is likely to facilitate the assembly of higher-order Par-3/Par-6/aPKC complex with increased avidities in targeting the complex to the subapical membrane domain and in binding to other polarity-regulating proteins.
Dystrophic neurites are swollen dendrites or axons recognizable near amyloid plaques as a part of important pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We report herein that reticulon 3 (RTN3) is accumulated in a distinct population of dystrophic neurites named as RTN3 immunoreactive dystrophic neurites (RIDNs). The occurrence of RIDNs is concomitant with the formation of high-molecular-weight RTN3 aggregates in brains of AD cases and mice expressing mutant APP. Ultrastructural analysis confirms accumulation of RTN3-containing aggregates in RIDNs. It appears that the protein level of RTN3 governs the formation of RIDNs because transgenic mice expressing RTN3 will develop RIDNs, initially in the hippocampal CA1 region, and later in other hippocampal and cortical regions. Importantly, we show that the presence of dystrophic neurites in Tg-RTN3 mice causes impairments in spatial learning and memory, as well as synaptic plasticity, implying that RIDNs potentially contribute to AD cognitive dysfunction. Together, we demonstrate that aggregation of RTN3 contributes to AD pathogenesis by inducing neuritic dystrophy. Inhibition of RTN3 aggregation is likely a therapeutic approach for reducing neuritic dystrophy.
A key component of spatial navigation is the ability to use visual information to ascertain where one is located and how one is oriented in the world. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the neural correlates of this phenomenon in humans. Subjects were scanned while retrieving different kinds of topographical and nontopographical information in response to visual scenes. In the three critical conditions, they viewed images of a familiar college campus, and reported either the location of the place depicted in the image (location task), the compass direction that the camera was facing when the image was taken (orientation task), or whether the location was on campus or not (familiarity task). Our analyses focused on the retrosplenial cortex (RSC)/parietal-occipital sulcus region and the parahippocampal place area (PPA), which previous studies indicate play a critical role in place recognition. RSC activity depended on the type of information retrieved, with the strongest response in the location task. In contrast, PPA activity did not depend on the retrieval task. Additional analyses revealed a strong effect of familiarity in RSC but not in the PPA, with the former region responding much more strongly to images of the familiar campus than to images of an unfamiliar campus. These results suggest that the PPA and RSC play distinct but complementary roles in place recognition. In particular, the PPA may primarily support perception of the immediate scene, whereas RSC may support memory retrieval mechanisms that allow the scene to be localized within the broader spatial environment.
Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors increase histone acetylation and enhance both memory and synaptic plasticity. The current model for the action of HDAC inhibitors assumes that they alter gene expression globally and thus affect memory processes in a nonspecific manner. Here, we show that the enhancement of hippocampus-dependent memory and hippocampal synaptic plasticity by HDAC inhibitors is mediated by the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and the recruitment of the transcriptional coactivator and histone acetyltransferase CREB-binding protein (CBP) via the CREB-binding domain of CBP. Furthermore, we show that the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A does not globally alter gene expression but instead increases the expression of specific genes during memory consolidation. Our results suggest that HDAC inhibitors enhance memory processes by the activation of key genes regulated by the CREB:CBP transcriptional complex.
A central question is how various stages of neuronal development are integrated as a differentiation program. Here we show that the nuclear factor I (NFI) family of transcriptional regulators is expressed and functions throughout the postmitotic development of cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Expression of an NFI dominant repressor in CGN cultures blocked axon outgrowth and dendrite formation and decreased CGN migration. Inhibition of NFI transactivation also disrupted extension and fasciculation of parallel fibers as well as CGN migration to the internal granule cell layer in cerebellar slices. In postnatal day 17 Nfia-deficient mice, parallel fibers were greatly diminished and disoriented, CGN dendrite formation was dramatically impaired, and migration from the external germinal layer (EGL) was retarded. Axonal marker expression also was disrupted within the EGL of embryonic day 18 Nfib-null mice. NFI regulation of axon extension was observed under conditions of homotypic cell contact, implicating cell surface proteins as downstream mediators of its actions in CGNs. Consistent with this, the cell adhesion molecules ephrin B1 and N-cadherin were identified as NFI gene targets in CGNs using inhibitor and Nfi mutant analysis as well as chromatin immunoprecipitation. Functional inhibition of ephrin B1 or N-cadherin interfered with CGN axon extension and guidance, migration, and dendritogenesis in cell culture as well as in situ. These studies define NFI as a key regulator of postmitotic CGN development, in particular of axon formation, dendritogenesis, and migratory behavior. Furthermore, they reveal how a single transcription factor family can control and integrate multiple aspects of neuronal differentiation through the regulation of cell adhesion molecules.

Extensive evidence indicates that the septum plays a predominant role in fear learning, yet the direction of this control is still a matter of debate. Increasing data suggest that the medial (MS) and lateral septum (LS) would be differentially required in fear conditioning depending on whether a discrete conditional stimulus (CS) predicts, or not, the occurrence of an aversive unconditional stimulus (US). Here, using a tone CS-US pairing (predictive discrete CS, context in background) or unpairing (context in foreground) conditioning procedure, we show, in mice, that pretraining inactivation of the LS totally disrupted tone fear conditioning, which, otherwise, was spared by inactivation of the MS. Inactivating the LS also reduced foreground contextual fear conditioning, while sparing the higher level of conditioned freezing to the foreground (CS-US unpairing) than to the background context (CS-US pairing). In contrast, inactivation of the MS totally abolished this training-dependent level of contextual freezing. Interestingly, inactivation of the MS enhanced background contextual conditioning under the pairing condition, whereas it reduced foreground contextual conditioning under the unpairing condition. Hence, the present findings reveal a functional dissociation between the LS and the MS in Pavlovian fear conditioning depending on the predictive value of the discrete CS. While the requirement of the LS is crucial for the appropriate processing of the tone CS-US association, the MS is crucial for an appropriate processing of contextual cues as foreground or background information.
Previous reports have shown that overexpression of the growth- and plasticity-associated protein GAP-43 improves memory. However, the relation between the levels of this protein to memory enhancement remains unknown. Here, we studied this issue in transgenic mice (G-Phos) overexpressing native, chick GAP-43. These G-Phos mice could be divided at the behavioral level into &quot;spatial bright&quot; and &quot;spatial dull&quot; groups based on their performance on two hidden platform water maze tasks. G-Phos dull mice showed both acquisition and retention deficits on the fixed hidden platform task, but were able to learn a visible platform task. G-Phos bright mice showed memory enhancement relative to wild type on the more difficult movable hidden platform spatial memory task. In the hippocampus, the G-Phos dull group showed a 50% greater transgenic GAP-43 protein level and a twofold elevated transgenic GAP-43 mRNA level than that measured in the G-Phos bright group. Unexpectedly, the dull group also showed an 80% reduction in hippocampal Tau1 staining. The high levels of GAP-43 seen here leading to memory impairment find its histochemical and behavioral parallel in the observation of Rekart et al. (Neuroscience 126: 579-584) who described elevated levels of GAP-43 protein in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's patients. The present data suggest that moderate overexpression of a phosphorylatable plasticity-related protein can enhance memory, while excessive overexpression may produce a &quot;neuroplasticity burden&quot; leading to degenerative and hypertrophic events culminating in memory dysfunction.
Among different forms of persistent pain, neuropathic pain presents as a most difficult task for basic researchers and clinicians. Despite recent rapid development of neuroscience and modern techniques related to drug discovery, effective drugs based on clear basic mechanisms are still lacking. Here, I will review the basic neuronal mechanisms that maybe involved in neuropathic pain. I will present the problem of neuropathic pain as a rather difficult task for neuroscientists, and we may have to wait for a long time before we fully understand how brain encode, store, and retrieve painful information after the injury. I propose that neuropathic pain as a major brain disease, rather being a clinic problem due to peripheral injury.

Once a virus infection establishes persistence in the central nervous system (CNS), it is especially difficult to eliminate from this specialized compartment. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance to fully understand scenarios during which a persisting virus is ultimately purged from the CNS by the adaptive immune system. Such a scenario can be found following infection of adult mice with an immunosuppressive variant of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) referred to as clone 13. In this study we demonstrate that following intravenous inoculation, clone 13 rapidly infected peripheral tissues within one week, but more slowly innundated the entire brain parenchyma over the course of a month. During the establishment of persistence, we observed that genetically tagged LCMV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) progressively lost function; however, the severity of this loss in the CNS was never as substantial as that observed in the periphery. One of the most impressive features of this model system is that the peripheral T cell response eventually regains functionality at ~60-80 days post-infection, and this was associated with a rapid decline in virus from the periphery. Coincident with this &quot;reanimation phase&quot; was a massive influx of CD4 T and B cells into the CNS and a dramatic reduction in viral distribution. In fact, olfactory bulb neurons served as the last refuge for the persisting virus, which was ultimately purged from the CNS within 200 days post-infection. These data indicate that a functionally revived immune response can prevail over a virus that establishes widespread presence both in the periphery and brain parenchyma, and that therapeutic enhancement of an existing response could serve as an effective means to thwart long term CNS persistence.
Cystinosis is a recessive genetic metabolic disorder in which the amino acid cystine accumulates in various organs of the body. Previous studies have demonstrated visuospatial dysfunction in children and adults with this disorder. It is not known whether this is a result of the genetic alteration or an accumulation of cystine in the brain over time. This study investigated patterns of performance in 20 young children with cystinosis (4-7 years) and 20 matched controls on the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-Third Edition (WPPSI-III). The children with cystinosis had a mean Full Scale IQ at the low end of the average range. Their overall cognitive functioning was comprised of average verbal abilities, low average non-verbal abilities, and low average processing speed. Multivariate analyses indicated that the cystinosis and control groups were not significantly different on the verbal subtests. In contrast, the cystinosis group performed significantly more poorly than controls on the performance and processing speed subtests. Although overall intellectual function was in the normal range, young children with cystinosis demonstrated a discrepancy such that non-verbal abilities were poorer relative to verbal abilities. This pattern resembles the cognitive profile found previously in older individuals with cystinosis and indicates that the specific cognitive profile emerges early in development. These findings suggest that the cognitive dysfunction in cystinosis is not merely the result of cystine accumulation over time but may be related to differences in brain development as a consequence of alterations or deletions of the cystinosin gene.
The association between the 10-repeat allele of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is uncertain. This study aimed to conduct a meta-analysis of the association between the 10-repeat allele of a variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of the DAT1 gene and ADHD. We pooled up 18 published transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) studies between the 40-base pair VNTR polymorphism in the3'-UTR of the DAT1 gene and ADHD. It included a total of 1,373 informative meioses, 7 haplotype-based haplotype relative risk (HHRR) studies, and 6 case-control-based association studies. There were statistically significant evidences for heterogeneity of the odds ratio in TDT and HHRR studies (P &lt; 0.10), but not in case-control studies. The results of random effects model showed small but significant association between ADHD and the DAT1 gene in TDT studies (OR = 1.17, 95% CI = 1.05-1.30, chi-square = 8.11, df = 1, P = 0.004), but not in HHRR and case-control studies. The 10-repeat allele of a VNTR polymorphism in the 3'-UTR the DAT1 gene has a small but significant role in the genetic susceptibility of ADHD. These meta-analysis findings support the involvement of the dopamine system genes in ADHD liability variation. However, more work is required to further identify the functional allelic variants/mutations that are responsible for this association.
Epidemiological evidence supports the existence of a possible link between type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). Polymorphisms from candidate genes for T2DM were genotyped in a two-stage approach to identify novel risk factors for LOAD. One hundred fifty-two polymorphisms were initially genotyped in a case:control cohort: nine SNPs showed individual association with disease status under at least one genetic model, while an additional two SNPs showed a haplotype association. In a replication study, we confirmed significant association of SNPs within three genes--PPARgamma, SOS2, and PCK1--with Alzheimer's disease. In particular, our data suggest that the effect of variants within these genes might be influenced by gender.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor, cognitive, and psychiatric symptoms and by a progressive degeneration of neurons in basal ganglia and in brain cortex. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a pro-survival factor for striatal neurons. Some evidence implicates a brain BDNF deficiency, related to mutated huntingtin expression, in the selective vulnerability of striatal neurons in HD. We compared BDNF serum levels in 42 patients with HD (range 28-72 years, mean age 51.9 +/- 11.5), and 42 age-matched healthy subjects (range 25-68 years, mean age 48.2 +/- 12.5). We evaluated the potential relationship between BDNF serum levels, CAG repeat number (range 40-54, mean 44.8 +/- 3.4) and duration of illness (range 6-228 months, mean 103.6 +/- 62.1). Serum BDNF levels were significantly lower in patients than in age-matched healthy subjects. Lower BDNF levels were associated with a longer CAG repeat length and a longer duration of illness. Severity of the illness, as assessed by the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS) motor and cognitive scores, was negatively related to serum BDNF levels. These results in vivo confirm that the huntingtin mutation causes BDNF production to decline and show that the BDNF deficiency is detectable in HD patients' sera. Further studies on a larger sample size should confirm whether BDNF concentrations in patients' serum could be a useful clinical marker related to the patients' disease phenotype.

Listening to speech amidst noise is facilitated by a variety of cues, including the predictable use of certain words in certain contexts. A recent fMRI study of the interaction between noise and semantic predictability has identified a cortical network involved in speech comprehension.
Newly described visual interneurons in flies have sophisticated receptive field properties reminiscent of neurons in the mammalian visual cortex. The cells are well-suited to compute motion of conspecific females that male flies aerially intercept.
It is twenty-five years since the posthumous publication of David Marr's book Vision[1]. Only 35 years old when he died, Marr had already dramatically influenced vision research. His book, and the series of papers that preceded it, have had a lasting impact on the way that researchers approach human and computer vision.
In area CA1 of hippocampal slices, a single 1-sec train of 100-Hz stimulation generally triggers a short-lasting long-term potentiation (S-LTP) of 1-2 h. Here, we found that when such a train was applied 45 min after application of the small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+ )(SK) channel blocker apamin, it induced a long-lasting LTP (L-LTP) of several hours, instead of an S-LTP. Apamin-induced SK channel blockage is known to resist washing. Nevertheless, the aforementioned effect is not a mere delayed effect; it is metaplastic. Indeed, when a single train was delivered to the Schaffer's collaterals during apamin application, it induced an S-LTP, like in the control situation. At the moment of this LTP induction (15th min of apamin application), the SK channel blockage was nevertheless complete. Indeed, at that time, under the influence of apamin, the amplitude of the series of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) triggered by a stimulation train was increased. We found that the metaplastic effect of apamin on LTP was crucially dependent on the NO-synthase pathway, whereas the efficacy of the NMDA receptors was not modified at the time of its occurrence. We also found that apamin produced an increase in paired-pulse facilitation not during, but after, the application of the drug. Finally, we found that the induction of each of these two metaplastic phenomena was mediated by NMDA receptors. A speculative unitary hypothesis to explain these phenomena is proposed.
Corticotropin-releasing factor receptor CRF1 has been implicated in the neurobiological mechanisms of anxiety and depression. The amygdala plays an important role in affective states and disorders such as anxiety and depression. The amygdala is also emerging as a neural substrate of pain affect. However, the involvement of the amygdala in the interaction of pain and anxiety remains to be determined. This study tested the hypothesis that CRF1 receptors in the amygdala are critically involved in pain-related anxiety. Anxiety-like behavior was determined in adult male rats using the elevated plus maze (EPM) test. The open-arm preference (ratio of open arm entries to the total number of entries) was measured. Nocifensive behavior was assessed by measuring hindlimb withdrawal thresholds for noxious mechanical stimulation of the knee. Measurements were made in normal rats and in rats with arthritis induced in one knee by intraarticular injections of kaolin/carrageenan. A selective CRF1 receptor antagonist (NBI27914) or vehicle was administered systemically (i.p.) or into the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA, by microdialysis). The arthritis group showed a decreased preference for the open arms in the EPM and decreased hindlimb withdrawal thresholds. Systemic or intraamygdalar (into the CeA) administration of NBI27914, but not vehicle, inhibited anxiety-like behavior and nocifensive pain responses, nearly reversing the arthritis pain-related changes. This study shows for the first time that CRF1 receptors in the amygdala contribute critically to pain-related anxiety-like behavior and nocifensive responses in a model of arthritic pain. The results are a direct demonstration that the clinically well-documented relationship between pain and anxiety involves the amygdala.
In dopaminoceptive neurons, dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) plays a central role in integrating the effects of dopamine and other neurotransmitters. Phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr-34 by protein kinase A results in inhibition of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), and phosphorylation at Thr-75 by Cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5) results in inhibition of protein kinase A. Dephosphorylation at Thr-34 involves primarily the Ca(2+)-dependent protein phosphatase, PP2B (calcineurin), whereas dephosphorylation of Thr-75 involves primarily PP2A, the latter being subject to control by both cAMP- and Ca(2+)-dependent regulatory mechanisms. In the present study, we have investigated the mechanism of Ca(2+)-dependent regulation of Thr-75 by PP2A. We show that the PR72 (or B'' or PPP2R3A) regulatory subunit of PP2A is highly expressed in striatum. Through the use of overexpression and down-regulation by using RNAi, we show that PP2A, in a heterotrimeric complex with the PR72 subunit, mediates Ca(2+)-dependent dephosphorylation at Thr-75 of DARPP-32. The PR72 subunit contains two Ca(2+) binding sites formed by E and F helices (EF-hands 1 and 2), and we show that the former is necessary for the ability of PP2A activity to be regulated by Ca(2+), both in vitro and in vivo. Our studies also indicate that the PR72-containing form of PP2A is necessary for the ability of glutamate acting at alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid and NMDA receptors to regulate Thr-75 dephosphorylation. These studies further our understanding of the complex signal transduction pathways that regulate DARPP-32. In addition, our studies reveal an alternative intracellular mechanism whereby Ca(2+) can activate serine/threonine phosphatase activity.
Classic hallucinogens such as lysergic acid diethylamide are thought to elicit their psychotropic actions via serotonin receptors of the 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A subtype (5-HT(2A)R). One likely site for these effects is the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Previous studies have shown that activation of 5-HT(2A)Rs in this region results in a robust increase in spontaneous glutamatergic synaptic activity, and these results have led to the widely held idea that hallucinogens elicit their effect by modulating synaptic transmission within the PFC. Here, we combine cellular and molecular biological approaches, including single-cell 5-HT(2A)Rs inactivation and 5-HT(2A)R rescue over a 5-HT(2A)R knockout genetic background, to distinguish between competing hypotheses accounting for these effects. The results from these experiments do not support the idea that 5-HT(2A)Rs elicit the release of an excitatory retrograde messenger nor that they activate thalamocortical afferents, the two dominant hypotheses. Rather, they suggest that 5-HT(2A)Rs facilitate intrinsic networks within the PFC. Consistent with this idea, we locate a discrete subpopulation of pyramidal cells that is strongly excited by 5-HT(2A)R activation.
It has been generally assumed that the cell body (soma) of a neuron, which contains the nucleus, is mainly responsible for synthesis of macromolecules and has a limited role in cell-to-cell communication. Using sniffer patch recordings, we show here that electrical stimulation of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons elicits robust vesicular ATP release from their somata. The rate of release events increases with the frequency of nerve stimulation; external Ca(2+) entry is required for the release. FM1-43 photoconversion analysis further reveals that small clear vesicles participate in exocytosis. In addition, the released ATP activates P2X7 receptors in satellite cells that enwrap each DRG neuron and triggers the communication between neuronal somata and glial cells. Blocking L-type Ca(2+) channels completely eliminates the neuron-glia communication. We further show that activation of P2X7 receptors can lead to the release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) from satellite cells. TNFalpha in turn potentiates the P2X3 receptor-mediated responses and increases the excitability of DRG neurons. This study provides strong evidence that somata of DRG neurons actively release transmitters and play a crucial role in bidirectional communication between neurons and surrounding satellite glial cells. These results also suggest that, contrary to the conventional view, neuronal somata have a significant role in cell-cell signaling.
Throughout history and across cultures, humans have created music using pitch intervals that divide octaves into the 12 tones of the chromatic scale. Why these specific intervals in music are preferred, however, is not known. In the present study, we analyzed a database of individually spoken English vowel phones to examine the hypothesis that musical intervals arise from the relationships of the formants in speech spectra that determine the perceptions of distinct vowels. Expressed as ratios, the frequency relationships of the first two formants in vowel phones represent all 12 intervals of the chromatic scale. Were the formants to fall outside the ranges found in the human voice, their relationships would generate either a less complete or a more dilute representation of these specific intervals. These results imply that human preference for the intervals of the chromatic scale arises from experience with the way speech formants modulate laryngeal harmonics to create different phonemes.
The feeling of body ownership is a fundamental aspect of self-consciousness. The underlying neural mechanisms can be studied by using the illusion where a person is made to feel that a rubber hand is his or her own hand by brushing the person's hidden real hand and synchronously brushing the artificial hand that is in full view. Here we show that threat to the rubber hand can induce a similar level of activity in the brain areas associated with anxiety and interoceptive awareness (insula and anterior cingulate cortex) as when the person's real hand is threatened. We further show that the stronger the feeling of ownership of the artificial hand, the stronger the threat-evoked neuronal responses in the areas reflecting anxiety. Furthermore, across subjects, activity in multisensory areas reflecting ownership predicted the activity in the interoceptive system when the hand was under threat. Finally, we show that there is activity in medial wall motor areas, reflecting an urge to withdraw the artificial hand when it is under threat. These findings suggest that artificial limbs can evoke the same feelings as real limbs and provide objective neurophysiological evidence that the rubber hand is fully incorporated into the body. These findings are of fundamental importance because they suggest that the feeling of body ownership is associated with changes in the interoceptive systems.
Male Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) treated with moderately high doses (5.0mg/kg/day) of anabolic/androgenic steroids (AAS) during adolescence (P27-P56) display highly escalated offensive aggression. The current study examined whether adolescent AAS-exposure influenced the immunohistochemical localization of phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of glutamate, a fast-acting neurotransmitter implicated in the modulation of aggression in various species and models of aggression, as well as glutamate receptor 1 subunit (GluR1). Hamsters were administered AAS during adolescence, scored for offensive aggression using the resident-intruder paradigm, and then examined for changes in PAG and GluR1 immunoreactivity in areas of the brain implicated in aggression control. When compared with sesame oil-treated control animals, aggressive AAS-treated hamsters displayed a significant increase in the number of PAG- and area density of GluR1-containing neurons in several notable aggression regions, although the differential pattern of expression did not appear to overlap across brain regions. Together, these results suggest that altered glutamate synthesis and GluR1 receptor expression in specific aggression areas may be involved in adolescent AAS-induced offensive aggression.
Learning and memory impairments associated with diabetes have been reproduced in rodent models of diabetes type I, but few studies have been performed in spontaneously type II diabetic rodents. The study of type II diabetic rats such as the Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rat is of advantage when characterizing the development of cognitive impairments specifically caused by the progression of the disease and not by its treatment. We thus hypothesized that GK rats might display learning impairments when compared to non-diabetic Wistar rats. In the present study, we employed a lever-press task, a behavioural paradigm which allows the study of response-reinforcement learning, discrimination of a rewarding lever (using a two-choice positional discrimination task), and the ability to increase operant behaviour when requirements for reward increase (using a progressive ratio [PR]). In parallel, locomotor activity was compared between strains to assess exploratory activity and behavioural habituation to a novel environment. Diabetic GK rats made significantly less lever-presses with increasing fixed ratios and, throughout the sessions, a trend for increased selection errors was observed in these animals. In addition, a significant reduction in the maximum number of lever-presses made by GK rats was observed during the PR sessions. Locomotor activity of GK rats was higher on the first day of exploration but significantly decreased with familiarization to the environment. The present results suggest that the diabetic-like symptomatology in GK rats led to a reduction of exploratory activity and of lever-pressing during fixed and progressive ratio schedules, likely caused by learning impairments.
Rats with either no treatment or administration of exogenous basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) received bilateral medial prefrontal cortical (mPFC) aspiration or sham lesions at postnatal day 3 (P3). FGF-2 was administered either prenatally at embryonic day 15.5 (PreFGF) or, postnatally (PostFGF) for 7 consecutive days beginning 1 day following surgery. As adults, animals were tested behaviorally at spatial navigation (Morris water task), and skilled reaching (Whishaw tray reaching task). Early lesions of the mPFC produced a significant reduction in both brain weight and cortical thickness in adulthood. Behaviorally, mPFC lesions resulted in deficits in the water maze and reaching task. Both pre- and postnatal FGF-2 facilitated recovery in the spatial navigation task. In contrast, FGF-2 was only effective in reducing the deficits in skilled forelimb movements when the FGF was given postnatal (i.e., postsurgery). Prenatal FGF-2 increased brain weight in the lesion animals, whereas postnatal FGF-2 increased cortical thickness in the lesion animals. It thus appears that FGF-2 can facilitate recovery from perinatal cortical injury, whether it is given during the period of neurogeneration (prenatally) or after the injury, although the mechanism of action is likely different for the pre- and postnatal administration.
Cycloheximide (CyX), a toxic antibiotic with a unique chemical structure generated by the actinomycete, Streptomyces griseus, has emerged as a primary focus of studies on mammalian bitter taste. Rats and mice avoid it at concentrations well below the thresholds for most bitter stimuli and T2R G-protein-coupled receptors specific for CyX with appropriate sensitivity are identified for those species. Like mouse and rat, golden hamsters, Mesocricetus auratus, also detected and rejected micromolar levels of CyX, although 1mM CyX failed to activate the hamster chorda tympani nerve. Hamsters showed an initial tolerance for 500microM CyX, but after that, avoidance of CyX dramatically increased, plasticity not reported for rat or mouse. As the hamster lineage branches well before division of the mouse-rat lineage in evolutionary time, differences between hamster and mouse-rat reactions to CyX are not surprising. Furthermore, unlike hamster LiCl-induced learned aversions, the induced CyX aversion neither specifically nor robustly generalized to other non-ionic bitter stimuli; and unlike adverse reactions to other chemosensory stimuli, aversions to CyX were not mollified by adding a sweetener. Thus, CyX is unlike other bitter stimuli. The gene for the high-affinity CyX receptor is a member of a cluster of five orthologous T2R genes that are likely rodent-specific; this &quot;CyX clade&quot; is found in the mouse, rat and probably hamster, but not in the human or rabbit genome. The rodent CyX-T2R interaction may be one of multiple lineage-specific stimulus-receptor interactions reflecting a response to a particular environmental toxin. The combination of T2R multiplicity, species divergence and gene duplication results in diverse ligands for multiple species-specific T2R receptors, which confounds definition of 'bitter' stimuli across species.
An earlier study done by Kas et al. [Kas MJ, van den Bos R, Baars AM, Lubbers M, Lesscher HM, Hillebrand JJ, et al. Mu-opioid receptor knockout mice show diminished food-anticipatory activity. Eur J Neurosci 2004;20(6):1624-32] suggested that mu opioid receptor (MOR) knockout mice have deficits in the motivational component rather than in the information processing component of learning. To substantiate this difference further, MOR knockout mice and wildtype littermates were tested in the Morris Water Maze (MWM), which allows for testing both components of learning. On traditional parameters for performance, no significant differences between genotypes were found. However, swimming velocity, indicative of motivation, decreased for MOR knockout mice during the course of training but not for wildtype mice. In contrast, probe trial performance was comparable between genotypes. Again, these results suggest normal information processing abilities but a decreased motivation in this MOR knockout mouse. Our conclusion is discussed in the light of other studies using MOR knockout mice that do find differences on information processing between genotypes in MWM performance.
Major depression is a highly prevalent mental disorder and environmental factors have been strongly implicated in its pathophysiology. Clinical studies have demonstrated that stress or depression can lead to atrophy and cell loss in the hippocampus. Studies of animal models of depression have suggested that reduced neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus might contribute to such structural changes and to the behavior of these animals. On the other hand, increased hippocampal neurogenesis can be induced by the administration of antidepressants or electroconvulsive seizure, suggesting that increased neurogenesis might be related to the treatment of depression. Thus, an enriched environment (EE), which also enhances neurogenesis, is expected to have therapeutic effects on depression-related behaviors. To investigate the effects of an EE during adulthood on these behaviors, we subjected adult mice housed in an EE for five weeks to behavioral tests. In an open field test, EE mice exhibited a decrease in the distance traveled and an increase in the amount of time spent in the center. The startle response was smaller in EE mice than in control mice. EE mice also showed reduced immobility time in a forced swim test. The immobility time in EE mice was approximately half that observed in mice treated with a tricyclic antidepressant, imipramine. In our experimental condition, increased survival of newborn cells was observed in EE mice by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled immunohistochemistry. Double-staining of BrdU and a mature neuron marker, NeuN, revealed that the majority of surviving cells were neurons. Our results suggest that EE, which enhanced the survival of newborn neurons, shows beneficial effects on behavioral despair and habituation to a novel environment.
In vitro patch-clamp recordings were made to study the membrane properties and synaptic connectivity of fast-spiking interneurons in rat ventral striatum. Using a whole-cell configuration in acutely prepared slices, fast-spiking interneurons were recognized based on their firing properties and their morphological phenotype was confirmed by immunocytochemistry. Membrane properties of fast-spiking interneurons were distinguished from those of medium-sized spiny neurons by their more depolarized resting membrane potential, lower action potential amplitude and shorter half-width, short spike repolarization time and deep spike afterhyperpolarization. Firing patterns of interneurons could be subdivided in a bursting and non-bursting mode. Simultaneous dual whole-cell recordings revealed a high degree of connectivity of fast-spiking interneurons to medium-sized spiny neurons via unidirectional synapses. Burst firing in fast-spiking interneurons that were presynaptic to medium-sized spiny neurons resulted in barrages of postsynaptic potentials showing an initial amplitude increment, rapidly followed by a decrement. In conclusion, ventral striatal fast-spiking interneurons can be clearly distinguished from medium-sized spiny neurons by their membrane properties and their firing patterns can be subdivided in bursting and non-bursting modes. Their synaptic connectivity to medium-sized spiny neurons is unidirectional and characterized by frequency-dependent, dynamic changes in postsynaptic amplitude.
Conditioned taste aversions (CTAs) may be acquired when an animal consumes a novel taste (conditioned stimulus; CS) and then experiences the symptoms of poisoning (unconditioned stimulus; US). Animals will later avoid the taste that was previously associated with malaise. Extinction of a CTA is observed following repeated, non-reinforced exposures to the CS and represents itself as a resumption of eating/drinking the once-avoided tastant. Spontaneous recovery (SR) of a CTA (a revival of the taste avoidance) occurs when the CS is offered after a latency period in which the CS was not presented. An initial study explored the experimental parameters required to produce a reliable SR following acquisition and extinction of a robust CTA in rats. A CTA was formed through 3 pairings of 0.3% oral saccharin (SAC) and 81 mg/kg i.p. lithium chloride (LiCl) followed by extinction training resulting in 90% reacceptance of SAC. After extinction training, some of the animals were also tested for SR of the CTA upon exposure to SAC following a 15-, 30-, or 60-day latency period of water drinking. We report here that latencies of 15, 30, or 60 days produced small, but reliable, SRs of the CTA--with longer latencies producing progressively more suppression of SAC consumption. A second study investigated changes in the amygdala (AMY), gustatory neocortex (GNC), and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) functioning during SR of a CTA. Using immunohistochemical methods, brain c-Fos protein expression was analyzed in rats that extinguished the CTA as well as those that exhibited SR of the CTA after a 30-day latency. Our previous studies indicated that the numbers of c-Fos-labeled neurons in GNC and mPFC is low following CTA acquisition and increase dramatically as rats fully extinguished the aversion. Here we report that cortical c-Fos protein expression declines significantly following SR of the CTA. Expression of c-Fos in basolateral AMY decreased significantly from EXT to SR, but control animals with an intact CTA also decreased significantly from a short-term CTA test to a long-term CTA test. Low levels of c-Fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CE) were observed throughout EXT with little change in expression detectable following SR. These measurements reflect the dynamic nature of brain activity during acquisition and extinction of a CTA and highlight an important role for cortical neurons in the brain reorganization that occurs during SR of a CTA. The data also suggest that certain sub-nuclei of the AMY may play a relatively minor role in SR of this defensive reaction to a learned fear.
Alcohols and volatile anesthetics modulate the function of cys-loop ligand-gated ion channels, binding to a putative site between transmembrane domains two and three. The extracellular linker between these two domains is important in the transduction of the gating signal from the glycine binding site to the channel gate. Although the anesthetic binding site is proposed to be in the same region throughout the cys-loop receptor family, the modulatory effects of these compounds depend on the receptor. A sequence comparison revealed an extra proline in the TM2-TM3 loop of the 5-HT3A receptor (5-HT3AR) that is not found in the glycine receptor (GlyR). We hypothesized that this proline residue could affect the size and orientation of the putative alcohol and anesthetic binding pocket and perhaps explain some of the differences in alcohol and anesthetic effects seen in this family of receptors. A lysine to proline mutation was introduced into the TM2-TM3 linker region at position 281 (K281P) of the alpha1 GlyR. Mutation at this residue did not affect thiol binding to residues in TM2 or TM3 and it does not appear that residue 281 constitutes part of the alcohol binding site. The K281P receptors displayed constitutive activity in the absence of glycine, and unlike wild-type receptors, this channel opening was antagonized by application of either volatile anesthetics or another GlyR modulator, zinc. Our data suggest that the TM2-TM3 extracellular loop plays a role in the transduction of signals generated by allosteric modulators in addition to gating signals that follow glycine binding.
The vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT2) packages pre-synaptic monoamines into vesicles. Previously, we generated mice hypomorphic for the VMAT2 gene (Slc18a2), which results in a approximately 95% reduction in VMAT2 protein, disrupted vesicular storage, severe depletion of striatal dopamine and mice with moderate motor behaviour deficits. Dopamine released from mid-brain dopamine neurons acts on post-synaptic type 1 (D1) and 2 (D2) receptors located on striatal medium spiny neurons to initiate a signalling cascade that leads to altered transcription factor activity, gene expression and neuronal activity. We investigated striatal gene expression changes in VMAT2hypo mice by quantitative real-time PCR and in situ hybridisation. Despite unaltered expression of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, there were dramatic alterations in striatal mRNAs encoding the neuropeptides substance P, dynorphin, enkephalin and cholecystokinin. The promoters of these genes are regulated by a combination of transcription factors that includes cAMP responsive element binding protein-1 (CREB) and c-Fos. Indeed, the changes in peptide mRNAs were associated with elevated expression of Creb1 and c-Fos. These data indicate that striatal dopamine depletion, as a consequence of deficient vesicular storage in this mouse, triggers a complex program of gene expression, consistent with this mouse being an excellent model of Parkinson's disease.
The accuracy of saccadic eye movements is maintained by saccadic adaptation. Post-saccadic visual feedback about the error between the target position and the saccade endpoint is crucial to the adaptive process. The present experiments examine the adaptation of saccades that select a new target object (between-object saccades) and that of saccades that would not aim for a selected target but execute a fixed motor vector (within-object saccades). We show that the post-saccadic visual error, induced by the intra-saccadic back step, leads to the adaptation of between-object saccades but not of within-object saccades. Furthermore, between-object saccade adaptation does not transfer to within-object saccades. These results suggest that saccadic adaptation depends on the selection of a precise target object.
Improgan, a congener of the H(2) antagonist cimetidine, produces non-opioid antinociception which is blocked by the CB(1) antagonist rimonabant, implying a cannabinoid mechanism of action. Since cannabinoids produce hypothermia as well as antinociception in rodents, the present study investigated the pharmacological activity of improgan on core body temperature and nociceptive (tail flick) responses. Improgan (60, 100 and 140 microg, intraventricular [ivt]) elicited significant decreases in core temperature 3-30 min following injection with a maximal hypothermic effect of -1.3 degrees C. Pretreatment with rimonabant (50 microg, ivt) produced a statistically significant but incomplete (29-42%) antagonism of improgan hypothermia. In control experiments, the CB(1) agonist CP-55,940 (37.9 microg, ivt) induced significant decreases in core temperature (-1.8 degrees C) 3-30 min following injection. However, unlike the case with improgan, pretreatment with rimonabant completely blocked CP-55,940 hypothermia. Furthermore, CP-55,940 and improgan elicited maximal antinociception over the same time course and dose ranges, and both effects were attenuated by rimonabant. These results show that, like cannabinoid agonists in the rat, improgan produces antinociception and hypothermia which is blocked by a CB(1) antagonist. Unlike cannabinoid agonists, however, improgan does not produce locomotor inhibition at antinociceptive doses. Additional experiments were performed to determine the effect of CC12, a recently discovered improgan antagonist which lacks affinity at CB(1) receptors. Pretreatment with CC12 (183 microg, ivt) produced complete inhibition of both the antinociception and the hypothermia produced by improgan, suggesting the possible role of an unknown improgan receptor in both of these effects.
We have previously reported in vivo preservation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, following treatment with physiological doses of melatonin, in a 6-hydroxydopamine model of Parkinson's disease. Based on these findings, we postulated that melatonin would similarly modulate the expression of TH in vitro. Therefore, using human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells which can differentiate into dopaminergic neurons following treatment with retinoic acid, we first examined whether these cells express melatonin receptors. Subsequently, the physiological dose-dependent effects of melatonin on TH expression were examined in both undifferentiated and differentiated cells. The novel detection of the G protein-coupled melatonin MT(1) receptor in SH-SY5Y cells by RT-PCR was confirmed by sequencing and Western blotting. In addition, following treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with melatonin (0.1-100 nM) for 24h, Western analysis revealed a significant increase in TH protein levels. A biphasic response, with significant increases in TH protein at 0.5 and 1 nM melatonin and a reversal at higher doses was seen in undifferentiated cells; whereas in differentiated cells, melatonin was effective at doses of 1 and 100 nM. These findings suggest a physiological role for melatonin in modulating TH expression, possibly via the MT(1) receptor.
The assumption of a novel high palatable food (a candied cherry) occurs concomitantly with an increase in the concentration of extra-cellular dopamine and its main metabolite 3,4-dihydroxy-phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) by about 45% in the dialysate obtained by intracerebral microdialysis from the shell of the nucleus accumbens of male rats. Such increase was reversed by SR 141716A (Rimonabant), a selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist (0.3 mg/kg i.p. and 1 mg/kg i.p.), which also reduces the assumption of the high palatable food, when given 15 min before exposure to the candied cherry. SR 141716A effects on extracellular dopamine and DOPAC were prevented by WIN 55,212-2 (0.3 mg/kg i.p.) or HU 210 (0.1 mg/kg i.p.) given 15 min before SR 141716A. The present results show for the first time that SR 141716A reduces the increase in extra-cellular dopamine induced by a novel high palatable food in the nucleus accumbens. This confirms that cannabinoid CB1 receptors play a key role in food intake and/or appetite and suggests that the mesolimbic dopaminergic system is involved at least in part, in the effects of cannabinoid receptor agonists and antagonists on food intake and/or appetite.
beta-Amyloid peptide 1-42 (A beta(1-42)) is generated from amyloid precursor protein (APP) and associated with neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). A beta(1-42) has been shown to be cytotoxic when incubated with cultured neurons. However, APP transgenic mice over-expressing A beta(1-42) do not show substantial loss of neurons, despite deficits in learning and memory. It is thus emerging that A beta(1-42)-induced memory deficits may involve subtler neuronal alternations leading to synaptic deficits, prior to frank neurodegeneration in AD brains. In this study, high content screen (HCS) microscopy, an advanced high-throughput cellular image processing and analysis technique, was utilized in establishing an in vitro model of A beta(1-42)-induced neurotoxicity utilizing rat neonatal primary cortical cells. Neurite outgrowth was found to be significantly reduced by A beta(1-42) (300 nM to 30 microM), but not by the scrambled control peptide control, in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, no reduction in the total number of neurons was observed. The A beta(1-42)-induced reduction of neurite outgrowth was attenuated by the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine and the alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) selective agonist PNU-282987. Interestingly, the alpha 7 nAChR antagonist methyllycaconitine also significantly prevented reduction in A beta(1-42)-induced neurite outgrowth. The observed neuroprotective effects could arise either from interference of A beta(1-42) interactions with alpha 7 nAChRs or by modification of receptor-mediated signaling pathways. Our studies demonstrate that reduction of neurite outgrowth may serve as a model representing A beta(1-42)-mediated neuritic and synaptic toxicity, which, in combination of HCS, provides a high-throughput cell-based assay that can be used to evaluate compounds with neuroprotective properties in neurons.
Enhancement of the glutamatergic excitatory synaptic transmission efficacy in the FeCl3 induced epilepsy model is associated with changes in the levels of glutamate and GABA transporter proteins. This study examined the effect of levetiracetam (LEV) on glutamate overflow and glutamate/GABA transporters expression in rats with epileptogenesis induced by the amygdalar injection of 1.0 microl of 100 mM FeCl3 (epileptic rat) and in control rats receiving amygdalar acidic saline injection (non-epileptic rat). In amygdalar acidic saline injected rats, 40 mM KCl-evoked glutamate overflow was significantly suppressed by both 32 and 100 microM LEV co-perfusion. In unilateral amygdalar FeCl3 injected rats, 32 microM LEV was ineffective, but the 100 microM LEV statistically suppressed glutamate overflow. Western blotting was employed to determine the hippocampal expression of glutamate/GABA transporters in epileptic or non-epileptic rats. The rats were treated for 14 days with 54 mg/kg LEV or vehicle intraperitoneally injection. Following 14 days of treatment, the ipsilateral hippocampus was removed for a Western blot analysis. In non-epileptic rats, the expression increased for all of the glutamate and GABA transporters (GLAST, GLT-1, EAAC-1, GAT-1 and GAT-3) while the glutamate transporter regulating protein (GTRAP3-18) decreased in comparison to those of normal rats that were treated with the vehicle. In epileptic rats receiving LEV, the EAAC-1 and GAT-3 levels increased while GTRAP3-18 (89%) decreased in comparison to those of the epileptic rats treated with the vehicle. GTRAP3-18 inhibitor regulates glutamate-binding affinity to EAAC-1. The anti-epileptic action of LEV may be partially due to a reduction of glutamate-induced excitotoxicity and an enhancement of the GABAergic inhibition as observed with the inhibitory effect on the 40 mM KCl-evoked glutamate overflow. These conclusions are supported by the increase in the expression of glial glutamate transporters (GLAST and GLT-1), and the increase in the expression of EAAC-1 and GAT-3 associated with a decrease in GTRAP3-18. The increased expression of EAAC-1 and the decreased expression of GTRAP3-18 in association with the up-regulation of GAT-3 due to such continual LEV administration was thus found to enhance GABA synthesis and reverse the transport of GABA both in non-epileptic and epileptic rats. The suppression of glutamate excitation and the enhancement of GABA inhibition in the rats with continual LEV administration is a result of the up-regulation of glutamate and GABA transporters with the down-regulation of GTRAP3-18. These observations together demonstrated the critical molecular mechanism of the anti-epileptic activity of LEV.
We investigated the event-related power decrease (event-related desynchronization: ERD) of the alpha bands associated with the anticipation of affective images. Participants (n=19) were presented with emotionally positive or negative images under different anticipatory conditions, and their brain responses were recorded using magnetoencephalography (MEG). In the Affective Cue conditions, the cue stimulus indicated the emotional valence (positive or negative) of the image. In the Null Cue condition, the cue stimulus did not include any information about the valence of the image, and in the No Cue condition, the affective image was presented without a preceding cue. The cues in the affective and null conditions were followed by emotional images. During the anticipation period for the affective image, the alpha ERD preceding an anticipated negative image was larger than that preceding an anticipated positive image; this effect had an occipital dominance. Furthermore, during the anticipation period, the lower-2-alpha ERD of the right frontal area showed the same result. These results demonstrate that anticipation of negative stimuli induced alpha ERD in both the visual and the right frontal cortex, indicating that top-down modulation may be provided by the right frontal cortex to the visual cortex.
The genomic response following brain ischemia is very complex and involves activation of both protective and detrimental signaling pathways. Immediate early genes (IEGs) represent the first wave of gene expression following ischemia and are induced in extensive regions of the ischemic brain including cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), Neuritin and Activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) belong to a subgroup of immediate early genes implicated in synaptic plasticity known as effector immediate early genes. Here, we investigated the spatial and temporal activation pattern for these genes during the first 24 h of reperfusion following 2-h occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Neuritin showed a persistent activation in frontal-cingulate cortex while Arc displayed a biphasic response. Also, in dentate gyrus, activation was observed at 0-6 h of reperfusion for Neuritin and 0-12 h of reperfusion for Arc while BDNF was induced 0-9 h of reperfusion. Our study demonstrates a rapid and long-term activation of effector immediate early genes in distinct brain areas following ischemic injury in rat. Effector gene activation may be part of long-term synaptic responses of ischemic brain tissue.
In nocturnal species cholinergic agonists alter circadian rhythm phase when injected intraventricularly or directly into the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), but the phase shifts obtained differ depending upon the site being injected. Cholinergic projections reach the SCN of nocturnal laboratory rats, however, nothing is known about these projections in diurnal rodents. The first objective of this study was to evaluate the hypothesis that cholinergic projections to the SCN are only present in nocturnal species. The second objective was to evaluate the hypothesis that the lower part of the subparaventricular zone (LSPV) is a candidate for being a site that mediates the phase shifts observed when cholinergic agonists are injected intraventricularly. These hypotheses were tested in the diurnal unstriped Nile grass rat (Arvicanthis niloticus) and the nocturnal laboratory rat. Additionally, we evaluated if the light-dark (LD) cycle had an effect on the expression of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in the SCN, LSPV, and in two control areas. Animals were kept in a 12:12 LD cycle and perfused at six time points. VAChT immunoreactivity was observed in the SCN, LSPV, and in the control areas of both species. The SCN and LSPV showed a differential distribution and density of cholinergic projections between the two species, but similar temporal patterns of VAChT expression were found across species. These results provide evidence for a differential cholinergic stimulation of the SCN between grass rats and laboratory rats that may reflect a rewiring of neural projections brought about by the adoption of a diurnal activity profile.
Inbred Lewis (LEW) and Fischer 344 (F344) rats are differentially sensitive to drugs of abuse, making them useful for studying addiction-related neural mechanisms. Here, we investigated whether strain differences in dopamine transporters (DATs) in dorsal striatum (dSTR) and/or nucleus accumbens (NAc) may help to explain their behavioral differences. The behavior of male LEW and F344 rats was assessed in an open-field arena during habituation to novelty and after an i.v. infusion of saline and/or 0.5 mg/kg d-amphetamine (AMPH). In vitro measures of DAT binding, protein and cell-surface expression, as well as in vitro and in vivo measures of function, were used to compare DATs in dSTR and NAc of these two strains. We found that LEW rats exhibited higher novelty- and AMPH-induced locomotion, but F344 rats exhibited greater AMPH-induced rearing and stereotypy. An initial habituation session with i.v. saline minimized the strain differences in AMPH-induced behaviors except that the more frequent AMPH-induced rearing in F344 rats persisted. Strain differences in DAT total protein and basal activity were also observed, with LEW rats having less protein and slower in vivo clearance of locally applied DA in dSTR and NAc. AMPH inhibited in vivo DA clearance in dSTR and NAc of both strains, but to a greater extent in F344 rats. Taken together, the lower basal DAT function in LEW rats is consistent with their greater novelty-induced locomotor activation, whereas the greater inhibition of DA clearance by AMPH in F344 rats is consistent with their marked AMPH-induced rearing behavior.
Cortical cholinergic dysfunction has been correlated with the expression and processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein. However, it remains unclear as to how cholinergic dysfunction and beta-amyloid (Abeta) formation and deposition might be related to one another. Since the M1- and M2 subtypes of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) are considered key molecules that transduce the cholinergic message, the purpose of the present study was to assess the effects of the injected Abeta peptide on the number of M1mAchR- and M2mAChR-immunoreactive cells in the medial septum-diagonal band (MS-nDBB) complex of the rat. Injections of Abeta protein into the retrosplenial cortex resulted in a decrease in M1mAChR and M2mAChR immunoreactivity in the MS-nDBB complex. Quantitative analysis revealed a significant reduction in the number of M1mAChR- and M2mAChR-immunoreactive cells in the medial septum nucleus (MS) and in the horizontal nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca (HDB) as compared to the corresponding hemisphere in control animals and with that seen in the contralateral hemisphere, which corresponds to the PBS-injected side. Co-localization studies showed that the M1mAChR protein is localized in GABA-immunoreactive cells of the MS-nDBB complex, in particular those of the MS nucleus, while M2mAChR protein is localized in both the cholinergic and GABAergic cells. Moreover, GABAergic cells containing M2mAChR are mainly localized in the MS nucleus, while cholinergic cells containing M2mAChR are localized in the MS and the HDB nuclei. Our findings suggest that Abeta induces a reduction in M1mAChR- and M2mAChR-containing cells, which may contribute to impairments of cholinergic and GABAergic transmission in the MS-nDBB complex.



For a correct classification of dysphagia, morphologic instrumental investigations capable of analysing the anatomical structures of the digestive tract, are undoubtedly essential, but the most important investigations are the functional investigations, such as videofluoroscopy, fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing, oro-pharyngo-oesophageal scintigraphy, manometry and pH-metry. Results of these examinations enable us to identify, in patients with dysphagia, the extent of permanent damage, as a consequence of injury to the structures designated to swallowing, must be such that it at least minimally impairs and decreases the relative function, but to a degree that can be detected and, in some manner, measured. From a legal point of view, alterations in swallowing, caused by damage to structures belonging to the respiratory-digestive tract, can be found in crimes against persons and particularly in those involving body injury. In the case of civil, but also in private or social insurance proceedings, it is necessary to distinguish which parameters are to be used as reference for evaluating and quantifying the injury in terms of reimbursement. With the introduction of complete biological well-being, injury is considered as an impairment of the worth and right to enjoy psychological-physical integrity as a quality of life. The criteria currently used internationally take into account the conception of psychological-physical efficiency; nevertheless, in Italian forensic medicine, there is no table that offers a thorough quantification of swallowing modifications, if one excludes oesophageal disorders. Herewith, an evaluation table, dividing oro-pharyngo-oesophageal dysphagia into five, progressively serious classes, is proposed.

Memory recall has been proposed as a common and effective mood regulation strategy. Although several studies have presented results suggesting that recalling valenced memories affects subsequent mood, their designs allow for alternative interpretations of the observed effects. Two such alternatives include the reverse effect (mood effects on memory due to non-experimental assignment to memory recall condition) and demand characteristics of the experiment. We used covert experimental assignment to memory condition, asking subjects (N=314; 56% female) to recall memories that were primarily positive, neutral, or negative. Results showed the expected effect on mood (p&lt;.002), with reported mood worst in the negative memory condition, better in the neutral condition, and best in the positive condition. These results suggest that valenced memory recall does indeed exert an effect on mood, and may do so even without the individual's awareness.
Alcohol use disorders are common among persons with schizophrenia and are associated with a vast array of negative consequences: criminality, poor compliance with treatment, and reoccurrence of acute episodes of psychosis. In samples of non-mentally disordered individuals, typologies of alcohol use disorders have been shown to be useful in furthering understanding of etiology and of effective treatments. Such typologies, however, have not previously been examined in individuals with schizophrenia. The main objective of the study was to validate four uni-dimensional typologies and the multi-dimensional Type I/II-Type A/B typology in a sample of men with schizophrenic disorders and alcohol use disorders. All uni-dimensional typologies showed at least some degree of concurrent validity. The Type I/II-Type A/B typology was successfully replicated with fair concurrent validity across the domains of pre-morbid risk factors and drug use, but not for the domains of criminality, illness, or personality. The predictive validity was poor for all typologies. The results provide evidence for the heterogeneity of alcohol use disorders among men with schizophrenia.
Despite huge advances in the neuroscience of substance abuse and dependence in the past 20 years, no approved pharmacological treatment exists for cocaine abuse. The available drugs for the treatment of cocaine abuse are poorly effective, hence the need for new compounds to be screened and tested for efficacy: targeting symptoms might improve the effectiveness of the treatment of cocaine abuse and dependence. On the basis of the known neurochemistry of cocaine, some target compounds have been studied: among others, BP-897, a D3 partial agonist; vanoxerine, a highly selective inhibitor of dopamine uptake; aripiprazole, a partial mixed-action agonist approved for the treatment of schizophrenia. Recently modafinil, approved for the treatment of narcolepsy, proved effective in favouring cocaine abstinence in cocaine-abusing people. Some placebo-controlled studies also reported the effectiveness of topiramate, a licensed antiepileptic drug, and of tiagabine, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) re-uptake inhibitor also approved as an anticonvulsant; both compounds increased cocaine abstinence with no serious adverse events. Promising results came from two more compounds acting on the GABA circuits, baclofen and valproic acid. Finally disulfiram, prescribed with active psychosocial therapy, was found to favour higher retention rates and longer abstinence periods from both alcohol and cocaine in polydrug-abusing patients. An alternative approach rests on the use of vaccines, to date in the experimental stage still. Psychosocial treatments are a useful companion in the pharmacotherapy of cocaine abuse, with group therapy and contingency management therapies improving motivation and social functioning, particularly in patients abusing alcohol as well.
The level of intracellular Ca2+ plays a central role in normal and pathological signaling within and between neurons. These processes involve a cascade of events for locally raising and lowering cytosolic Ca2+. As the mechanisms for age-related alteration in Ca2+ dysregulation have been illuminated, hypotheses concerning Ca2+ homeostasis and brain aging have been modified. The idea that senescence is due to pervasive cell loss associated with elevated resting Ca2+ has been replaced by concepts concerning changes in local Ca2+ levels associated with neural activity. This article reviews evidence for a shift in the sources of intracellular Ca2+ characterized by a diminished role for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and an increased role for intracellular stores and voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Physiological and biological models are outlined, which relate a shift in Ca2+ regulation with changes in cell excitability and synaptic plasticity, resulting in a functional lesion of the hippocampus.
Disturbances of neuronal Ca2+ homeostasis are considered to be important determinants of age-related cognitive impairment. Cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain (BF) are principal targets of decline associated with aging and dementia. During the last several years, we have attempted to link these concepts in a rat model of 'normal' aging. In this review, we will describe some changes that we have observed in Ca2+ signaling of aged BF neurons and the reversal of one of these changes by dietary caloric restriction. Our evidence supports a scenario in which subtle changes in the properties of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels result in increased Ca2+ influx during aging. This increased Ca2+, in turn, triggers an increase in rapid Ca2+ buffering in the somatic compartment of aged BF neurons. However, this nominal 'compensation', along with other changes in Ca2+ handling machinery (notably mitochondria) alters the Ca2+ signal with age in a way that is dependent on the magnitude of the Ca2+ load. By combining whole-cell patch clamp electrophysiology, ratiometric Ca2+-sensitive microfluorimetry and single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, we have determined that age-related rapid buffering changes are present in identified cholinergic BF neurons and that these changes can be prevented by a caloric restriction dietary regimen. Because caloric restriction extends lifespan and retards the progression of age-related dysfunction, these findings suggest that increased Ca2+ buffering in cholinergic neurons may be relevant to cognitive decline during normal aging. Importantly, calcium homeostatic mechanisms of BF cholinergic neurons are amenable to dietary interventions that could promote cognitive health during aging.
Structural changes of neurons in the brain during aging are complex and not well understood. Neurons have significant homeostatic control of essential brain functions, including synaptic excitability, gene expression, and metabolic regulation. Any deviations from the norm can have severe consequences as seen in aging and injury. In this review, we present some of the structural adaptations that neurons undergo throughout normal and pathological aging and discuss their effects on electrophysiological properties and cognition. During aging, it is evident that neurons undergo morphological changes such as a reduction in the complexity of dendrite arborization and dendritic length. Spine numbers are also decreased, and because spines are the major sites for excitatory synapses, changes in their numbers could reflect a change in synaptic densities. This idea has been supported by studies that demonstrate a decrease in the overall frequency of spontaneous glutamate receptor-mediated excitatory responses, as well as a decrease in the levels of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor expression. Other properties such as gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor-mediated inhibitory responses and action potential firing rates are both significantly increased with age. These findings suggest that age-related neuronal dysfunction, which must underlie observed decline in cognitive function, probably involves a host of other subtle changes within the cortex that could include alterations in receptors, loss of dendrites, and spines and myelin dystrophy, as well as the alterations in synaptic transmission. Together these multiple alterations in the brain may constitute the substrate for age-related loss of cognitive function.
Glutamatergic hyperactivity, associated with Ca2+ influx and consequent production of nitric oxide (NO), is potentially involved in both normal brain aging and age-related neurodegenerative disorders. Many neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by conformational changes in proteins that result in their misfolding and aggregation. Normal protein degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system can prevent accumulation of aberrantly folded proteins. Our recent studies have linked nitrosative stress to protein misfolding and neuronal cell death. In particular, molecular chaperones - such as protein disulfide isomerase, glucose regulated protein 78, and heat shock proteins - can provide neuroprotection from misfolded proteins by facilitating proper folding and thus preventing aggregation. Here, we present evidence for the hypothesis that NO contributes to normal brain aging and degenerative conditions by S-nitrosylating specific chaperones that would otherwise prevent accumulation of misfolded proteins.
When properly controlled, Ca2+ fluxes across the plasma membrane and between intracellular compartments play critical roles in fundamental functions of neurons, including the regulation of neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis, synaptic transmission and plasticity, and cell survival. During aging, and particularly in neurodegenerative disorders, cellular Ca2+-regulating systems are compromised resulting in synaptic dysfunction, impaired plasticity and neuronal degeneration. Oxidative stress, perturbed energy metabolism and aggregation of disease-related proteins (amyloid beta-peptide, alpha-synuclein, huntingtin, etc.) adversely affect Ca2+ homeostasis by mechanisms that have been elucidated recently. Alterations of Ca2+-regulating proteins in the plasma membrane (ligand- and voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, ion-motive ATPases, and glucose and glutamate transporters), endoplasmic reticulum (presenilin-1, Herp, and ryanodine and inositol triphosphate receptors), and mitochondria (electron transport chain proteins, Bcl-2 family members, and uncoupling proteins) are implicated in age-related neuronal dysfunction and disease. The adverse effects of aging on neuronal Ca2+ regulation are subject to modification by genetic (mutations in presenilins, alpha-synuclein, huntingtin, or Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase; apolipoprotein E isotype, etc.) and environmental (dietary energy intake, exercise, exposure to toxins, etc.) factors that may cause or affect the risk of neurodegenerative disease. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that promote or prevent disturbances in cellular Ca2+ homeostasis during aging may lead to novel approaches for therapeutic intervention in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases and stroke.


The acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are voltage-independent ion channels activated by acidic extracellular pH. ASICs play a role in sensory transduction, behavior, and acidotoxic neuronal death, which occurs during stroke and ischemia. During these conditions, the extracellular concentration of sulfhydryl reducing agents increases. We used perforated patch-clamp technique to analyze the impact of sulfhydryls on H(+)-gated currents from Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing human ASIC1a (hASIC1a). We found that hASIC1a currents activated by pH 6.5 were increased almost twofold by the sulfhydryl-containing reducing agents dithiothreitol (DTT) and glutathione. DTT shifted the pH-dose response of hASIC1a toward a more neutral pH (pH(0.5) from 6.54 to 6.69) and slowed channel desensitization. The effect of reducing agents on native mouse hippocampal neurons and transfected mouse ASIC1a was similar. We found that the effect of DTT on hASIC1a was mimicked by the metal chelator TPEN, and mutant hASIC1a channels with reduced TPEN potentiation showed reduced DTT potentiation. Furthermore, the addition of DTT in the presence of TPEN did not result in further increases in current amplitude. These results suggest that the effect of DTT on hASIC1a is due to relief of tonic inhibition by transition metal ions. We found that all ASICs examined remained potentiated following the removal of DTT. This effect was reversed by the oxidizing agent DTNB in hASIC1a, supporting the hypothesis that DTT also impacts ASICs via a redox-sensitive site. Thus sulfhydryl compounds potentiate H(+)-gated currents via two mechanisms, metal chelation and redox modulation of target amino acids.
Physical activity is an important physiological variable impacting on a number of systems in the body. In rodents and several species of domestic animals, levels of physical activity have been reported to vary across the estrous cycle; however, it is unclear whether such changes in activity occur in women and other primates across the menstrual cycle. To determine whether significant changes in activity occur over the menstrual cycle, we continuously measured physical activity in seven adult female rhesus monkeys by accelerometry over the course of one menstrual cycle. Monkeys were checked daily for menses, and daily blood samples were collected for measurement of reproductive hormones. All monkeys displayed ovulatory menstrual cycles, ranging from 23 to 31 days in length. There was a significant increase in estradiol from the early follicular phase to the day of ovulation (F(1.005,5.023) = 40.060, P = 0.001). However, there was no significant change in physical activity across the menstrual cycle (F(2,12) = 0.225, P = 0.802), with activity levels being similar in the early follicular phase, on the day of the preovulatory rise in estradiol and during the midluteal phase. Moreover, the physical activity of these monkeys was not outside the range of physical activity that we measured in 15 ovariectomized monkeys. We conclude that, in primates, physical activity does not change across the menstrual cycle and is not influenced by physiological changes in circulating estradiol. This finding will allow investigators to record physical activity in female primates without the concern of controlling for the phase of the menstrual cycle.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) increases pancreatic insulin secretion via a direct action on pancreatic beta-cells. A high density of GLP-1-containing neurons and receptors is also present in brain stem vagal circuits; therefore, the aims of the present study were to investigate 1) whether identified pancreas-projecting neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) respond to exogenously applied GLP-1, 2) the mechanism(s) of action of GLP-1, and 3) whether the GLP-1-responsive neurons (putative modulators of endocrine secretion) could be distinguished from DMV neurons responsive to peptides that modulate pancreatic exocrine secretion, specifically pancreatic polypeptide (PP). Whole cell recordings were made from identified pancreas-projecting DMV neurons. Perfusion with GLP-1 induced a concentration-dependent depolarization in approximately 50% of pancreas-projecting DMV neurons. The GLP-1 effects were mimicked by exendin-4 and antagonized by exendin-(9-39). In approximately 60% of the responsive neurons, the GLP-1-induced depolarization was reduced by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), suggesting both pre- and postsynaptic sites of action. Indeed, the GLP-1 effects were mediated by actions on potassium currents, GABA-induced currents, or both. Importantly, neurons excited by GLP-1 were unresponsive to PP and vice versa. These data indicate that 1) GLP-1 may act on DMV neurons to control pancreatic endocrine secretion, 2) the effects of GLP-1 on pancreas-projecting DMV neurons are mediated both via a direct excitation of their membrane as well as via an effect on local circuits, and 3) the GLP-1-responsive neurons (i.e., putative endocrine secretion-controlling neurons) could be distinguished from neurons responsive to PP (i.e., putative exocrine secretion-controlling neurons).
Mating-induced Fos-immunoreactive (-ir) cells are colocalized with androgen receptors (AR), estrogen receptors (ER), or both in limbic and hypothalamic areas known to mediate male rat mating behavior. A steroid-responsive neural network might govern copulatory behavior in male laboratory rats that is analogous to the network described in female rats that governs the lordosis response. This hypothesized network in males may synchronize and coordinate sexual behavioral responses with physiological responses of the genitals and the internal organs of reproduction. Therefore, the pseudorabies virus (PRV; Bartha strain), a transneuronal, viral retrograde tract tracer, was microinjected into the prostate gland to label this network. After 7 days, brains from infected animals were processed for immunohistochemical labeling of AR, ER, and PRV. The majority of PRV-ir cells exhibited either AR or ER immunoreactivity in the medial preoptic area, median preoptic nucleus, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, and zona incerta, areas known to play roles in male rat mating behavior. Other structures such as the central tegmental field/subparafascicular nucleus of the thalamus, central nucleus of the amygdala, and medial amygdala, also important in the display of male copulatory behavior, were less reliably labeled. Collectively, a steroid receptor-containing neuronal circuit, largely contained in the diencephalon, was revealed that likely is involved in the autonomic control of the prostate gland and the consummatory aspects of male rat mating behavior.
Since mice with a deletion of the neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) gene exhibit a loss of both nodose ganglion neurons and vagal afferent terminals in the small intestines, we hypothesized that the reduced intestinal innervation of the NT-4 knockout (NT-4KO) mouse would lead to a corresponding reduction in the preabsorptive feedback from macronutrients. To explore this prediction, we measured meal patterns in NT-4KOs and controls, while, on different days, intragastric infusions of either lipids (Intralipid; 10%, 20%) or glucose (12.5%, 25%) were yoked to each animal's spontaneous feeding of a pelleted diet (approximately 1 kcal infused/1 kcal ingested). NT-4KO mice were relatively, though not completely, insensitive to the lipid infusions, whereas they were as sensitive as controls to glucose infusions. More specifically, the regulatory deficits of NT-4KOs included 1) attenuated satiation from the lipid infusions, as measured by smaller intrameal reductions of both meal size and meal duration, 2) defects in satiety associated with the fat infusions, as measured by smaller intermeal increases of both satiety ratio and intermeal interval, and (3) losses in daily compensatory responses for lipid calories. These results support the hypothesis that NT-4KO mice have deficits in macronutrient feedback from the gastrointestinal tract, indicate that the defects are specific insofar as they do not include impairments in the feedback of glucose infusions on feeding, and suggest that early feedback about dietary lipids is important in the regulation of satiation, satiety, and longer-term compensation of daily caloric intake.


Fluorescence antibunching is a well-known technique for determining the number of independent emitters per molecule or molecular complex. It was rarely applied to autofluorescent proteins due to the necessity of collecting large numbers of fluorescence photons from a single molecule, which is usually impossible to achieve with rather photolabile autofluorescent proteins. Here, we measure fluorescence antibunching on molecules in solution, allowing us to accumulate data over a large number of molecules. We use that method for determining an average stoichiometry of molecular complexes. The proposed method is absolute in the sense that it does not need any calibration or referencing. We develop the necessary theoretical background and check the method on pure dye solutions and on molecular complexes with known stoichiometry.
The adaptation of cetaceans to a fully aquatic lifestyle represents one of the most dramatic transformations in mammalian evolutionary history. Two of the most salient features of modern cetaceans are their fully aquatic lifestyle and their large brains. This review article will offer an overview of comparative neuroanatomical research on aquatic mammals, including analyses of odontocete cetacean, sirenian, pinniped, and fossil archaeocete brains. In particular, the question of whether a relationship exists between being fully aquatic and having a large brain is addressed. It has been hypothesized that the large, well-developed cetacean brain is a direct product of adaptation to a fully aquatic lifestyle. The current consensus is that the paleontological evidence on brain size evolution in cetaceans is not consistent with this hypothesis. Cetacean brain enlargement took place millions of years after adaptation to a fully aquatic existence. Neuroanatomical comparisons with sirenians and pinnipeds provide no evidence for the idea that the odontocete's large brain, high encephalization level, and extreme neocortical gyrification is an adaptation to a fully aquatic lifestyle. Although echolocation has been suggested as a reason for the high encephalization level in odontocetes, it should be noted that not all aquatic mammals echolocate and echolocating terrestrial mammals (e.g., bats) are not particularly highly encephalized. Echolocation is not a requirement of a fully aquatic lifestyle and, thus, cannot be considered a sole effect of aquaticism on brain enlargement. These results indicate that the high encephalization level of odontocetes is likely related to their socially complex lifestyle patterns that transcend the influence of an aquatic environment.

The practice of paediatric anaesthesia has changed during the last 25 years, with a noticeable reduction of mortality and serious morbidity. This improvement results in part from the use of new anaesthetic agents which large therapeutic interval regarding cardiovascular effects. Parallel to this advance and following experimental or clinical studies in neurosciences, some new concerns have emerged regarding short and long time consequences of anaesthesia. Indeed, postoperative hyperalgesia due to opioids, emergence agitation and postoperative maladaptive behavioural changes are widely described in children, in the same way the potential epileptogenic effect of sevoflurane is demonstrated. Thus the hypothetical cerebral toxicity leads us to reconsider our practice. Basically, monitoring of cerebral cortical effects of hypnotics is now possible from automated devices based on EEG, allowing us to control the administration of hypnotic agents. The therapeutic interval of these agents, previously determined between movement at incision and deleterious cardiovascular effect, may be revisited with a cerebral approach, with the risk of memorisation for the lower limit and the risk of cerebral over dosage for the upper limit. Lastly, further experimental and clinical studies are required to analyse the effects of the anaesthetic agents on the brain of the neonate, and the interest of the cerebral monitoring in this population.
Gluten sensitivity is an autoimmune disease that usually causes intestinal atrophy resulting in a malabsorption syndrome known as celiac disease. However, gluten sensitivity may involve several organs and is often associated with extraintestinal manifestations. Typically, patients with celiac disease have circulating anti-tissue transglutaminase and anti-gliadin antibodies. When patients with gluten sensitivity are affected by other autoimmune diseases, other autoantibodies may arise like anti-epidermal transglutaminase in dermatitis herpetiformis, anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies in thyroiditis, and anti-islet cells antibodies in type 1 diabetes. The most common neurological manifestation of gluten sensitivity is ataxia, the so-called gluten ataxia (GA). In patients with GA we have demonstrated that anti-gliadin and anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies cross-react with neurons but that additional anti-neural antibodies are present. The aim of the present article is to review the knowledge on animal models of gluten sensitivity, as well as reviewing the role of anti-neural antibodies in GA.
The underlying causes of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are unknown, but clinical and experimental studies indicate immune mechanisms, in general, and cytokine dysregulation, in particular, as contributing factors in their etiology. We developed a prenatal mouse model of autism to demonstrate that circulating levels of defined cytokines in pregnant dams could influence fetal development and behavioral characteristics in their offspring. We administered daily injections of murine IL-2 (0.4 mug in phosphate-buffered saline [PBS]) to pregnant mice during mid-gestation, and analyzed their offspring (IL-2 pups) in comparison to offspring of pregnant mice injected with vehicle only (PBS pups). Significant levels of IL-2 were present in amniotic fluid and tissues from embryos of dams given radiolabeled IL-2, indicating that the injected IL-2 crossed the placenta and entered the fetuses. Lymphocytes from IL-2 pups demonstrated accelerated T cell development, with a skewing toward TH1 cell differentiation. IL-2 pups also showed in vitro proliferative and cytotoxicity responses that were significantly higher than control PBS pups when stimulated with syngeneic B lymphoma cells or allogeneic spleen cells. In addition to their previously shown increases in open-field activity, grooming and rearing behavior, offspring of IL-2-injected (vs. PBS-injected) dams also displayed abnormal new motor learning as assessed through acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response. These results suggest that increases in maternal levels of IL-2 during pregnancy induce in their offspring long-lasting increased vulnerability to neurobehavioral abnormalities associated with autism, and provide a valid animal model to determine the underlying immunological mechanisms.


Screening for genomic rearrangements is a fundamental task in the genetic diagnosis of many inherited disorders including cancer-predisposing syndromes. Several methods were developed for analysis of structural genomic abnormalities, some are targeted to the analysis of one or few specific loci, others are designed to scan the whole genome. Locus-specific methods are used when the candidate loci responsible for the specific pathological condition are known. Whole-genome methods are used to discover loci bearing structural abnormalities when the disease-associated locus is unknown. Three main approaches have been employed for the analysis of locus-specific structural changes. The first two are based on probe hybridization and include cytogenetics and DNA blotting. The third approach is based on PCR amplification and includes microsatellite or single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping, relative allele quantitation, real-time quantitative PCR, long PCR and multiplex PCR-based methods such as multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and the recently developed nonfluorescent multiplex PCR coupled to high-performance liquid chromatography analysis. Whole-genome methods include cytogenetic methods, array-comparative genomic hybridization, SNP array and other sequence-based methods. The goal of the present review is to provide an overview of the main features and advantages and limitations of methods for the screening of structural genomic abnormalities relevant to oncological research.



The ability of pharmacological agents to limit secondary biochemical damage and cell death has been well established in numerous animal models of stroke, head injury, and spinal cord injury, yet the results of such neuroprotective treatment strategies in human injury have been disappointing. A number of conceptual and methodological issues have undoubtedly contributed to the difficulties in translating the experimental results to the clinic. Most recently, different experimental approaches and altered clinical trial methodologies have provided renewed, albeit cautious, optimism regarding future clinical trials of neuroprotective agents. Herein, we reviewed both the critical problems and potential solutions, emphasizing recent experimental and clinical work.

The POEMS syndrome, also known as Crow-Fukase syndrome, is an unusual systemic disorder described mainly in Asian individuals. It is characterized by the presence of (P)polyneuropathy, (O)organomegaly, (E)endocrinopathy, (M) M-protein, and (S) skin changes. Several other associated conditions such as sclerotic bone lesions, Castleman disease, low-grade fever, edema and hematologic disorders are usually seen. We describe five Brazilian patients with this syndrome. Two patients presented Castleman disease, one patient presented osteosclerotic myeloma and in two patients no associated conditions were found.

Cell-based functional assays are increasingly being utilized for ion channels and other targets in drug discovery. However, development of functional assays is often hampered by problems related to stable expression of ion channels in host cell lines, such as variability in channel activity, cell line degeneration, toxicity associated with gene expression, and time and expense of maintaining the cells in culture. In a previous study, we showed that constitutive expression of the transient receptor potential ankyrin-1 (TRPA1) channel led to cellular toxicity and cell line degeneration. This problem could be circumvented by utilizing large-scale transiently transfected (LSTT) cells, which could be prepared in large quantity and kept frozen at -80 degrees C until needed. LSTT cells from a single preparation were successfully applied toward development of a Ca(2+) influx assay for TRPA1 and a high throughput screening of a &gt;700,000 compound library. In the current study, we extended the application of LSTT cells to Ca(2+) influx assays for transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1), transient receptor potential melastatin-8, and transient receptor potential vanilloid-4 channels. In addition, we found that cryopreserved LSTT cells expressing TRPV1 exhibited the same pharmacology as a TRPV1 stable cell line in the Ca(2+) influx assay. Moreover, by using LSTT cells expressing TRPA1, we successfully developed a membrane potential assay, which gave comparable results to the Ca(2+) influx assay. Hence, the utilization of LSTT cells could reduce the need for stable cell lines, and enable development of functional assays in a more timely and economic fashion for different ion channels and different assay formats.
The phenomenon of base-rate neglect has elicited much debate. One arena of debate concerns how people make judgments under conditions of uncertainty. Another more controversial arena concerns human rationality. In this target article, we attempt to unpack the perspectives in the literature on both kinds of issues and evaluate their ability to explain existing data and their conceptual coherence. From this evaluation we conclude that the best account of the data should be framed in terms of a dual-process model of judgment, which attributes base-rate neglect to associative judgment strategies that fail to adequately represent the set structure of the problem. Base-rate neglect is reduced when problems are presented in a format that affords accurate representation in terms of nested sets of individuals.
Infant rats emerge from the maternal nest at Postnatal Day 17-18 to have their first critical environmental experiences; they may be particularly sensitive to experiences or experimental interventions that can affect their adult capacity. The authors address open questions on 2 components of normative environmental exploration, locomotor activity and response to anxiety-provoking locations, in Postnatal Day 18 infant and Postnatal Day 60 adult rats. The authors compare diurnal patterns of locomotor activity, wheel running, novel and familiar open-field activity, and 2 measures of anxiety. Infants have an equivalent capacity to adults for locomotor activity and wheel running and a fundamentally adult-like diurnal rhythm, except that they do not anticipate light-dark transitions, are more perturbable at their most somnolent, and are more or less active during specific limited phases than adults. Infants initially have a lower rate of locomotor activity in novel environments and have a greater willingness to be active in anxiety-provoking locations. Such differences may allow enhanced gathering of environmental information by the infant and are important to consider in the design of experiments using infants.
The idea that dopamine mediates the reinforcing effects of stimuli persists in the field of neurosciences. The present study shows that haloperidol, a dopamine antagonist, does not eliminate the reinforcing value of food reinforcers. The ratio of reinforcers changed seven times across two levers within sessions, modeling a dynamic environment. The magnitude of the reinforcer was manipulated independently of the reinforcer ratio. Four doses of intraperitoneal haloperidol were assessed over periods of 12 daily sessions. Haloperidol did not impair the discrimination that the rats established between rich and lean levers; the response distributions favored the lever associated with the higher probability of reinforcement and the larger pellets. The parameters of the generalized matching law (bias and sensitivity) were used to estimate effects of haloperidol upon the motor system and upon the rats' motivation for food reinforcers.
This paper describes simulations of two context-dependence phenomena in Pavlovian conditioning, using a neural-network model that draws on knowledge from neuroscience and makes no distinction between operant and respondent learning mechanisms. One phenomenon is context specificity or the context-shift effect, the decrease of conditioned responding (CR) when the conditioned stimulus (CS) is tested in a context different from the one in which it had been paired with the unconditioned stimulus (US). The other effect is renewal, the recovery of CR in the training context after extinction in another context. For specificity (simulation 1), two neural networks were first given 200 CS-US pairings in a context. Then, the CS was tested either in the training context or a new context. Output activations in the new context were substantially lower. For renewal (simulation 2), two networks were first given 200 CS-US pairings in a context, then 100 extinction trials in either the same context or a new one, and then tested back in the training context. Output activations during the test phase were substantially higher after extinction in a new context. The results are interpreted in terms of the dynamics of activations and weights.
The purpose of this review is to scrutinize the physiology of neck-shoulder pain and trapezius myalgia based on the most recent scientific literature. Therefore, systematic literature searches have been conducted. Occurrence of neck-shoulder pain, risk factors for development of neck-shoulder pain, and its work-relatedness are addressed. Furthermore, the latest information on the biochemical milieu within healthy and painful neck-shoulder muscles is reviewed. Finally diagnosis of and intervention for neck and shoulder pain are discussed.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness worldwide. AMD is characterized by the deposition of drusen aggregates under the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). Clusterin/apo J, a multifunctional secreted chaperone, is one of the major proteins accumulating in drusen deposits. The regulation of clusterin expression is not well characterized but the promoter of clusterin contains a CpG-rich methylation domain. Since aging affects both DNA methylation and histone acetylation status, the epigenetic regulation might have an important role in clusterin/apo J expression. Our purpose was to elucidate whether the induction of DNA hypomethylation with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (AZA) and histone hyperacetylation with trichostatin A (TSA) could affect the clusterin transcription, protein levels, and secretion in retinal pigment epithelial cells. We observed that both TSA and AZA treatments induced a prominent increase in the expression levels of clusterin mRNA and protein in ARPE-19 cells, as well as in the secretion of clusterin protein. Furthermore, valproic acid, an antiepileptic drug and a recently identified inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDAC), induced a significant increase in clusterin protein expression and secretion in retinal pigment epithelial cells. HDAC inhibitors are characterized as inhibitors of angiogenesis, and clusterin as a complement inhibitor. Our results indicate that epigenetic factors regulate the clusterin expression of RPE cells and thus might affect the pathogenesis of AMD via the inhibition of angiogenesis and inflammation.
The physiological importance of cholesterol in the cell plasma membrane has attracted increased attention in recent years. Consequently, the use of methods of controlled manipulation of membrane cholesterol content has also increased sharply, especially as a method of studying putative cholesterol-enriched cell membrane domains (rafts). The most common means of modifying the cholesterol content of cell membranes is the incubation of cells or model membranes with cyclodextrins, a family of compounds, which, due to the presence of relatively hydrophobic cavity, can be used to extract cholesterol from cell membranes. However, the mechanism of this activity of cyclodextrins is not completely established. Moreover, under conditions commonly used for cholesterol extraction, cyclodextrins may remove cholesterol from both raft and non-raft domains of the membrane as well as alter the distribution of cholesterol between plasma and intracellular membranes. In addition, other hydrophobic molecules such as phospholipids may also be extracted from the membranes by cyclodextrins. We review the evidence for the specific and non-specific effects of cyclodextrins and what is known about the mechanisms for cyclodextrin-induced cholesterol and phospholipid extraction. Finally, we discuss useful control strategies that may help to verify that the observed effects are due specifically to cyclodextrin-induced changes in cellular cholesterol.
GPR26 and GPR78 are orphan GPCRs (oGPCRs) that share 51% amino acid sequence identity and are widely expressed in selected tissues of the human brain as well as the developing and adult mouse brain. Investigation of the functional activity of GPR26 and GPR78 via expression in HEK293 cells showed that both proteins are constitutively active and coupled to elevated cAMP production. Accordingly, in yeast, GPR26 demonstrated apparent agonist-independent coupling to a chimeric Gpa1 protein in which the 5 C-terminal amino acids were from Galphas. A comparison of the proteins revealed an atypical glutamine residue in GPR78 in place of the conserved arginine residue (R3.50) in the so-called DRY box. Site-directed mutants R3.50 in GPR26 were constructed and retained their constitutive activity suggesting that these 2 receptors activate G proteins in a manner that is distinct from other group 1 GPCRs.
Interferons-alpha (IFN-alpha) are pleiotropic cytokines belonging to type I IFNs, extensively used in the treatment of patients with some types of cancer and viral disease. IFN-alpha can affect tumor cell functions by multiple mechanisms. In addition, these cytokines can promote the differentiation and activity of host immune cells. Early studies in mouse tumor models showed the importance of host immune mechanisms in the generation of a long-lasting antitumor response after treatment of the animals with IFN-alpha/beta. Subsequently, an ensemble of studies based on the use of genetically modified tumor cells expressing specific IFN molecules provided important information on the host-mediated antitumor mechanisms induced by the local production of IFN-alpha. Of note, several studies have then underscored new immunomodulatory effects of IFN-alpha, including activities on T cells and dendritic cells, which may lead to IFN-induced antitumor immunity. In addition, recent reports on new immune correlates in cancer patients responding to IFN-alpha represent additional evidence on the importance of the interactions of IFN-alpha with the immune system for the generation of a durable antitumor response. On the whole, this knowledge suggests the advantage of using these cytokines as adjuvants of cancer vaccines and for the in vitro generation of highly active dendritic cells to be utilized for therapeutic vaccination of cancer patients.
Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is an X-linked disorder caused by a defect in the metabolism of long chain fatty acids leading to demyelination, neurodegeneration, and death. The disease typically presents in young boys and adolescent boys. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation has been used to halt progression of the disease. However, many patients lack suitable HLA- matched related donors and must rely on unmatched donors for a source of stem cells. The purpose of this study was to evaluate outcomes of unrelated donor umbilical cord blood transplantation after chemotherapy-based myeloablative conditioning and retrospectively determine if baseline studies correlate and help predict outcome. Between November 22, 1996, and November 3, 2005, 12 boys with X-linked ALD who lacked HL- matched related donors were referred to Duke University Medical Center for transplantation. These children were conditioned with myeloablative therapy including busulfan, cyclophosphamide, and antithymocyte globulin before receiving umbilical cord-blood transplants from unrelated donors. Baseline studies of neurophysiologic, neuroimaging, and neurodevelopmental status were performed and patients were subsequently evaluated for survival, engraftment, graft-versus-host disease, and neurodevelopmental outcomes. A substudy evaluated whether baseline neuroimaging and neurophysiologic studies correlated with cognitive and motor function and if these studies were predictive of posttransplantation outcomes. The umbilical cord blood grafts had normal levels of very long chain fatty acids. They delivered a median of 6.98 x 10(7) nucleated cells per kilogram of recipient body weight and were discordant for up to 4 of 6 HLA markers. Neutrophil engraftment occurred at a median of 22.9 days after transplantation. Three patients had grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease; 2 had extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease. Cumulative incidence of overall survival of the group at 6 months is 66.7% (95% confidence interval 39.9-93.3%). Median follow-up was 3.3 years (range 12 days to 6.3 years). As previously reported with bone marrow transplantation, symptomatic patients faired poorly with lower survival and rapid deterioration of neurologic function. This study included 3 patients transplanted at a very young age (2.6-3.5 years) before the onset of clinical symptoms who continue to develop at a normal rate for 3-5 years posttransplant. Although baseline Loes scores correlated with cognitive and motor outcome, neurophysiologic studies failed to show statistically significant differences. Transplantation of boys with X-linked ALD using partial HLA-matched umbilical cord blood yields similar results to those previously reported after bone marrow transplantation. Superior outcomes were seen in neurologically asymptomatic boys less than 3.5 years of age at the time of transplantation. Baseline Loes scores were a strong predictor of cognitive and motor outcome.
RHO GTP-binding proteins are important regulators of actin-myosin interactions in uterine smooth muscle cells. Active (GTP-bound) RHOA binds to RHO-associated protein kinase (ROCK1), which inhibits the myosin-binding subunit (PPP1R12A) of myosin light chain phosphatase, leading to calcium-independent increases in myosin light chain phosphorylation and tension, which are termed &quot;calcium sensitization.&quot; The RHO effector protein kinase N (PKN1) also increases calcium sensitization by phosphorylating the protein kinase C (PRKCB)-dependent protein CPI-17 (PPP1R14A) to inhibit the PPP1c subunit of myosin phosphatase. Moreover, other RHO proteins, such as RHOB, RHOD, and their effectors (DIAPH1 and DIAPH2), may modulate PKN1/ ROCK1 signaling to effect changes in myosin phosphatase activity and myosin light chain phosphorylation. The increases in contractile activity observed in term and preterm labor may be due to an increase in RHO activity and/or changes in RHO-related proteins. We found that the RHOA and RHOB mRNA levels in the myometrium were increased in pregnancy, although the expression levels of the RHOA and RHOB proteins did not change with pregnancy or labor. GTP-bound RHOA was increased in pregnancy, and this increase was significant in spontaneous preterm labor myometrium. PKN1 expression and PPP1R14A phosphorylation were dramatically increased in the pregnant myometrium. We also observed increases in DIAPH1 expression in spontaneous term and preterm labor myometrial tissues. The present study shows that human pregnancy is characterized by increases in PKN1 expression and PPP1R14A phosphorylation in the myometrium. Moreover, increases in GTP-bound RHOA and DIAPH1 expression may contribute to the increase in uterine activity in idiopathic preterm labor.
Patch-clamp recording has revolutionized the study of ion channels, transporters, and the electrical activity of small cells. Vital to this method is formation of a tight seal between glass recording pipette and cell membrane. To better understand seal formation and improve practical application of this technique, we examine the effects of divalent ions, protons, ionic strength, and membrane proteins on adhesion of membrane to glass and on seal resistance using both patch-clamp recording and atomic force microscopy. We find that H(+), Ca(2+), and Mg(2+) increase adhesion force between glass and membrane (lipid and cellular), decrease the time required to form a tight seal, and increase seal resistance. In the absence of H(+) (10(-10) M) and divalent cations (&lt;10(-8) M), adhesion forces are greatly reduced and tight seals are not formed. H(+) (10(-7) M) promotes seal formation in the absence of divalent cations. A positive correlation between adhesion force and seal formation indicates that high resistance seals are associated with increased adhesion between membrane and glass. A similar ionic dependence of the adhesion of lipid membranes and cell membranes to glass indicates that lipid membranes without proteins are sufficient for the action of ions on adhesion.
This study presents an investigation of pacemaker mechanisms underlying lymphatic vasomotion. We tested the hypothesis that active inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP(3)R)-operated Ca(2+) stores interact as coupled oscillators to produce near-synchronous Ca(2+) release events and associated pacemaker potentials, this driving action potentials and constrictions of lymphatic smooth muscle. Application of endothelin 1 (ET-1), an agonist known to enhance synthesis of IP(3), to quiescent lymphatic smooth muscle syncytia first enhanced spontaneous Ca(2+) transients and/or intracellular Ca(2+) waves. Larger near-synchronous Ca(2+) transients then occurred leading to global synchronous Ca(2+) transients associated with action potentials and resultant vasomotion. In contrast, blockade of L-type Ca(2+) channels with nifedipine prevented ET-1 from inducing near-synchronous Ca(2+) transients and resultant action potentials, leaving only asynchronous Ca(2+) transients and local Ca(2+) waves. These data were well simulated by a model of lymphatic smooth muscle with: 1), oscillatory Ca(2+) release from IP(3)R-operated Ca(2+) stores, which causes depolarization; 2), L-type Ca(2+) channels; and 3), gap junctions between cells. Stimulation of the stores caused global pacemaker activity through coupled oscillator-based entrainment of the stores. Membrane potential changes and positive feedback by L-type Ca(2+) channels to produce more store activity were fundamental to this process providing long-range electrochemical coupling between the Ca(2+) store oscillators. We conclude that lymphatic pacemaking is mediated by coupled oscillator-based interactions between active Ca(2+) stores. These are weakly coupled by inter- and intracellular diffusion of store activators and strongly coupled by membrane potential. Ca(2+) store-based pacemaking is predicted for cellular systems where: 1), oscillatory Ca(2+) release induces depolarization; 2), membrane depolarization provides positive feedback to induce further store Ca(2+) release; and 3), cells are interconnected. These conditions are met in a surprisingly large number of cellular systems including gastrointestinal, lymphatic, urethral, and vascular tissues, and in heart pacemaker cells.
Mitochondrial diseases (MD) with respiratory chain defects are caused by genetic mutations that determine an impairment of the electron transport chain functioning. Diagnosis often requires a complex approach with measurements of serum lactate, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), muscle histology and ultrastructure, enzymology, genetic analysis, and exercise testing. The ubiquitous distribution of the mitochondria in the human body explains the multiple organ involvement. Exercise intolerance is a common symptom of MD, due to increased dependence of skeletal muscle on anaerobic metabolism, with an excess lactate generation, phosphocreatine depletion, enhanced free radical production, reduced oxygen extraction and electron flux through the respiratory chain. MD treatment has included antioxidants (vitamin E, alpha lipoic acid), coenzyme Q10, riboflavin, creatine monohydrate, dichloroacetate and exercise training. Exercise is a particularly important tool in diagnosis as well as in the management of these diseases.
Mitochondrial diseases (MD) are a clinically heterogeneous group of disorders that arise as a result of dysfunction of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) is often associated to mitochondrial dysfunctions both in syndromic, nonsyndromic forms. SNHL has been described in association to different mitochondrial multisystemic syndromes, often characterized by an important neuromuscular involvement. Because of the clinical relevance of the associated neurological symptoms, the occurrence of SNHL is often underestimated and undiagnosed. In this study we evaluated the incidence of SNHL in a group of 17 patients with MD. We detected some degree of hearing impairment in 8/17 patients (47%), thus confirming the frequency of hearing impairment in MD. Furthermore, we want to highlight the role of the audiologist and otolaryngologist in the diagnosis and characterization of a MD, which should be suspected in all the cases in which the hearing loss is associated to signs and symptoms characteristic of mitochondrial dysfunction, especially if the family history is positive for hearing loss or MD in the maternal line.
Many lines of evidence suggest that mitochondria have a central role in ageing-related neurodegenerative diseases. However, despite the evidence of morphological, biochemical and molecular abnormalities in mitochondria in various tissues of patients with neurodegenerative disorders, the question &quot;is mitochondrial dysfunction a necessary step in neurodegeneration?&quot; is still unanswered. In this review, we highlight some of the major neurodegenerative disorders (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Huntington's disease) and discuss the role of the mitochondria in the pathogenetic cascade leading to neurodegeneration.
Mitochondrial diseases are a group of disorders due to a mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency. They may depend on mitochondrial genome (mtDNA-related disorders) as well as on a nuclear genome defect (nDNA-related disorders). mtDNA-related disorders encompass an increasing number of clinical pictures associated with more than 250 different provisional or confirmed pathogenic changes in mtDNA. Although some clinical syndromes are nosologically defined, most of the cases present with polymorphous phenotypes ranging from pure myopathy to multi-system involvement. Complexity of mitochondrial genetics is in part responsible for the extreme clinical intra- and inter-familial heterogeneity of this group of diseases. In this review, we briefly report an updated classification and overview the main clinical pictures of this class of diseases.
This mini-review summarizes the current literature on the role of mitochondrial DNA mutations and mitochondrial metabolism in stem cell biology. The possible uses of stem cells as a therapeutic tool in mitochondrial disorders are also reported.






During microvascular decompression procedure for trigeminal neuralgia, surgical attention is mainly focused at the neurovascular conflict at trigeminal root entry zone. However, many major complications of this surgery are often related to venous structures in the posterior fossa, including the venous sinuses and the superior petrosal vein(s). The author reviews surgical anatomy of the superior petrosal vein, highlights important surgical steps related to its microsurgical dissection and discusses avoidance of complications, as well as their management during microvascular decompressive surgery in this region. The discussion is mainly focused on the surgical anatomy of the superior petrosal vein along with its significance during surgery and not on the neurovascular relationships of the trigeminal nerve or aetio-pathogenesis of trigeminal neuralgia.


The place of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in the treatment of depression remains unclear. In this sham-controlled study we determined the efficacy and acceptability offast, left frontal rTMS given three times a week over 4-6 weeks to 29 patients with depression (79% treatment-resistant). The procedure was generally well tolerated and more effective than sham treatment (55 v.77% responding, P&lt;0.05), with improvement maintained to 12 weeks. This therapy could be a useful addition to available treatments but further research is needed to determine the optimum treatment parameters.
It has been proposed that the inferior/ventrolateral frontal cortex plays a critical role in the inhibitory control of action during cognitive tasks. However, the contribution of this region to the control of eye movements has not been clearly established. Here, we describe the performance of a group of 23 frontal lobe damaged patients in an oculomotor rule switching task for which the association between a centrally presented visual cue and the direction of a saccade could change from trial to trial. A subset of 16 patients also completed the standard antisaccade task. Ventrolateral damage was found to be a significant predictor of errors in both tasks. Analysis of the rate at which patients corrected errors in the rule switching task also revealed an important dissociation between left and right hemisphere damaged patients. Whilst patients with left ventrolateral damage usually corrected response errors with secondary saccades, those with right hemisphere lesions often failed to do so. The results suggest that the inferior frontal cortex forms part of a wider frontal network mediating inhibitory control over stimulus elicited eye movements. The critical role played by the right ventrolateral region in cognitive tasks may arise due to an additional functional specialization for the monitoring and updating of task rules.
Mutations in DOK7 have recently been shown to underlie a recessive congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS) associated with small simplified neuromuscular junctions ('synaptopathy') but normal acetylcholine receptor and acetylcholinesterase function. We identified DOK7 mutations in 27 patients from 24 kinships. Mutation 1124_1127dupTGCC was common, present in 20 out of 24 kinships. All patients were found to have at least one allele with a frameshift mutation in DOK7 exon 7, suggesting that loss of function(s) associated with the C-terminal region of Dok-7 underlies this disorder. In 15 patients, we were able to study the clinical features in detail. Clinical onset was usually characterized by difficulty in walking developing after normal motor milestones. Proximal muscles were usually more affected than distal, leading to a 'limb-girdle' pattern of weakness; although ptosis was often present from an early age, eye movements were rarely involved. Patients did not show long-term benefit from anticholinesterase medication and sometimes worsened, and where tried responded to ephedrine. The phenotype can be distinguished from 'limb-girdle' myasthenia associated with tubular aggregates, where DOK7 mutations were not detected and patients respond to anticholinesterase treatments. CMS due to DOK7 mutations are common within our UK cohort and is likely to be under-diagnosed; recognition of the phenotype will help clinical diagnosis, targeted genetic screening and appropriate management.
Interstitial deletions of the proximal short arm of chromosome 3 occurring as constitutional aberrations are rare and a defined clinical phenotype is not established yet. We report on a 30-months-old girl with distinct facial features (square facies, plagiocephaly, broad forehead, broad nasal bridge, long philtrum and low set ears) and psychomotor/speech delay associated with an interstitial deletion of 3p12 chromosomal band, del(3)(p12p12). Clinical manifestations of our child were compared with those of other eight patients with the same deletion previously described to further delineate the proximal 3p deletion syndrome.
Co-speech gestures embody a form of manual action that is tightly coupled to the language system. As such, the co-occurrence of speech and co-speech gestures is an excellent example of the interplay between language and action. There are, however, other ways in which language and action can be thought of as closely related. In this paper we will give an overview of studies in cognitive neuroscience that examine the neural underpinnings of links between language and action. Topics include neurocognitive studies of motor representations of speech sounds, action-related language, sign language and co-speech gestures. It will be concluded that there is strong evidence on the interaction between speech and gestures in the brain. This interaction however shares general properties with other domains in which there is interplay between language and action.
Lexical production in children with Down syndrome (DS) was investigated by examining spoken naming accuracy and the use of spontaneous gestures in a picture naming task. Fifteen children with DS (range 3.8-8.3 years) were compared to typically developing children (TD), matched for chronological age and developmental age (range 2.6-4.3 years). Relative to TD children, children with DS were less accurate in speech (producing a greater number of unintelligible answers), yet they produced more gestures overall and of these a significantly higher percentage of iconic gestures. Furthermore, the iconic gestures produced by children with DS accompanied by incorrect or no speech often expressed a concept similar to that of the target word, suggesting deeper conceptual knowledge relative to that expressed only in speech.
The present study investigates whether knowledge about the intentional relationship between gesture and speech influences controlled processes when integrating the two modalities at comprehension. Thirty-five adults watched short videos of gesture and speech that conveyed semantically congruous and incongruous information. In half of the videos, participants were told that the two modalities were intentionally coupled (i.e., produced by the same communicator), and in the other half, they were told that the two modalities were not intentionally coupled (i.e., produced by different communicators). When participants knew that the same communicator produced the speech and gesture, there was a larger bi-lateral frontal and central N400 effect to words that were semantically incongruous versus congruous with gesture. However, when participants knew that different communicators produced the speech and gesture--that is, when gesture and speech were not intentionally meant to go together--the N400 effect was present only in right-hemisphere frontal regions. The results demonstrate that pragmatic knowledge about the intentional relationship between gesture and speech modulates controlled neural processes during the integration of the two modalities.
Gerontology has made considerable progress in the understanding of the mechanisms underlying the ageing process and age-related neurodegenerative disorders. However, ways to improve quality of life in the elderly remain to be elucidated. It is now clear that stress and the ageing process share a number of underlying mechanisms bound in a very close, if not indissociable, relationship. The ageing process is regulated by the factors underlying the ability to adjust to stress, whilst stress has an influence on the life span and the quality of ageing. In addition, the ability to cope with stress in adulthood predicts life expectancy and quality of life at senescence. The ageing process and stress also share several common mechanisms, particularly in relation to the energy factor. Stress consumes energy and ageing may be considered as a cost of the energy expended to deal with the stressors to which the body is exposed throughout its lifetime. This suggests that the ageing process is associated with and/or a consequence of a long-lasting activation of the major stress responsive systems. However, despite common features, the interaction between stress and the ageing process gives rise to some paradoxes. Stress can either diminish or exacerbate the ageing process just as the ageing process can worsen or counter the effects of stress. There has been little attempt to understand how ageing and stress might interact to promote &quot;successful&quot; or pathological ageing. A key factor in this respect is the individual's ability to adapt to stress. Viewed from this angle, the quality of life of aged subjects may be improved through therapy designed to improve the tolerance to stress.
The correct control of gene expression is essential for the proper development of organisms. Abnormal expression of genes can lead to cancerous growth and certain diseases. To understand how gene expression is controlled on a genome-wide scale, methods for assaying transcription factor binding sites are required. There are two prevailing techniques for mapping protein-chromatin interactions, ChIP (chromatin immunoprecipitation) and DamID (DNA adenine methyltransferase identification). Both of these methods, when combined with microarray technology, can provide powerful insights into transcription factor function, higher order chromatin structure and gene regulatory networks. In vivo chromatin profiling studies are now being performed on model organisms, targeting specific tissues to help generate more accurate maps of protein-DNA interactions.
The local-circuit inhibitory interneurons containing gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) are continuously replaced in the adult olfactory bulb. Here, we describe how the production of new GABAergic interneurons is adapted to experience-induced plasticity. In particular, we discuss how such an adaptation is sensitive to the level of sensory inputs and how, in turn, neurogenesis may adjust the neural network functioning to optimize processing of sensory information. Finally, this review brings together recently described properties of interneurons as well as emerging principles of their functions that indicate a much more complex role for these cells than just that of gatekeepers providing inhibition.
Two isoforms of ryanodine receptors are expressed in skeletal muscles, RyR1 and RyR3. We investigated the relative level of expression of RyRs in developing murine skeletal muscles using [3H]ryanodine binding and immunoprecipitation experiments. In the diaphragm RyR3 accounted for 11% of total RyRs in 5-day-old mice and for 3% of total RyRs in 60-day-old mice. In hindlimb muscles, RyR3 accounted for 3% and 1% of total RyRs in 5-day-old and adult mice, respectively. The activity of RyR1 channels in native microsomal vesicles from murine muscles was found to be as low as 35% of that measured after CHAPS exposure, while no inhibition was observed for RyR3. CHAPS sensitivity of recombinant RyR1 and RyR3 expressed in HEK293 cells was also investigated. The activity of recombinant RyR1 but not RyR3 channels was found to be inhibited in native conditions, suggesting that this property may not be dependent on a muscle environment.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), in addition to its intracellular roles, acts as an extracellular signalling molecule via a rich array of receptors, which have been cloned and characterised. P1 receptors are selective for adenosine, a breakdown product of ATP, produced after degradation by ectonucleotidases. Four subtypes have been identified, A(1), A(2A), A(2B) and A(3) receptors. P2 receptors are activated by purines and some subtypes also by pyrimidines. P2X receptors are ligand-gated ion channel receptors and seven subunits have been identified, which form both homomultimers and heteromultimers. P2Y receptors are G protein-coupled receptors, and eight subtypes have been cloned and characterised to date.
NF-kappaB-inducing kinase (NIK) is required for NF-kappaB activation based on the processing of NF-kappaB2 p100. Here we report a novel mechanism of NIK regulation involving the chaperone 90 kDa heat shock protein (Hsp90) and autophagy. Functional inhibition of Hsp90 by the anti-tumor agent geldanamycin (GA) efficiently disrupts its interaction with NIK, resulting in NIK degradation and subsequent blockage of p100 processing. Surprisingly, GA-induced NIK degradation is mediated by autophagy, but largely independent of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Hsp90 seems to be specifically involved in the folding/stabilization of NIK protein, because GA inhibition does not affect NIK mRNA transcription and translation. Furthermore, Hsp90 is not required for NIK-mediated recruitment of the alpha subunit of IkappaB kinase to p100, a key step in induction of p100 processing. These findings define an alternative mechanism for Hsp90 client degradation and identify a novel function of autophagy in NF-kappaB regulation. These findings also suggest a new therapeutic strategy for diseases associated with p100 processing.
Higher-order inputs provide important regulatory control to motor circuits, but few cellular-level studies of such inputs have been performed. To begin studying higher-order neurons in an accessible model system, we have localized, in the supraesophageal ganglion (brain), neurons that are candidates for influencing the well-characterized motor circuits in the stomatogastric nervous system (STNS) of the crab Cancer borealis. The STNS is an extension of the central nervous system and includes four ganglia, within which are a set of motor circuits that regulate the ingestion and processing of food. These motor circuits are locally regulated by a set of modulatory neurons, most of which are located in the paired commissural ganglia (CoGs). These modulatory neurons are well-positioned to receive input from brain neurons because the circumesophageal commissures (CoCs) connect the brain with the CoGs. We have performed a series of CoC backfills to localize the brain neurons that are likely to innervate the CoGs and are, therefore, candidates for influencing the STNS motor patterns. CoC backfill-labeled neuronal somata within the brain are clustered around a subset of anatomically defined neuropil regions. We have concomitantly localized many CoG neurons that project into the brain. This latter pathway presumably includes neurons that provide feedback regarding ongoing STNS activity. Interestingly, nearly all of these brain and CoG neurons project through the medial aspect of the CoC. This work provides an initial framework for future studies to determine the way that higher-order input regulates rhythmic motor patterns.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily comprises of a group of non-selective cation channels that have been implicated in both receptor and store-operated channel functions. The family of classical TRPs (TRPCs) consists of seven members (TRPC1-7), with TRPC4 possibly playing a role in neuronal signaling. We have examined the distribution pattern of TRPC4 mRNA and protein in the developing and postnatal murine brain by using in situ hybridization, Western blotting, and immunocytochemistry. Expression of TRPC4 mRNA starts at embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5) in the developing septal area and cerebellar anlagen. At E16.5, prominent expression is additionally seen in the hippocampal formation and cortical plate. High densities of cells expressing TRPC4 mRNA occur in the adult olfactory bulb and hippocampus, whereas the cortex and septum display lower densities of cells positive for TRPC4 mRNA. Analysis of the adult hippocampal formation has revealed TRPC4 immunoreactivity in hippocampal areas CA1 to CA3 and in the dentate gyrus. Functions consistent with this spatially restricted pattern of expression remain to be revealed.

