Some patients with Major Depression and other neurological afflictions display hyperactivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. HPA hyperactivity may be due to impaired feedback inhibition and manifested as increased levels of circulating cortisol. Subcutaneous implants of corticosterone pellets were used to mimic this situation in mice to gain insight into any effects on brain function by comparative proteomic analysis using two-dimensional Differential In-Gel Electrophoresis. A total of 150 different protein spots were altered by corticosterone treatment in the hypothalamus, hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Of these, 117 spots were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass fingerprinting equating to 51 different proteins. Association of these corticosterone-modulated proteins with biological functions using the Ingenuity Pathways Analysis tool showed that cell morphology was significantly altered in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, whereas the hypothalamus showed significant changes in cell death. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis of the canonical signaling pathways showed that glycolysis and gluconeogenesis were altered in the hypothalamus and the hippocampus and all three brain regions showed changes in phenylalanine, glutamate and nitrogen metabolism. Further elucidation of these pathways could lead to identification of biomarkers for the development of pharmacological therapies targeted at neuropsychiatric disorders.
Although a role of the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) in grasping is becoming evident, the specific contribution of regions within the IPS remains undefined. In this vein, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was delivered to the anterior (aIPS), middle (mIPS), and caudal (cIPS) IPS in two tasks designed to dissociate the potential roles of the IPS in either grasp planning or execution (task 1) and its involvement in error detection or error correction (task 2). Determining the involvement of specific regions of the IPS in perceptual (planning and error detection) versus motor (execution and correction) components of grasping allowed us to assess the ecological validity of competing computational models attempting to simulate reach-to-grasp movements. In task 1, we demonstrate that, when no on-line adjustment is necessary, TMS to aIPS (but not mIPS or cIPS) disrupts grasping; this disruption is only elicited when TMS is applied during the execution (but not the planning) phase of the movement. Task 2 reveals that TMS to aIPS (but not mIPS or cIPS) disrupts grasping in the presence of a perturbation; this disruption is only elicited when TMS is applied during the error correction (but not error detection) phase of the movement. We propose that the specific contribution of the aIPS in grasping is in the on-line computation of a difference vector based on motor goal, efference copy, and sensory inputs. This computation is performed for both stable and perturbed motor goals.
Prefrontal cortex (PFC) functions, such as working memory, attention selection, and memory retrieval, depend critically on dopamine and NMDA receptor activation by way of an inverted-U-shaped pharmacological profile. Although single neuron responses in the PFC have shown some aspects of this profile, a network dynamic that follows the dopamine-NMDA dependence has not been identified. We studied neuronal network activity in acute medial PFC slices of adult rats by recording local field potentials (LFPs) with microelectrode arrays. Bath application of dopamine or the dopamine D1 agonist SKF38393 [(+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol hydrochloride] in combination with NMDA induced spontaneous LFPs predominantly in superficial cortex layers. The LFPs at single electrodes were characterized by sharp negative peaks that were clustered in time across electrodes revealing diverse spatiotemporal patterns on the array. The pattern formation required fast GABAergic transmission, coactivation of the dopamine D1 and NMDA receptor, and depended in an inverted-U profile on dopamine. At moderate concentrations of dopamine or the dopamine D1 agonist, the pattern size distribution formed a power law with exponent alpha = -1.5, indicating that patterns are organized in the form of neuronal avalanches, thereby maximizing spatial correlations in the network. At lower or higher concentrations, alpha was more negative than -1.5, indicating reduced spatial correlations. Likewise, at moderate dopamine concentrations, the avalanche rate and recurrence of specific avalanches was maximal with recurrence frequencies after a &quot;power law&quot;-like heavy-tail distribution with a slope of -2.4. We suggest that the dopamine-NMDA-dependent spontaneous recurrence of specific avalanches in superficial cortical layers might facilitate integrative and associative aspects of PFC functions.
Embodiment, the sense of being localized within one's physical body, is a fundamental aspect of the self. Recently, researchers have started to show that self and body processing require distinct brain mechanisms, suggesting two posterior brain regions as key loci: the temporoparietal junction (TPJ), which is involved in self processing and multisensory integration of body-related information; and the extrastriate body area (EBA), which responds selectively to human bodies and body parts. Here we used evoked potential mapping and a distributed linear inverse solution to show that activations in EBA and TPJ code differentially for embodiment and self location, because the location and timing of brain activation depended on whether mental imagery is performed with mentally embodied (EBA) or disembodied (TPJ) self location. In a second experiment, we showed that only EBA activation, related to embodied self location, but not TPJ activation, related to disembodied self location, was modified by the subjects' body position during task performance (supine or sitting). This suggests that embodied self location and actual body location share neural mechanisms. Collectively, these data show that distributed brain activity at the EBA and TPJ as well as their timing are crucial for the coding of the self as embodied and as spatially situated within the human body.
Recent theories on addiction implicate adaptive changes in prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons in reinforcing and psychotomimetic properties of psychostimulants, yet little is known about how neuronal responses to these drugs change over time. Here we describe electrophysiological evidence for a progressive and sustained change in the response of PFC neurons to amphetamine during repeated exposure. In spontaneously behaving rats and in rats engaged in an instrumental responding task, we followed the activity of medial PFC (mPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) neurons during daily exposure to amphetamine and after a post-withdrawal challenge. Repeated amphetamine increased the number of responsive neurons and the magnitude of responses and modified spontaneous burst patterns. These changes were apparent after a few exposures to amphetamine, were amplified after withdrawal, and were region specific in that repeated amphetamine increasingly produced inhibitory responses in mPFC and excitatory responses in OFC. In behaviorally engaged animals, the gradual enhancement in mPFC inhibition and OFC overactivation correlated with a progressive impairment of instrumental responding. Furthermore, these changes were evident predominately in neurons that displayed phasic responses during task-related events. These rapid-onset and sustained cellular adaptations suggest that even limited exposure to psychostimulants may reduce the influence of mPFC neurons on behavior while at the same time exaggerating information encoded by OFC neurons.




Migraine is a chronic, neurological disorder generally manifesting itself in attacks with severe headache, nausea and an increased reactivity to sensory stimuli. A low migraine threshold is set by genetic factors, although the phenotype also modulates the manifestations. The 1-year prevalence is approximately 13% and is higher among women. Patients usually experience neuropsychological dysfunction, and sometimes also reversible focal neurological symptoms. The trajectories of the characteristic symptoms of acute migraine usually follow a similar time course, indicating a reciprocal underlying mechanism. A central nervous system hyperexcitability has been demonstrated in neurophysiological studies. The dibilitating effects of migraine are not confined to the attacks per se. Many individuals do not recover completely between the attacks and most report a negative impact on the most important life domains, and an interest in testing other treatments. Young persons have a higher frequency of attacks. Acute treatment should routinely be initiated with an analgesic plus a prokinetic anti-emetic. Triptans must not be provided early during the attack to ensure their efficacy. The natural course of attacks is commonly only temporarily altered by acute treatment. Non-pharmacological treatment and drugs may be equally viable in prophylaxis for migraine. In more complicated cases, conjoint therapy should be considered. New strategies to improve adherence with existing therapeutic regimens might yield greater benefits than will new pharmacological agents.
The pathological hallmarks of secondary progressive (SP) multiple sclerosis (MS) include slowly expanding demyelination and axonal damage with less inflammation. To elucidate the pathomechanisms of secondary progressive (SP) multiple sclerosis (MS), we have investigated the expression of chemokines, chemokine receptors, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and immunoglobulins in the demyelinating plaques. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that numerous hypertrophic astrocytes were observed at the rim, but not in the center, of the chronic active lesions. Microglia/macrophages phagocytosing myelin debris were also found at the lesion border. In contrast, T cell infiltration was minimal in these plaques. Characteristically, at the rim of the lesions, there were abundant immunoreactivities for monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1)/CCL2 and interferon-gamma inducible protein-10 (IP-10)/CXCL10 and their receptors, CCR2 and CXCR3, while these immunoreactivities were weak in the center, thus forming a chemokine gradient. Double immunofluorescense staining demonstrated that cellular sources of MCP-1/CCL2 and IP-10/CXCL10 were hypertrophic astrocytes and that both astrocytes and microglia/macrophages expressed CCR2 and CXCR3. MMP-9 was also present at the rim of the lesions. These results suggest that MCP-1/CCL2 and IP-10/CXCL10 produced by astrocytes may activate astrocytes in an autocrine or paracrine manner and direct reactive gliosis followed by migration and activation of microglia/macrophages as effector cells in demyelinating lesions. Targeting chemokines in SPMS may therefore be a powerful therapeutic approach to inhibit lesional expansion.

The aging process is evolutionarily conserved and subject to quantitative modification by both genetic and environmental factors. Fundamental mechanisms of aging result in progressive deficits in the function of cells and organs, often leading to diseases that ultimately kill the organism such as cancers, cardiovascular disease and neurodegenerative disorders. Oxidative stress and damage to all of the major classes of molecules in cells are involved in aging and age-related diseases. The widely pursued approach of targeting disease-specific processes to develop therapeutic interventions has not had a major impact on healthspan. A more productive approach would be to target the fundamental mechanisms of aging throughout adult life so as to extend healthspan. Caloric restriction and regular exercise are two such approaches.
Studies of how aging affects brain plasticity have largely focused on old animals. However, deterioration of memory begins well in advance of old age in animals, including humans; the present review is concerned with the possibility that changes in synaptic plasticity, as found in the long-term potentiation (LTP) effect, are responsible for this. Recent results indicate that impairments to LTP are in fact present by early middle age in rats but only in certain dendritic domains. The search for the origins of these early aging effects necessarily involves ongoing analyses of how LTP is induced, expressed, and stabilized. Such work points to the conclusion that cellular mechanisms responsible for LTP are redundant and modulated both positively and negatively by factors released during induction of potentiation. Tests for causes of the localized failure of LTP during early aging suggest that the problem lies in excessive activity of a negative modulator. The view of LTP as having redundant and modulated substrates also suggests a number of approaches for reversing age-related losses. Particular attention will be given to the idea that induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, an extremely potent positive modulator, can be used to provide long periods of normal plasticity with very brief pharmacological interventions. The review concludes with a consideration of how the selective, regional deficits in LTP found in early middle age might be related to the global phenomenon of brain aging.
Motor functions decline with age due to a number of factors. There is interest in whether these changes are reflected in the organisation of the cerebral motor system in older subjects and whether such changes might be in some way compensatory. Most studies in humans have used functional brain imaging techniques to compare motor system activation in younger and older subjects. Interpretation of these results is made more difficult by potential neurovascular changes in older subjects. However, in general, there appears to be greater motor task-related brain activity in a wider network of brain regions in older compared to younger subjects. The evidence that these changes are compensatory in nature is less clear. Incorporation of behavioural and anatomical data will be required in order to fully interpret the functional imaging results.
The vulnerability of the nervous system to advancing age is all too often manifest in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. In this review article we describe evidence suggesting that two dietary interventions, caloric restriction (CR) and intermittent fasting (IF), can prolong the health-span of the nervous system by impinging upon fundamental metabolic and cellular signaling pathways that regulate life-span. CR and IF affect energy and oxygen radical metabolism, and cellular stress response systems, in ways that protect neurons against genetic and environmental factors to which they would otherwise succumb during aging. There are multiple interactive pathways and molecular mechanisms by which CR and IF benefit neurons including those involving insulin-like signaling, FoxO transcription factors, sirtuins and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors. These pathways stimulate the production of protein chaperones, neurotrophic factors and antioxidant enzymes, all of which help cells cope with stress and resist disease. A better understanding of the impact of CR and IF on the aging nervous system will likely lead to novel approaches for preventing and treating neurodegenerative disorders.

This article describes the proceedings of the 2006 Annual Meeting of the Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders Study Group (FASDSG), which was held in Baltimore, Maryland on June 24, 2006. The meeting was held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Research Society on Alcoholism and was supported by a grant from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. The 2005-2006 FASDSG officers, Daniel J. Bonthius (President), Heather Carmichael Olson (Vice-President), and Jennifer Thomas (Secretary-Treasurer), organized the meeting. Nationally prominent speakers delivered plenary lectures on topics of newborn screening, ethics, and neuroscience. Selected members of the FASDSG provided brief scientific data (FASt) reports, describing new research findings. Representatives from national agencies involved in fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) research, treatment, and prevention provided updates regarding priorities, funding, and agency activities. Presentations were also made by the 2006 Student Merit Award recipient and by the 2006 Rosett Award recipient. The meeting served as a forum for clinicians, neuroscientists, psychologists, social scientists, and other professionals to discuss recent advances in FAS research and to identify the most important gaps in the understanding of alcohol-induced teratology.
This article summarizes the proceedings of a symposium presented at the 2005 annual meeting of the Research Society on Alcoholism in Santa Barbara, California. The organizer and chair was Tara A. Lindsley. The presentations were (1) Ethanol and Neuron Migration in the CNS, by Michael W. Miller; (2) Ethanol and L1-mediated Neurite Outgrowth, by Yoav Littner and Cynthia F. Bearer; and (3) Ethanol and Axon Guidance, by Tara A. Lindsley.




Supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons secrete oxytocin or vasopressin in response to various physiological stimuli (e.g., lactation/suckling, dehydration). Released near fenestrated capillaries of the neurohypophysis, these peptides enter the blood and travel to peripheral target organs. The pervasive neuromodulator adenosine, acting at A1 receptors, is an important inhibitory regulator of magnocellular neuroendocrine cell activity. Another high-affinity adenosine receptor exists in this system, however. We examined the physiological effects of adenosine A2A receptor activation and determined its localization among various cell types within the SON. In whole cell patch-clamp recordings from rat brain slices, application of the selective adenosine A2A receptor agonist CGS-21680 caused membrane depolarizations in SON neurons, often leading to increased firing activity. Membrane potential changes were persistent (&gt;10 min) and could be blocked by the selective A2A receptor antagonist ZM-241385, or GDP-beta-S, the latter suggesting postsynaptic sites of action. However, +/--alpha-methyl-(4-carboxyphenyl)glycine or TTX also blocked CGS-21680 effects, indicating secondary actions on postsynaptic neurons. In voltage-clamp mode, application of CGS-21680 caused a slight increase (approximately 8%) in high-frequency clusters of excitatory postsynaptic currents. With the use of specific antibodies, adenosine A2A receptors were immunocytochemically localized to both the magnocellular neurons and astrocytes of the SON. Ecto-5'nucleotidase, an enzyme involved in the metabolism of ATP to adenosine, was also localized to astrocytes of the SON. These results demonstrate that adenosine acting at A2A receptors can enhance the excitability of SON neurons and modulate transmitter release from glutamatergic afferents projecting to the nucleus. We suggest that adenosine A2A receptors may function in neuroendocrine regulation through both direct neuronal mechanisms and via actions involving glia.
Multiple studies demonstrate that coadministration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists with the opioid agonist morphine attenuates the development of analgesic tolerance. Sex differences in the effects of noncompetitive, but not competitive NMDA receptor antagonists on acute morphine analgesia, have been reported in mice, yet the role of sex in modulation of morphine tolerance by NMDA receptor antagonists has yet to be addressed. Therefore, we tested whether there is a sex difference in the effect of NMDA receptor antagonists on the development of morphine analgesic tolerance in C57BL/6J mice. Acutely, at a dose required to affect morphine tolerance in male mice, the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) prolonged morphine analgesia similarly in both sexes in the hot plate and tail withdrawal assays. In the hot plate assay, coadministration of MK-801 or the competitive antagonist 3-(2-carboxpiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphanoic acid (CPP) with morphine attenuated the development of tolerance in male mice, while having no effect in females. Like normal and sham females, ovariectomized mice were similarly insensitive to the attenuation of morphine tolerance by MK-801 in the hot plate assay. Surprisingly, in the tail withdrawal assay, MK-801 facilitated the development of morphine-induced hyperalgesia and tolerance in males but not females. The results demonstrate that male mice are more sensitive to modulation of nociception and morphine analgesia after repeated coadministration of NMDA receptor antagonists. Furthermore, the underlying mechanisms are likely to be different from those mediating the sex difference in the modulation of acute morphine analgesia that has previously been reported.
Central or systemic administration of agonists directed at the mu or delta opiate receptors generally produce a greater degree of analgesia in males than in females. To date, most studies examining sex-based differences in opioid analgesia have used acute noxious stimuli (i.e., tail-flick and hot plate test); thus the potential dimorphic response of centrally acting opiates in the alleviation of persistent inflammatory pain is not well established. In the present study, right hind paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to radiant thermal stimuli was measured in intact male and cycling female Sprague-Dawley rats before and after unilateral hind paw injection of the inflammatory agent complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Control animals received intraplantar injection of saline. Twenty four hours after CFA or saline injection, animals received either saline or morphine bisulfate (0.5-15 mg/kg sc). Separate groups of control or inflamed animals were tested on their responsiveness to morphine at 7, 14, and 21 days post-CFA or saline. No sex differences were noted for baseline PWLs, and females displayed slightly less thermal hyperalgesia at 24 h post-CFA. At all morphine doses administered, both the antihyperalgesic effects of morphine in the inflamed animals and the antinociceptive effects of morphine in control animals were significantly greater in males compared with females. Similarly, in males, the antihyperalgesic effects of morphine increased significantly at 7-21 days post-CFA; no significant shift in morphine potency was noted for females. These studies demonstrate sex-based differences in the effects of morphine on thermal hyperalgesia in a model of persistent inflammatory pain.
Recent reports have proposed that the urothelium can sense mechanical stretch and communicate this information to sensory afferent neurons by the release of ATP into the vicinity of P2X-containing neurons. This report investigates the bidirectional release of ATP by in vitro rabbit urothelium. ATP was measured using the luciferin-luciferase assay. Immediately after washing of both sides of the epithelium, there was a linear increase in ATP content in the mucosal compartment with a rate of 23 +/- 6.5 fmol x min(-1) x cm(-2) (n = 18). Serosal ATP content increased as a saturating exponential function, suggesting a constant rate of release and degradation of ATP by ectonucleotidases/exonucleotidases. The presence of a serosal ectonucleotidase/exonucleotidases was demonstrated by the time-dependent decrease in exogenously added ATP. The maximum rate of hydrolysis was 11 pmol x min(-1) x cm(-2) with a K(m) of 0.49 microM. The time course of serosal ATP release was modeled as a constant rate of release (d: mol x min(-1) x cm(-2)) and rate constant of hydrolysis (k(h): min(-)). In control conditions d was 18 fmol x min(-1) x cm(-2) and k(h) of 0.056 +/- 0.01 min(-) (n = 18). Steady-state serosal chamber content is 370 +/- 90 fmol/cm(2), and concentration is 50 +/- 1.2 x 10(-12) M. Stretching the tissue resulted in a transient fivefold increase in the rate of mucosal ATP release and a transient sixfold increase in serosal ATP release. Half-osmotic strength solutions increased mucosal release by 10-fold and serosal release by 5-fold. Tissue damage resulted in a step-increase in mucosal chamber ATP content by 6.6 +/- 1 pmol/cm(2) and serosal chamber ATP by 0.1 +/- 0.06 pmol/cm(2) (n = 5).

The tsunami disaster in South Asia affected the mental health of thousands of survivors, but psychological aspects of rehabilitation are frequently overlooked in public health initiatives. From January to March 2005, teams from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bangalore, India, traveled to south India and implemented a &quot;train the trainer&quot; community-based mental health program of psychosocial care to facilitate the recovery of child and adult survivors. Psychosocial care has applications to natural and man-made disasters in developing countries.
We evaluated the effects of peribulbar block for eye surgery on bi-hemispheric regional cerebral oxygenation (rSO2)) of aged patients. In 66 adult patients, peribulbar block was performed using ropivacaine 10 mg.ml(-1) with hyaluronidase 100 IU.ml(-1). Cerebral oxygenation was monitored using continuous non-invasive, near-infrared spectroscopy. The rSO2 data on the side where the eye block was performed were evaluated as eye block side values, whereas the data recorded on the other side were taken as control values. Mean rSO2 values on the side where regional block was performed were not significantly different from control values (p &gt; 0.05). Nevertheless, in several patients, a slight desaturation in the cerebral hemisphere on the block side was detected. Therefore, in aged patients, peribulbar block with ropivacaine does not significantly modify bi-hemispheric rSO2, but rSO2 monitoring during peribulbar block should be a field of future research in aged patients with brain injury or disease.
The textbook view that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) absorption occurs mainly through the arachnoid granulations and villi is being challenged by quantitative and qualitative studies that support a major role for the lymphatic circulation in CSF transport. There are many potential sites at which lymphatics may gain access to CSF but the primary pathway involves the movement of CSF through the cribriform plate foramina in association with the olfactory nerves. Lymphatics encircle the nerve trunks on the extracranial surface of the cribriform plate and absorb CSF. However, the time during development in which the CSF compartment and extracranial lymphatic vessels connect anatomically is unclear. In this report, CSF-lymphatic connections were investigated using the silastic material Microfil and a soluble Evan's blue-protein complex in two species; one in which significant CSF synthesis by the choroid plexus begins before birth (pigs) and one in which CSF secretion is markedly up regulated within the first weeks after birth (rats). We examined a total of 46 pig fetuses at embryonic (E) day E80-81, E92, E101, E110 (birth at 114 days). In rats, we investigated a total of 115 animals at E21 (birth at 21 days), postnatal (P) day P1-P9, P12, P13, P15, P22, and adults. In pigs, CSF-lymphatic connections were observed in the prenatal period as early as E92. Before this time (E80-81 fetuses) CSF-lymphatic connections did not appear to exist. In rats, these associations were not obvious until about a week after birth. These data suggest that the ability of extracranial lymphatic vessels to absorb CSF develops around the time that significant volumes of CSF are being produced by the choroid plexus and further support an important role for lymphatic vessels in CSF transport.
Antibodies have been in widespread use for more than three decades as invaluable tools for the specific detection of proteins or other molecules in biological samples. In spite of such a long experience, the field of immunocytochemistry is still troubled by spurious results due to insufficient specificity of antibodies or procedures used. The importance of keeping a high standard is increasing because massive sequencing of entire genomes leads to the identification of numerous new proteins. All the identified proteins and their variants will have to be localized precisely and quantitatively at high resolution throughout the development of all species. Consequently, antibody generation and immunocytochemical investigations will be done on a large scale. It will be economically important to secure an optimal balance between the risk of publishing erroneous data (which are expensive to correct) and the costs of specificity testing. Because proofs of specificity are never absolute, but rather represent failures to detect crossreactivity, there is no limit to the number of control experiments that can be performed. The aims of the present paper are to increase the awareness of the difficulties in proving the specificity of immunocytochemical labeling and to initiate a discussion on optimized standards. The main points are: (1) antibodies should be described properly, (2) the labeling obtained with an antibody to a single epitope needs additional verification and (3) the investigators should be required to outline in detail how they arrive at the conclusion that the immunocytochemical labeling is specific.
The superorder Afrotheria consists of a diverse group of mammals, including elephants, hyraxes, dugongs, sea cows, aardvarks, tenrecs, golden moles, and elephant shrews. Recent studies suggest this clade diverged from other placental mammals 100 million years ago and thus may represent the sister group to the remaining placental mammals. Despite this important taxonomic position, relatively few studies have investigated cortical organization in these species. Here we present results of an investigation of the somatosensory cortex in the Cape elephant shrew (Elephantulus edwardii). Using multiunit electrophysiological recording techniques, we identified a topographic map of the elephant shrew's body in a location and orientation consistent with the primary somatosensory cortex (S1). The elephant shrew's elongated snout, extensive facial vibrissae, and long tongue accounted for a large portion of the somatosensory representation, located in a relatively rostral area of cortex. Evidence for an additional somatosensory area, presumed to be secondary somatosensory cortex (S2), was found just lateral to S1. Visual and auditory responsive areas were also identified and the extent of visual cortex appeared to be quite large in these highly visual mammals. Despite the elephant shrew's exceptionally well-developed eyes, ears, and vibrissae, there were no anatomical correlates to sensory areas, or body part representations (e.g., barrels), that could be identified in the flatted cortex.
The position of the lunate sulcus in fossil endocasts (when it can be determined) may serve as a potential marker of cognitive development in extinct hominid species. While the lunate sulcus is reliably present in the brains of great apes and forms the anterolateral boundary of the primary visual cortex, in humans its presentation is much more variable, and even if present, it does not correspond to a functional region. Grafton Elliot Smith, who named the lunate sulcus, claimed that it was homologous in humans and the great apes. Using high-resolution MRI, we assessed the presence/absence and course of the lunate sulcus in 110 adult subjects. We found that in the vast majority of cases, lunate sulci identified on the surface of the occipital lobe are actually composed of smaller sulcal segments that converge into an apparently continuous composite lunate sulcus. We found only 3 examples in 220 hemispheres (1.4%) of continuous lunate sulci that resembled ape lunates in form (albeit in a more posterior position). Composite lunate sulci were found in 32.7% of left hemispheres and 26.4% of right hemispheres. These results, combined with those from histological and functional imaging studies, indicate that human and ape lunate sulci are not homologous structures. We suggest that the extent of functional reorganization of the occipital region during hominid evolution has been underestimated, and that changes in this region were not just passively shaped by expansion of parietal association cortex.
Despite gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) therapeutic uses and the increasing concern about its toxicity, few studies have addressed GHB dose-related effects under controlled administration and their relationship with its pharmacokinetics. The study design was double-blind, randomized, crossover, and controlled. As a pilot pharmacology phase I study, increasing doses of GHB were given. Single oral sodium GHB doses (40, 50, 60, and 72 mg/kg) were administered to eight volunteers. Plasma and urine were analyzed for GHB by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Physiological effects, psychomotor performance, and subjective effects were examined simultaneously. GHB produced dose-related changes in subjective effects as measured by questionnaires and VAS. GHB showed a mixed stimulant-sedative pattern, with initially increased scores in subjective feeling of euphoria, high, and liking followed by mild-moderate symptoms of sedation with impairment of performance and balance. Mean peak GHB plasma concentrations were 79.1, 83.1, 113.5, and 130.1 mug/L for 40, 50, 60, and 72 mg/kg, respectively. GHB-mediated physiological and subjective effects were dose dependent and related to GHB plasma concentrations. GHB urinary excretion was mainly related to administered doses. GHB-mediated subjective and physiological effects seem dose dependent and related to GHB plasma concentrations. Results suggest a high abuse liability of GHB in the range of dose usually consumed.
Repeated use of drugs of abuse, namely opiates, has been shown to affect glutamate-releasing neurons. Moreover, blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDAR) prevents cell death by apoptosis induced by morphine, a heroin metabolite. Thus, in this article we investigated the involvement of different NMDAR subunits in heroin cytotoxicity. Human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells, which do not express native NMDAR, were transfected with NR1/NR2A or NR1/NR2B subunits. As a control, cells were transfected with NR1 alone, which does not form functional channels. Incubation with heroin for 24 h induced a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability both in NR1-transfected and nontransfected cells. The loss of membrane integrity induced by heroin was more evident in cells transfected with NR1/NR2B than in cells transfected with NR1 alone or NR1/NR2A. This decrease in cell viability was blocked by MK-801, a selective and noncompetitive antagonist of NMDAR. Nevertheless, no significant changes in intracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) were observed in cells treated with heroin. These data implicate NR2B-composed NMDAR as important mediators of heroin neurotoxicity.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of primarily the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). The present study briefly describes our findings to support the hypothesis that there is a possibility of degeneration of spinal cord (SC) motoneurons in course of parkinsonism. In cell culture models of experimental parkinsonism, we examined the degeneration of ventral SC motoneuron cell line (VSC4.1) following exposure to two different toxins, such as 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and rotenone. Our studies suggested calpain activation in the apoptosis of VSC4.1 motoneurons due to exposure to these parkinsonian toxins. Furthermore, our study showed the toxic effects of the dopaminergic toxin methamphetamine (METH) on VSC4.1 cells. The results strongly implicated a possible role for calpain in the mechanism of motoneuron apoptosis during parkinsonian degeneration, at large. Hence, we examined the neuroprotective efficacy of calpeptin, a specific inhibitor of calpain, in cell culture model of experimental parkinsonism.
Exposure to methylphenidate (MPH) during adolescence is the elective therapy for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) children, but raises major concerns for public health, due to possibly persistent neurobehavioral changes. Rats (30- to 44-days old) were administered MPH (2 mg/kg, i.p once daily) or saline (SAL). At the end of the treatment we collected plasma, testicular, liver, and brain (striatum) samples. The testes and liver were used to evaluate conventional reproductive and metabolic endpoints. Testes of MPH-exposed rats weighed more and contained an increased quantity of sperm, whereas testicular levels of testosterone (TST) were markedly decreased. The MPH treatment exerted an inductive effect on enzymatic activity of TST hydroxylases, resulting in increased hepatic TST catabolism. These findings suggest that subchronic MPH exposure in adolescent rats could have a trophic action on testis growth and a negative impact on TST metabolism. We have analyzed striatal gene expression profiles as a consequence of MPH exposure during adolescence, using microarray technology. More than 700 genes were upregulated in the striatum of MPH-treated rats (foldchange &gt;1.5). A first group of genes were apparently involved in migration of immature neural/glial cells and/or growth of novel axons. These genes include matrix proteases (ADAM-1, MMP14), their inhibitors (TIMP-2, TIMP-3), the hyaluronan-mediated motility receptor (RHAMM), and growth factors (transforming growth factor-beta3 [TGF-beta3] and fibroblast growth factor 14 [FGF14]). A second group of genes were suggestive of active axonal myelination. These genes mediate survival of immature cells after contact with newly produced axonal matrix (laminin B1, collagens, integrin alpha 6) and stabilization of myelinating glia-axon contacts (RAB13, contactins 3 and 4). A third group indicated the appearance and/or upregulation of mature processes. The latter included genes for: K+ channels (TASK-1, TASK-5), intercellular junctions (connexin30), neurotransmitter receptors (adrenergic alpha 1B, kainate 2, serotonin 7, GABA-A), as well as major proteins responsible for their transport and/or anchoring (Homer 1, MAGUK MPP3, Shank2). All these genes were possibly involved in synaptic plasticity, namely the formation, maturation, and stabilization of new neural connections within the striatum. MPH treatment seems to potentiate synaptic plasticity, which is an age-dependent developmental phenomenon that adolescent rats are very likely to show, compared to adults. Our observations suggest that adolescent MPH exposure causes only transient changes in reproductive and hormonal parameters, and a more enduring enhancement of neurobehavioral plasticity.
Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. The systemic administration of UPS inhibitors has been reported to induce nigrostriatal cell death and model Parkinson's disease pathology in rodents. We administered a synthetic, specific UPS inhibitor (PSI) subcutaneously to rats and quantified substantia nigral tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopaminergic neurons by stereology. PSI caused a 15% decrease in UPS activity at 2 weeks and a 42% reduction in substantia nigra pars compacta tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons at 8 weeks. Systemic inhibition of the UPS warrants further evaluation as a means to model Parkinson's disease.
The validity and clinical viability of Posner and Petersen's (1999) 3-factor model of attention was tested through a confirmatory factor analysis of attentional performance (Test of Everyday Attention [Robertson, I. H., Ward, T., Ridgeway, V., &amp; Nimmo-Smith, I. (1996). The structure of normal human attention: The Test of Everyday Attention. Journal of the International Neuropsychological Society, 2, 525-534]) in a sample of 133 Chinese participants. This study served both as a cross-cultural replication of the clinical implementation of this leading theoretical model of attention, and as a more stringent test of the validity of the hypothesized attentional processes underlying human cognitive control. The results support the validity of a 3-factor model of attention consistent with that proposed by Posner and Petersen (selective attention, sustained attention, and attentional switching/control), and demonstrate that clinical assessment of neuroanatomically-distinct attentional processes using simulated real life activities is possible.
Morphine has been used widely on the treatment of many types of chronic pain. However the development of tolerance to and dependence on morphine by repeat application is a major problem in pain therapy. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether combined administration of nalbuphine with morphine affects the development of tolerance to and dependence on morphine. We hypothesize that the use of nalbuphine, kappa-agonist may prove to be useful adjunct therapy to prevent morphine-induced undesirable effects in the management of some forms of chronic pain. Morphine (10 mg/kg) was injected to rats intraperitoneally for 5 day. The variable dose of nalbuphine (0.1, 1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg) was administered (i.p.) in combination with morphine injection. The development of morphine tolerance was assessed by measuring the antinociceptive effect with the Randall-Selitto apparatus. The development of dependence on morphine was determined by the scoring the precipitated withdrawal signs for 30 min after injection of naloxone (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Nalbuphine did not attenuate antinociceptive effect of morphine in rats. Interestingly, combined administration of morphine with nalbuphine (10:1) significantly attenuated the development of dependence on morphine. The elevation of [3H]MK-801 binding in frontal cortex, dentate gyrus, and cerebellum after chronic morphine infusion was suppressed by the coadministration of nalbuphine. In addition, the elevation of NR1 expression by morphine was decreased by the coadministration of nalbuphine in rat cortex. These results suggest that the coadministration of nalbuphine with morphine in chronic pain treatment can be one of therapies to reduce the development of tolerance to and dependence on morphine.

The slow delayed rectifier K+ current, Iks, encoded by KCNQ1 (KvLQT1)/KCNE1 (mink) genes, contributes to cardiac action potential repolarization and determines the heartbeat rate. Mutations in either KCNQ1 or KCNE1 that reduce Iks cause long-QT syndrome (LQTS), a disorder of ventricular repolarization that results in cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death. A well-recognized potential treatment for LQTS caused by reduction of Iks is to enhance functional activation of cardiac KCNQ1/KCNE1 channels. In the present study, we generated a stable Chinese hamster ovary cell line that expresses KCNQ1/KCNE1 channels confirmed by electrophysiology. Using a pharmacological tool compound R-L3 (L-364,373 [(3-R)-1,3-dihydro-5-(2-fluorophenyl)-3-(1H-indol- 3-ylmethyl)-1-methyl-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one]), which activates KCNQ1/mink channels, we then developed and validated a non-radioactive rubidium (Rb+) efflux assay that directly measures the functional activity of KCNQ1/KCNE1 channels by atomic absorption spectroscopy. Our results show that the validated Rb+ efflux assay can be used for screening of KCNQ1/KCNE1 openers that potentially treat LQTS in both inherited and acquired forms. In addition, the assay also can be used for evaluation of possible long-QT liability during cardiac selectivity of new chemical entities.
The aim of this study was to explore the relationship among components of the metabolic syndrome and their role in the development of diabetes. We included 2295 subjects, aged 65-84 years, participating in the Italian Longitudinal Study on Aging, a population-based study conducted in 1992 and with a follow-up in 1996. Factor analysis was conducted, separately for diabetic and non-diabetic men and women, using the principle components method and varimax rotations. Factor scores for the baseline were used as independent variables in logistic regressions models to determine risk factors predicting the development of diabetes. Factor analysis among non-diabetic elderly showed two factors for men (body size/insulin resistance, blood pressure/lipids) and three for women (body size, lipids, blood pressure). Among diabetic subjects, three factors emerged for men (body size/lipids/insulin resistance, body size/blood pressure, glucose) and four for women (body size/lipids/insulin resistance, lipids, body size/glucose/insulin resistance, lipids/blood pressure). For non-diabetic men and women, the body size factor (body size/insulin resistance factor for men) was strongly associated with diabetes incidence (OR=2.30, 95% CI 1.41-3.74 and OR=2.06, 95% CI 1.33-3.17, respectively). This study confirms that the metabolic syndrome (MetS) does not recognize one single underlying factor in an elderly cohort and that the obesity factor is a strong predictor of development of new onset diabetes.

We suggest that human culture exhibits key Darwinian evolutionary properties, and argue that the structure of a science of cultural evolution should share fundamental features with the structure of the science of biological evolution. This latter claim is tested by outlining the methods and approaches employed by the principal subdisciplines of evolutionary biology and assessing whether there is an existing or potential corresponding approach to the study of cultural evolution. Existing approaches within anthropology and archaeology demonstrate a good match with the macroevolutionary methods of systematics, paleobiology, and biogeography, whereas mathematical models derived from population genetics have been successfully developed to study cultural microevolution. Much potential exists for experimental simulations and field studies of cultural microevolution, where there are opportunities to borrow further methods and hypotheses from biology. Potential also exists for the cultural equivalent of molecular genetics in &quot;social cognitive neuroscience,&quot; although many fundamental issues have yet to be resolved. It is argued that studying culture within a unifying evolutionary framework has the potential to integrate a number of separate disciplines within the social sciences.
We tested the hypothesis that sex differences in preference for NaCl are attributable to estrogen-mediated alterations in gustatory processing. Electrophysiological responses of the chorda tympani nerve to NaCl were blunted by estrogen treatment in ovariectomized female rats, suggesting that females are less sensitive to concentrated NaCl solutions during high estrogen conditions. In contrast, after a taste aversion was conditioned to 150-mM NaCl, estrogen- and oil-treated ovariectomized rats generalized the aversion to a lower concentration of NaCl than did males, suggesting that females are more sensitive to the taste of dilute NaCl solutions regardless of estrogen. Thus, sex differences in NaCl preferences may be attributable to differences in NaCl taste processing that involve both acute and developmental effects of estrogen.
Reorganization and plasticity after spinal cord injury have been recently shown to take place in sublesional neuronal networks, but the possibility of strain-dependent changes at that level has never been explored. The authors studied the spontaneous return of hindlimb movement in low-thoracic spinal cord transected (Tx) mice from 3 commonly used strains. Without intervention, most CD1, C57BL/6, and BALB/c mice displayed some hindlimb movement recovery after Tx. Although all assessment methods unanimously reported that CD1 displayed higher recovery levels than did the C57BL/6 and BALB/c, higher scores were generally found with the Antri-Orsal-Barthe (M. Antri, D. Orsal, &amp; J. Y. Barthe, 2002) and the Average Combined Score (P. A. Guertin, 2005a) methods. Such spontaneous recovery in low-thoracic Tx mice is likely the result of neuronal plasticity at the lumbosacral spinal cord level, suggesting that these sublesional changes are strain dependent.
As part of ongoing studies on the neurobiology of socioemotional behavior in the nonhuman primate, the authors examined the social dominance hierarchy of juvenile macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta) that received bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the amygdala or the hippocampus or a sham surgical procedure at 2 weeks of age. The subjects were reared by their mothers with daily access to large social groups. Behavioral observations were conducted while monkeys were given access to a limited preferred food. This testing situation reliably elicited numerous species-typical dominance behaviors. All subjects were motivated to retrieve the food when tested individually. However, when a group of 6 monkeys was given access to only 1 container of the preferred food, the amygdala-lesioned monkeys had less frequent initial access to the food, had longer latencies to obtain the food, and demonstrated fewer species-typical aggressive behaviors. They were thus lower ranking on all indices of social dominance. The authors discuss these findings in relation to the role of the amygdala in the establishment of social rank and the regulation of aggression and fear.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is characterized by chronic motor and vocal tics. Habit reversal therapy (HR) is a behavioral treatment for tics which has received recent empirical support. The present study compared the efficacy of HRT in reducing tics, improving life-satisfaction and psychosocial functioning in comparison with supportive psychotherapy (SP) in outpatients with TS. In addition, we investigated whether impairments in response inhibition in patients with TS predict response to HR treatment which specifically aims to inhibit tics. Thirty adult outpatients with DSM-IV TS were randomized to 14 individual sessions of HR (n = 15); or SP (n = 15). HR but not SP reduced tic severity over the course of the treatment. Both groups improved in life-satisfaction and psychosocial functioning during active treatment. Reductions in tic severity (HR) and improvements in life-satisfaction and psychosocial functioning (HR and SP) remained stable at the 6-month follow-up. The extent of pre-treatment response inhibition impairment in the HR group predicted reductions in tic-severity from pre- to post-treatment. Our results suggest that HR has specific tic-reducing effects although SP is effective in improving life-satisfaction and psychosocial functioning. Assessments of response inhibition may be of value for predicting treatment response to HR.
Regulation of cell survival decisions and neuronal plasticity by neurotrophins are mediated by two classes of receptors, Trks (tropomyosin receptor kinases) and p75, the first discovered member of the tumour necrosis factor receptor superfamily. The p75 receptor participates with the TrkA receptor in the formation of high-affinity nerve growth factor-binding sites to promote survival under limiting concentrations of neurotrophins. Activation of Trk receptors leads to increased phosphorylation of Shc (Src homology and collagen homology), phospholipase C-gamma and novel adaptor molecules, such as the ARMS (ankyrin-rich membrane spanning)/Kidins220 protein. Small ligands that interact with G-protein-coupled receptors can also activate Trk receptor kinase activity. Transactivation of Trk receptors and their downstream signalling pathways raise the possibility of using small molecules to elicit neuroprotective effects for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Like amyloid precursor protein and Notch, p75 is a substrate for gamma-secretase cleavage. The p75 receptor undergoes an alpha-secretase-mediated release of the extracellular domain followed by a gamma-secretase-mediated intramembrane cleavage. Cleavage of p75 may represent a general mechanism for transmitting signals as an independent receptor and as a co-receptor for other signalling systems.
Beta-catenin is an intracellular signaling molecule that has been shown to be important in activity-dependent dendritic morphogenesis. Here, we investigate the detailed morphological changes elicited in dendritic arbors of cultured hippocampal neurons by overexpression of beta-catenin, and we simulate the electrophysiological consequences of these changes. Compared to control neurons, cells overexpressing beta-catenin have dendritic arbors with significantly greater surface area and more branches, as well as different topological characteristics. To investigate possible effects of beta-catenin expression on the electrophysiological properties of neurons, we converted confocal images of neurons expressing beta-catenin into computational simulator formats using parameters that evenly distributed voltage-dependent channels across the cells' membranes. In simulated current clamp experiments, somata were injected with a normalized current such that the observed electrophysiological differences in the neurons would be due only to morphological differences. We found that the morphology of beta-catenin-expressing neurons contributes to significantly smaller action potential amplitude and greater sensitivity than seen in control neurons. As a consequence, beta-catenin-expressing neurons tended to exhibit higher spike rates and needed less excitation to induce firing. These findings show that beta-catenin, by modifying dendritic arborization, could have profound influences on the electrophysiological behavior of neurons.


Ethical considerations can limit the use of traditional unconditional stimuli (US), such as electric shock and loud tones, when used in a human aversive Pavlovian conditioning procedure. The risk of the US causing pain or excessive anxiety is a particular concern when testing sensitive populations such as children, the elderly, and those with psychological or neurodevelopmental disorders. Two experiments used a differential conditioning procedure to determine whether an unpleasant sound (metal scraping on slate) could support the acquisition and extinction of conditioned responses to the same extent as either electric shock or a 100 dB(A) tone US. Experiment 1 (N=48) demonstrated equivalent or superior conditioning effects for the signal-based learning measures of US expectancy, skin conductance responses, and heart rate. Experiment 2 (N=57) yielded similar outcomes in the affective-based learning measures of startle blink modulation and pleasantness ratings. The results support the use of an unpleasant sound as a US in human Pavlovian conditioning experiments.
Directional growth and differentiation of adult rat hippocampal progenitor cells (AHPCs) were investigated on micropatterned polymer substrates in vitro. Astrocytes or AHPCs cultured on micropatterned polystyrene substrates chemically modified with laminin exhibited over 75% alignment in the groove direction. AHPCs co-cultured with astrocytes preferentially acquired neuronal morphology, with nearly double the percentage of cells expressing class III beta-tubulin on the micropatterned half of the substrate, as opposed to the planar half of the substrate, or compared to those growing in the absence of astrocytes. This indicates that substrate three-dimensional topography, in synergy with chemical (laminin) and biological (astrocytes) guidance cues, facilitates neuronal differentiation of the AHPCs. Through multi-dimensional cell-cell interactions, this environment provides spatial control selectively enhancing neuronal differentiation and neurite alignment on topographically different regions of the same substrate. Integrating these cues is important in understanding and controlling neural stem cell differentiation and designing scaffolds for guided nerve regeneration.

Penetrating head trauma may present challenging problems in the acute phase (removal of foreign bodies, control of haemorrhage, prevention of infection) and in the management of long-term sequelae (neurological deficit, cognitive impairment, seizures). Two unusual cases demonstrate the progress made in emergency medicine, radiology neurointensive care, and neurosurgical head injury management over 36 years.
To examine the long-term effects of surgery in adult hydrocephalus we conducted a cross-sectional questionnaire study assessing both the patients' sense of well-being, and changes in gait, living conditions, daily need of sleep and bladder function. One-hundred-and-nine consecutive patients operated for non-communicating hydrocephalus (N-CH) (22) and communicating normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), both idiopathic (38) and secondary (49) were included. For survival analyses, three reference groups were selected from the general population and from the Northern Sweden MONICA Project. At long-term follow-up, 29 (27%) patients had died. Sixty-eight patients (62%) returned the questionnaire, while 12 (11%) patients did not reply. The median follow-up time was 4.2 years (range 2.3 - 6.2 years). Fifty-four (79%) of these patients reported that they still felt improved and 60% had persisting observable improvement of gait, living conditions, bladder function and need of sleep. Intention-to-treat analyses revealed that 54 (50%) of the patients still felt better and 37% remained functionally improved. The standardized mortality ratio (observed/expected) was 3.01 (CI: 2.01 - 4.32).
Psychomotor slowing is a common feature in many patients with intracranial tumours. We therefore performed a preliminary study to determine if inspection time, a measure of the efficiency of the brain's information processing, was impaired in patients with intracranial tumours. Inspection time, and some other neuropsychological and functional tests, were compared in 23 people with intracranial tumours and 24 spinal surgery controls prior to surgery. Groups were matched for sex, age and education. Inspection time scores were poorer in the brain tumour group (p &lt; 0.003) and the effect size was moderate (eta2 = 0.197). The brain tumour group also had lower scores on the Boston Aphasia Severity Rating Scale, more anxiety on the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scales, but better Karnovsky Performance scores. Other cognitive and functional tests showed no significant differences between the groups, although group sizes were small. There were no significant changes in inspection time after spinal surgery; however, after intracranial tumour surgery, approximately 30% of patients showed no change, 30% deteriorated and 40% improved. This preliminary study suggests that recording inspection time, in a neuro-oncological setting, may prove informative and practically useful in assessing non-motor processing speed in people with brain tumours.
1. This study investigated whether (a) cannabinoid CB(1) receptor knockout (CB(1)(-/-)) mice displayed altered gastrointestinal transit and (b) cannabinoid CB(1) and opioid receptors functionally interact in the regulation of gastrointestinal transit. 2. Gastrointestinal transit was assessed by the Whole Gastrointestinal Transit, measuring the excretion time of an intragastrically administered marker (whole intestine), and the Upper Gastrointestinal Transit, measuring the distance covered by the marker in the small intestine. 3. CB(1)(-/-) and homozygous CB(1)(+/+) (CB(1)(+/+)) mice did not differ in both whole gut and small intestine transit. CB(1)(-/-) and CB(1)(+/+) mice were equally responsive to the inhibitory effect of morphine (10 mg kg(-1)) and loperamide (3 mg kg(-1)) on whole gut transit.4. Additionally, in CD1 mice the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist, rimonabant (0-0.5 mg kg(-1)), failed to block the inhibitory effect of morphine (0-1.25 mg kg(-1)) and loperamide (0-0.5 mg kg(-1)) on transit in small and whole intestine. Similarly, the opioid receptor antagonists, naloxone (0-1 mg kg(-1)) and naltrexone (0-10 mg kg(-1)), failed to block the inhibitory effect of the cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 (0-3 mg kg(-1)) on transit in small and whole intestine.5. These results suggest that (a) compensatory mechanisms likely developed in CB(1)(-/-) mice to overcome the lack of inhibitory function of endocannabinoid system; (b) cannabinoid and opioid receptor systems did not interact in regulating gastrointestinal transit in mice.
1. We previously demonstrated that p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) intravenously (i.v.) evokes a specific patterned bursting response in the vas deferens nerve (VDN) of anaesthetised male rats that is associated with contraction of the vas deferens, and ejaculation and contraction of the bulbospongiosus muscles. The present study used selective 5-HT agonists to induce similar rhythmic bursting responses in the VDN in order to reveal the 5-HT receptor subtypes involved. 2. The 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist (1.0 mg kg(-1) Ro600175 i.v.) evoked the characteristic bursting pattern responses in the VDN. The 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (1.0 mg kg(-1) 8-OH-DPAT i.v.) failed to elicit any responses. However, 8-OH-DPAT coadministered in combination with Ro600175 induced a potentiation of the responses. 3. Responses were also evoked in rats with a mid-thoracic spinalisation, with a more predictable response being observed following the combination of agonists. This suggests an action of both agonists in the lumbosacral spinal cord. 4. Responses were blocked by 0.5 mg kg(-1) SB206553 i.v. (5-HT(2B/C) receptor antagonist) or 0.5 mg kg(-1) WAY100635 i.v. (5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist), but not 0.1 or 1.0 mg kg(-1) SB269970 i.v. (5-HT(7) receptor antagonist). 5. We suggest that activation of 5-HT(2C) and 5-HT(1A) receptor subtypes synergistically elicits contraction of the vas deferens through the activation of sympathetic preganglionic neurones in the spinal cord. 6. These data support the idea of a proejaculatory action of 5-HT(2C) receptors in the lumbosacral spinal cord, suggesting a descending 5-HT excitatory pathway in addition to a 5-HT inhibitory pathway. An excitatory action of 8-OH-DPAT at lumbosacral sites is also evident.
The non-invasive nature of arterial spin labelling (ASL) has opened a unique window into human brain function and perfusion physiology. High spatial and temporal resolution makes the technique very appealing not only for the diagnosis of vascular diseases, but also in basic neuroscience where the aim is to develop a more comprehensive picture of the physiological events accompanying neuronal activation. However, low signal-to-noise ratio and the complexity of flow quantification make ASL one of the more demanding disciplines within MRI. In this review, the theoretical background and main implementations of ASL are revisited. In particular, the perfusion quantification methods, including the problems and pitfalls involved, are thoroughly discussed in this article. Finally, a brief summary of applications is provided.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) is a key enzyme of arachidonic acid metabolism and exists as two distinct isoforms. COX-1 is constitutively expressed in most tissues, whereas COX-2 is inducibly expressed at the site of inflammation. Selective inhibitors of COX-2 have been developed and have been used as anti-inflammatory agents. Here, we show that a new-generation COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, inhibited experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Celecoxib, but not other COX-2 inhibitors such as nimesulid, prevented myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) induced EAE when administrated orally on the day of disease induction. Moreover, celecoxib inhibited EAE in COX-2-deficient mice, indicating that celecoxib inhibited EAE in a COX-2-independent manner. In celecoxib-treated mice, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production from MOG-specific T cells was reduced and MOG-specific IgG1 was elevated compared with vehicle-treated mice. Infiltration of inflammatory cells into the central nervous system and the expression of adhesion molecules, P-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and a chemokine, monocyte chemoattractant peptide-1 (MCP-1), were inhibited when mice were treated with celecoxib. These results suggest that celecoxib may be useful as a new additional therapeutic agent for multiple sclerosis.
Clinical observations support a central role of the dopamine system in restless legs syndrome (RLS) but previous imaging studies of striatal dopamine D2-receptors have yielded inconclusive results. Extrastriatal dopaminergic function has hitherto not been investigated. Sixteen RLS patients nave to dopaminergic drugs and sixteen matched control subjects were examined with PET. [11C]Raclopride and [11C]FLB 457 were used to estimate D2-receptor availability in striatum and extrastriatal regions, respectively. Examinations were performed both in the morning (starting between 10:00 and 12:00 h) and evening (starting at 18:00 h). Measures were taken to monitor and control for head movement during data acquisition. In the striatum, patients had significantly higher [11C]raclopride binding potential (BP) values than controls. In extrastriatal regions, [11C]FLB 457 BP was higher in patients than controls, and in the regional analysis the difference was statistically significant in subregions of thalamus and the anterior cingulate cortex. The diurnal variability in BP with [11C]FLB 457 and [11C]raclopride was within the previously reported test-retest reproducibility for both radioligands. The study supports involvement of the dopamine system in both striatal and extrastriatal brain regions in the pathophysiology of RLS. The brain regions where differences in D2-receptor binding were shown are implicated in the regulation of affective and motivational aspects of sensory processing, suggesting a possible pathway for sensory symptoms in RLS. Increased D2-receptor availability in RLS may correspond to higher receptor densities or lower levels of endogenous dopamine. Both interpretations are consistent with the hypothesis of hypoactive dopaminergic neurotransmission in RLS, as increased receptor levels can be owing to receptor upregulation in response to low levels of endogenous dopamine. The results do not support variations in dopamine D2-receptor availability as a correlate to the diurnal rhythm of RLS symptoms.
The basal ganglia (BG) contain several functional compartments and multiple, parallel segregated circuits processing different cortical information through cortical-BG-thalamus-cortical loops. Three zones of corticostriatal input are present: sensorimotor, associative and limbic, which correspond to poor, intermediate and strong calbindin (CB) labelling, respectively. Other functional compartments, such as striosomes, extrastriosomal matrix and matrisomes, also convey segregated projections. Microvascular territories in the human BG are spatially consistent with little overlap and few anastomoses. A high percentage of lacunar infarcts occur in the BG, yet the relationship between lacunae and functional compartments is unknown. We determined the relationship between microvascular territories and functional compartments within the human striatum. Microvascular territories were labelled by co-injection of diffusible dye, radio-opaque substance and gelatin into parental vessels and by sectioning each BG co-planar with the Talairach system. Sections underwent immunocytochemistry or histochemistry and the overlap of microvascular and functional territories was examined. CB staining of the arterial-injected striatum matched the functional compartments reported previously and overlay of microvascular territories revealed a correspondence between (i) the lateral lenticulostriate arteries (LSA) and sensorimotor zone; (ii) the medial LSA and associative zone; and (iii) the recurrent artery of Heubner (RAH) and limbic zone. A greater number of large vessels and capillaries were found in the matrix compared to striosomes, and a likely correspondence exists between high-density arteriole envelopes and matrisomes. The higher number of non-anastomotic vessels and capillary beds within the matrix predisposes these regions to both large lesions and small lacunar infarcts, creating specific symptoms based on striatal circuitry.
We examined the impact of discrete white matter lesions in the frontal lobes on event-related potential (ERP) correlates of performance monitoring. We tested the hypothesis that abnormal performance monitoring may result from injury to white matter without evidence of injury to grey matter in the frontal lobes. It was predicted that such lesions may result in disconnection of the lateral and medial frontal cortices. The close interaction of these two areas has been implicated in performance monitoring. Two fast-choice response tasks were administered to patients with MRI-confirmed frontal white matter lesions due to sickle cell disease (SCD) vasculopathy (n = 11; age = 11-23 years; 6 unilateral left lesions and 5 bilateral lesions) and two control groups: SCD patients without brain lesions and non-sickle cell sibling controls (n = 11 each). Stimulus-locked ERP components N2 and P3 were not significantly affected by presence of lesions. The difference between response-locked components to correct trials (correct-response negativity--CRN) and erroneous trials (error-related negativity--ERN) was diminished in patients with unilateral and bilateral frontal white matter lesions. This finding was due to a significantly attenuated ERN amplitude in lesion patients compared with both sibling and non-lesion control groups. These ERP findings were not due to performance differences between groups and hence reflect a compromised neural substrate underlying performance monitoring. The latter may also contribute to the deficits in executive function tasks observed in these patients. As disruption to ERP markers of error processing was found in the absence of lesions to the lateral or medial frontal cortex, we conclude that a functional connection between these areas facilitates performance monitoring, possibly implemented via tracts traversing the deep frontal white matter.
The functional link between the amygdala and hippocampus in humans has not been well documented. We examined the effect of unpleasant loud noise on hippocampal and amygdaloid activities during picture encoding by means of fMRI, and on the correct response in humans. The noise reduced activity in the hippocampus during picture encoding, decreased the correct response and increased the activity of the amygdala. A path diagram using structural equation modeling suggested that hippocampus activity might be depressed by high amygdala activity. Therefore, noise should diminish memory by reducing hippocampal activity, which might be depressed by high amygdala activity.

The present study characterizes the neural correlates of noun and verb imageability and addresses the question of whether components of the neural network supporting word recognition can be separately modified by variations in grammatical class and imageability. We examined the effect of imageability on BOLD signal during single-word comprehension of nouns and verbs. Subjects made semantic similarity judgments while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Nouns and verbs were matched on imageability, and imageability varied continuously within a grammatical category. We observed three anatomically separable effects: a main effect of grammatical class, a main effect of imageability, and an imageability by grammatical class cross-over interaction. The left superior parietal lobule and a region in the left fusiform responded similarly to increases in noun and verb imageability; the left superior temporal gyrus showed greater activity for verbs than nouns after imageability was matched across grammatical class; and, in both the left middle temporal gyrus and the left inferior frontal lobe, a decrease in noun but not verb imageability resulted in higher BOLD signal. The presence of reliable and anatomically separable main effects of both imageability and grammatical class renders unlikely the hypothesis that previously reported dissociations between nouns and verbs can be dismissed as imageability effects. However, some regions previously thought to respond to grammatical class or imageability instead respond to the interaction of these variables.
Increases in attentional effort are defined as the motivated activation of attentional systems in response to detrimental challenges on attentional performance, such as the presentation of distractors, prolonged time-on-task, changing target stimulus characteristics and stimulus presentation parameters, circadian phase shifts, stress or sickness. Increases in attentional effort are motivated by the expected performance outcome; in the absence of such motivation, attentional performance continues to decline or may cease altogether. The beneficial effects of increased attentional effort are due in part to the activation of top-down mechanisms that act to optimize input detection and processing, thereby stabilizing or recovering attentional performance in response to challenges. Following a description of the psychological construct &quot;attentional effort&quot;, evidence is reviewed indicating that increases in the activity of cortical cholinergic inputs represent a major component of the neuronal circuitry mediating increases in attentional effort. A neuronal model describes how error detection and reward loss, indicating declining performance, are integrated with motivational mechanisms on the basis of neuronal circuits between prefrontal/anterior cingulate and mesolimbic regions. The cortical cholinergic input system is activated by projections of mesolimbic structures to the basal forebrain cholinergic system. In prefrontal regions, increases in cholinergic activity are hypothesized to contribute to the activation of the anterior attention system and associated executive functions, particularly the top-down optimization of input processing in sensory regions. Moreover, and influenced in part by prefrontal projections to the basal forebrain, increases in cholinergic activity in sensory and other posterior cortical regions contribute directly to the modification of receptive field properties or the suppression of contextual information and, therefore, to the mediation of top-down effects. The definition of attentional effort as a cognitive incentive, and the description of a neuronal circuitry model that integrates brain systems involved in performance monitoring, the processing of incentives, activation of attention systems and modulation of input functions, suggest that 'attentional effort' represents a viable construct for cognitive neuroscience research.

Since the early 1990s, DNA triplet repeat expansions have been found to be the cause in an ever increasing number of genetic neurologic diseases. A subset of this large family of genetic diseases has the expansion of a CAG DNA triplet in the open reading frame of a coding exon. The result of this DNA expansion is the expression of expanded glutamine amino acid repeat tracts in the affected proteins, leading to the term, Polyglutamine Diseases, which is applied to this sub-family of diseases. To date, nine distinct genes are known to be linked to polyglutamine diseases, including Huntington's disease, Machado-Joseph Disease and spinobulbar muscular atrophy or Kennedy's disease. Most of the polyglutamine diseases are characterized clinically as spinocerebellar ataxias. Here we discuss recent successes and advancements in polyglutamine disease research, comparing these different diseases with a common genetic flaw at the level of molecular biology and early drug design for a family of diseases where many new research tools for these genetic disorders have been developed. Polyglutamine disease research has successfully used interdisciplinary collaborative efforts, informative multiple mouse genetic models and advanced tools of pharmaceutical industry research to potentially serve as the prototype model of therapeutic research and development for rare neurodegenerative diseases.
Neuroscience represents a dynamic area of biomedical research where neuroethical responsibilities for researchers are emerging. This paper is the companion piece to the French-language one also published in this issue of the Canadian Journal of Neurological Sciences. It serves as a review of recent advances in neuroethics through the lens of three cases: (1) incidental finding of anomalies in neuroimaging research; (2) creation of neurotechnologies that can lead to cognitive enhancement, and (3) responsible communication of research results. We propose and discuss a multidimensional framework of neuroethical responsibilities to help tackle these issues. The framework reiterates the fundamental role of scientific integrity, puts in the foreground social responsibilities pertaining to the eventual use of neuroscience knowledge, and highlights self-reflection in research and training of researchers.
Some of the earliest detailed descriptions of biophysical properties of low voltage-activated (LVA) or transient (T) type Ca2+ channels were done using in vitro preparation of primary sensory or dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that are known for their functional role in processing pain signals. However, in spite of these early discoveries, T-type channels were not implicated in sensory transmission in general and pain processing (nociception) in particular until recently. New evidence obtained using an array of techniques such as electrophysiological recordings, pharmacological behavioral experiments as well as molecular techniques strongly supports the role of peripheral T-type Ca2+ channels in boosting nociceptive transmission in a variety of experimental pain models. Therefore, these channels in peripheral sensory neurons may be the important, although previously unappreciated, targets for novel pain therapies. In this article, we review past, present and future findings aimed at illuminating the role of peripheral T-type Ca2+ channels in nociception and the value of these channels as cellular targets for potential drug developments.
Evidence is accumulating on a key role of T-type channels in neurotransmitter release. Recent works have brought undisputable proofs that T-type channels are capable of controlling hormone and neurotransmitters release in association with exocytosis of large dense-core and synaptic vesicles. T-type channel-secretion coupling is not as ubiquitous as that shown for N- and P/Q-type channels in central neurons. In this case, the high-density of Cav2 channel types and co-localization to the release sites ensure high rates of vesicle release and synchronous synaptic responses. Nevertheless, when sufficiently expressed in distal dendrites and neurosecretory cells, T-type channels are able to drive the fast fusion of vesicles ready for release during &quot;low-threshold&quot; Ca2+-entry. T-type channels appear effectively coupled to fast vesicle depletion and may possibly regulate other Ca2+-dependent processes like vesicle recycling and vesicle mobilization from a reserve pool that are important mechanisms controlling synaptic activity during sustained stimulation. Here, we will briefly review the main findings that assign a specific task to T-type channels in fast exocytosis discussing their possible involvement in the control of the Ca2+-dependent processes regulating synaptic activity and vesicular hormone release.
The importance of apoptosis in multicellular organisms is signified by the high degree of genetic conservation in the core components of this pathway from C. elegans through mammals. However, as the cells which comprise these organisms have diversified and become more specialized, so have the mechanisms which regulate the apoptotic pathway. The complex regulatory mechanisms by which the apoptotic pathway is refined are perhaps most apparent in differentiated postmitotic cells such as neurons, cardiomyocytes, and skeletal myotubes. The lack of significant regenerative potential in postmitotic cells demands that they must persist long-term, often for the full lifespan of an organism. Recent studies have identified several diverse mechanisms by which postmitotic cells restrict their apoptotic potential. Importantly, these mechanisms may also be coopted by cancer cells in order to evade apoptosis.
Reducing insulin/IGF signaling allows for organismal survival during periods of inhospitable conditions by regulating the diapause state, whereby the organism stockpiles lipids, reduces fertility, increases stress resistance, and has an increased lifespan. The Target of Rapamycin (TOR) responds to changes in growth factors, amino acids, oxygen tension, and energy status; however, it is unclear how TOR contributes to physiological homeostasis and disease conditions. Here, we show that reducing the function of Drosophila TOR results in decreased lipid stores and glucose levels. Importantly, this reduction of dTOR activity blocks the insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome phenotypes associated with increased activity of the insulin responsive transcription factor, dFOXO. Reduction in dTOR function also protects against age-dependent decline in heart function and increases longevity. Thus, the regulation of dTOR activity may be an ancient &quot;systems biological&quot; means of regulating metabolism and senescence, that has important evolutionary, physiological, and clinical implications.
This article is to investigate the effect of human recombinant phospholipase D2 (rhPLD2) in vivo on the expression of nuclear transcription factor p65 in chronic asthma of guinea pigs. After treating the guinea pigs with chronic asthma by rhPLD2, the crude nuclear extraction was assayed with TransAM Transcription Factor Assay Kit for the activity of pulmo tissue nuclear transcription factor p65. Compared with the healthy guinea pigs, the activity of nuclear transcription factor p65 in guinea pigs of chronic asthma is much higher than that of control groups. Our results showed that rhPLD2 markedly depressed the activity of p65 when the guinea pigs were attacked by chronic asthma.
The lateral antennular flagellum of decapod crustaceans bears unique olfactory sensilla, namely the aesthetascs, and other sensilla types. In this study, we identify a new major tissue in the lateral flagellum of the Caribbean spiny lobster, Panulirus argus, namely &quot;aesthetasc tegumental glands&quot; (ATGs), based on immunostaining with antibodies against CUB serine protease (Csp), in situ hybridization with csp-specific probes, labeling with the F-actin marker phalloidin, labeling with the nuclear marker Hoechst 33258, and staining with methylene blue. Each ATG has 12-20 secretory cells arranged in a rosette. Each secretory cell has a Csp-immunoreactive basal portion and an apical portion containing granular material (metachromatic staining indicative of acid mucopolysaccharides). At the center of each secretory rosette is a phalloidin-positive common locus that gives rise to a main drainage duct projecting toward the cuticle. Scanning electron and light microscopy show that thin ducts traverse the cuticle and connect to &quot;peg pores&quot; proximal to the bases of the aesthetascs, with 3.4 peg pores per aesthetasc. Since the number of common loci is correlated with the number of peg pores, we conclude that each pore represents the outlet of one ATG, and that the secretions are released from them. We conclude further that ATGs and aesthetascs are functionally linked. We hypothesize that ATG secretions have antifouling and/or friction-reducing properties, and that they are spread over the surface of the aesthetascs by antennular grooming. A review of the literature suggests that ATGs are common in decapod crustacean antennules, and that rosette glands and grooming might be functionally coupled in other body areas.
We wished to establish the functional identity of Na(v)1.6-expressing myenteric neurons of the guinea pig proximal colon by determining the extent of colocalization of Na(v)1.6 and selected neurochemical markers. Na(v)1.6-like immunoreactivity (-li) was primarily localized to the hillock and initial segments of myenteric neurons located near junctions with internodal fiber tracts. Immunoreactivity for Na(v)1.6 was co-localized with choline-acetyltransferase-li, representing 96% of Na(v)1.6-immunoreactive neurons; about 5% of these neurons showed co-localization with calretinin-li, but none with substance-P-li. Cholinergic neurons expressing Na(v)1.6 were amongst the smallest (somal area &lt;300 mum(2)) of all cholinergic myenteric neurons observed. Only three of 234 Na(v)1.6-immunoreactive neurons exhibited nNOS-li, and none co-localized with calbindin-li. These data suggest that Na(v)1.6 is expressed in a small uniform population of cholinergic myenteric neurons that lie within the guinea pig proximal colon and that are likely to function as excitatory motor neurons.

The aim of this large, cross-sectional, population-based study was to examine the association between sick leave and headache. Between 1995 and 1997, all 92 566 adults in Nord-Trndelag County in Norway were invited to participate in a health survey. Out of 73 327 invited individuals &lt;67 years old, a total of 38 192 (52%) responded to questions about headache, work situation and sick leave during the past year. Associations between sick leave, headache and migraine included were assessed in multivariate analyses, estimating prevalence odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). There was an increasing prevalence of sick leave with increasing frequency of migraine and non-migrainous headache. The prevalence of sick leave &gt;8 weeks during the past year was more than three times higher among individuals with headache &gt;14 days per month (20%) compared with those without headache (6%). The results may indicate that better treatment of individuals with chronic headache may have beneficial economic implications.
The dorsal bank of the primate superior temporal sulcus (STS) is a polysensory area with rich connections to unimodal sensory association cortices. These include auditory projections that process complex acoustic information, including conspecific vocalizations. We investigated whether an extensive left posterior temporal (Wernicke's area) lesion, which included destruction of early auditory cortex, may contribute to impaired spoken narrative comprehension as a consequence of reduced function in the anterior STS, a region not included within the boundary of infarction. Listening to narratives in normal subjects activated the posterior-anterior extent of the left STS, as far forward as the temporal pole. The presence of a Wernicke's area lesion was associated with both impaired sentence comprehension and a reduced physiological response to heard narratives in the intact anterior left STS when compared to aphasic patients without temporal lobe damage and normal controls. Thus, in addition to the loss of language function in left posterior temporal cortex as the direct result of infarction, posterior ablation that includes primary and early association auditory cortex impairs language function in the intact anterior left temporal lobe. The implication is that clinical studies of language on stroke patients have underestimated the role of left anterior temporal cortex in comprehension of narrative speech.
Postural balance is impaired in individuals with pathology of the anterior superior vermis of the cerebellum. Chronic alcoholism, with its known vermian pathology, provides a viable model for studying the relationship between cerebellar pathology and postural stability. Decades of separate study of recovering alcoholics and post-mortem neuroanatomical analysis have demonstrated vermian pathology but few studies have used quantitative posturography, acquired concurrently with quantitative neuroimaging, to establish whether this brain structure-function relationship is selective in vivo. Here, 30 healthy men and 39 chronic alcoholic men, abstinent from alcohol for several months, underwent MRI for volumetric quantitation of the cerebellar vermis and three comparison brain regions, the cerebellar hemispheres, supratentorial cortex and corpus callosum. All subjects also participated in an experiment involving a force platform that measured sway path length and tremor during static standing balance under four sensory conditions and two stance conditions. Three novel findings emerged: (i) sway path length, a physiological index of postural control, was selectively related to volume of the cerebellar vermis and not to any comparison brain region in the alcoholics; (ii) spectral analysis revealed sway prominence in the 2-5 Hz band, another physiological sign of vermian lesions and also selectively related to vermian volume in the alcoholics; and (iii) despite substantial postural sway in the patients, they successfully used vision, touch and stance to normalize sway and reduce tremor. The selective relationship of sway path to vermian but not lateral cerebellar volume provides correlational evidence for functional differentiation of these cerebellar regions. Improvement to virtual normal levels in balance and reduction in sway and tremor with changes in vision, touch and stance provide evidence that adaptive mechanisms recruiting sensorimotor integration can be invoked to compensate for underlying cerebellar vermian-related dysfunction.
Most neuropsychological research on the perception of emotion concerns the perception of faces. Yet in everyday life, hand actions are also modulated by our affective state, revealing it, in turn, to the observer. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify brain regions engaged during the observation of hand actions performed either in a neutral or an angry way. We also asked whether these are the same regions as those involved in perceiving expressive faces. During the passive observation of emotionally neutral hand movements, the fMRI signal increased significantly in dorsal and ventral premotor cortices, with the exact location of the 'peaks' distinct from those induced by face observation. Various areas in the extrastriate visual cortex were also engaged, overlapping with the face-related activity. When the observed hand action was performed with emotion, additional regions were recruited including the right dorsal premotor, the right medial prefrontal cortex, the left anterior insula and a region in the rostral part of the supramarginal gyrus bilaterally. These regions, except for the supramarginal gyrus, were also activated during the perception of angry faces. These results complement the wealth of studies on the perception of affect from faces and provide further insights into the processes involved in the perception of others underlying, perhaps, social constructs such as empathy.
This study examined the process by which the shape of a haptically explored object is synthesized from the geometric characteristics of simpler constituent elements, such as arcs and ellipses. Subjects traced the outlines of virtual objects by means of whole arm movements. Each object consisted of the union of a large central ellipse and two smaller circles, extending upward and outward from the top left and right sides of the base. The sizes of the two circles and the eccentricity of the elliptical base were varied. After exploring the object's contour in the absence of vision, subjects reproduced the sensed shape by means of freehand drawing. Speed and force were modulated during the exploratory phase in a manner that suggested that subjects reacted to rather than predicted changes in curvature. Also, subjects typically devoted more time to exploring the part of the contour encompassing the two smaller circles. During drawing, individual features of the explored shape were reproduced with varying degrees of fidelity. Aspects related to the size and location of the smaller circles were reproduced better than was the eccentricity of the ellipse forming the base. Since subjects spent proportionally less time exploring the base, these results suggest that subjects selectively focused attention to regions of high spatial contrast and that the exploratory strategy introduced distortions in the haptically sensed shapes.
The apparently effortless identification of speech is one of the human auditory cortex' finest and least understood functions. This is partly due to difficulties to tease apart effects of acoustic and phonetic attributes of speech sounds. Here we present evidence from magnetic source imaging that the auditory cortex represents speech sounds (such as [g] and [t]) in a topographically orderly fashion that is based on phonetic features. Moreover, this mapping is dependent on intelligibility. Only when consonants are identifiable as members of a native speech sound category is topographical spreading out in the auditory cortex observed. Feature separation in the cortex also varies with a listener's ability to tell these easy-to-confuse consonants from one another. This is the first demonstration that speech-specific maps of features can be identified in human auditory cortex, and it will further help us to delineate speech processing pathways based on models from functional neuroimaging and non-human primates.
The identification of biomarkers for disease state, drug efficacy, and toxicity is becoming increasingly important for drug discovery and development. We have used two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to identify proteomic markers associated with hepatocellular steatosis in rats after dosing with a compound (CDA) in preclinical development. Rats were dosed daily for up to 5 days with CDA for measurement of blood biochemical parameters, histological, and proteomic analysis. Alterations in plasma glucose and liver transaminases were detected from dosing day 3 onward, and livers showed trace levels of hepatocellular vacuolation from 6 h which increased in extent and severity over the 5 day time course. The number of significantly altered protein spots increased over the 5 day time course, and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis showed that the predominant functions altered by CDA treatment were cell death and cellular assembly and organization. This included alterations in secreted proteins, endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial chaperones, antioxidant proteins, and enzymes involved in fatty acid biosynthesis. Comparative in vitro dosing studies showed similar alterations to the proteome, neutral lipid accumulation, and mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity in response to CDA treatment of cultured rat hepatocytes. The finding that several proteins showed significant changes in abundance before the onset of overt toxicity in vivo suggested that these could serve as predictive biomarkers of compounds with a propensity to induce liver steatosis. These markers underwent further direct analysis in the in vitro hepatocyte toxicity model to determine their utility in the development of high throughput assays for drug-induced steatosis.


Normal physiological responses to vehicular buffeting were studied during a 5 minute mild 'off road' exposure in a motion simulator. The ride provoked an initial increase in heart rate and blood pressure and a significant hypocapnia of P(ET) CO(2) 34 mm Hg caused by tachypnea, which took 5 minutes to recover. Motion induced hypocapnia could be a source of distress for vulnerable subjects and patients when travelling.
An overview is given of microneurographic studies of resting vasoconstrictor traffic in human muscle nerves (muscle sympathetic nerve activity = MSNA). In multiunit recordings, the activity consists of synchronized bursts of vasoconstrictor impulses, the outflow of which is under potent arterial baroreflex control. In agreement with this, the bursts always display cardiac rhythmicity and occur during temporary reductions of blood pressure. Burst occurrence shows a close inverse correlation to variations of diastolic blood pressure whereas the correlation to the strength of the bursts is weak or absent, suggesting that the mechanisms controlling the two parameters are not identical. These dynamic characteristics are similar in all subjects despite large, reproducible, interindividual differences in number of bursts. Such interindividual differences probably have a genetic origin, and since discharge frequencies in single vasoconstrictor fibers are similar in subjects with few and many bursts, the differences in multiunit activity are likely to be due to a higher number of active fibers in subjects with many bursts. The interindividual differences in multiunit activity are not associated with differences in resting blood pressure levels. Recent studies have revealed (a) an inverse relationship between resting levels of cardiac output and MSNA and (b) evidence of reduced vascular responsiveness to noradrenaline in subject with many sympathetic bursts at rest. These findings suggest that the vasoconstriction induced by the sympathetic impulses is balanced or reduced by these factors, which thereby contribute to the poor relationship between the mean number of sympathetic bursts and the blood pressure level.




Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation has been used for over 20 years to investigate recovery of motor function in stroke patients. In particular, it has been used to quantify the extent of damage to the corticospinal output, reorganisation of the cortical representation of the affected body parts and excitability of intracortical and cortico-cortical circuitries in both hemispheres. In this review, we provide a detailed account of most of the published data with particular reference to methodological issues that affect their interpretation.
Administration of cytokines to animals can elicit many effects on the brain, particularly neuroendocrine and behavioral effects. Cytokine administration also alters neurotransmission, which may underlie these effects. The most well studied effect is the activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis, especially that by interleukin-1 (IL-1). Peripheral and central administration of IL-1 also induces norepinephrine (NE) release in the brain, most markedly in the hypothalamus. Small changes in brain dopamine (DA) are occasionally observed, but these effects are not regionally selective. IL-1 also increases brain concentrations of tryptophan, and the metabolism of serotonin (5-HT) throughout the brain in a regionally nonselective manner. Increases of tryptophan and 5-HT, but not NE, are also elicited by IL-6, which also activates the HPA axis, although it is much less potent in these respects than IL-1. IL-2 has modest effects on DA, NE and 5-HT. Like IL-6, tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) activates the HPA axis, but affects NE and tryptophan only at high doses. The interferons (IFN's) induce fever and HPA axis activation in man, but such effects are weak or absent in rodents. The reported effects of IFN's on brain catecholamines and serotonin have been very varied. However, interferon-, and to a lesser extent, interferon-, have profound effects on the catabolism of tryptophan, effectively reducing its concentration in plasma, and may thus limit brain 5-HT synthesis.Administration of endotoxin (LPS) elicits responses similar to those of IL-1. Bacterial and viral infections induce HPA activation, and also increase brain NE and 5-HT metabolism and brain tryptophan. Typically, there is also behavioral depression. These effects are strikingly similar to those of IL-1, suggesting that IL-1 secretion, which accompanies many infections, may mediate these responses. Studies with IL-1 antagonists, support this possibility, although in most cases the antagonism is incomplete, suggesting the existence of multiple mechanisms. Because LPS is known to stimulate the secretion of IL-1, IL-6 and TNF, it seems likely that these cytokines mediate at least some of the responses, but studies with antagonists indicate that there are multiple mechanisms. The neurochemical responses to cytokines are likely to underlie the endocrine and behavioral responses. The NE response to IL-1 appears to be instrumental in the HPA activation, but other mechanisms exist. Neither the noradrenergic nor the serotonergic systems appear to be involved in the major behavioral responses. The significance of the serotonin response is unknown.
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is characterized by excessive inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity, either alone or in combination. Neuropsychological findings suggest that these behaviors result from underlying deficits in response inhibition, delay aversion, and executive functioning which, in turn, are presumed to be linked to dysfunction of frontal-striatal-cerebellar circuits. Over the past decade, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to examine anatomic differences in these regions between ADHD and control children. In addition to quantifying differences in total cerebral volume, specific areas of interest have been prefrontal regions, basal ganglia, the corpus callosum, and cerebellum. Differences in gray and white matter have also been examined. The ultimate goal of this research is to determine the underlying neurophysiology of ADHD and how specific phenotypes may be related to alterations in brain structure.

Most people with epilepsy maintain normal reproductive and sexual lives. However, a significant minority of women with epilepsy (20% to 30%) have some degree of sexual dysfunction, including problems with libido, arousal, and orgasm. Men with epilepsy are at risk for decreased sexual functioning, including sexual interest and sexual performance, at least in part because of increased sex hormone-binding globulin levels and lower bioactive testosterone levels, particularly in association with the use of enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs, such as phenytoin and carbamazepine. A decrease in bioactive testosterone levels probably has a significant effect on the sexuality of women with epilepsy as well. Antiepileptic drugs may also affect sexual function in women through alterations of serotonergic neurotransmission. Epilepsy itself appears to have the potential to affect sexual function. The amygdala is emerging as a brain structure with significant involvement in sexuality in patients with epilepsy, as shown by alterations in sexual functioning after temporal lobectomy. Preliminary evidence suggests that people with temporal lobe epilepsy have reduced genital blood flow in response to erotic stimulation; the etiology of this phenomenon is not well understood, but disruption of the limbic and frontal cortex by epileptic activity may be implicated. Psychosocial factors, including sexual anxiety and stigma associated with epilepsy, can also affect the sexual life of patients with epilepsy.
There is an ongoing debate about how best to conceptualize the unconscious. Early psychodynamic views employed theories influenced by physics to explain clinical material, while subsequent cognitivist views relied on computational models of the mind to explain laboratory data. More recently, advances in cognitive-affective neuroscience have provided new insights into the workings of unconscious cognition and affect. We briefly review some of this recent work and its clinical implications.
Toxicity of paraoxon has been attributed to inhibition of cholinesterase, but little is known about its direct action on ionic channels. The effects of paraoxon (0.3 microM-0.6 microM) were studied on the firing behaviour of snail neurones. Paraoxon significantly increased the frequency of spontaneously generated action potentials, shortened the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and decreased the precision of firing. Short periods of high frequency-evoked trains of action potentials led to an accumulation in the depth and duration of post-train AHPs that was evidenced as an increase in time to resumption of autonomous activity. The delay time in autonomous activity initiation was linearly related to the frequency of spikes in the preceding train and the slope of the curve significantly decreased by paraoxon. The paraoxon induced hyperexcitability and its depressant effect on the AHP and the post-train AHP were not blocked by atropine and hexamethonium. Calcium spikes were elicited in a Na+ free Ringer containing voltage dependent potassium channel blockers. Paraoxon significantly decreased the duration of calcium spikes and following AHP and increased the frequency of spikes. These findings suggest that a reduction in calcium influx during action potential may decrease the activation of calcium dependent potassium channels that participate in AHP generation and act as a mechanism of paraoxon induced hyperexcitability.
The present study was undertaken to produce a detailed specification of a programme of massage, controlled breathing and visualization performed regularly by birth partners, from 36 weeks gestation and assisted by a trained professional, following hospital admission during labour and birth. As current research on massage interventions for pain relief in labour is poorly characterized, we began by undertaking a feasibility study on an established massage programme [Goldstone LA. Massage as an orthodox medical treatment past and future. Complementary Therapies in Nursing &amp; Midwifery. 2000;6:169-75]. The intervention was designed in light of experimental findings that repeated massage sessions over 14 days increases pain threshold, by an interaction between oxytocin and opioid neurons [Lund I, Yu L-C, Uvnas-Moberg K, Wang J, Yu C, Kurosawa M, et al. Repeated massage-like stimulation induces long-term effects on nociception: contribution of oxytocinergic mechanisms. European Journal of Neuroscience 2002;16:330-8]. A 4 week time-frame was selected to coincide with a physiological increase in maternal pain threshold [Cogan R, Spinnato JA. Pain and Discomfort Thresholds in Late Pregnancy. Pain 1986;27:63-8, Whipple B, Josimovich JB, Komisaruk BR. Sensory thresholds during the antepartum, intrapartum, and postpartum periods. International Journal of Nursing Studies 1990;27(3):213-21, Gintzler AR, Komisaruk BR. Analgesia is produced by uterocervical mechano-stimulation in rats: roles of afferent nerves and implications for analgesia of pregnancy and parturition. Brain Research 1991;566:299-302, Gintzler AR, Liu N-J. The maternal spinal cord: biochemical and physiological correlates of steroid-activated antinociceptive processes. In: Russell JA, Douglas AJ, Windle RJ, Ingram CD, editors., Progress in Brain Research. Volume 133. The Maternal Brain. Neurobiological and Neuroendocrine adaptation and disorders in pregnancy and postpartum. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science, 2001. p. 83-97]. The main objective was to measure the effects of the programme on maternal pain perception during labour and birth. To detect any effect of massage during labour, on maternal cortisol and catecholamines, cord venous blood was taken to measure plasma concentrations following birth. Twenty-five nulliparous (N) and 10 multiparous (M) women participated in the study. Cortisol values were similar to published studies following labour without massage but pain scores on a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), at 90min following birth were significantly lower than scores recorded 2 days postpartum [Capogna G, Alahuhta S, Celleno D, De Vlieger H, Moreira J, Morgan B, et al. Maternal expectations and experiences of labour pain and analgesia: a multi-centre study of nulliparous women. International Journal of Obstetric Anaesthesia 1996;5:229-35]. The mean score was 6.6. Previous studies suggest that a reduction from 8.5 to 7.5 would significantly reduce pharmacological analgesia in labour [Capogna G, Alahuhta S, Celleno D, De Vlieger H, Moreira J, Morgan B, et al. Maternal expectations and experiences of labour pain and analgesia: a multi-centre study of nulliparous women. International Journal of Obstetric Anaesthesia 1996;5:229-35].
This paper reviews studies of language processing with the aim of establishing whether any type of statistical information embedded in linguistic signals can be exploited by the language learner. The constraints as to the information that can be so used, we will argue, should be used to inform theories of language acquisition. We present two experiments with their respective controls. Both show that consonants (Cs) are much more suitable than vowels (Vs) to parse speech streams using statistical dependencies. These experiments use streams composed of items in which statistical information is carried either by the sequence of consonants or by the sequence of vowels. Both kinds of items are simultaneously present is the speech stream but, crucially, their overlap is only partial. Since the location of dips in transitional probabilities (TPs) between adjacent syllables differ for the first and the second type of sequences, we can explore whether consonants and vowels are equally efficient segments to parse signals. Our results show that &quot;consonant words&quot; (CW) are significantly preferred over &quot;vowel words&quot; (VW). We discuss the implication of our results for models of language acquisition.
Here we describe the application of cognitive genetics to the study of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Cognitive genetics owes much to the pioneering work of cognitive neuropsychologists such as John Marshall, whose careful observations of cognitive dissociations between brain-lesioned patients greatly advanced the theoretical understanding of normal cognitive function. These theories have in turn helped to constrain linkages between candidate genes and cognitive processes and thus help to drive the relatively new field of cognitive genetics in a hypothesis-driven fashion. We examined the relationship between sustained attention deficits in ADHD and genetic variation in a catecholamine-related gene, dopamine beta hydroxylase (DbetaH). DBH encodes the enzyme that converts dopamine to noradrenaline and is crucial to catecholamine regulation. A polymorphism with the DBH gene has been associated with ADHD. In fifty-two children with ADHD, we examined whether variation in the Taq I DBH gene polymorphism was related to sustained attention performance. Participants performed the Sustained Attention to Response Test (SART). Performance on the SART discriminates ADHD from control children, and in imaging work, is associated with right frontoparietal activation. A significant effect of DBH genotype was found on SART performance measures. Children possessing two copies of the ADHD-associated risk allele (A2) had significantly poorer sustained attention than those ADHD children who did not possess this allele or a non-genotyped control group. The DBH gene may contribute to the susceptibility for ADHD, in part because of its varying effects on the development of brain mechanisms mediating sustained attention.
The classical tachykinins, substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B are predominantly found in the nervous system where they act as neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. Their respective preferred receptors are NK1, NK2, and NK3 receptors. The presence of substance P in nociceptive primary afferent neurons, electrophysiological studies showing that it activated neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and behavioral studies in animals, supported the concept that substance P was an important transmitter in the nociceptive pathway. It was therefore surprising that non-peptide NK1 receptor antagonists were ineffective as analgesics in clinical pain conditions. Nevertheless, the discovery that NK1 receptor antagonists had antidepressant activity led to renewed interest in these antagonists. It is disappointing that clinical trials of MK869 (aprepitant) for depression were suspended. The future of NK1 receptor antagonists as antidepressant drugs will depend on the outcome of clinical trials with other NK1 receptor antagonists. NK1 receptor antagonists were also found to be effective antiemetics, and aprepitant has recently become available for the treatment of chemotherapy induced emesis. Although less is known of the potential of NK2 and NK3 receptor antagonists, recent trials of NK3 receptor antagonists have shown efficacy in schizophrenia. The discovery of a new family of tachykinins, the hemokinins and endokinins, which acts on NK1 receptors and has potent effects on immune cells, has implications for the clinical use of NK1 receptor antagonists. Thus specific therapeutic strategies may be required to enable NK1 receptor antagonists to be introduced for treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a dynamic pleiomorphic organelle containing continuous but distinct subdomains. The diversity of ER structures parallels its many functions, including secretory protein biogenesis, lipid synthesis, drug metabolism and Ca2+ signaling. Recent studies are revealing how elaborate ER structures arise in response to subtle changes in protein levels, dynamics, and interactions as well as in response to alterations in cytosolic ion concentrations. Subdomain formation appears to be governed by principles of self-organization. Once formed, ER subdomains remain malleable and can be rapidly transformed into alternative structures in response to altered conditions. The mechanisms that modulate ER structure are likely to be important for the generation of the characteristic shapes of other organelles.
With the recent confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain, and that neural stem cells reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS), the function of newly generated neuronal cells in the adult brain is the source of intense research and debate. Neurogenesis is modulated by a wide variety of physiopathological conditions and environmental stimuli, offering the possibility that newly generated neuronal cells might be functionally associated with the response to these processes. Newly generated neuronal cells in the hippocampus have also been implicated in mechanisms of learning, memory and depression. However, a number of studies have challenged some of these findings, and the roles of newly generated neuronal cells in the functioning of the CNS remain to be fully understood. Neurogenesis has been shown to increase bilaterally in the adult brain and new neuronal cells are generated at sites of degeneration in the brain during disease and after injuries. Taken together, these findings suggest that new neuronal cells may be involved in processes such as homeostasis of brain tissue, regeneration, plasticity, and neuroadaptation.
Much of the current hope in regenerative medicine is intimately entwined with promises that stern cells will provide the backbone for cell-replacement therapies to treat various degenerative, genetic and malignant conditions. The realization that a wide range of adult tissues contain stem cells has heightened this optimism, and ultimately the expectation that these somatic cells can be harnessed to provide cell-based therapies that will soon be realized in the clinic. This review discusses the recent advances in adult stem-cell technology that have captured significant attention and discusses progress in the development of two distinct methodologies currently being exploited in regenerative medicine strategies.
The avian auditory system has become a model system to investigate how vocalizations are memorized and processed by the brain in order to mediate behavioral discrimination and recognition. Recent studies have shown that most of the avian auditory system responds preferentially and efficiently to sounds that have natural spectro-temporal statistics. In addition, neurons in secondary auditory forebrain areas have plastic response properties and are the most active when processing behaviorally relevant vocalizations. Physiological measurements show differential responses for vocalizations that were recently learned in discrimination tasks, and for the tutor song, a longer-term auditory memory that is used to guide vocal learning in male songbirds.
Pitch perception is crucial for vocal communication, music perception, and auditory object processing in a complex acoustic environment. How pitch is represented in the cerebral cortex has for a long time remained an unanswered question in auditory neuroscience. Several lines of evidence now point to a distinct non-primary region of auditory cortex in primates that contains a cortical representation of pitch.
Objects and events can often be detected by more than one sensory system. Interactions between sensory systems can offer numerous benefits for the accuracy and completeness of the perception. Recent studies involving visual-auditory interactions have highlighted the perceptual advantages of combining information from these two modalities and have suggested that predominantly unimodal brain regions play a role in multisensory processing.
Nociceptive circuitry processes the signals evoked by activating specialized peripheral sensory receptors for pain perception. Recent studies show that the neuronal phenotypes in the dorsal root ganglia and spinal dorsal horn are determined by distinct sets of transcription factors during development. Anatomical analyses with genetic approaches demonstrate that each subset of nociceptive sensory neurons has topographically distinct circuits at both spinal and brain levels. Moreover, the sensitivity of primary afferents can be rapidly regulated not only by phosphorylation of receptors, ion channels and associated regulatory proteins but also by stimulus-induced cell surface expression of G-protein-coupled receptors. In chronic pain states the molecular characteristics of spinal nociceptive circuits are altered, enabling normal peripheral stimuli to induce pain hypersensitivity.


Several practice guidelines have been developed for the management of schizophrenia based on the current evidence base, but only a few have focused on the early course of this illness. In this article, we review the current literature on the approaches to management of early schizophrenia (ie, the prodromal, psychotic, and recovery phases of this illness). The efficacy of psychosocial and antipsychotic agents in the prodromal phase is an area of active research. Atypical antipsychotics are the mainstay of treatment for stabilization of the acute psychotic phase. Effective approaches in the recovery phase include combining medications with individual and family interventions, supported employment, assertive community treatment, cognitive remediation, and social skills training. Although evidence-based interventions have generated new optimism among those with the illness, more efforts are needed to increase access to care in community settings.
While the classical pathway of NF-kappaB activation plays critical roles in a wide range of biological processes, the more recently described &quot;non-canonical&quot; NF-kappaB pathway has important but more restricted roles in both normal and pathological processes. The non-canonical NF-kappaB pathway, based on processing of the nf-kappab2 gene product p100 to generate p52, appears to be involved in B-cell maturation and lymphoid development. Deregulated activation of this pathway has been observed in a variety of malignant and autoimmune diseases, thus inhibitors that specifically target p100 processing might be predicted to have potential roles as immunomodulators and in the therapy of malignant diseases. We review current understandings of NF-kappaB activation, particularly the mechanisms of p100 processing under both physiological and pathological conditions.
Alpha1-tubulin expression occurs in a neural-specific, temporally regulated, and regeneration-inducible fashion in zebrafish. A GFP reporter driven by the alpha1-tubulin promoter in transgenic zebrafish acts as a stable, in vivo molecular tag that follows neuronal development from birth/specification through postmitotic differentiation to axonal outgrowth and synaptogenesis. We exploited this transgenic system in a reporter expression-dependent (morphology-independent) mutagenesis screen to identify disruptions in genetic loci essential for neuronogenesis and axon elaboration, which would manifest as visually appreciable perturbations in GFP fluorescence. Thirty-two such recessive mutations were obtained, a subset of which was screened through a secondary RNA quantification-based assay to eliminate housekeeping gene defects. Three representative loci, when characterized in detail, were found to exhibit missteps in discrete, sequential stages of embryonic neuronal development. Mutation in sookshma panneurally diminishes the neural precursor pool by affecting cell proliferation in the developing embryo while patterning along the neuraxis remains unperturbed. Disruption of drishti on the other hand ameliorates the mitotic neural population by affecting cell cycle exit of progenitors and stalling their progression to the postmitotic neuronal stage, without impairing subsequent cell fate determination or differentiation. Finally, dhruva is required during neuronal differentiation for axonal branching and terminal innervation in spinal motoaxons and the retinotectal projection. Molecular identification of these loci and analysis of the remaining mutational repertoire will offer unique insights into the genetic inputs that go on to make a mature, differentiated neuron.
Saccadic eye movements are essential for redirecting the fovea at different visual targets. In adults and children saccades are remarkably stereotyped. Peak velocity and duration of saccades are a simple function of saccade amplitude called the 'main sequence'. Saccades that are substantially slower than normal often reflect disease of the brain stem saccade generator but may also be associated with diseases of higher level structures including the cerebral hemispheres and superior colliculus. However, little is known about the speed of saccades in infancy. A single previous study reported that infant saccades may be similar to or slower than those of adults, but few saccades were recorded. The present study re-examined this issue with the technique of measuring optokinetic (OKN) quick phases, which are readily elicited from healthy and sick infants, with a view to using saccade speed as a quantitative neurological measure. We measured the duration and peak velocity of saccades (main sequence) using direct-current electro-oculography from OKN quick phases in 18 infants (nine males, nine females) aged 2 to 18 months (mean age 8 mo [SD 4]) and seven adult comparison participants (four males, three females; age range 21-32 y, mean age 27 y [SD 3]). All infant saccades showed typical relationships between duration, peak velocity, and amplitude. Overall, there was no statistically significant difference between adult and infant main sequences for duration or peak velocity. However, the differences in the main sequence for duration almost reached significance (p=0.051) for infant saccades being faster than adults. Individual differences were also present, and some infants produced saccades faster than adults, but not slower. There was no significant age trend. We conclude that measuring saccade speed is practicable in the young infant. From the age of at least 2 months, infants generate saccades with speeds similar to or slightly higher than those of adults.
In vertebrate embryos, induction and patterning of the forebrain require the local inhibition of caudalizing signals, such as Wnts, emanating from the mesendoderm and caudal brain. Here, we report that Lhx5, expressed in the rostral neuroectoderm, regulates the local inhibition of Wnts. Activation of Lhx5 expands forebrain structures, whereas inhibition of Lhx5 function compromises forebrain development in zebrafish embryos. Lhx5 can rescue forebrain deficiencies caused by excess Wnt activity, and inhibition of Lhx5 function results in ectopic activation of Wnt signaling. Lhx5 regulates the expression of two secreted Frizzled-related Wnt antagonists, Sfrp1a and Sfrp5. These Sfrps can reduce the ectopic activation of Wnt signaling and rescue the forebrain deficiencies caused by inhibition of Lhx5 function. Our results demonstrate that Lhx5 is a required factor that promotes forebrain development and inhibits Wnt signaling by activating the transcription of secreted Wnt antagonists.
Fes/Fer non-receptor tyrosine kinases regulate cell adhesion and cytoskeletal reorganisation through the modification of adherens junctions. Unregulated Fes/Fer kinase activity has been shown to lead to tumours in vivo. Here, we show that Drosophila Fer localises to adherens junctions in the dorsal epidermis and regulates a major morphological event, dorsal closure. Mutations in Src42A cause defects in dorsal closure similar to those seen in dfer mutant embryos. Furthermore, Src42A mutations enhance the dfer mutant phenotype, suggesting that Src42A and DFer act in the same cellular process. We show that DFer is required for the formation of the actin cable in leading edge cells and for normal rates of dorsal closure. We have isolated a gain-of-function mutation in dfer (dfergof) that expresses an N-terminally fused form of the protein, similar to oncogenic forms of vertebrate Fer. dfergof blocks dorsal closure and causes axon misrouting. We find that in dfer loss-of-function mutants beta-catenin is hypophosphorylated, whereas in dfergof beta-catenin is hyperphosphorylated. Phosphorylated beta-catenin is removed from adherens junctions and degraded, thus implicating DFer in the regulation of adherens junctions.
In human myoblasts triggered to differentiate, a hyperpolarization, resulting from K+ channel (Kir2.1) activation, allows the generation of an intracellular Ca2+ signal. This signal induces an increase in expression/activity of two key transcription factors of the differentiation process, myogenin and MEF2. Blocking hyperpolarization inhibits myoblast differentiation. The link between hyperpolarization-induced Ca2+ signals and the four main regulatory pathways involved in myoblast differentiation was the object of this study. Of the calcineurin, p38-MAPK, PI3K and CaMK pathways, only the calcineurin pathway was inhibited when Kir2.1-linked hyperpolarization was blocked. The CaMK pathway, although Ca2+ dependent, is unaffected by changes in membrane potential or block of Kir2.1 channels. Concerning the p38-MAPK and PI3K pathways, their activity is present already in proliferating myoblasts and they are unaffected by hyperpolarization or Kir2.1 channel block. We conclude that the Kir2.1-induced hyperpolarization triggers human myoblast differentiation via the activation of the calcineurin pathway, which, in turn, induces expression/activity of myogenin and MEF2.
Sonic hedgehog (SHH) is required to generate ventral cell types throughout the central nervous system. Its role in directly specifying ventral cells, however, has recently been questioned because loss of the Shh gene has little effect on ventral development if the Gli3 gene is also mutant. Consequently, another ventral determinant must exist. Here, genetic evidence establishes that FGFs are required for ventral telencephalon development. First, simultaneous deletion of Fgfr1 and Fgfr3 specifically in the telencephalon results in the loss of differentiated ventromedial cells; and second, in the Fgfr1;Fgfr2 double mutant, ventral precursor cells are lost, mimicking the phenotype obtained previously with a loss of SHH signalling. Yet, in the Fgfr1;Fgfr2 mutant, Shh remains expressed, as does Gli1, the transcription of which depends on SHH activity, suggesting that FGF signalling acts independently of SHH to generate ventral precursors. Moreover, the Fgfr1;Fgfr2 phenotype, unlike the Shh phenotype, is not rescued by loss of Gli3, further indicating that FGFs act downstream of Shh and Gli3 to generate ventral telencephalic cell types.
Hoxc family transcription factors are expressed in different domains along the rostrocaudal (RC) axis of the developing spinal cord and they define RC identities of spinal neurons. Our previous study using an in vitro assay system demonstrated that Fgf and Gdf11 signals located around Hensen's node of chick embryos have the ability to induce profiled Hoxc protein expression. To investigate the function of Gdf11 in RC patterning of the spinal cord in vivo, we expressed Gdf11 in chick embryonic spinal cord by in ovo electroporation and found that ectopic expression of Gdf11 in the neural tissue causes a rostral displacement of Hoxc protein expression domains, accompanied by rostral shifts in the positions of motoneuron columns and pools. Moreover, ectopic expression of follistatin (Fst), an antagonist of Gdf11, has a converse effect and causes caudal displacement of Hox protein expression domains, as well as motoneuron columns and pools. Mouse mutants lacking Gdf11 function exhibit a similar caudal displacement of Hox expression domains, but the severity of phenotype increases towards the caudal end of the spinal cord, indicating that the function of Gdf11 is more important in the caudal spinal cord. We also provide evidence that Gdf11 induces Smad2 phosphorylation and activated Smad2 is able to induce caudal Hox gene expression. These results demonstrate that Gdf11 has an important function in determining Hox gene expression domains and RC identity in the caudal spinal cord.
The contributions of hepatic glycogenolysis to fasting glucose production and direct pathway to hepatic glycogen synthesis were quantified in eight type 1 diabetic patients and nine healthy control subjects by ingestion of (2)H(2)O and acetaminophen before breakfast followed by analysis of urinary water and acetaminophen glucuronide. After overnight fasting, enrichment of glucuronide position 5 relative to body water (G5/body water) was significantly higher in type 1 diabetic patients compared with control subjects, indicating a reduced contribution of glycogenolysis to glucose production (38 +/- 3 vs. 46 +/- 2%). Following breakfast, G5/body water was significantly higher in type 1 diabetic patients, indicating a smaller direct pathway contribution to glycogen synthesis (47 +/- 2 vs. 59 +/- 2%). Glucuronide hydrogen 2 enrichment (G2) was equivalent to body water during fasting (G2/body water 0.94 +/- 0.03 and 1.02 +/- 0.06 for control and type 1 diabetic subjects, respectively) but was significantly lower after breakfast (G2/body water 0.78 +/- 0.03 and 0.82 +/- 0.05 for control and type 1 diabetic subjects, respectively). The reduced postprandial G2 levels reflect incomplete glucose-6-phosphate-fructose-6-phosphate exchange or glycogen synthesis from dietary galactose. Unlike current measurements of human hepatic glycogen metabolism, the (2)H(2)O/acetaminophen assay does not require specialized on-site clinical equipment or personnel.
This study aimed to compare the attitudes and psychopathology of eating disorders of Asian and Caucasian university students using a survey method. The study also investigated the relationship between acculturation, attitudes and psychopathology of eating disorders in sub-groups of Asian girls. There were 130 Asian and 110 Caucasian adolescent girls, aged 18-24 who were screened using the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26), the Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI-2) and an Acculturation Index. The Asian group did not have higher mean EAT score than the Caucasian group, but had higher mean score in some sub-scales of the EDI-2. Eating disordered attitudes and psychopathology was not significantly different in the low compared to the high accultured Asian girls. This study suggests that Asian and Caucasian university students in Western Australia are equally susceptible to eating disorders, and that the level of acculturation does not modify the susceptibility of Asian students for eating disorders.
Growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11) contributes to regionalize the mouse embryo along its anterior-posterior axis by regulating the expression of Hox genes. The identity of the receptors that mediate GDF11 signalling during embryogenesis remains unclear. Here, we show that GDF11 can interact with type I receptors ALK4, ALK5 and ALK7, but predominantly uses ALK4 and ALK5 to activate a Smad3-dependent reporter gene. Alk5 mutant embryos showed malformations in anterior-posterior patterning, including the lack of expression of the posterior determinant Hoxc10, that resemble defects found in Gdf11-null mutants. A heterozygous mutation in Alk5, but not in Alk4 or Alk7, potentiated Gdf11(-/-)-like phenotypes in vertebral, kidney and palate development in an Acvr2b(-/-) background, indicating a genetic interaction between the two receptor genes. Thus, the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) receptor ALK5, which until now has only been associated with the biological functions of TGF-beta1 to TGF-beta3 proteins, mediates GDF11 signalling during embryogenesis.
Systematic national surveillance of outbreaks of infectious intestinal disease (IID) was introduced in England and Wales in 1992 to provide comprehensive information on causative organisms, sources or vehicles of infection and modes of transmission. We compared information from this system with that published in the peer-reviewed literature between 1 January 1992 and 31 January 2003 to assess the potential effect of publication bias on food-safety policy. During the study period 1763 foodborne outbreaks of IID were reported to national surveillance. Fifty-five were published in the peer-reviewed literature. The peer-reviewed literature overestimated the impacts of milk/milk products, miscellaneous foods (e.g. sandwiches) and desserts and underestimated those of poultry, fish and shellfish, red meat/meat products and eggs/egg products. Without systematic surveillance, knowledge of causative organisms, sources or vehicles of infection and modes of transmission, as gleaned from the peer-reviewed literature, would potentially distort food-safety policy.

Secretin infused into rats activates neurons located in brain areas controlling autonomic function and emotion. The brain activity of secretin is mediated, at least in part, through vagal pathways. It is known that afferent stimulation of the vagus nerve results in considerable antiepileptic effects. Whether or not secretin has an effect on seizures is unknown. In this study, we evaluated the efficacy and safety of secretin as an antiepileptogenic agent in electrical kindling and as an anticonvulsant in fully kindled seizures. To assess antiepileptogenic effects, we administered secretin (10, 30, or 100 microg/kg/dose) or normal saline intravenously 5 min before twice-daily kindling stimulation. To assess the anticonvulsant effect of secretin, we administered either normal saline or secretin (100 microg/kg/dose) 5 min before the electrical stimulation to fully kindled rats. We observed no effect on kindling rate or afterdischarge duration. In fully kindled rats, secretin administration had no effect on kindling stage or afterdischarge duration. Thus, in the dose range used in this preliminary acute treatment study, secretin had no discernible antiepileptogenic or anticonvulsant effects. Secretin was very well tolerated in this multidose protocol.
People with epilepsy of comparable severity may differ widely in quality of life (QOL), suggesting a role for unexplored individual aspects. This study considered the possible role of spirituality. Thirty-two patients with focal epilepsy completed scales for QOL (World Heath Organization QOL, WHOQOL 100), spirituality (WHO Spirituality, Religiousness, and Personal Beliefs), depression, anxiety, and cognitive efficiency, as well as neuropsychological testing. The QOL and spirituality scales exhibited satisfactory internal consistency. Factor analyses of the scale and test scores yielded separate spiritual (Personal Meaning, Inner Energy, Awe and Transcendence, and Openness), affective (Mood), and cognitive (Cognition, Memory, and Perceived Cognitive Efficiency) factors. The total WHOQOL 100 score was significantly predicted by the Awe and Transcendence and Mood factors. The spiritual, Mood, and Cognition factors significantly predicted single QOL domains. These preliminary results highlight the contribution of spirituality to QOL in epilepsy, encouraging future studies. This could influence the conceptualization and assessment of QOL in these patients.
Benign myoclonic epilepsy in infancy is a rare syndrome with just over 100 cases reported since the first syndromic description by Dravet and Bureau [Dravet, C., Bureau, M., 1981. The benign myoclonic epilepsy of infancy. Rev. Elecroencephalogr. Neurophysiol. Clin. 11, 438-444]. This includes 23 infants with reflex myoclonic epilepsy whose inclusion in the wider syndrome remains debatable. We have reviewed the literature and present data from six further cases. Prognosis in respect of long term seizure freedom is good with sodium valproate being the most effective medication. However, the cognitive outcome is much less certain with cognitive problems present in one-third of children who have long term follow up. The cognitive outcome in reflex myoclonic epilepsy of infancy is normal in all reported cases. The term benign may be appropriately used to describe the myoclonic seizures but must be used cautiously when counselling families about cognitive outcome. The clinical heterogeneity within this syndrome suggests that there may be a variety of genetic mechanisms that underlie the presentation. Clinicians should distinguish the syndrome of reflex myoclonic epilepsy in infancy from benign myoclonic epilepsy of infancy and all patients should continue developmental follow up for several years after diagnosis.
Benign epilepsies during infancy are a wide topic, which needs both clinical and nosological clarifications. Already in 1963 Fukuyama reported patients with seizures during infancy with a benign outcome. In the late 80s and early 90s, Watanabe reported series of infants with complex partial seizures or partial seizures with secondary generalization, with a normal development before onset and a benign outcome. In the same years Vigevano focused on familial cases: he described several families with seizures with onset around the 6-month of age, and autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. To define this condition, he coined the term &quot;benign familial infantile seizures&quot; (BFIS). Afterwards, studying families with this phenotype, loci on chromosomes 19, 16 and 2 responsible for BFIS were detected. Similar loci were found in families affected by BFIS and subsequent choreoathetosis, and BFIS associated with familial hemiplegic migraine. In most recent years a new form of benign epilepsy has been proposed, with an intermediate onset between the neonatal and infantile age, which was defined with the term benign familial neonatal-infantile seizures (BFNIS). This condition could have some clinical and genetic features overlapping with BFIS. Seizures with a benign outcome have been reported also in infants during episode of mild gastroenteritis (BIS with MG) frequently with positive Rotavirus antigen. Lastly, sleep EEG abnormalities have been reported in children with a peculiar form of epilepsy by Capovilla, who defined this condition as benign infantile focal epilepsy with midline spikes and waves during sleep (BIMSE). Some of these entities have been included in the last classification proposed by the ILAE and have been differentiated in familial and non-familial forms. The aim of this review is to describe these entities, discuss their nosological aspects, pointing out the similarities and differences with benign neonatal seizures and benign focal epilepsies appearing later in life such as early-onset benign occipital seizure susceptibility syndrome (EBOSS), or benign epilepsy of childhood with centro-temporal spikes (BECTS).
The classification of the epilepsies was advanced in order to formalize efforts to identify coherent clinical entities and to develop a standardized set of diagnostic terminology for facilitating communication among workers in the field world-wide. The classification initially was, and still is today, based primarily on description and expert opinion. In the era of genomics, neuroimaging and tremendous technological and scientific advances in the neurosciences, it is time to introduce scientific principles and standards into the classification of the epilepsies. Phylogenetic systematics provides an initial model worth studying in this context. While the classification of species cannot be directly applied to the classification of epilepsy syndromes, three general points can be appreciated. (1) In evolutionary biology, there is an operationalized definition of the end point (a species). There is no such definition of a syndrome. (2) There are rules and criteria for the type of evidence and how it is evaluated to determine whether an entity does or does not represent a separate species. There are currently no such rules or criteria for epilepsy syndromes. (3) There is an underlying model (evolution) that generates the diversity among species. With the possible and only partial exception of the idiopathic generalized epilepsies, there are no models to explain the diversity among the epilepsies. Previously held beliefs and convictions must, in time, give way to dispassionate examination of testable scientific hypotheses examined with rigorously collected scientific evidence. Although current classification is in need of revision, it has also come into common use and has great practical utility. Any changes to its form and to the terminology of the classification must be made only after careful deliberation and broad consensus is reached. The change(s) should be based on agreed upon scientific criteria and processes. Any changes should represent major improvements and not merely incremental steps.
Somatostatin-expressing (SS) cells are inhibitory interneurons critical to the regulation of excitability in the cerebral cortex. It has been suggested in several animal models of epilepsy that the activity of these neurons reduces the occurrence and strength of epileptiform activity. The physiological properties of SS cells further support these hypotheses. Freeze lesions of neonatal rats serve as a model of human polymicrogyria, which is often characterized by severe seizures. Here we investigate the effects of neonatal freeze lesions on SS-expressing neurons by measuring their densities in control and lesioned hemispheres at two ages. We found that in late juveniles (P30-P32), SS-expressing neurons were depleted by 20% in areas adjacent to the freeze lesion, but at an earlier developmental age (P14-15), there was no significant loss. Since the deficit in SS-expressing neurons occurs well after the onset of epileptiform activity (P12-P18), we conclude that the death of these interneurons does not initiate hyperexcitability in this model.

Dendritic cells (DC) generated after a short-term exposure of monocytes to IFN-alpha and GM-CSF (IFN-DC) are highly effective in inducing cross-priming of CD8(+ )T cells against viral antigens. We have investigated the mechanisms responsible for the special attitude of these DC and compared their activity with that of reference DC. Antigen uptake and endosomal processing capabilities were similar for IFN-DC and IL-4-derived DC. Both DC types efficiently cross-presented soluble HCV NS3 protein to the specific CD8(+) T cell clone, even though IFN-DC were superior in cross-presenting low amounts of viral antigens. Moreover, when DC were pulsed with inactivated HIV-1 and injected into hu-PBL-SCID mice, the generation of virus-specific CD8(+ )T cells was markedly higher in animals immunized with IFN-DC than in mice immunized with CD40L-matured IL-4-DC. Of interest, in experiments with purified CD8(+ )T cells, IFN-DC were superior with respect to CD40L-matured IL-4-DC in inducing in vitro cross-priming of HIV-specific CD8(+ )T cells. This property correlated with enhanced potential to express the specific subunits of the IL-23 and IL-27 cytokines. These results suggest that IFN-DC are directly licensed for an efficient CD8(+) T cell priming by mechanisms likely involving enhanced antigen presentation and special attitude to produce IL-12 family cytokines.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is a common disorder which typically occurs during childhood or early adolescence. There is no definitive diagnostic test for TS. The objective of this study was to demonstrate whether neurophysiological abnormalities of the blink reflex can be observed in children with TS. We enrolled 15 children with TS, diagnosed according to DSM IV Diagnostic Criteria, and 15 controls. The blink reflex was elicited by stimulating the supraorbital nerve in order to measure the early response (R1), homolateral and contralateral R2 (late) responses, amplitude of R1 and duration of R2. The mean duration of R2 was significantly longer in TS patients than in the controls (P &lt; 0.001, Student's t-test). An abnormal pattern of the blink reflex can be, even in childhood, an early neurophysiologic marker of TS, which is not related to the duration of TS or to the age of onset.
Post-polio syndrome (PPS) is characterized by new or increased muscular weakness, atrophy, muscle pain and fatigue several years after acute polio. The aim of the article is to prepare diagnostic criteria for PPS, and to evaluate the existing evidence for therapeutic interventions. The Medline, EMBASE and ISI databases were searched. Consensus in the group was reached after discussion by e-mail. We recommend Halstead's definition of PPS from 1991 as diagnostic criteria. Supervised, aerobic muscular training, both isokinetic and isometric, is a safe and effective way to prevent further decline for patients with moderate weakness (Level B). Muscular training can also improve muscular fatigue, muscle weakness and pain. Training in a warm climate and non-swimming water exercises are particularly useful (Level B). Respiratory muscle training can improve pulmonary function. Recognition of respiratory impairment and early introduction of non-invasive ventilatory aids prevent or delay further respiratory decline and the need for invasive respiratory aid (Level C). Group training, regular follow-up and patient education are useful for the patients' mental status and well-being. Weight loss, adjustment and introduction of properly fitted assistive devices should be considered (good practice points). A small number of controlled studies of potential-specific treatments for PPS have been completed, but no definitive therapeutic effect has been reported for the agents evaluated (pyridostigmine, corticosteroids, amantadine). Future randomized trials should particularly address the treatment of pain, which is commonly reported by PPS patients. There is also a need for studies evaluating the long-term effects of muscular training.
Sodium currents are essential for action potential generation and propagation in most excitable cells. Appropriate tuning of these currents can be modulated both developmentally and in response to activity. Here we use a mouse model of congenital deafness (dn/dn- asymptomatic deafness associated with hair cell degeneration) to investigate the effect of lack of activity in the expression of Na(+) currents in neurons from the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). Patch-clamp recordings show that at postnatal day (P) 14, both normal and deaf mice display a significant amount of persistent and resurgent Na(+) currents. However, the persistent current is greater in deaf mice than in normal mice, and resurgent current kinetics are slower in deaf mice. At P7, resurgent currents are not present in either group. MNTB immunohistochemistry demonstrates that Nav1.1 subunits are expressed postsynaptically in both P14 normal and deaf mice, while postsynaptic Nav1.6 staining was only observed in deaf mice. Labelling of Nav1.6 subunits in different age groups revealed that at younger ages (P7), both normal and deaf mice express this protein. Nav1.6 staining was not observed in MNTB neurons of P28 normal mice, whereas it is maintained in deaf mice cells until much later (P28). At P7, none of the groups displayed resurgent currents (despite the detection of Nav1.6 subunits at this age group); this suggests that factors other than alpha subunits are important for modulating these currents in MNTB cells. Our results emphasize the importance of activity during development in regulating Na(+) channels.
We describe an integrate-and-fire attractor model of the decision-related activity of ventral premotor cortex (VPC) neurons during a vibrotactile frequency comparison task [Romo et al. (2004)Neuron, 41, 165-173]. Populations of neurons for each decision in a biased competition attractor network receive a bias input that depends on the firing rates of VPC neurons that code for the two vibrotactile frequencies. The firing rate of the neurons in whichever attractor wins, reflects the sign of the difference in the frequencies (Deltaf) being compared but not the absolute frequencies. However, the transition from the initial spontaneous firing state to one of the two possible attractor states depends probabilistically on the difference of the vibrotactile frequencies scaled by the base frequency. This is due to finite size noise effects related to the spiking activity in the network, and the divisive feedback inhibition implemented through inhibitory interneurons. Thus the neurophysiological basis for a psychophysical effect, Weber's Law, can be related to statistical fluctuations and divisive inhibition in an attractor decision-making network.
Induction of the immediate early gene protein product Fos has been used extensively to assess neural activation in the striatum after repeated cocaine administration to rats in their home cages but rarely after repeated administration outside the home cage, which produces more robust locomotor sensitization. In the present study, we found cocaine-induced Fos expression in nucleus accumbens, but not caudate-putamen, was enhanced 1 and 6 months after repeated drug administration in locomotor activity chambers. Double-labelling of Fos protein and enkephalin mRNA indicated that Fos expression in nucleus accumbens was enhanced in enkephalin-positive, but not enkephalin-negative, medium spiny neurons. In contrast, cocaine-induced Fos expression was absent altogether in nucleus accumbens and unaltered in caudate-putamen 1 month after repeated cocaine administration in the home cage. As cocaine-induced locomotor activity was also enhanced 1 and 6 months after repeated cocaine administration in locomotor activity chambers, we wanted to confirm that neuronal activity in nucleus accumbens mediates cocaine-induced locomotor activity using our particular treatment regimen. Bilateral infusions of the GABA agonists baclofen and muscimol (1 microg/side) into nucleus accumbens of sensitized rats blocked cocaine-induced Fos expression and locomotor activity. Thus, while neuronal activity in both D1- and D2-type neurons in nucleus accumbens can mediate acute cocaine-induced locomotor activity, the enhanced activation of enkephalinergic D2-type neurons suggests that these latter neurons mediate the enhancement of cocaine-induced locomotor activity for up to 6 months after repeated drug administration outside the home cage.
We have previously shown that dopamine (DA) denervation and repeated L-DOPA treatment modulate the pattern of Nur77 mRNA expression in the striatum. However, the exact role of this nuclear receptor in L-DOPA-induced molecular and behavioural adaptations observed in animal models of Parkinson's disease is still unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effects of Nur77 gene deletion on the development of behavioural sensitization and on changes in the regulation of neuropeptides and DA D(3) receptor expression following DA denervation and repeated L-DOPA treatment in Nur77+/+ and Nur77-/- hemiparkinsonian mice. One week postsurgery, hemiparkinsonian mice were treated with L-DOPA (10 mg/kg) plus benserazide (3 mg/kg) once a day for 7 days. Despite similar extents of nigrostriatal denervation, L-DOPA-induced rotational response was exacerbated in Nur77-/- mice compared to Nur77+/+ ones. However, the rate of increase of the rotational behaviour after repeated L-DOPA injections was similar in the two mouse strains. Lesioning the nigrostriatal pathway increased enkephalin (ENK) and neurotensin (NT) mRNA levels in both mouse strains. However, the up-regulation of these neuropeptides was significantly reduced in Nur77-/- mice. There was no difference in the modulation of D3 receptor density and dynorphin (DYN) mRNA expression between the two mouse strains. The present results suggest that Nur77 is involved in setting the threshold level for L-DOPA-induced rotational behaviour, rather than controlling the development of behavioural sensitization. This specific behavioural change is associated with a selective regulation of neuropeptide expression specifically in the indirect striatal output pathway.
Infant rats treated with basic fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) after postnatal day (P)10 motor cortical injury, show functional improvement in adulthood relative to those that do not receive FGF-2. In this study we used a combination of behavioural, immunohistochemical, electrophysiological, electron microscopic and teratological approaches to investigate possible mechanisms by which FGF-2 may influence functional recovery. We show that subcutaneous injections of FGF-2 following bilateral lesions to the motor cortex at P10 in the rat leads to filling of the lesion area with migrating neuroblasts and cycling cells. We assessed the functionality of this tissue in adulthood, and show that cells from the filled region spontaneously fire and form synapses. Behavioural analysis shows enhanced motor performance in the FGF-2-treated lesion rats in comparison to vehicle-treated lesion rats, and this improvement is reversed by removal of the tissue from the previously lesioned area or by blocking cortical regeneration by embryonic treatment with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). The results show that FGF-2 stimulates filling of the lesion cavity with cells after neonatal motor cortex lesions, that the new tissue has anatomical and physiological properties similar to control tissue, and that the filled region supports motor behaviour.
Adult mouse subventricular zone (SVZ) neural progenitor cells (NPCs) retain the capacity to generate multiple lineages in vitro and in vivo. Thus far, the mechanisms involved in the regulation of these cells have not been well elucidated. We have carried out RNA profiling of adult SVZ cell cultures undergoing differentiation, to identify pathways that regulate progenitor cell proliferation and to define a set of transcripts that can be used as molecular tools in the drug discovery process. We carried out a stepwise stratification of the results to identify transcripts specifically enriched in NPCs and validated some of these using comparative literature analysis, quantitative polymerase chain reaction and immunological techniques. The results show a set of transcription factors, secreted molecules and plasma membrane markers that are differentially regulated during differentiation. Pathway analysis highlights alterations in insulin growth factor, Wnt and transforming growth factor beta signalling cascades. Further characterization of these components could provide greater insight into the mechanisms involved in the regulation of neurogenesis in the adult brain.
The period of adolescence and environmental factors, such as stress, are important in determining ethanol vulnerability in both humans and rats. Ethanol is a powerful activator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis but attenuated responses of the HPA axis to ethanol have been described in populations with a high risk of ethanol abuse. In rats, prenatal stress leads to prolonged stress-induced corticosterone secretion and increases the vulnerability to drugs of abuse, such as amphetamine and nicotine in adulthood and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine in adolescent rats. The aim of the present study was to assess the impact of a prenatal stress on HPA axis responsiveness to a moderate dose of ethanol (1.5 g/kg i.p.) in adolescent male rats (28 days old). The parameters evaluated were plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone, plasma corticosterone and mRNA expression of HPA axis central markers (mineralocorticoid receptor, glucocorticoid receptor, corticotropin-releasing hormone and pro-opiomelanocortin). Contrary to prior expectations, our results demonstrate that prenatal stress blunts the HPA axis responsiveness to a moderate dose of ethanol in adolescent rats in spite of similar blood ethanol levels. These data suggest that prenatal stress may have the opposite effect on the response to stress depending on the attributes of the stressor stimulus. They thus raise questions about the possible impact of prenatal stress on the further development of ethanol vulnerability.
The physiological function of microglial glutamate uptake has been debated as it is about 10% of that measured for astrocytes. This study addresses how glutamate, taken up from the extracellular space, is utilized by microglia. It was found that purified rat microglia incubated for 60 min with (3)H-glutamate had an increased intracellular accumulation of (3)H-glutamate after 12 h incubation with tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) but not after incubation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Furthermore, LPS- but not TNF-alpha-treated cells showed an increased efflux of (3)H-labelled compounds, presumably glutamate through the X(C) (-) system and treatment with LPS or TNF-alpha increased the microglial glutathione concentrations and led to an increased incorporation of (3)H-glutamate into glutathione. Depending on the stimuli, 3-6% of the total labelled contents were found in the form of glutathione and 25-35% in the form of glutamate. These results show that microglial glutamate uptake is directly coupled to glutathione synthesis and release of glutamate and/or glutamate metabolites. Additionally, the increased glutathione contents after LPS or TNF-alpha treatment were able to reduce microglial cell death after H(2)O(2) challenge, showing a potential (self)-protective function for microglial glutamate transporter expression and glutathione synthesis.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary and fatal disorder caused by an expanded CAG triplet repeat in the HD gene, resulting in a mutant form of the protein huntingtin. Wild-type and mutant huntingtin are expressed in most tissues of the body but the normal function of huntingtin is not fully known. In HD, the neuropathology is characterized by intranuclear and cytoplasmic inclusions of huntingtin aggregates, and cell death primarily in striatum and cerebral cortex. However, hypothalamic atrophy occurs at early stages of HD with loss of orexin- and somatostatin-containing cell populations. Several symptoms of HD such as sleep disturbances, alterations in circadian rhythm, and weight loss may be due to hypothalamic dysfunction. Endocrine changes including increased cortisol levels, reduced testosterone levels and increased prevalence of diabetes are found in HD patients. In HD mice, alterations in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis occurs as well as pancreatic beta-cell and adipocyte dysfunction. Increasing evidence points towards important pathology of the hypothalamus and the endocrine system in HD. As many neuroendocrine factors are secreted into the cerebrospinal fluid, blood and urine, it is possible that their levels may reflect the disease state in the central nervous system. Investigating neuroendocrine changes in HD opens up the possibility of finding biomarkers to evaluate future therapies for HD, as well as of identifying novel targets for therapeutic interventions.

Activity-based anorexia (ABA) mimics starvation and hyperactivity of anorexia nervosa patients in rats. Activation of the melanocortin (MC) system leads to hypophagia and increased energy expenditure in ad libitum fed rats. Therefore, activation of the MC system might underlie the development and propagation of ABA. Pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) gene expression is normally decreased during negative energy balance. Strikingly, we found a transient up-regulation of POMC mRNA levels in the arcuate nucleus during the development of ABA, indicating a hyperactive MC system. However, wheel running and food intake were not influenced by treating ABA rats with the competitive antagonist SHU9119. This suggests that agonism of MC receptors by endogenous alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) levels does not underlie ABA. Instead, treatment with the inverse agonist AgRP(83-132) did ameliorate signs of ABA. This implies that modulation of constitutive MC receptor activity rather than antagonizing putative alpha-MSH release contributes to the development and propagation of ABA.


Reflexes are exquisitely sensitive to the motor task that is being performed at the time they are evoked; in other words, they are &quot;task-dependent&quot;. The purpose of this study was to investigate the extent to which the pattern of reflex modulation is conserved across three locomotor tasks that differ in muscle activity, joint kinematics, and stability demands. Subjects performed continuous level and incline walking on a treadmill and stair climbing on a stepping mill. Cutaneous reflexes were evoked by delivering trains of electrical stimulation to the sural nerve at the ankle at an intensity of two times the radiating threshold. Electromyographic (EMG) recordings were collected continuously from muscles in the arms, legs and trunk. Results showed that middle-latency reflex modulation patterns were generally conserved across the three locomotor tasks with a few notable exceptions related to specific functional requirements. For example, a reflex reversal was observed for tibialis anterior during stair climbing, which may be indicative of a specific adaptation to the task constraints. Overall our data suggest that the underlying neural mechanisms involved in coordinating level walking can be modified to also coordinate other locomotor tasks such as incline walking and stair climbing. Therefore, there may be considerable overlap in the neural control of different forms of locomotion.
Movements of the visual scene evoke short latency ocular following responses (OFRs) in monkeys that are mediated at least in part by the medial superior temporal area of the cortex (MST). It is known that the sensitivity of the OFR to motion is transiently enhanced immediately after a saccade and this post-saccadic enhancement is largely secondary to visual reafference during the antecedent saccade. As part of an investigation of the neural basis of this post-saccadic enhancement, we examined the dependence of OFR-related neuronal activity in MST on the post-saccadic delay interval in alert monkeys (Macaca fuscata). Large-field motion stimuli were applied either 50 or 150 ms after a centering saccade and response measures were based on the initial (open-loop) changes in (a) eye position and (b) discharge rate. Of the 67% of MST neurons whose OFR-related activity showed significant dependence on the post-saccadic delay, 91% mirrored the OFR, showing higher sensitivity to motion at the shorter post-saccadic delay interval. However, the sensitivity of OFR-related neurons in MST to post-saccadic delay varied considerably from cell to cell and, on average, was 79.6% of that shown by the OFR. We suggest that this enhanced OFR-related activity in the wake of a saccade is causally linked to the visually based post-saccadic enhancement of the OFR.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multifactorial disease with a complex etiology that results from genetic risk factors, environmental exposures and most likely a combination of both. Rodent models of parkinsonism aim to reproduce key pathogenic features of the syndrome including movement disorder induced by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, accompanied by the formation of alpha-synuclein containing Lewy body inclusions. Despite the creation of many excellent models, both chemically induced and genetically engineered, there is none that accurately demonstrates these features. Recent pathological staging studies in man have also emphasized the significant non-CNS component of PD that has yet to be tackled. Herein, we summarize rodent models of PD and what they offer to the field, and suggest future challenges and opportunities.
After a single adaptation session to prisms with gradually incremented shift magnitude, the prism adaptation aftereffect was measured by open loop mid-sagittal pointing (O) to a visual target without visual feedback. This aftereffect corresponded to the summation of the shift in proprioception, measured by straight ahead pointing without vision (S), and the visual straight ahead judgement (V), measured by verbal stopping of an LED moving from two opposite directions. However, the measurement of the aftereffects made over a period of 7 days revealed significantly different decay curves in V, O and S. Surprisingly the S shift was still present up to 7 days after the training, while V had returned to the original level by 2 h, which was the first measurement after subjects returned to a normal visual environment. O had returned to pre-test level after 1 day. After 3 days Wilkinson's (J Exp Psychol 89:250-257, 1971) additive hypothesis (O=S-V) no longer fit the data. Rather &quot;O=Pl-V&quot;, where Pl (Pr) is the shift in proprioception measured by passive lateral arm movements from left (right), fitted better during the whole 7 days of aftereffect in our study. Therefore, the aftereffect of our strong prism adaptation revealed, firstly, that classical open loop pointing consisted of aftereffect shifts equal to the summation of the shifts in the two passively measurable aftereffect components, vision (V) and proprioception (Pl), rather than with active straight ahead pointing (S). Secondly, the decay of the shift in visual perception and in passively measurable proprioception is independent. The former decays fast, and the latter decays slowly with two separate waves. Thirdly, we suggest that the use of visual perception-dependent spatial codes for visual-manual transformation and the vision-independent internal egocentric reference frame are mutually exclusive. We proposed a model to explain these possible mechanisms.
The motor output of the pontomedullary reticular formation (PMRF) was investigated to determine the reticulospinal system's capacity for bilateral control of the upper limbs. Stimulus triggered electromyographic averages (StimulusTA) were constructed from muscles of both upper limbs while two awake monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) performed a reaching task using either arm. Extensor and flexor muscles were studied at the wrist, elbow, and shoulder; muscles acting on the scapula were also studied. Post-stimulus effects (PStEs) resulted from 435 (81%) of 535 sites tested. Of 1611 PStEs analyzed, 58% were post-stimulus suppression (PStS), and 42% were post-stimulus facilitation (PStF). Onset latency was earlier for PStF than PStS, duration was longer for PStS, and amplitude was larger for PStF. Ipsilateral and contralateral PStEs were equally prevalent; bilateral responses were typical. In the ipsilateral forelimb and shoulder, the prevalent pattern was flexor PStF and extensor PStS; the opposite pattern was prevalent contralaterally. Sites producing strong ipsilateral upper trapezius PStF were concentrated in a region caudal and ventral to abducens. The majority of muscles studied had no clear somatotopic organization. Overall, the results indicate the monkey PMRF has the capacity to support bilateral coordination of limb movements using reciprocal actions within a limb and between sides.
We utilised postmortem brain tissue to quantify sections of left and right orbitofrontal cortex (area 11) from nine schizophrenic and eight control patients from the Charing Cross Prospective Schizophrenia Study immunostained for the presence of the kainate receptor (GluR5/6/7). The numerical density of neurons immunopositive for kainate receptor was measured. Other sections from the same blocks were stained with cresyl violet to determine the total neuronal numerical density. All measurements were made blind: diagnoses were only revealed by a third party after measurements were completed. There was a significant reduction (21%) in numerical density of kainate receptor-positive neurons in both cortices in the schizophrenic group (488 cells/mm2) compared to that in the control group (618 cells/mm2) (P=0.033). Nissl-stained tissue showed no significant difference in total neuronal numerical density between control and schizophrenic groups. These observations suggest that there are actually fewer kainate receptor-positive neurons in schizophrenic orbitofrontal cortex. There was no correlation of reduced kainate receptor-positive cell number with age at death, postmortem interval, or other possibly confounding neuropathology. Our results support the concept of there being reduced glutamatergic activity in frontal cortex in schizophrenia.
Previous work has shown that inhibition of return (IOR) operates on identity-specific object representations and does not spread to semantically related items (Morgan et al. in Eur J Cogn Psychol 17(4):499-520, 2005). The current study further examines the representations underlying IOR by investigating whether IOR is influenced by action-related properties of objects. An exogenous cue appeared on the side of an object that was either compatible or incompatible with the action afforded by the object. Then a target requiring a rapid key-press or reach localisation response appeared on the cued or uncued side. Responses were slower to cued versus uncued targets, but this IOR effect did not interact with action-compatibility. These results show that IOR does not appear to operate on visuomotor representations.
We recently characterized an anti-tumor protein termed angiocidin. Here, we report that angiocidin may inhibit angiogenesis by binding collagen and its receptors. Angiocidin bound purified type I collagen and alpha2beta1 with high affinity. K562 cells expressing alpha2beta1 bound and adhered to angiocidin while K562 cells which only expressed alpha5beta1 integrin showed no binding and adhesion. Binding was specific since a neutralizing antibody against alpha2beta1 inhibited binding but antibodies against alpha5beta1 had no effect. Additionally, angiocidin co-localized with alpha2beta1 on K562 alpha2beta1 transfected cells, pancreatic cancer colo 357 cells, breast cancer MB-231 cells and human umbilical endothelial vein (HUVE) cells. In an alpha2beta1-dependent collagen gel angiogenesis assay, angiocidin showed potent inhibitory activity. We identified a 20-amino-acid amino terminal peptide of angiocidin that bound both alpha2beta1 and type I collagen. This peptide promoted alpha2beta1-dependent cell adhesion and inhibited tumor growth and angiogenesis. Taken together, these results are consistent with the conclusion that the anti-tumor activity of angiocidin arises from its ability to ligate collagen and alpha2beta1 on endothelial cells and tumor cells. Our results provide support for the concept that targeting matrix-cell interactions is a viable strategy for the development of anti-cancer therapeutics.
To study the effect of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) on rat retinal vascular development, Sprague-Dawley rats at postnatal age 3 days (p3) were given intraperitoneal (IP) LIF and analysis performed at p6 (p3/6). p7 rats were given intravitreous (IV) LIF and analysis performed at p9 (p7/9). Control animals were PBS injected. At the time of analysis retinal flatmounts were prepared and stained with Griffonia lectin and activated caspase-3. The retinal peripheral avascular area was measured and number of apoptotic cells counted. In vitro, human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (RMVECs) were cultured in media containing LIF, with and without neutralizing antibody to LIF. Cells were stained with activated caspase-3 and apoptotic cells counted. Proliferation was measured by counting cell numbers, and cell cycle stage was determined using propidium iodide staining and FACS analysis. LIF injected either IP or IV had no effect on body weight or total retina area, but significantly increased the peripheral retinal avascular area. In both IP and IV injected groups there was no difference in the number of apoptotic cells between PBS- or LIF-injected groups; although in the p7/9 retinas, both injected groups had significantly more apoptotic cells than the non-injected group. In vitro, there was no effect of LIF on RMVEC apoptosis; however, cell counts were significantly lower in the LIF-treated group. Antibody to LIF restored the cell counts to untreated levels. LIF reduced the number of cells in S phase. LIF attenuates retinal vascular development in vivo through growth arrest, and not apoptosis, of endothelial cells.
Photoreceptor degeneration in human photoreceptor dystrophies and in the relevant animal models has been thought to be executed by one common mechanism -- caspase-mediated apoptosis. However, recent experiments have challenged this concept. In previous experiments, analyzing gene expression in the degenerating rd/rd mouse retina, we have suggested that the gene defect leads to oxidative stress and altered metabolism, which may induce caspase-dependent and caspase-independent cell death mechanisms such as the activation of cystein-proteases, lysosomal proteases, autophagy and complement-mediated lysis. In this study we asked two questions. First, whether a temporal analysis of these different mechanisms during the course of degeneration would enable us to establish a causal relationship between these events; and second, whether photoreceptor degeneration in different models of photoreceptor dystrophies occurs by activating the same mechanisms. Three models of photoreceptor degeneration were chosen in which photoreceptor degeneration is caused by different events: the rd/rd mouse (calcium overload); the rds/rds mouse (structural defect); and light-damage (LD; oxidative stress). Marker genes were selected for the identified processes. PCR-analysis on laser capture microdissection samples was used to verify the expression of these genes in the rod photoreceptor layer. A temporal relationship between the processes was established at the mRNA level, using quantitative RT-PCR. The time course of gene expression was compared to that of cell loss (loss of rows of photoreceptor nuclei) and apoptosis (TUNEL labeling). Apoptosis and autophagy was analyzed using enzymatic assays. The time course of apoptosis and TUNEL labeling coincide in all three models. Complement-activated lysis was found to either parallel (rd/rd and rds/rds) or precede (LD) the development of TUNEL-positive cells. Autophagy was determined to parallel (rd/rd and LD) or lag (rds/rds) behind the development of TUNEL-positive cells. In all three models, glucose metabolism was found to be increased significantly prior to the onset of cell death, but then dropped in parallel with the loss of cells. The presence of the marker genes was verified by laser capture microdissection, and apoptosis (caspase activity) and autophagy (lysozyme and cathepsin activity) were verified in retina extracts. These results provide evidence that irrespective of whether photoreceptor degeneration is triggered by gene defects (lack of beta-PDE or rds/peripherin) or environmental stress (light-damage), a number of pro-apoptotic mechanisms are triggered leading to the degeneration of the photoreceptor cells. The temporal pattern of the different pathways suggests that the non-caspase-dependent mechanisms may actively participate in the demise of the photoreceptors, rather than represent a passive response of the retina to the presence of dying cells. Thus, unless the common upstream initiator for a given photoreceptor dystrophy is found, multiple rescue paradigms need to be used to target all active pathways.
White matter damage occurs following stroke and traumatic brain injury. In preclinical studies of potential therapies to reduce acute brain damage, it is important not only to understand the mechanisms by which this damage occurs, but also to employ techniques that fully quantify the extent of damage. In both respects, neurons have previously received greater attention than axons. The aim of the present study was to compare the extent of axonal damage visualised with different immunohistochemical markers following intracerebral injection of either the excitotoxin AMPA or the mitochondrial inhibitor malonate. Adult mice received intrastriatal injection of toxin and 24 h later the amount of white matter damage visualised with either amyloid precursor protein (APP) or neurofilament 200 (NF200) immunohistochemistry. Malonate induced a dose-dependent increase in the extent of axonal damage with either marker. However, AMPA induced a dose-dependent increase in the extent of axonal damage visualised by NF200 immunoreactivity but not by APP immunoreactivity. Malonate and AMPA also differed in their effects on other assessments of white matter integrity and (14)C-2-deoxyglucose autoradiography revealed the two toxins to differ in their initial effects on cerebral metabolism. These data indicate that the ability of commonly-used axonal damage markers to quantify the full extent of white matter damage differs following initial excitotoxicity or mitochondrial inhibition. We also confirmed that the markers reveal different extents of axonal damage in a rat model of focal cerebral ischaemia. Therefore, in preclinical studies designed to assess brain protecting agents, it is advisable to use more than one marker to quantify the true extent of axonal damage.
This study examined whether epidurally delivered cortical electrical stimulation (CS) improves the efficacy of motor rehabilitative training and alters neuronal density and/or cell proliferation in perilesion cortex following ischemic sensorimotor cortex (SMC) lesions. Adult rats were pre-trained on a skilled reaching task and then received partial unilateral SMC lesions and implantation of electrodes over the remaining SMC. Ten to fourteen days later, rats received daily reach training concurrent with anodal or cathodal 100 Hz CS or no stimulation (NoCS) for 18 days. To label newly generated cells, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU; 50 mg/kg) was administered every third day of training. Both anodal and cathodal CS robustly enhanced reaching performance compared to NoCS controls. Neuronal density in the perilesion cortex was significantly increased in the cathodal CS group compared to the NoCS group. There were no significant group differences in BrdU-labeled cell density in ipsilesional cortex. Staining with Fluoro-Jade-B indicated that neurons continue to degenerate near the infarct at the time when cortical stimulation and rehabilitation were initiated. These data indicate that epidurally delivered CS greatly improves the efficacy of rehabilitative reach training following SMC damage and raise the possibility that cathodal CS may influence neuronal survival in perilesion cortex.
It has been reported that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is implicated in drug addiction and antagonists of the NMDA receptor complex can inhibit the development and expression of conditioned place preference (CPP) induced by several addictive drugs, implying that this class of compounds might be considered as candidate for the treatment of substance abuse. To explore this possibility, it is important to evaluate whether the inhibitory effect of NMDA receptor antagonists would be confined to behaviors produced by drugs of abuse only, but not by natural reinforcers. According to the quantitative changes of NMDA receptor subunits, including NR1, NR2A, and NR2B, induced by diverse types of reinforcers, we chose NR2B subunit as the target of research. Experimental results showed that (1) an augmented expression of NR2B subunit was revealed by Western blotting in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the hippocampus in rats with CPP induced by morphine, but not by natural rewards such as food, novel environment and social interaction. (2) Ifenprodil, an antagonist highly selective for NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor, produced a dose-dependent reduction in CPP induced by morphine and novel environment, but not that by food consumption and social interaction. Taking together, these findings suggested that NR2B containing NMDA receptor may be more involved with morphine reward rather than natural rewards, and that antagonism of NR2B may have a potential for the treatment of morphine abuse.
The neuropeptide galanin is considered to be an endogenous antiepileptic agent, presumably acting via inhibition of glutamate release. Previously, we have demonstrated that in mice ectopically overexpressing galanin in cortical and hippocampal neurons, particularly in granule cells and their axons, the mossy fibers, hippocampal kindling epileptogenesis is suppressed and is associated with attenuated frequency facilitation in mossy fiber-CA3 cell synapses. We hypothesized that changes in synaptic transmission might occur also in other excitatory synapses of the galanin overexpressing (GalOE) mouse, contributing to seizure suppression. Lateral olfactory tract (LOT) synapses, formed by axons of olfactory bulb (OB) mitral cells and targeting piriform cortex (PC) pyramidal cells, ectopically express galanin in GalOE mice. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we found that excitatory synaptic responses recorded in PC pyramidal cells during high frequency stimulation of the LOT were attenuated in GalOE mice as compared to wild-type controls. This effect was mimicked by bath application of galanin or its agonist galnon to wild-type slices, supporting the notion of ectopic galanin action. Since the high frequency activation induced in vitro resembles epileptic seizures in vivo, we asked whether the observed synaptic inhibition would result in altered epileptogenesis when animals were kindled via the same synapses. In male GalOE mice, we found that the latency to convulsions was prolonged, and once animals had experienced the first stage 5 seizure, generalized seizures were less sustainable. These data indicate that the PC is a possible target for epilepsy treatment by ectopically overexpressing galanin to modulate seizure activity.
Neurogenesis and apoptosis occur contemporaneously in the postnatal hippocampal dentate gyrus and have been implicated in mood and cognitive disorders. Particularly, neurogenesis correlates with the manifestation of antidepressant effects, but its quantitative and topographical relationship with concomitant cell death has not been investigated. Accordingly, we applied stereological measurements to obtain synchronized topographical maps of these two events in rats aged 1 and 3 months under basal conditions; the two ages were chosen to represent neuro-developmental windows during which cell proliferation and death are occurring at peak and relatively steady levels, respectively. Our analysis shows that apoptotic cells are evenly distributed throughout the dentate gyrus, although the incidence of apoptosis decreased gradient-wise from the tip of the suprapyramidal layer and was highest in the external third of the granule cell layer. Interestingly, apoptosis was higher in the left hippocampus. In addition, we confirm previous less stringent studies demonstrating that neurogenesis occurs differentially in the dorsal-ventral axis of the hippocampus and in suprapyramidal-infrapyramidal blades of the dentate gyrus. These results raise intriguing new questions regarding the coordinated regulation of hippocampal neurogenesis and apoptosis since the two processes apparently share common regulatory factors. In addition, these findings open questions with respect to the functional significance of topographical gradients in neurogenesis and apoptosis in the context of the etiopathogenesis of neuropsychiatric diseases and the reported dependence on the efficacy of therapeutic agents on the generation of new hippocampal neurons.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has transformed cognitive neuroscience over the past 10 - 15 years, allowing clinical researchers unprecedented access to the functioning of the human brain under many different conditions including motor, sensory and cognitive stimulation. During the past 5 years, increasing interest has also focused on mapping pharmacologically induced changes in human brain activity produced following exposure to psychoactive agents such as amphetamine and cocaine, and is now frequently termed pharmacological MRI (phMRI). Unfortunately, preclinical fMRI and phMRI studies have not kept pace with human research, largely due to numerous technical hurdles inherent in small laboratory animal imaging, as well as the high cost of necessary equipment. However, this is now set to change with significant investment being made across academic and industry laboratories, as researchers attempt to tap into the huge potential of this noninvasive and powerful translational tool. This review introduces the principles and fundamental assumptions behind the technologies, details some important applications of fMRI and phMRI within a CNS research environment, and examines the potential future impact of the technology.
The administration of oral aspirin within 48 h and tissue plasminogen activator within 3 h of ischaemic stroke onset remain the only treatments that have been shown to have clinical benefit. There has been much excitement about neuroprotection over the last two decades, as it may minimise the harmful effects of ischaemic neuronal damage. Although each step along the ischaemic cascade offers a potential target for therapeutic intervention, and neuroprotection has shown benefit in animal studies, this has been difficult to translate to humans. Some hope has been offered by the recent finding that the free radical scavenger NXY-059 may improve outcomes in patients presenting within 6 h of onset of ischaemic stroke. There is logic to the idea that neuroprotection may be most effective when reperfusion has occurred with thrombolysis, as the neuroprotectant will have greater access to ischaemic tissue and the opportunity is presented to minimise free radical-mediated reperfusion injury. Numerous studies in animal models support this view, but the concept has not, as yet, been rigorously tested in humans.
There is substantial unexplained interindividual variability in the drug treatment of schizophrenia. A substantial proportion of patients respond inadequately to antipsychotic drugs, and many experience limiting side effects. As genetic factors are likely to contribute to this variability, the pharmacogenetics of schizophrenia has attracted substantial effort. The approaches have mainly been limited to association studies of polymorphisms in candidate genes, which have been indicated by the pharmacology of antipsychotic drugs. Although some advances have been made, particularly in understanding the pharmacogenetics of some limiting side effects, genetic prediction of symptom response remains elusive. Nevertheless, with improvements in defining the response phenotype in carefully assessed and homogeneous subject groups, the near future is likely to see the identification of genetic predictors of outcome that may inform the choice of pharmacotherapy.
P2X receptors belong to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that conduct the influx of Ca(2+), Na(+) and K(+) cations following activation by extracellular nucleotides such as ATP. Molecular cloning studies have identified seven subunits, namely P2X(1-7), that share approximately 40 - 50% identity in amino acid sequences within the subfamily. Using gene-silencing, pharmacological and electrophysiological approaches, recent studies have revealed roles for P2X(2), P2X(3), P2X(4) and P2X(7) receptors in nociceptive signalling. Homomeric P2X(3) and heteromeric P2X(2/3) receptors are highly localised in the peripheral sensory afferent neurons that conduct nociceptive sensory information to the spinal chord and brain. The discovery of A-317491, a selective and potent non-nucleotide P2X(3) antagonist, provided a pharmacological tool to determine the site and mode of action of P2X(3)-containing receptors in different pain behaviours, including neuropathic, inflammatory and visceral pain. Other P2X receptors (P2X(4) and P2X(7)) that are predominantly expressed in microglia, macrophages and cells of immune origin can trigger the release of cytokines, such as IL-1-beta and TNF-alpha. Genetic disruption of P2X(4) and P2X(7) signalling has been demonstrated to reduce inflammatory and neuropathic pain, suggesting that these two receptors might serve as integrators of neuroinflammation and pain. This article provides an overview of recent scientific literature and patents focusing on P2X(3), P2X(4) and P2X(7) receptors, and the identification of small molecule ligands for the potential treatment of neuropathic and inflammatory pain.
Signal peptide peptidase (SPP) is an intramembrane cleaving protease (I-CLiP) identified by its cleavage of several type II membrane signal peptides. To date, only human SPP has been directly shown to have proteolytic activity. Here we demonstrate that the most closely related human homologue of SPP, signal peptide peptidase like 3 (SPPL3), cleaves a SPP substrate, but a more distantly related homologue, signal peptide peptidase like 2b (SPPL2b), does not. These data provide strong evidence that the SPP and SPPL3 have conserved active sites and suggest that the active sites SPPL2b is distinct. We have also synthesized a cDNA designed to express the single SPP gene present in Plasmodium falciparum and cloned this into a mammalian expression vector. When the malaria SPP protein is expressed in mammalian cells it cleaves a SPP substrate. Notably, several human SPP inhibitors block the proteolytic activity of malarial SPP (mSPP). Studies from several model organisms that express multiple SPP homologs demonstrate that the silencing of a single SPP homologue is lethal. Based on these data, we hypothesize that mSPP is a potential a novel therapeutic target for malaria.

Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors enhance the antitumor activity of the topoisomerase I inhibitor irinotecan (CPT-11), which is used to treat advanced colorectal carcinoma. Since PARP inhibitors sensitize tumor cells also to the methylating agent temozolomide (TMZ) and clinical trials are evaluating CPT-11 in combination with TMZ, we tested whether the PARP inhibitor GPI 15427 (10-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-ylmethyl)-2H-7-oxa-1,2-diaza-benzo[de]anthracen-3-one) increases the efficacy of CPT-11 + TMZ against colon cancer. Moreover, due to the ability of PARP inhibitors to avoid cell death consequent to PARP-1 overactivation, we evaluated whether oral administration of GPI 15427 provides protection from the dose-limiting intestinal toxicity of CPT-11. The results of colony formation assay indicated that GPI 15427 increased the antiproliferative effects (combination index &lt;1) of TMZ + SN-38 (the active metabolite of CPT-11) against colon cancer cells. Accordingly, GPI 15427 (40 mg/kg/dayx5 days per os) in combination with TMZ (10 mg/kg/dayx5 days) + CPT-11 (4 mg/kg/dayx5 days) significantly reduced the growth of tumor xenografts. Oral administration of GPI 15427 (40 mg/kg/q2x3 days) prevented intestinal injury and diarrhea induced by CPT-11 (30 mg/kg/day x 3 days) reducing inflammation and PARP-1 overactivation, as evidenced by immunohistochemical staining of intestinal tissue with antipoly(ADP-ribose) antibody (Ab). In conclusion, the PARP inhibitor represents a novel strategy to enhance the antitumor efficacy and reduce toxicity of chemotherapy in colon cancer.
The dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAPC) provides a linkage between the cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix (ECM) and is also a scaffold for a host of signaling molecules. The constituents of the DAPC must be targeted to the sarcolemma in order to properly function. Biglycan is an ECM molecule that associates with the DAPC. Here, we show that biglycan null mice exhibit a mild dystrophic phenotype and display a selective reduction in the localization of alpha-dystrobrevin-1 and -2, alpha- and beta1-syntrophin, and nNOS at the sarcolemma. Purified biglycan induces nNOS redistribution to the plasma membrane in cultured muscle cells. Biglycan protein injected into muscle becomes stably associated with the sarcolemma and ECM for at least 2 wk. This injected biglycan restores the sarcolemmal expression of alpha-dystrobrevin-1 and -2, and beta1- and beta2-syntrophin in biglycan null mice. We conclude that biglycan is important for the maintenance of muscle cell integrity and plays a direct role in regulating the expression and sarcolemmal localization of the intracellular signaling proteins dystrobrevin-1 and -2, alpha- and beta1-syntrophin and nNOS.
Cadmium is an environmental contaminant producing numerous pathological effects including neurological disorders. The mechanisms through which cadmium produces neurotoxicities are not completely known. We found that divalent cadmium (CdCl2) inhibited ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF)-mediated Jak1 and Jak2 tyrosine kinase signaling in human BE(2)-C neuroblastoma cells. CdCl2 concentrations as low as 0.1 microM and for times as brief as 2 h significantly reduced CNTF-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of both STAT1 and STAT3, the principle substrates of Jak kinases in neurons. The phosphorylation of STAT1 by interferon-gamma was also inhibited by CdCl2. However, activation of the fibroblast growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase was not inhibited by CdCl2. Jak/STAT signaling was inhibited by CdCl2 selectively in cultures of chick retina neurons and neuroblastoma cells, whereas signaling in the nonneuronal cells HepG2 and chick skeletal myotubes was not affected. Results using dichlorofluorescein indicated CdCl2 increased cellular oxidative stress, and all of these effects of CdCl2 were protected against by pretreatment with antioxidants. Neuronal inhibition of Jak kinase by CdCl2-induced oxidative stress is a new mechanism of cadmium action which may directly produce neurotoxic symptoms as well as implicate cadmium and related metals as environmental factors in the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases.
Horizontal head movements were studied in six subjects as they made rapid horizontal gaze adjustments while walking. The aim of the present research was to determine if gait cycle events alter the head movement response to a visual target acquisition task. Gaze shifts of approximately 40 degrees were elicited by a step change in the position of a visual target from a central location to a second location in the left or right horizontal periphery. The timing of the target position change was constrained to occur at 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% of the stride cycle. The trials were randomly presented as the subjects walked on a treadmill at their preferred speed (range: 1.25-1.48 m/s, mean: 1.39+/-0.09 m/s). Analyses focused on the movement onset latencies of the head and eyes and on the peak velocity and saccade amplitude of the head movement response. The head and eye movement onset latencies were not affected by either the direction of the target change or the point in the gait cycle during which the target relocation occurred. However, the presence of an interaction between the gait cycle events and the direction of the visual target shift for both the amplitude and peak velocity of the head movement response indicates that the head movement responses to visual target changes can be influenced by the phase of the gait cycle during which the target relocation takes place.

Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is central to the initiation and maintenance of reproduction in vertebrates. GnRH is found in all major groups of Phylum Chordata, including the protochordates. Studies on functional and structural evolution of GnRH have, in the past, focused exclusively on chordates. However, the recent structural elucidation of an octopus GnRH-like molecule and increasing evidence that GnRH-like substances are present in multiple invertebrate phyla suggest GnRH is an ancient peptide that arose prior to the divergence of protostomes and deuterostomes. The extraordinary conservation of GnRH structure and function raises interesting questions regarding the functional role assumed by GnRH over the course of evolution. This review will focus on the current understanding of GnRH structure and function in non-chordate invertebrates. Special emphasis will be placed upon the possible and speculated functions of GnRH in mollusks.
Although the neurochemical mechanisms contributing to alcohol withdrawal seizures are poorly understood, withdrawal seizures probably reflect neuronal hyperexcitability resulting from adaptation to chronic alcohol. Altered kappa-Opioid receptor (KOP-R) signaling has been observed in multiple seizure types; however, a role for this system in ethanol withdrawal seizures has not been systematically characterized. We hypothesized that pharmacological manipulations of the KOP-R would alter withdrawal in mice selectively bred for differences in ethanol withdrawal severity. Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) and Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant (WSR) mice were made physically dependent using chronic ethanol vapor inhalation, and the effects of the KOP-R antagonist nor-binaltorphimine or agonist U-50,488H on withdrawal severity were examined. Pretreatment with nor-binaltorphimine significantly increased handling-induced convulsion (HIC) severity in withdrawing WSR mice, with no observable effects in withdrawing WSP mice. In contrast, U-50,488H significantly decreased HIC severity in WSP mice, with no effects in WSR mice. During extended withdrawal (i.e. hours 12+), a rebound hyperexcitability was observed in WSP mice given agonist. Thus, administration of a KOP-R antagonist increased withdrawal severity in mice normally resistant to withdrawal seizures, while a KOP-R agonist reduced convulsion severity in animals susceptible to withdrawal seizures. These observations are consistent with differences in the KOP-R system observed in these lines at the molecular level, and suggest the KOP-R system may be a promising therapeutic target for management of ethanol withdrawal seizures. Finally, these findings underscore the importance of determining the potential for rebound increases in withdrawal severity during later withdrawal episodes.
The voltage-gated potassium channels Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 are expressed in several distinct neuronal subpopulations in brain areas known to be involved in motor control such as cortex, basal ganglia and cerebellum. Depending on the lack of Kv3.1 or Kv3.3 channel subunits, mutant mice show different Kv3-null allele-dependent behavioral alterations that include constitutive hyperactivity, sleep loss, impaired motor performance and, in the case of the Kv3.1/Kv3.3 double mutant, also severe ataxia, tremor and myoclonus (Espinosa et al. 2001, J Neurosci 21, 6657-6665, Genes, Brain Behav 3, 90-100). The lack of Kv3.1 channel subunits is mainly responsible for the constitutively increased locomotor activity and for sleep loss, whereas the absence of Kv3.3 subunits affects cerebellar function, in particular Purkinje cell discharges and olivocerebellar system properties (McMahon et al. 2004, Eur J Neurosci 19, 3317-3327). Here, we describe two sensitive and non-invasive tests to reliably quantify normal and abnormal motor functions, and we apply these tests to characterize motor dysfunction in Kv3-mutant mice. In contrast to wildtype and Kv3.1-single mutants, Kv3.3-single mutants and Kv3 mutants lacking three and four Kv3 alleles display Kv3-null allele-dependent gait alterations. Although the Kv3-null allele-dependent gait changes correlate with reduced motor performance, they appear to not affect the training-induced improvement of motor performance. These findings suggest that altered cerebellar physiology in the absence of Kv3.3 channels is responsible for impaired motor task execution but not motor task learning.
PAX6/Pax6 gene encodes a transcription factor that is crucially required for eye development. Pax6 heterozygous mutant mouse (Pax6(Sey/+)) shows various ocular defects, especially in the anterior segment. It has been well known that the induction of the lens and development of the cornea and retina are dependent on PAX6/Pax6 in a cell-autonomous fashion, although the influence of PAX6/Pax6 on the other tissues derived from the ocular mesenchyme is largely unknown. Using transgenic mouse lines in which neural crest cells are genetically marked by LacZ or EGFP, we revealed the extensive contribution of neural crest derived cells (NCDCs) to the ocular tissues. Furthermore, various eye defects in Pax6(Sey/+) mouse were accompanied by abnormal distribution of NCDCs from early developmental stages to the adult. In Pax6(Sey/+) mouse mice, neural crest cells abnormally migrated into the developing eye in a cell nonautonomous manner at early embryonic stages. These results indicate that normal distribution and integration of NCDCs in ocular tissues depend on a proper dosage of Pax6, and that Pax6(Sey/+) eye anomalies are caused by cell autonomous and nonautonomous defects due to Pax6 haploinsufficiency.
Differential targeting of myelin proteins to multiple, biochemically and functionally distinct Schwann cell plasma membrane domains is essential for myelin formation. In this study, we investigated whether the myelin protein P0 contains targeting signals using Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells. By confocal microscopy, P0 was localized to MDCK cell basolateral membranes. C-terminal deletion resulted in apical accumulation, and stepwise deletions defined a 15-mer region that was required for basolateral targeting. Alanine substitutions within this region identified the YAML sequence as a functional tyrosine-based targeting signal, with the ML sequence serving as a secondary leucine-based signal. Replacement of the P0 ectodomain with green fluorescent protein altered the distribution of constructs lacking the YAML signal. Coexpression of the myelin-associated glycoprotein did not alter P0 distribution in MDCK cells. The results indicate that P0 contains a hierarchy of targeting signals, which may contribute to P0 localization in myelinating Schwann cells and the pathogenesis in human disease.
The balance between astrocyte and microglia neuroprotection and neurotoxicity defines the tempo of neuronal dysfunction during HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD). Astrocytes maintain brain homeostasis and respond actively to brain damage by providing functional and nutritive neuronal support. In HAD, low-level, continuous infection of astrocytes occurs, but the functional consequences of this infection are poorly understood. To this end, human fetal astrocytes (HFA) and monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) were infected with HIV-1DJV and HIV-1NL4-3 (neurotropic and lymphotropic strains respectively) and a pseudotyped Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV/HIV-1NL4-3) prior to intracranial injection into the basal ganglia of severe combined immunodeficient mice. Neuropathological and immunohistochemical comparisons for inflammatory and neurotoxic activities were performed amongst the infected cell types at 7 or 14 days. HIV-1-infected MDM induced significant increases in Mac-1, glial fibrillary acidic protein, ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1, and proinflammatory cytokine RNA and/or protein expression when compared with HSV/HIV-1- and HIV-1-infected HFA and sham-operated mice. Levels of neuron-specific nuclear protein, microtubule-associated protein 2, and neurofilament antigens were reduced significantly in the brain regions injected with human MDM infected with HIV-1DJV or VSV/HIV-1. We conclude that HIV-1 infection of astrocytes leads to limited neurodegeneration, underscoring the early and active role of macrophage-driven neurotoxicity in disease.
Exit of recycling cholesterol from late endosomes is defective in Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1) and Niemann-Pick C2 (NPC2) diseases. The traffic route of the recycling proteoglycan glypican-1 (Gpc-1) may also involve late endosomes and could thus be affected in these diseases. During recycling through intracellular compartments, the heparan sulfate (HS) side chains of Gpc-1 are deaminatively degraded by nitric oxide (NO) derived from preformed S-nitroso groups in the core protein. We have now investigated whether this NO-dependent Gpc-1 autoprocessing is active in fibroblasts from NPC1 disease. The results showed that Gpc-1 autoprocessing was defective in these cells and, furthermore, greatly depressed in normal fibroblasts treated with U18666A (3-beta-[2-(diethylamino)ethoxy]androst-5-en-17-one), a compound widely used to induce cholesterol accumulation. In both cases, autoprocessing was partially restored by treatment with ascorbate which induced NO release, resulting in deaminative cleavage of HS. However, when NO-dependent Gpc-1 autoprocessing is depressed and heparanase-catalyzed degradation of HS remains active, a truncated Gpc-1 with shorter HS chains would prevail, resulting in fewer NO-sensitive sites/proteoglycan. Therefore, addition of ascorbate to cells with depressed autoprocessing resulted in nitration of tyrosines. Nitration was diminished when heparanase was inhibited with suramin or when Gpc-1 expression was silenced by RNAi. Gpc-1 misprocessing in NPC1 cells could thus contribute to neurodegeneration mediated by reactive nitrogen species.

Selectivity of nuclear probes is controlled by competitive accumulation of the probe by cellular organelles as well as the high affinity for nucleic acids. Physicochemical features of probes which favor nucleic acid binding include cationic character and a planar aromatic system above a minimum size. Features of probes which permit entry into cells are low protein and lipid binding. Features which reduce accumulation in non-nuclear sites include high base strength and hydrophilicity of the cation. The overall quantitative structure-activity (QSAR) model specifying nuclear accumulation may be expressed as follows: CBN&lt;40; 8&gt;log P (neutral species)&gt;0; AI&lt;8; Z&gt;0; -5&lt;log P (cation)&lt;0; pK ( a )&gt;10; LCF&gt;17; LCF/CBN&gt;0.70 (where CBN is the conjugated bond number, log P (x )the logarithm of the water-octanol partition coefficient of species x, AI the amphilicity index, Z the electric charge, pK ( a ) the negative logarithm of the equilibrium constant for the free base-protonated base reaction, and LCF the largest conjugated fragment). Preliminary applications of the QSAR model--to the selection of anticancer drugs, minimization of dye and drug toxicity and the designed synthesis of fluorescent probes-are outlined.
Steroid hormones play an important role in modulating social behavior in many species. Estrogens are thought to act on an interconnected network of hypothalamic and limbic brain areas to affect aggressive behavior, although the specific nuclei unknown remain unspecified. We show that individual variation in estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) immunoreactivity in the lateral septum (LS), ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (vBNST), and anterior hypothalamus (AHA) of CD-1 mice is positively correlated with aggressive behavior. When males were treated with fadrozole (an aromatase inhibitor), aggressive behavior was reduced, although castration did not reduce aggression. These results suggest that estrogens modulate aggressive behavior by acting on a circuit that includes the LS, vBNST, and AHA and that the source of estrogens is non-gonadal. Fadrozole also decreased c-fos expression in the lateral septum following aggressive encounters. Although the effects of estrogen on aggression appear to involve regulation of neuronal activity in the LS, additional processes are likely involved. These results suggest that estrogen acts in a specific subset of a complex network of nuclei to affect aggressive behavior.
In this paper, we tested the hypothesis that exposure to estrogens of different source and estrogenic potency at early puberty could affect the development of socio-sexual behavior in the male rat. Puberty is regarded as a second stage of the ontogenetic period, in the sexual maturation of mammals, particularly sensitive to gonadal hormone milieu. We treated animals orally, from postnatal day 23 to 30, with an environmentally compatible dose of bisphenol A (BPA, 40 microg/kg/day) and with a dosage of ethinylestradiol (EE, 0.4 microg/kg/day) comparable to the human oral contraceptives. Exposure to EE altered the temporal pattern of male sexual activity, reducing performance, in the adult animals; slight modifications, in the same direction, were observed with BPA. Short-term behavioral effects were observed in the treated animals, both with BPA and EE: the exploratory drive, directed to a stimulus object and to the environment, as well as to conspecifics, was reduced in the juveniles. Modifications in the circulating T levels were observed after treatments: T was reduced in the juveniles, both with BPA and EE. The decrement persisted in the adult animals but reached significance only in the BPA group. On the whole, effects of pubertal exposure on behavior are more marked with EE than BPA. This can be due to the much higher estrogenic potency of EE; the direction of the behavioral effects of BPA, compared with EE, is however indicative of an estrogenic mechanism.
To develop a socially based model of anxiety, the contextual fear conditioning properties of social defeat were examined in rats. Social threat consisted of exposing intruders to aggressive residents in resident home cage, separated by a partition. During 3 daily encounters, intruders were either defeated or threatened by residents, providing the defeated-threatened (DT) and threatened-threatened (TT) groups respectively. On Day 4, both DT and TT animals were subjected to a social threat only. Additional animals received a 4-day exposure to a novel empty cage (EC group). Further DT, TT, and EC rats were confronted to a different context on Day 4. DT rats exhibited a robust and context-specific anxiety-like response, characterized by significant behavioral and biochemical alterations. DT rats showed increased risk assessment and decreased exploration compared to TT and EC rats that in turn were not different towards each other. DT and TT rats exhibited increased ACTH levels, while only DT rats showed enhanced corticosterone and decreased testosterone levels compared to EC. These differences were context-specific since they were absent confronting animals to a different context and since they were not long lasting. Overall, these data demonstrate the induction of an anxiety-like state in rats through a context conditioning process based upon social factors. The social basis of this paradigm offers good face validity with anxiety disorders, which in humans are mainly related to social factors and associated with HPA axis deregulations. The present procedure may provide a useful experimental model to further investigate the neurobiological mechanisms underlying anxiety-related disorders.
The experiments described here were designed to determine whether males' capacity to accelerate female pubertal development is reflected in females' urinary steroid levels in mice, and whether steroids in males' urine are influenced by exposure to developing females. In the first experiment, measures from urine collected daily from female mice aged 31-59 days showed a gradual rise in 17beta-estradiol levels and a distinct linear rise in progesterone levels. In a second experiment, daily steroids were measured in females aged 30-42 days while they were either housed alone or underneath two novel outbred males. Females exposed to males showed accelerated development at day 43 in uterine weight, and to a lesser extent in ovarian and whole-body weights. Average steroid levels did not significantly differ between conditions, but intra-individual variance in estradiol measures was greater in male-exposed than in isolated females. Creatinine levels were higher in isolated females. Males exposed to developing females excreted higher levels of estradiol in their urine compared to isolated males. These data suggest that excreted steroids can reflect general pubertal development, but may not fully reflect substantial morphological impacts of exposure to novel males. Elevations of estrogen levels in males exposed to developing females could help to account for precocious puberty in such females.
The neural basis of human attachment security remains unexamined. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and simultaneous recordings of skin conductance levels, we measured neural and autonomic responses in healthy adult individuals during a semantic conceptual priming task measuring human attachment security &quot;by proxy&quot;. Performance during a stress but not a neutral prime condition was associated with response in bilateral amygdalae. Furthermore, levels of activity within bilateral amygdalae were highly positively correlated with attachment insecurity and autonomic response during the stress prime condition. We thereby demonstrate a key role of the amygdala in mediating autonomic activity associated with human attachment insecurity.
Huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1), an interactor of huntingtin, has been known as an essential component of the stigmoid body (STB) and recently reported to play a protective role against neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease (HD). In the present study, subcellular association between HAP1 and androgen receptor (AR) with a long polyglutamine tract (polyQ) derived from spinal-and-bulbar-muscular-atrophy (SBMA) was examined using HEp-2 cells cotransfected with HAP1 and/or normal ARQ25, SBMA-mutant ARQ65 or deletion-mutant AR cDNAs. The results provided the first clear evidence that HAP1 interacts with AR through its ligand-binding domain in a polyQ-length-dependent manner and forms prominent inclusions sequestering polyQ-AR, and that addition of dihydrotestosterone reduces the association strength of HAP1 with ARQ25 more dramatically than that with ARQ65. Furthermore, SBMA-mutant-ARQ65-induced apoptosis was suppressed by cotransfection with HAP1. Our findings strongly suggest that HAP1/STB is relevant to polyQ-length-dependent modification on subcellular AR functions and critically involved in pathogenesis of not only HD but also SBMA as an important intrinsic neuroprotectant determining the threshold for cellular vulnerability to apoptosis. Taking together with previous reports that HAP1/STB is selectively expressed in the brain regions spared from degenerative targets in HD and SBMA, the current study might explain the region-specific occurrence of neurodegeneration in both diseases, shedding light on common aspects of their molecular pathological mechanism and yet-to-be-uncovered diagnostic or therapeutic applications for HD and SBMA patients.
Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is a dominantly inherited pharmacogenetic condition that manifests as a life-threatening hypermetabolic reaction when a susceptible individual is exposed to common volatile anesthetics and depolarizing muscle relaxants. Although MH appears to be genetically heterogeneous, RYR1 is the main candidate for MH susceptibility. However, since molecular analysis is generally limited to exons where mutations are more frequently detected, these are routinely found only in 30-50% of susceptible subjects. In this study the entire RYR1 coding region was analyzed in a cohort of 50 Italian MH susceptible (MHS) subjects. Thirty-one mutations, 16 of which were novel, were found in 43 individuals with a mutation detection rate of 86%, the highest reported for RYR1 in MH so far. These data provide clear evidence that mutations in the RYR1 gene are the predominant cause of MH.

The aim of the present study was to investigate the simple reaction time (RT) performance of patients with steeply sloping sensorineural hearing loss. This kind of hearing loss has the particularity of inducing a reorganization of the primary auditory cortex (Dietrich et al, 2001), the edge frequency of the loss being over-represented. It is assumed that a consequence of this plasticity could be reflected in an improvement in frequency discrimination performances around the edge of the loss (McDermott et al, 1998). In the present study we used pure tones equalized in loudness to investigate whether RT might be altered at the cut-off frequency (Fc) of the loss, or at the frequency that presented the best discrimination-limen-for-frequency (bDLF). The effect of auditory rehabilitation on RT was also studied. A great variability in RT was noted in all our subjects. Our results demonstrated that RT was unmodified at Fc or bDLF, be it before or after hearing aid fitting. However, an improvement in the correlation between RT and frequency discrimination performance was observed at three months post-rehabilitation.
The large T-antigen from human polyomavirus JC (JCV T-antigen) is suspected to play a role in malignant transformation. Previously, we reported that JCV T-antigen requires the presence of a functional insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF-IR) for transformation of fibroblasts and for survival of medulloblastoma cell lines; that IGF-IR is phosphorylated in medulloblastoma biopsies and that JCV T-antigen inhibits homologous recombination-directed DNA repair, causing accumulation of mutations. Here we are evaluating whether JCV T-antigen positive and negative mouse medulloblastoma cell lines, which significantly differ in their tumorigenic properties, are also different in their abilities to repair double strand breaks of DNA (DSBs). Our results show that despite much stronger tumorigenic potential, JCV T-antigen positive medulloblastoma cells are more sensitive to genotoxic agents (cisplatin and gamma-irradiation). Subsequent analysis of DNA repair of DSBs indicated that homologous recombination-directed DNA repair (HRR) was selectively attenuated in JCV T-antigen positive medulloblastoma cells. JCV T-antigen did not affect HRR directly. In the presence of JCV T-antigen, insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1) translocated to the nucleus where it co-localized with Rad51, possibly attenuating HRR.
Predicting suicide is difficult due to its low base-rate and the limited specificity of clinical predictors. Prospective biological studies suggest that dysfunctions in the serotonergic system and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis have some predictive power for completed suicide in mood disorders. A prediction model that incorporates biological testing to increase specificity and sensitivity of prediction of suicide is of potential clinical value. Meta-analyses of prospective biological studies of suicide and cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (CSF 5-HIAA) and suicide and the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in mood disorders using the penalized quasi-likelihood (PQL) and bootstrap method yield odds ratios for prediction of suicide of 4.48 and 4.65 respectively. Two combinatory prediction models, the first requiring positive results on more than one test, and the second requiring a positive result on either one of two tests, were tested to assess their sensitivity, specificity, and predictive power using biological data from published and unpublished studies. The prediction model that requires both DST and CSF 5-HIAA tests to be positive results in 37.5% sensitivity, 88% specificity, and has a positive predictive value of 23%. The prediction model that requires either DST or CSF 5-HIAA tests to be positive results in 87.5% sensitivity, 28% specificity, and has a positive predictive value of 10%. Thus, models attempting to predict a lethal outcome that is uncommon perform very differently making model choice of major importance. Further work on refining biological predictors and integration with clinical predictors is needed to optimize a model to predict suicide in the clinic.



The history of the asylum has proven to be an invaluable resource for exploring the interface between science, medicine, religion and social and political processes. The definitions of insanity have troubled humans for centuries, as have the methods for treatment. Diverse, and often conflicting, ideological positions are quite common. Documenting the specific histories of the staff and patients of an asylum can thus help us understand the evolution of the physical and the intellectual growth of psychiatry in India. In this endeavour, we have used the records of the Lunatic Asylum, Bangalore (later the All India Institute of Mental Health and subsequently the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences [NIMHANS]) to explore the history of psychiatry in India. The only asylum maintained by a 'Native Kingdom', it exemplifies the dynamics of the growth of mental health services in the country. We trace the changes in administrative control of the Asylum, the changes in medical practice and some aspects of the social history of the region. This article traces the history of psychiatry at one institution, which, at the micro level, is a mirror to the understanding of the historical trends of psychiatric services in India.
The use of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) in ischaemic stroke outside of experienced stroke centres remains controversial. The aim of this study was to present the initial experience with t-PA in patients with ischaemic stroke at an institution with no prior experience in i.v. stroke thrombolysis and to compare results to published reports. Prospective audit of 888 patients with consecutive stroke and transient ischaemic attack admitted to a 426-bed tertiary referral hospital from March 2003 to October 2005. Main outcome measures were treatment rate, exclusion criteria, protocol violations, intracerebral haemorrhage, disability (modified Rankin scale) and mortality at 3 months. Over the study period, 72 patients received t-PA (11% of ischaemic strokes). The main reason for exclusion was presentation beyond 3 h of onset (44%); if all eligible patients had arrived within 3 h, treatment rate was estimated at 32.5%. Protocol violations occurred in 15 (21%) patients. There were seven (10%) asymptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage and one (1%) non-fatal symptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage. At 3 months, 37% had achieved excellent recovery (modified Rankin scale 0-1) and seven (10%) had died. The delivery and outcomes associated with the use of t-PA were comparable to the results of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke trial and meta-analysis of open-labelled studies. With appropriate infrastructure and protocols, previously inexperienced tertiary referral centres can replicate the experience and outcome measures reported by clinical trials of t-PA in patients with stroke.
Psychopathy is associated with abnormalities in attention and orienting. However, few studies have examined the neural systems underlying these processes. To address this issue, the authors recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) while 80 incarcerated men, classified as psychopathic or nonpsychopathic via the Hare Psychopathy Checklist--Revised (R. D. Hare, 1991, 2003), completed an auditory oddball task. Consistent with hypotheses, processing of targets elicited larger frontocentral negativities (N550) in psychopaths than in nonpsychopaths. Psychopaths also showed an enlarged N2 and reduced P3 during target detection. Similar ERP modulations have been reported in patients with amygdala and temporal lobe damage. The data are interpreted as supporting the hypothesis that psychopathy may be related to dysfunction of the paralimbic system--a system that includes parts of the temporal and frontal lobes.
Little brown bats, Myotis lucifugus, are known for their ability to echolocate and utilize their echolocation system to navigate, and locate and identify prey. Their echolocation signals have been characterized in detail but their communication signals are less well understood despite their widespread use during social interactions. The goal of this study was to develop an automatic classification algorithm for characterizing the communication signals of little brown bats. Sound recordings were made overnight on five individual male bats (housed separately from a large group of captive bats) for 7 nights, using a bat detector and a digital recorder. The spectral and temporal characteristics of recorded sounds were first analyzed and classified by visual observation of a call's temporal pattern and spectral composition. Sounds were later classified using an automatic classification scheme based on multivariate statistical parameters in MATLAB. Human- and machine-based analysis revealed five discrete classes of bat's communication signals: downward frequency-modulated calls, steep frequency-modulated calls, constant frequency calls, broadband noise bursts, and broadband click trains.
HIV-associated cardiovascular diseases have been widely described, but clinical studies aimed at establishing cause-effect relationships between HIV-associated cardiovascular disease and either the HIV infection or antiretroviral therapy have been problematic. Endothelial dysfunction is a sensitive marker and early event in atherosclerosis, and many have suggested that protease inhibitors promote endothelial dysfunction indirectly by inducing elevations in circulating lipids. To determine whether nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors and/or protease inhibitors induce endothelial dysfunction, and to test whether this effect is dependent upon drug-mediated alteration in plasma lipid concentrations, we treated male Sprague-Dawley rats with pharmacological doses of azidothymidine (AZT), indinavir, or AZT plus indinavir through their drinking water for 1 month and assessed endothelial function in aortic rings using an isometric force measurement. Circulating levels of plasma lipids and endothelin-1, a marker for endothelial injury and/or dysfunction, were also determined. We found that AZT and AZT plus indinavir treatments dramatically reduced endothelium-dependent vessel relaxation. However, AZT treatment did not significantly alter plasma levels of cholesterol or triglyceride. In addition, plasma endothelin-1 levels were elevated in rats treated with AZT plus indinavir. Indinavir treatment alone increased plasma cholesterol levels but had no effect on endothelial function. These findings suggest that in addition to modulating plasma lipid levels, antiretrovirals, particularly AZT and perhaps other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, may have direct effects on the vascular endothelium. Together with other increased risk factors for atherosclerosis in HIV patients, AZT-induced endothelial dysfunction may contribute to the cardiovascular diseases associated with HIV antiretroviral therapy.



The Bacillus subtilis DivIVA protein controls the positioning of the division site and the relocation of the chromosome during sporulation. By performing coimmunoprecipitation experiments, we demonstrated that a myc-DivIVA protein is in proximity to FtsZ and MinD during vegetative growth and Spo0J during the first 120 min of sporulation.
Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is a membrane-associated enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of several endogenous bioactive lipids, including anandamide (AEA), N-palmitoylethanolamine (PEA), oleamide, and N-oleoylethanolamine (OEA). These fatty acid amides participate in many physiological activities such as analgesia, anxiety, sleep modulation, anti inflammatory responses, and appetite suppression. Because FAAH plays an essential role in controlling the tone and activity of these endogenous bioactive lipids, this enzyme has been implicated to be a drug target for the therapeutic management of pain, anxiety, and other disorders. In an effort to discover FAAH inhibitors, the authors have previously reported the development of a novel fluorescent assay using purified FAAH microsomes as an enzyme source and a fluorogenic substrate, arachidonyl 7-amino, 4-methyl coumarin amide (AAMCA). Herein, the authors have adapted this assay to a high-throughput format and have screened a large library of small organic compounds, identifying a number of novel FAAH inhibitors. These data further verify that this fluorescent assay is sufficiently robust, efficient, and low-cost for the identification of FAAH inhibitory molecules and open this class of enzymes for therapeutic exploration.
Chronic orofacial pain is a rapidly evolving and challenging field that deals with the management of pain originating from neurogenic, osseous, muscular, or vascular structures of the head and neck. The challenge lies in the accurate diagnosis of orofacial pain conditions, which may be difficult to differentiate in many clinical situations. As pain cannot be &quot;seen&quot; or precisely located or its intensity measured with any device, clinicians must rely heavily on the patient's own description of type, duration and location of pain, and thus, history plays a crucial role in diagnosis. Advances in neuroscience, pharmacology, and pain management have made medications one of the primary therapeutic modalities in the management of pain including orofacial pain conditions. Despite this, these medications will not help patients if the origin and nature of pain is not accurately diagnosed. Hence, diagnosis is critical for successful management of orofacial pain conditions. Experience and knowledge of practice in pain management have led clinicians to devise several clinical diagnostic tests using medications in various forms (topical, oral, injections, intravenous infusions) to differentiate certain orofacial pain disorders where the nature of pain is unclear and the presentation of pain is at multiple sites. Although the diagnostic tests are not 100 percent accurate, they are very effective in many clinical scenarios, especially in orofacial pain conditions. Topical medications such as anesthetics and anti-inflammatories, oral medications such as anti-inflammatory drugs and skeletal muscle relaxants, injections such as local anesthetics and corticosteroids, and vapocoolant sprays are some examples of the modalities used by clinicians to manage orofacial pain conditions. These medications may also be used for diagnostic tests to aid in accurate diagnosis of some orofacial pain conditions. In addition, there are special cases where medications such as triptans, carbamazepine and indomethacin may be used as diagnostic tests to confirm diagnosis of migraines, neuralgias, or stabbing headaches, respectively. Based on the concept of using medications to predict which treatment would be best for certain pain conditions or to aid in better diagnosis, diagnostic intravenous infusions of lidocaine, morphine, and ketamine have been studied to test the response to adjuvant analgesics and oral dextromethorphan. Paradoxically, taking the patients off their current medications can be of diagnostic significance in conditions like medication overuse headache and serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor-induced clenching. In summary, this paper focuses on the use of medications in different forms as useful diagnostic tests for differential diagnosis of orofacial pain conditions that are difficult to diagnose or are refractory to past or current treatment.
ESC derivation, use and SCNT have raised many moral and ethical issues. In this opinion piece I have focused on the argument that morally less ambiguous alternatives to ESC derived from the ICM of blastocysts exist. These possibilities range from using multiple adult stem cell populations each of which is uniquely suited for a particular disease target or identifying adult ESC-like populations, using transdifferentiated ESC-like cells or alternate methods of deriving ESC. I suggest that while it is important to support such efforts, current results do not provide sufficient compelling data to allow one to stop the use of ESC and perhaps adult cells will never be a reliable alternative. All options need to be fully explored and decisions need to be made with scientific rigor and respect for each individual's moral compass.
Increases in cytoplasmic Ca(2+) are crucial for inducing the initial steps of myoblast differentiation that ultimately lead to fusion; yet the mechanisms that produce this elevated Ca(2+) have not been fully resolved. For example, it is still unclear whether the increase comes exclusively from membrane Ca(2+) influx or also from Ca(2+) release from internal stores. To address this, we investigated early differentiation of myoblast clones each derived from single post-natal human satellite cells. Initial differentiation was assayed by immunostaining myonuclei for the transcription factor MEF2. When Ca(2+) influx was eliminated by using low external Ca(2+) media, we found that approximately half the clones could still differentiate. Of the clones that required influx of external Ca(2+), most clones used T-type Ca(2+) channels, but others used store-operated channels as influx-generating mechanisms. On the other hand, clones that differentiated in low external Ca(2+) relied on Ca(2+) release from internal stores through IP(3) receptors. Interestingly, by following clones over time, we observed that some switched their preferred Ca(2+) source: clones that initially used calcium release from internal stores to differentiate later required Ca(2+) influx and inversely. In conclusion, we show that human myoblasts can use three alternative mechanisms to increase cytoplasmic Ca(2+) at the onset of the differentiation process: influx through T-types Ca(2+) channels, influx through store operated channels and release from internal stores through IP(3) receptors. In addition, we suggest that, probably because Ca(2+) elevation is essential during initial differentiation, myoblasts may be able to select between these alternate Ca(2+) pathways.
In many cells, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) contains segregated smooth and rough domains, but the mechanism of this segregation is unclear. Here, we used a HeLa cell line, inducibly expressing a GFP fusion protein [GFP-b(5)tail] anchored to the ER membrane, as a tool to investigate factors influencing ER organisation. Induction of GFP-b(5)tail expression caused proliferation of the ER, but its normal branching polygonal meshwork architecture was maintained. Experiments designed to test the effects of drugs that alter ceramide levels revealed that treatment of these cells with Phenyl-2-decanoyl-amino-3-morpholino-1-propanol-hydrocholride (PDMP) generated patches of segregated smooth ER, organised as a random tubular network, which rapidly dispersed after removal of the drug. The effect of PDMP was independent of its activity as sphingolipid synthesis inhibitor, but could be partially reversed by a membrane-permeant Ca(2+) chelator. Although the smooth ER patches maintained connectivity with the remaining ER, they appeared to represent distinct domains differing in protein and lipid composition from the remaining ER. PDMP did not cause detachment of membrane-bound ribosomes, indicating that smooth ER patch generation was due to a reorganisation of pre-existing ribosome-free areas. Our results demonstrate a dynamic relationship between smooth and rough ER and have implications for the mechanisms regulating ER architecture.
In cytoplasm, nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) is associated with the inhibitory protein, IkappaBalpha. On activation by H2O2, IkappaBalpha is phosphorylated and degraded, exposing the nuclear localization signals on the NF-kappaB heterodimer. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), which mediates prostaglandin synthesis during inflammation, is induced by oxidative stress mediated by NF-kappaB. We investigated whether the NF-kappaB signaling pathway affected cell death and COX-2 expression after hypoxia-induced oxidative stress in wild-type (WT) and copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase transgenic (SOD1 Tg) astrocytes. In WT astrocytes, phospho-IkappaBalpha was highly expressed after oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) and 2 h of reperfusion, concomitant with the decrease in IkappaBalpha. The NF-kappaB p50 level increased similarly in WT and SOD1 Tg astrocytes (1.2-/1.4-fold) after OGD. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed higher DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB p50 in WT than in SOD1 Tg astrocytes 6 h after 4 h of OGD. The COX-2 level was induced by 2.7- and 1.3-fold after OGD in WT and SOD1 Tg astrocytes, and an antioxidant protected both groups against OGD injury. Superoxide dismutase transgenic cells were 23% more protective against OGD injury than WTs when assessed by lactate dehydrogenase release. However, transfection of NF-kappaB small interfering RNAs in SOD1 Tg astrocytes aggravated cell death and increased COX-2 expression. These results suggest that the NF-kappaB signaling pathway induced COX-2 expression and promoted cell death in WTs after OGD injury; however, NF-kappaB activation protected cells and decreased COX-2 expression in SOD1 Tg astrocytes. This biphasic role of NF-kappaB might be coordinately regulated by reactive oxygen species levels in astrocytes, thereby functioning as a regulator of cell death/survival.

The discovery of the gene for Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) has not only broadened the FRDA phenotype, but has also identified patients with early-onset cerebellar ataxia who resemble FRDA clinically but who do not carry a mutation in the frataxin gene. In order to identify subgroups that may represent a uniform underlying disorder, we performed neurophysiologic studies, including nerve conduction studies, electromyography, and transcranial magnetic stimulation, in 15 patients with a slowly progressive, unexplained, early-onset cerebellar ataxia (EOCA). In addition, sural nerve biopsy data were available in four patients. The neurophysiologic data identified three distinctive groups of EOCA patients: three patients with normal motor and sensory conduction velocities and borderline sensory amplitudes (group 1); three patients with a mild, predominantly motor, axonal neuropathy (group 2); and nine patients with a highly uniform syndrome characterized by pyramidal features and a severe sensory and motor axonal neuropathy (group 3). We conclude that, on the basis of neurophysiologic studies, distinctive groups of patients with EOCA can be delineated, and that differentiation between patients with EOCA can be useful for differential diagnostic consideration. Whether this splitting also reflects a fundamental phenotypic difference and, therefore, may direct future DNA studies, remains to be established.
Insertion of skull pins results in haemodynamic perturbations, which can be blunted by local anaesthetic infiltration of the pin sites. No study has assessed the effects on intraocular pressure. General anaesthesia was induced in 71 patients undergoing cervical spine surgery with attachment of Gardner Wells tongs to the skull. Skull pins were attached five minutes after induction following either saline (group I, 35 patients) or lidocaine (group II, 36 patients) infiltration of scalp. Intraocular pressure, mean arterial pressure and heart rate were recorded before (baseline), immediately after, and 60 s following pin insertion and analysed statistically. Insertion of pins increased intraocular pressure in both groups (from 8.4+/-2.7 to 14.2+/-3.0 mmHg in group I, and from 8.8+/-2.3 to 12.7+/-2.7 mmHg in group II, P &lt; 0.001), which persisted even at 60 s but the increase was significantly greater in group I. Insertion of pins significantly increased blood pressure in group I only. We conclude that lidocaine infiltration at the skull pin sites for Gardner Wells tong attachment fails to completely abolish increased intraocular pressure.

Recent studies indicate that auditory tone presentation and auditory alerting can temporarily ameliorate visuospatial attention deficits in patients with unilateral neglect [Frassinetti, F., Pavani, F., &amp; Ladavas, E. Acoustical vision of neglected stimuli: Interaction among spatially converging audiovisual inputs in neglect patients. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 14, 62-69, 2002; Robertson, I. H., Mattingley, J. B., Rorden, C., &amp; Driver, J. Phasic alerting of neglect patients overcomes their spatial deficit in visual awareness. Nature, 395, 169-172, 1998]. The current study investigated proposed mechanisms of cross-modal interaction to determine conditions in which auditory stimulation affects spatial and nonspatially lateralized attention deficits in a patient with hemispatial neglect. In Experiment 1, a target was presented among related distracters (conjunction search) while a tone was presented either bilaterally or in a congruent or incongruent spatial location with respect to the visual target. Whereas the results suggest a benefit of both general alerting and cross-modal spatial integration on visual search efficiency, the most significant improvement occurred when the target and tone were both presented in contralesional space. In Experiment 2, the effect of auditory alerting on selective attention was examined in a rapid serial visual search procedure with visual targets embedded in a stream of distracters presented at central fixation. When two targets were presented without an alerting tone, the patient missed the second target for up to 1000 msec after the first target appeared (a finding known as the &quot;attentional blink&quot; [AB] and, on average, about 400-500 msec in normals). An alerting tone presented at a fixed temporal location significantly reduced the AB in a tone-duration-dependent manner. Experiment 3 examined the effect of cross-modal space on selective attention in an AB paradigm in which T2 occurred randomly to the left or right of T1 with a spatially congruent or incongruent tone. Discrimination of T2 in contralesional space significantly improved when the tone was presented in the same location, and was impaired when the tone was presented on the ipsilesional side. The findings are discussed as they relate to cross-modal interactions and their influence on spatial and nonspatially lateralized attention deficits in neglect.
Cognitive strategies used in volitional emotion regulation include self-distraction and reappraisal (reinterpretation). There is debate as to what the psychological and neurobiological mechanisms underlying these strategies are. For example, it is unclear whether self-distraction and reappraisal, although distinct at a phenomenological level, are also mediated by distinct neural processes. This is partly because imaging studies on reappraisal and self-distraction have been performed in different emotional contexts and are difficult to compare. We have therefore investigated the neural correlates of self-distraction, as indexed by a thought suppression task, in an anticipatory anxiety paradigm previously employed by us to study reappraisal. Brain activity was measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging. We show that self-distraction recruits the left lateral prefrontal cortex. Based on a review of the existing data, we develop a process model of cognitive emotion regulation. The model posits that both self-distraction and reappraisal attenuate emotional reactions through replacement of emotional by neutral mental contents but achieve replacement in different ways. This is associated with a dependence of self-distraction on a left prefrontal production function, whereas reappraisal depends on a right prefrontal higher order monitoring process.
The zones of the flocculus have been mapped in many species with a noticeable exception, the mouse. Here, the functional map of the mouse was constructed via extracellular recordings followed by tracer injections of biotinylated-dextran-amine and immunohistochemistry for heat-shock protein-25. Zones were identified based on the Purkinje cell complex spike modulation occurring in response to optokinetic stimulation. In zones 1 and 3 Purkinje cells responded best to rotation about a horizontal axis oriented at 135 degrees ipsilateral azimuth, whereas in zones 2 and 4 they responded best to rotation about the vertical axis. The tracing experiments showed that Purkinje cells of zone 1 projected to the parvicellular part of lateral cerebellar nucleus and superior vestibular nucleus, while Purkinje cells of zone 3 projected to group Y and the superior vestibular nucleus. Purkinje cells of zones 2 and 4 projected to the magnocellular and parvicellular parts of the medial vestibular nucleus, while some also innervated the lateral vestibular nucleus or nucleus prepositus hypoglossi. The climbing fiber inputs to Purkinje cells in zones 1 and 3 were derived from neurons in the ventrolateral outgrowth of the contralateral inferior olive, whereas those in zones 2 and 4 were derived from the contralateral caudal dorsal cap. Purkinje cells in zones 1 and 2, but not in zones 3 and 4, were positively labeled for heat-shock protein-25. The present study illustrates that Purkinje cells in the murine flocculus are organized in discrete zones with specific functions, specific input - output relations, and a specific histochemical signature.
Evidence from a variety of recording methods suggests that many areas of the brain are far more sparsely active than commonly thought. Here, we review experimental findings pointing to the existence of neurons which fire action potentials rarely or only to very specific stimuli. Because such neurons would be difficult to detect with the most common method of monitoring neural activity in vivo-extracellular electrode recording-they could be referred to as &quot;dark neurons,&quot; in analogy to the astrophysical observation that much of the matter in the universe is undetectable, or dark. In addition to discussing the evidence for largely silent neurons, we review technical advances that will ultimately answer the question: how silent is the brain?
The authors investigated the relationship between degree of lateralization and noise phobia in 48 domestic dogs (Canis familiaris) by scoring paw preference to hold a food object and relating it to reactivity to the sounds of thunderstorms and fireworks, measured by playback and a questionnaire. The dogs without a significant paw preference were significantly more reactive to the sounds than the dogs with either a left-paw or right-paw preference. Intense reactivity, therefore, is associated with a weaker strength of cerebral lateralization. The authors note the similarity between their finding and the weaker hand preferences shown in humans suffering extreme levels of anxiety and suggest neural mechanisms that may be involved.
Children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) have significant social skills deficits. The efficacy of a child friendship training (CFT) versus a delayed treatment control (DTC) was assessed for 100 children ages 6 to 12 years with FASD. Children in the CFT showed clear evidence of improvement in their knowledge of appropriate social behavior, and according to parent report, CFT resulted in improved social skills and fewer problem behaviors compared with DTC. Gains were maintained at 3-month follow-up. After receiving treatment, the DTC group exhibited similar improvement. Teachers did not report improvement as a function of social skills treatment. The findings suggest that children with FASD benefit from CFT but that these social skills gains may not be observed in the classroom.
It only makes sense to talk about the position of a moving object if one specifies the time at which its position is of interest. The authors here show that when a flash or tone specifies the moment of interest, subjects estimate the moving object to be closer to where it passes the fixation point and further in its direction of motion than it really is. The authors propose that these biases arise from a combination of a large temporal uncertainty, a temporal asymmetry related to sampling the moving object's position, and a bias toward believing that one is looking at what one sees.
Mutations in the filament aggregating protein (filaggrin) gene have recently been identified as the cause of the common genetic skin disorder ichthyosis vulgaris (IV), the most prevalent inherited disorder of keratinization. The main characteristics of IV are fine-scale on the arms and legs, palmar hyperlinearity, and keratosis pilaris. Here, we have studied six Irish families with IV for mutations in filaggrin. We have identified a new mutation, 3702delG, in addition to further instances of the reported mutations R501X and 2282del4, which are common in people of European origin. A case of a 2282del4 homozygote was also identified. Mutation 3702delG terminates protein translation in filaggrin repeat domain 3, whereas both recurrent mutations occur in repeat 1. These mutations are semidominant: heterozygotes have an intermediate phenotype most readily identified by palmar hyperlinearity and in some cases fine-scale and/or keratosis pilaris, whereas homozygotes or compound heterozygotes generally have more marked ichthyosis. Interestingly, the phenotypes of individuals homozygous for R501X, 2282del4, or compound heterozygous for R501X and 3702delG, were comparable, suggesting that mutations located centrally in the filaggrin repeats are also pathogenic.
In this study, we report novel and simple chemical syntheses of acyl dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) and 1-acyl glycero-3-phosphate [lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)], key intermediaries in the formation of glycerolipids containing ester and ether bonds. The synthesis of acyl DHAPs involved acylating the dimethyl ketal of DHAP by acid anhydride using 4-pyrrolidinopyridine as the catalyst, and the resulting product was deketalized by HClO(4) in acetone to produce acyl DHAP. The acid anhydride was either added directly or generated in the reaction mixture from the corresponding fatty acid using dicyclohexylcarbodiimide as the condensing agent. Using these methods, a number of acyl DHAPs having short-, medium-, and long-chain saturated and unsaturated acyl groups were synthesized, with overall yields from 37% to 75%. The activities of these acyl DHAPs as substrates for guinea pig liver peroxisomal acyl DHAP:NADPH reductase and alkyl DHAP synthase were then determined. Next, starting from these acyl DHAPs, a variety of LPAs were synthesized by chemical reduction of the ketone group. Biological activities of these LPAs were determined by measuring their relative abilities to release intracellular Ca(2+) via the LPA receptor. A combined chemical-enzymatic method is also described to prepare the natural LPA from the racemic mixture.
Human MTH1 protein hydrolyzes oxidized purine nucleotides 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine triphosphate (8-oxo-dGTP), 2-OH-dATP or their ribo-forms to their monophosphates, thus minimizing replicational and transcriptional errors both in the nuclei and mitochondria. MTH1 suppresses mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death caused by H(2)O(2). Furthermore, MTH1 suppresses the transient increase in 8-oxoguanine in mitochondrial DNA in the dopaminergic nerve terminals in mouse striatum after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine administration, and it protects the nerve terminals. We previously reported that a novel MTH1 allele with a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in its exon 2c segment encodes the fourth MTH1 isoform, namely, MTH1a (p26), in addition to the three known isoforms, MTH1b (p22), c (p21), and d (p18). Another SNP located in exon 4 of the MTH1 gene, which is closely linked to the SNP in exon 2c, substitutes the Val83 residue in MTH1d with Met83. We herein show that all MTH1 isoforms efficiently hydrolyzed 2-OH-dATP and 8-oxo-dGTP. The amino terminal region of MTH1a functioned as a mitochondrial targeting signal when it was expressed in the HeLa cells as a fusion protein with enhanced green fluorescent protein. The cellular fractionation revealed that MTH1a(Met83) was localized in the mitochondria to the same extent as was MTH1d(Val83). However, the mitochondrial translocation of MTH1d(Met83) was less efficient than that of MTH1d(Val83).
The electromotor and electrosensory systems of the weakly electric fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus are model systems for studying mechanisms of high-frequency motor pattern generation and sensory processing. Voltage-dependent ionic currents, including low-threshold potassium currents, influence excitability of neurons in these circuits and thereby regulate motor output and sensory filtering. Although Kv1-like potassium channels are likely to carry low-threshold potassium currents in electromotor and electrosensory neurons, the distribution of Kv1 alpha subunits in A. leptorhynchus is unknown. In this study, we used immunohistochemistry with six different antibodies raised against specific mammalian Kv1 alpha subunits (Kv1.1-Kv1.6) to characterize the distribution of Kv1-like channels in electromotor and electrosensory structures. Each Kv1 antibody labeled a distinct subset of neurons, fibers, and/or dendrites in electromotor and electrosensory nuclei. Kv1-like immunoreactivity in the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) and pacemaker nucleus are particularly relevant in light of previous studies suggesting that potassium currents carried by Kv1 channels regulate neuronal excitability in these regions. Immunoreactivity of pyramidal cells in the ELL with several Kv1 antibodies is consistent with Kv1 channels carrying low-threshold outward currents that regulate spike waveform in these cells (Fernandez et al., J Neurosci 2005;25:363-371). Similarly, Kv1-like immunoreactivity in the pacemaker nucleus is consistent with a role of Kv1 channels in spontaneous high-frequency firing in pacemaker neurons. Robust Kv1-like immunoreactivity in several other structures, including the dorsal torus semicircularis, tuberous electroreceptors, and the electric organ, indicates that Kv1 channels are broadly expressed and are likely to contribute significantly to generating the electric organ discharge and processing electrosensory inputs.
Neurotrophins and FGF2 contribute to formation of the cochlea, but their roles in cochlear nucleus development are unknown. The effects of these factors may differ in the cochlea and cochlear nucleus, which may influence each other's development. It is important to analyze the effects of these factors on cellular structures at well-defined steps in the normal morphogenetic sequence. The present study used immunohistochemistry to localize factors in situ and to test hypotheses about their roles in an in vitro model. Specific antibody staining revealed that TrkC, the NT3 receptor, is present in neural precursors prior to embryonic day E11 until after birth. NT3 appeared in precursor cells during migration (E13-E15) and disappeared at birth. TrkC and NT3 occurred in the same structures, including growing axons, terminals, and their synaptic targets. Thus, NT3 tracks the migration routes and the morphogenetic sequences within a window defined by TrkC. In vitro, the cochlear nucleus anlage was explanted from E11 embryos. Cultures were divided into groups fed with defined medium, with or without FGF2, BDNF, and NT3 supplements, alone or in combinations, for 7 days. When neuroblasts migrated and differentiated, immunostaining was used for locating NT3 and TrkC in the morphogenetic sequence, bromodeoxyuridine for proliferation, and synaptic vesicle protein for synaptogenesis. By time-lapse imaging and quantitative measures, the results support the hypothesis that FGF2 promotes proliferation and migration. NT3 interacts with FGF2 and BDNF to promote neurite outgrowth, fasciculation, and synapse formation. Factors and receptors localize to the structural sites undergoing critical changes.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a major role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. They are important contributors to necrotic and apoptotic cell death. A major proportion of cellular ROS is generated at the inner mitochondrial membrane by the respiratory chain. In the present study, we investigated a novel peptide antioxidant (SS-31) targeted to the inner mitochondrial membrane for its therapeutic effects both in vitro and in vivo in the G93A mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). SS-31 protected against cell death induced by hydrogen peroxide in vitro in neuronal cells stably transfected with either wild-type or mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Daily intraperitoneal injections of SS-31 (5 mg/kg), starting at 30 days of age, led to a significant improvement in survival and motor performance. In comparison with vehicle-treated G93A mice, SS-31-treated mice showed a decreased cell loss and a decrease in immunostaining for markers of oxidative stress in the lumbar spinal cord. This further enhances the concept that pharmacological modification of oxidative stress is a therapeutic option for the treatment of ALS.
The aggregation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) is believed to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of disorders such as dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease. The function of alpha-syn remains unclear, although several lines of evidence suggest that alpha-syn is involved in synaptic vesicle trafficking, probably via lipid binding, and interactions with lipids have been shown to regulate alpha-syn aggregation. In this context, the main objective of this study was to determine whether methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MbetaCD), a cholesterol-extracting agent, interfered with alpha-syn accumulation in models of synucleinopathy. For this purpose, we studied the effects of MbetaCD on the accumulation of alpha-syn in a transfected neuronal cell line and in transgenic mice. Immunoblot analysis showed that MbetaCD reduced the level of alpha-syn in the membrane fraction and detergent-insoluble fraction of transfected cells. In agreement with the in vitro studies, treatment of mice with MbetaCD resulted in decreased levels of alpha-syn in membrane fractions and reduced accumulation of alpha-syn in the neuronal cell body and synapses. Taken together, these results suggest that changes in cholesterol and lipid composition using cholesterol-lowering agents may be used as a tool for the treatment of synucleinopathies.
An imbalance in the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) : tissue inhibitor of MMP (TIMP) ratio may be associated with tissue injury. Here, we studied the regulation of TIMP and MMP gene expression in primary glial cultures to ascertain the factors involved in the regulation of these genes in conditions of inflammatory neuropathology. Astrocytes were found to basally express TIMP-1 and TIMP-3 mRNA while microglia expressed only TIMP-2 mRNA. TIMP-4 mRNA was not detectable in either cell type. Treatment with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), IFN-gamma, interleukin-3 (IL-3), IL-6 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) did not alter expression of the TIMP genes. However, in astrocytes, but not in microglia, serum, IL-1beta or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) evoked a dose- and time-dependent increase in TIMP-1 mRNA and a coincident down-regulation of the TIMP-3 gene. Astrocytes were found to express mRNA constitutively for MMPs -3, -11 and -14. In contrast, microglia expressed only MMP-12 mRNA under basal conditions. IL-1beta enhanced MMP-3 mRNA levels while LPS increased the MMP-3, -9, -12, -13 and -14 mRNAs. Our findings reveal that regulatory control of TIMP and MMP gene expression by glial cells is agonist- and cell-type specific, and suggest that innate immune signals govern the temporal and spatial expression patterns of TIMP and MMP genes in neuroinflammatory conditions of the CNS.
We investigated the effects of combined systemic exposure to the herbicide paraquat (PQ) and the fungicide maneb (MB) in 6-month-old rats, an animal model of Parkinson's disease resulting from environmental toxin exposure. Following two doses of PQ (10 mg/kg) and MB (30 mg/kg), 52% of animals developed fatal lung injury. Examination of the remaining animals showed degeneration of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta 6 weeks, but not 4 weeks, following PQ/MB. In contrast, microglial activation was observed at 4 weeks, but had abated by 6 weeks. Compared with our previous findings in younger rats, these results suggest increased susceptibility of older animals to lung and brain toxicity from PQ/MB exposure. Microglial activation preceded, and therefore likely contributed to, DA neurodegeneration. Further, electron microscopy revealed an abnormal appearance of the Golgi apparatus at 4 weeks that was confirmed using double immunostaining for tyrosine hydroxylase and Golgi. This suggests that PQ/MB causes protein processing dysfunction in nigral DA neurons that may be either a direct effect of PQ/MB or the result of microglial activation.
Liver failure results in significant alterations of the brain glutamate system. Ammonia and the astrocyte play major roles in such alterations, which affect several components of the brain glutamate system, namely its synthesis, intercellular transport (uptake and release), and function. In addition to the neurological symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy, modified glutamatergic regulation may contribute to other cerebral complications of liver failure, such as brain edema, intracranial hypertension and changes in cerebral blood flow. A better understanding of the cause and precise nature of the alterations of the brain glutamate system in liver failure could lead to new therapeutic avenues for the cerebral complications of liver disease.
ABCA1 promotes cholesterol efflux from cells and is required for maintaining plasma cholesterol levels. Cholesterol homeostasis is important in the production of beta-amyloid (Abeta), a peptide that is overproduced in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Overexpression of ABCA1 can be achieved by stimulating Liver X Receptors (LXR), and changes in Abeta have been reported after LXR stimulation in vitro. To determine whether ABCA1 could alter endogenous Abeta levels, we used two different in vivo systems. We first examined the effects of an LXR agonist (TO-901317) on wild-type mice and found an increase in brain ABCA1 and apoE levels, which caused an increase in plasma cholesterol. This was accompanied by a decrease in brain Abeta levels. We then examined endogenous Abeta levels in ABCA1 knockout mice and found that, despite having no ABCA1, lowered brain apoE levels, and lowered plasma cholesterol, there was no change in Abeta levels. To assess these in vivo models in an in vitro system, we designed a model in which cholesterol transport via ABCA1 (or related transporters) was prevented. Switching off cholesterol efflux, even in the presence of TO-901317, caused no change in Abeta levels. However, when efflux capability was restored, TO-901317 reduced Abeta levels. These data show that promoting cholesterol efflux is a viable target for Abeta reducing strategies; however, knockout of cholesterol transporters is not sufficient to alter Abeta in vitro or in vivo.
Numerous studies have described structural and functional abnormalities of the thalamus in schizophrenia, but surprisingly few studies have examined neurochemical abnormalities that accompany these pathological changes. We previously identified abnormalities of multiple molecules associated with glutamatergic neurotransmission, including changes in NMDA receptor subunit transcripts and binding sites and NMDA receptor-associated post-synaptic density (PSD) protein transcripts in the thalamus of elderly patients with schizophrenia. In the present study, we performed western blot analysis to determine whether protein levels of NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A, NR2B) and associated PSD proteins (NF-L, PSD95, SAP102) are altered in schizophrenia. Thalamic tissue from each subject was grossly dissected into two regions: a dorsomedial region containing limbic-associated dorsomedial, anterior and central medial thalamic nuclei; and a ventral thalamus region that primarily consisted of the ventral lateral nucleus. We observed increased protein expression of the NR2B NMDA receptor subunit and its associated intracellular protein, PSD95, in the dorsomedial thalamus of patients with schizophrenia, but the other molecules were unchanged, and we found no changes in the ventral thalamus. These data provide additional evidence of thalamic neurochemical abnormalities, particularly in thalamic nuclei which project to limbic regions of the brain. Further, these findings provide additional evidence of NMDA receptor alterations in schizophrenia, which may play an important role in the neurobiology of the illness.
The glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone has been shown to rapidly and effectively ameliorate symptoms of psychotic major depression. To better understand its mechanism, we investigated mifepristone's cellular effects, and found that it rapidly reversed a chronic corticosterone-induced reduction of adult neurogenesis in rats. Unlike other antidepressants, mifepristone is particularly potent in a high corticosterone environment. These data indicate that similarly to its clinical efficacy, mifepristone's effects on adult neurogenesis are rapid and positive, and may therefore be important for its mechanism of action.
Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is one of the major causes of short stature in childhood. Abnormalities in the growth hormone (GH) axis have frequently been observed in children who are born intrauterine growth restricted and GH treatment is effective to improve final height. However, the way that the GH axis is involved is not fully understood. Previously, when investigating the effect of IUGR on the central somatotrophic axis, a hypothalamic effect was discovered with elevated somatostatin and decreased neuropeptide Y mRNA expression levels, whereas serum GH and insulin-like growth factor I (IGFI) were unaltered. These findings were thought to indicate a hypothalamic alteration of the GH axis due to IUGR, probably to compensate pituitary output, thereby normalising peripheral values of GH and IGFI. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the effect of IUGR on the pituitary GH axis in this rat model. Pups from rats that underwent bilateral uterine artery ligation at day 17 of pregnancy were studied. Pituitary glands were collected from 1-year-old offspring for quantitative measurements of GH, GH-receptor (GH-R), GH-releasing hormone receptor (GHRH-R), somatostatin receptor subtype 2 and 5, IGFI and IGFI receptor mRNA levels using a real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. In addition, liver GH-R and IGFI mRNA expression levels were measured and a radioimmunoassay was performed to determine serum IGFI levels. In the IUGR rat, levels of pituitary GH, GH-R and GHRH-R relative gene expression (RGE) were increased. No differences were found in the RGE level of all other pituitary growth factors, liver GH-R and IGFI, and serum IGFI concentration between IUGR and control rats. The present data show that intrauterine growth failure leads to changes in the pituitary that might counterbalance the effects found previously in the hypothalamus.
Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) is the prototype of a postinfectious autoimmune neuropathy. Molecular mimicry between glycolipid antigens expressed by an infective antigen such as Campylobacter jejuni and the human peripheral nerve has been hypothesized to be the causative mechanism of GBS. However, only 1/1000 of C. jejuni enteritis develops GBS. This emphasizes the importance of host-related factors in the development of the disease. HLA studies in GBS failed to show an association or gave conflicting results but MHC class I and II process and present peptides to T lymphocytes making unlikely that the HLA system plays a role in GBS with autoantibodies against self-gangliosides. CD1 molecules are MCH-like glycoproteins specialized in capturing and presenting a variety of glycolipid to antigen-specific T cells. There are five closely linked CD1 genes in humans located in chromosome 1 (named CD1A, B, C, D, and E) all showing limited polymorphism in exon 2 which codifies for the alpha1 domain of CD1 molecules. The nucleotide substitutions in CD1B and CD1C are rare and reported to be silent. In 100 controls and 65 GBS patients (21 with a recent C. jejuni infection and 35 with anti-glycolipid antibodies) we used direct sequencing by polymerase chain reaction to genotype exon 2 of CD1A, CD1D and CD1E genes. CD1D is monomorphic in both controls and patients whereas CD1A and CD1E are biallelic in exon 2. Subjects with CD1E*01/01 genotype are 2.5 times more likely to develop GBS, whereas subjects with CD1A*01/02 or CD1E*01/02 have a reduced relative risk by 3.6 and 2.3 times respectively. The combination of CD1A*01/02 and CD1E*01/02 reduces by 5 times the risk of developing GBS. Although a correlation between CD1E*01/01 genotype and recent C. jejuni infection or presence of antiganglioside antibodies was not found the overall findings indicate that susceptibility to develop GBS is associated with polymorphisms of CD1E and CD1A genes.
Anti-ganglioside antibodies have been described in celiac disease or gluten sensitivity, in conjunction with the presence of central and peripheral nervous system deficits. The observed antibody reactivity to gangliosides is postulated to be related to the anti-gliadin immune response, either through antigenic mimicry, or by formation of gliadin-ganglioside complexes and haptenization. We examined the possibility of the presence of ganglioside-like epitopes in gliadin, as well as the potential for complex formation between gliadin and GM1 ganglioside. Low levels of glycosylation were present in gliadin, but ganglioside-like carbohydrate epitopes were not detected. However, gliadin was found to bind to GM1 ganglioside and to the GM1-rich intestinal brush border membrane. The described complex formation and possible haptenization of GM1 by gliadin may be responsible for driving the anti-ganglioside antibody response in some patients with gluten sensitivity. Furthermore, binding of gliadin to GM1 on the intestinal epithelium might have a role in the anti-gliadin immune response and contribute to the intestinal inflammatory reaction in celiac disease.

Along with motor programming, it is now thought that tonic release of dopamine in the striatum acts to focus and filter non-motor activities such as working memory, implicit learning, decision making, and planning. Additionally, thresholds to painful stimuli may well be dopamine dependant. Phasic (burst) release of dopamine in the basal ganglia and frontal areas is thought to play a role in alerting organisms to novel and potentially rewarding stimuli and in mediating contextual learning. Dopamine release also drives a craving for stimuli and facilitates their enjoyment. Functional imaging can help elucidate the role of dopamine in mediating non-motor activities. The integrity of dopamine terminal function can be measured with PET and SPECT in vivo in health and Parkinson's disease (PD) and this can be correlated with performance of executive tasks. In addition, these imaging modalities allow dopamine release in response to stimuli (both rewarding and unrewarding) to be detected, as reflected by changes in D2 receptor availability to radioligands. Finally, the functional effects of dopamine deficiency and its replacement can be monitored by studying patterns of brain activation, as evidenced by regional blood flow changes. In this review, some of the insights that imaging has given us concerning the role of dopamine in non-motor functions is presented.
Denial is a disorder of self-awareness that is frequent after acute stroke, with potential negative influence in the care of patients. The aim of this study was to describe the presence and correlates of denial in acute stroke. We assessed denial in a sample of 180 consecutive acute stroke patients (&lt; or =4 days) and in a control group of 50 acute coronary patients using the Denial of Illness Scale (DIS).41% (74) acute stroke patients (mean DIS score=4.1, SD=2.2, range 0 to 10) and 24% (12) acute coronary patients (mean DIS score=3.2, SD=1.5, range 0 to 10) presented denial (chi(2)=4.19, p=.04; U=3405.50, p=.01). Denial was more frequent and severe in patients with lower educational level (chi(2) = 5.04, p=.04; U=2110.50; p=.01), neglect (chi(2) = 21.38, p=.00; U=1130.50; p=.00), cognitive impairment (chi(2) = 6.27, p=.02; U=1181.50; p=.01) and after hemispherical lesions (chi(2) =4.68, p=.05; U=1982.50; p=.04). In logistic regression low educational level, neglect and cognitive impairment were independent factors predicting denial in stroke patients (R(2)= 21%). Patients with denial can express depressive symptoms. Patients with denial had a worse outcome at discharge (chi(2) =4.91, p=.04; U=2918.00; p=.03). Denial is a frequent phenomenon after acute stroke. We propose that there is a multifactorial model for the emergence of denial, lower educational as a predisposing condition, and acute stroke due to hemisphere lesion and causing neglect and cognitive impairment as precipitating events. All these factors limit patients' assessment of their condition and body functions.
The intrathecal synthesis of IgM, determined at clinical onset in patients with multiple sclerosis, was found to correlate with the degree of disability (as evaluated by means of the Expanded Disability Status Scale) reached 15 years later (p&lt;0.001). Moreover, a significant inverse correlation was observed between the value of the IgM index and time to the first relapse (p&lt;0.001) and the initiation of the progressive phase of the disease (p = 0.01). The prognostic value of IgM in the CSF is confirmed in previous reports as well as by our study. If these findings are confirmed in patients with multiple sclerosis in a larger series, a helpful biological marker for selecting patients for immunomodulatory treatments will be available to neurologists.
This interlaboratory study evaluated the reproducibility of the assessments of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs)--the hallmark lesions of Alzheimer disease--and compared the staining between the BrainNet Europe centers. To reduce the topography-related inconsistencies in assessments, we used a 2-mm tissue microarray (TMA) technique. The TMA block included 42 core samples taken from 21 paraffin blocks. The assessments were done on Bielschowsky and Gallyas silver stains using an immunohistochemical (IHC) method with antibodies directed to beta-amyloid (IHC/Abeta) and hyperphosphorylated tau (IHC/HPtau). The staining quality and the assessments differed between the participants, being most diverse with Bielschowsky (good/acceptable stain in 53% of centers) followed by Gallyas (good/acceptable stain in 57%) and IHC/Abeta (good/acceptable stain in 71%). The most uniform staining quality and assessment was obtained with the IHC/HPtau method (good/acceptable stain in 94% of centers). The neuropathologic diagnostic protocol (Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer Disease, Braak and Braak, and the National Institute of Aging and Reagan [NIA-Reagan] Institute) that was used significantly influenced the agreement, being highest with NIA-Reagan (54%) recommendations. This agreement was improved by visualization of NFTs using the IHC/HPtau method. Therefore, the IHC/HPtau methodology to visualize NFTs and neuropil threads should be considered as a method of choice in a future diagnostic protocol for Alzheimer disease.
Recent developments in our understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying degeneration in both the central and peripheral nervous systems have highlighted the critical role that synapses play in the instigation and progression of neuronal loss. In fact, several lines of evidence suggest that previous attempts to delay the onset and progression of clinical symptoms in a broad range of neurodegenerative diseases may have been unsuccessful as a result of a failure to protect synaptic compartments. As a result, the synapse needs to be viewed as an important target for the development of novel protective treatments aimed at preventing or slowing disease progression. We summarize important findings from human studies and animal models demonstrating common synaptic vulnerability across several neurodegenerative diseases. We also discuss recent developments in our understanding of degenerative mechanisms that are known to be localized to synapses and suggest potential ways to harness this understanding to develop synaptoprotective strategies for neurodegenerative disease.
Ipsilaterally projecting spinal excitatory interneurons (EINs) generate the hemisegmental rhythmic locomotor activity in lamprey, while the commissural interneurons ensure proper left-right alternation. 5-HT is a potent modulator of the locomotor rhythm and is endogenously released from the spinal cord during fictive locomotion. The effect of 5-HT was investigated for three segmental premotor interneuron types: EINs, commissural excitatory and commissural inhibitory interneurons. All three types of interneurons produced chemical postsynaptic potentials in motoneurons, but only those from EINs had an electrical component. The effect of 5-HT was studied on the slow afterhyperpolarization, involved in spike frequency regulation, and on the segmental synaptic transmission to motoneurons. 5-HT induced a reduction in the slow afterhyperpolarization and a depression of synaptic transmission in all three types of segmental interneurons. Thus 5-HT is a very potent modulator of membrane properties and synaptic transmission of last-order segmental premotor interneurons. Such modulation of locomotor network interneurons can partially account for the observed effects of 5-HT on the swimming pattern in lamprey.
Intracranial recordings from three human subjects provide the first direct electrophysiological evidence for audio-visual multisensory processing in the human superior parietal lobule (SPL). Auditory and visual sensory inputs project to the same highly localized region of the parietal cortex with auditory inputs arriving considerably earlier (30 ms) than visual inputs (75 ms). Multisensory integration processes in this region were assessed by comparing the response to simultaneous audio-visual stimulation with the algebraic sum of responses to the constituent auditory and visual unisensory stimulus conditions. Significant integration effects were seen with almost identical morphology across the three subjects, beginning between 120 and 160 ms. These results are discussed in the context of the role of SPL in supramodal spatial attention and sensory-motor transformations.
The superior colliculus (SC) receives a retinotopic projection of the contralateral visual field in which the representation of the central field is expanded with respect to the peripheral field. The visual projection forms a nonlinear, approximately logarithmic, map on the SC. Models of the SC commonly assume that the function defining the strength of neuronal connections within this map (the kernel) depends only on the distance between two neurons, and is thus isotropic and homogeneous. However, if the connection strength is based on the distance between two stimuli in sensory space, the kernel will be asymmetric because of the nonlinear projection onto the brain map. We show, using a model of the SC, that one consequence of these asymmetric intrinsic connections is that activity initiated at one point spreads across the map. We compare this simulated spread with the spread observed experimentally around the time of saccadic eye movements with respect to direction of spread, differing effects of local and global inhibition, and the consequences of localized inactivation on the SC map. Early studies suggested that the SC spread was caused by feedback of eye displacement during a saccade, but subsequent studies were inconsistent with this feedback hypothesis. In our new model, the spread is autonomous, resulting from intrinsic connections within the SC, and thus does not depend on eye movement feedback. Other sensory maps in the brain (e.g., visual cortex) are also nonlinear and our analysis suggests that the consequences of asymmetric connections in those areas should be considered.
The barn owl naturally responds to an auditory or visual stimulus in its environment with a quick head turn toward the source. We measured these head saccades evoked by auditory, visual, and simultaneous, co-localized audiovisual stimuli to quantify multisensory interactions in the barn owl. Stimulus levels ranged from near to well above saccadic threshold. In accordance with previous human psychophysical findings, the owl's saccade reaction times (SRTs) and errors to unisensory stimuli were inversely related to stimulus strength. Auditory saccades characteristically had shorter reaction times but were less accurate than visual saccades. Audiovisual trials, over a large range of tested stimulus combinations, had auditory-like SRTs and visual-like errors, suggesting that barn owls are able to use both auditory and visual cues to produce saccades with the shortest possible SRT and greatest accuracy. These results support a model of sensory integration in which the faster modality initiates the saccade and the slower modality remains available to refine saccade trajectory.
The precise role of frontal eye fields (FEF) in vision independent of their role in eye movements remains a matter of debate. One proposal is that the FEF exert top-down influences on the extrastriate visual cortex prior to eye movement preparation. Here we establish, by use of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), that activity in the human FEFs has a direct effect on the sensitivity of extrastriate visual area MT/V5, and that the spatial organization of this top-down effect is lateralized in the human brain. We show that phosphene threshold-the TMS intensity required to elicit a visual perception-for MT/V5 stimulation changes as a function of the delay between the application of TMS over FEF and MT/V5. The effects were specific to the location and time of stimulation. Stimulation of FEF 20-40 ms prior to stimulation of MT/V5 decreased the intensity of MT/V5 stimulation required to elicit phosphenes: TMS of the right FEF changed the sensitivity of left and right MT/V5 whereas TMS of the left FEF changed the sensitivity only of the left MT/V5. Thus, the sensitivity of human extrastriate cortex is modulated by activity in the FEF.
Biophysically accurate multicompartmental models of individual neurons have significantly advanced our understanding of the input-output function of single cells. These models depend on a large number of parameters that are difficult to estimate. In practice, they are often hand-tuned to match measured physiological behaviors, thus raising questions of identifiability and interpretability. We propose a statistical approach to the automatic estimation of various biologically relevant parameters, including 1) the distribution of channel densities, 2) the spatiotemporal pattern of synaptic input, and 3) axial resistances across extended dendrites. Recent experimental advances, notably in voltage-sensitive imaging, motivate us to assume access to: i) the spatiotemporal voltage signal in the dendrite and ii) an approximate description of the channel kinetics of interest. We show here that, given i and ii, parameters 1-3 can be inferred simultaneously by nonnegative linear regression; that this optimization problem possesses a unique solution and is guaranteed to converge despite the large number of parameters and their complex nonlinear interaction; and that standard optimization algorithms efficiently reach this optimum with modest computational and data requirements. We demonstrate that the method leads to accurate estimations on a wide variety of challenging model data sets that include up to about 10(4) parameters (roughly two orders of magnitude more than previously feasible) and describe how the method gives insights into the functional interaction of groups of channels.
Peripheral nerve injury increases spontaneous action potential discharge in spinal dorsal horn neurons and augments their response to peripheral stimulation. This &quot;central hypersensitivity, &quot; which relates to the onset and persistence of neuropathic pain, reflects spontaneous activity in primary afferent fibers as well as long-term changes in the intrinsic properties of the dorsal horn (centralization). To isolate and investigate cellular mechanisms underlying &quot;centralization,&quot; sciatic nerves of 20-day-old rats were subjected to 13-25 days of chronic constriction injury (CCI; Mosconi-Kruger polyethylene cuff model). Spinal cord slices were then acutely prepared from sham-operated or CCI animals, and whole cell recording was used to compare the properties of five types of substantia gelatinosa neuron. These were defined as tonic, irregular, phasic, transient, or delay according to their discharge pattern in response to depolarizing current. CCI did not affect resting membrane potential, rheobase, or input resistance in any neuron type but increased the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in delay, transient, and irregular cells. These changes involved alterations in the action potential-independent neurotransmitter release machinery and possible increases in the postsynaptic effectiveness of glutamate. By contrast, in tonic cells, CCI reduced the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous and miniature EPSCs. Such changes may relate to the putative role of tonic cells as inhibitory GABAergic interneurons, whereas increased synaptic drive to delay cells may relate to their putative role as the excitatory output neurons of the substantia gelatinosa. Complementary changes in synaptic excitation of inhibitory and excitatory neurons may thus contribute to pain centralization.
Axonal excitation has been proposed as a key mechanism in therapeutic brain stimulation. In this study we examined how high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of subcortical white matter tracts projecting to motor cortex affects downstream postsynaptic responses in cortical neurons. Whole cell recordings were performed in the primary motor cortex (M1) and ventral thalamus of rat brain slices. In M1, neurons showed only an initial depolarization in response to HFS, after which the membrane potential returned to prestimulation levels. The prolonged suppression of excitation during stimulation was neither associated with GABAergic inhibition nor complete action potential failure in stimulated axons. Instead we found that HFS caused a depression of excitatory synaptic currents in postsynaptic neurons that was specific to the stimulated subcortical input. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that axonal HFS produces a functional deafferentation of postsynaptic targets likely from depletion of neurotransmitter.
Managing the critical neuroscience patient population challenges practitioners because of both the devastating injury involved and the complexity of care required. Emerging technology provides the neuroscience intensive care unit team with better information on the intricate physiology and dynamics inside the cranium. In particular, the team is better able to detect changes in pressure, oxygen, and blood flow. With improved data in hand, the team can intervene to optimize intracranial dynamics, possibly reducing disability and death among such patients.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), a neurodegenerative disorder that may be mistaken for Parkinson's disease early in its course, is the most common type of atypical parkinsonism. PSP is fatal; it transforms a normal person into an invalid within 5-7 years of the onset of symptoms. PSP requires a multidisciplinary approach to symptom management and treatment. The neuroscience nurse who is knowledgeable about PSP and the complex way in which it overlaps with numerous other devastating neurological diagnoses can help in achieving the correct diagnosis and treatment. The nurse must understand the disease pathophysiology and the plan of care required and is instrumental in recognizing the needs of the patient and the family.
To understand whether tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase (TIMPs) contribute to the failure of regenerating sensory axons to enter the spinal cord, we used in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry to examine the expression of TIMP1, TIMP2, and TIMP3 in the dorsal root, dorsal root entry zone (DREZ), and dorsal column after dorsal root injury in adult rats. We found that the three TIMPs and their mRNAs were up-regulated in a time-, region-, and cell-type-specific manner. Strong up-regulation of all three TIMPs was seen in the injured dorsal roots. TIMP2 was also significantly up-regulated in the DREZ and degenerating dorsal column, where TIMP1 and TIMP3 showed only moderate up-regulation. Most cells up-regulating the TIMPs in the DREZ and degenerating dorsal column were reactive astrocytes, but TIMP2 was also up-regulated by microglia/macrophages, especially at long postoperative survival times. These results suggest that TIMPs may be involved in controlling tissue remodelling following dorsal root injury and that manipulation of the expression of TIMPs may provide a means of promoting axonal regeneration into and within the injured spinal cord.
Heterothermic mammals such as ground squirrels tolerate ischemia and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) better than homeothermic mammals such as rats both in vivo and in vitro, and this tolerance is enhanced in the hibernating state. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying this tolerance remain unclear. NMDA receptors (NMDAR) play a key role in excitotoxicity. The purpose of the current study was therefore to test the hypothesis that NMDAR are down-regulated in hibernating Arctic ground squirrels (hAGS; Spermophilus parryii). To address this hypothesis, we used Western blot analysis to investigate NMDAR phosphorylation, an activator of NMDAR function, and internalization in nave hippocampal tissue from hAGS, interbout euthermic AGS (ibeAGS), and rats. Furthermore, we used fura-2 calcium imaging to examine NMDAR function in cultured hippocampal slices from hAGS, ibeAGS, and rats. We report that phosphorylation of the NMDAR1 (NR1) subunit is decreased in hippocampal tissue from hAGS and that the NMDAR component of Glu-induced increase in [Ca(2+)](i) is decreased in hippocampal slices from hAGS. Moreover, the fraction of NR1 in the functional membrane pool in AGS is less than that in rats.
Given the relatively benign natural history of cavernous carotid artery aneurysms and based on anecdotal reports in the literature of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) or subdural hemorrhage (SDH) from these aneurysms, observation is warranted and typically recommended. In this case report, the authors describe a woman who harbored a partially thrombosed, giant cavernous aneurysm that ruptured after she underwent a balloon occlusion test (BOT) and predominately led to an SDH. The authors believe that this occurrence is the first such report in the English literature. They discuss possible mechanisms for this event and the literature related to SAH or SDH from cavernous aneurysms, including why cavernous aneurysms cause such hemorrhages. The authors also recommend that attention be paid to such lesions regarding the possibility of aneurysmal rupture following a BOT.

Increased expression of the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) and its soluble receptors is evident within the central nervous system (CNS) following traumatic brain injury and spinal cord injury. TNFalpha is integral to the acute inflammatory cascade that follows neurotrauma and has been shown to have both beneficial and detrimental properties. We examined the effects of varying concentrations (1-5000 ng/mL) of recombinant human TNFalpha (rhTNFalpha) on select electrophysiological properties of excised guinea pig spinal cord tissue. Pulsed electrical stimuli (0.33 Hz) were delivered to strips of isolated ventral white matter in a double sucrose gap chamber. Recordings were made of the compound action potential (CAP) and membrane potential before, during, and after bathing the tissue with rhTNFalpha for 30 min. Increasing concentrations of rhTNFalpha yielded progressively greater reductions in amplitude of the CAP that were temporally associated with depolarization of the resting compound membrane potential. These effects were largely reversed on washout of rhTNFalpha and were not present when heat-denatured rhTNFalpha was introduced. The results provide evidence that elevated concentrations of TNFalpha induce reversible depolarization of the compound membrane potential and reduction in CAP amplitude, sometimes to the point of extinction of the CAP, suggestive of impaired axonal conduction. These observations point to a new mechanism of immune-mediated central conduction deficit. Cytokine-induced alterations in membrane properties and axonal conduction may contribute to neurological deficits following CNS injury by compounding trauma-induced myelinopathy and axonopathy.
There are an estimated 2 million traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) each year in the United States, making the yearly incidence eight times greater than that of breast cancer and 34 times greater than HIV/AIDS. Still, it remains a &quot;silent epidemic&quot; because TBI results in persistent neurobehavioral impairment, without necessarily imparting a physical scar. The present review is a comparative analysis of TBI research, both basic and applied, outlining the evidence that at least one component of the brain's innate response to insult (e.g., post-traumatic neural depression) is sufficiently well understood to be the target of additional clinical studies and therapeutic strategy development.
Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus induces a demyelinating disease (TMEV-IDD) of the central nervous system (CNS) in susceptible mouse strains with accompanying histopathology characterized by mononuclear cell infiltrates. In susceptible strains of mice such as SJL, virus establishes a persistent infection in macrophages, induces a CNS infiltration by macrophages, T cells, and B cells, which results in chronic-progressive paralysis. In the present report the authors have investigated the functional role of CCL2 (monocyte chemotactic protein-1) in the induction and progression of demyelinating disease. Treatment of infected mice at day 0, 14, or 28 with anti-CCL2 resulted in a significant decrease in the clinical disease progression. Further analysis of anti-CCL2-treated mice revealed decreased CNS inflammation and mononuclear cell infiltration with an accompanying change in inflammatory cytokine responses. There was an overall decrease in the absolute numbers of CNS-infiltrating CD4+ T cells, macrophages, and B cells. Finally, anti-CCL2 treatment resulted in decreased viral load in the CNS. These data directly demonstrate a role for CCL2 in the pathogenesis of TMEV-IDD.

The aim of this work was twofold: to evaluate the prevalence of different Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders (RDC/TMD) diagnosis in an Italian population of subjects seeking TMD treatment in a tertiary clinic; and to compare data with those from similar studies in the literature. Participants in this study were 433 consecutive patients seeking TMD treatment at the Section of Prosthetic Dentistry, Department of Neuroscience, University of Pisa, Italy; mean age of patients was 38.8 years, with a female:male ratio of 2.6:1 (276 females, 73.2%; 101 males, 26.8%). RDC/TMD guidelines for examination were adopted to assign axis I diagnosis. The prevalence of RDC/TMD diagnoses was 38.2% (144/377) for group I disorders (muscle disorders), 52.3% (197/377) for group II disorders (disc displacements), and 52.6% (198/377) for group III disorders (arthralgia, osteoarthritis, osteoarthrosis). The present investigation provided findings that, compared and integrated with literature data, can be useful to create a world-wide database, in accordance with the nature of the RDC/TMD classification system.
Despite the frequent comorbidity of major depression and borderline personality disorder (BPD), limited research has examined what effect this comorbidity has on the severity, course, and presentation of depression. The purpose of this study was to examine whether the severity of major depressive disorder (MDD) in the context of comorbid borderline personality disorder (BPD) differs from MDD when comorbid BPD is not present and to determine whether different measures of depression yield convergent findings. Sixty patients diagnosed with DSM-IV MDD participated in this study. Twenty-nine were diagnosed with DSM-IV BPD, while the remaining 31 had no Axis II diagnosis. Depression was evaluated with both clinician (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression) and self-report (Beck Depression Inventory) ratings. While the two groups were rated as similarly depressed by clinicians on the overall rating and the factor scores, the MDD/BPD group reported more severe depressive symptoms on the self-report measure. This difference was significant even after controlling for clinician-rated severity. Gender interacted with diagnosis, males in the BPD group showed the largest discrepancies between clinician ratings and self-reports. Posthoc analyses of HDRS factors with the BDI showed that the clinicianrated cognitive disturbance and retardation factors were correlated with self-rated severity overall. Within subgroups, only the retardation factor was correlated with the BDI. Our results suggest that while depressed individuals with and without BPD may be rated as similarly depressed when assessed with objective rating methods, the subjective experience of the depression may be rated as more intense or severe by patients with comorbid BPD. The mechanism underlying this effect remains unknown, and requires further research.
We have studied the effect of DX-88, a selective recombinant inhibitor of human plasma kallikrein, in transient or permanent focal brain ischemia (with or without reperfusion, respectively) induced in C57BL/6 mice. Twenty-four hours after transient ischemia, DX-88 administered at the beginning of ischemia (pre) induced a dose-dependent reduction of ischemic volume that, at the dose of 30 microg/mouse, reached 49% of the volume of saline-treated mice. At the same dose, DX-88 was also able to reduce brain swelling to 32%. Mice treated with DX-88 pre had significantly lower general and focal deficit score. Fluoro-Jade staining, a marker for neuronal degeneration, showed that DX-88-treated mice had a reduction in the number of degenerating cells, compared with saline-treated mice. Seven days after transient ischemia, the DX-88 protective effect was still present. When the inhibitor was injected at the end of ischemia (post), it was still able to reduce ischemic volume, brain swelling, and neurological deficits. DX-88 efficacy was lost when the inhibitor was given 30 min after the beginning of reperfusion (1 h post) or when reperfusion was not present (permanent occlusion model). This study shows that DX-88 has a strong neuroprotective effect in the early phases of brain ischemia preventing reperfusion injury and indicates that inhibition of plasma kallikrein may be a useful tool in the strategy aimed at reducing the detrimental effects linked to reperfusion.
The excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate has been implicated in both migraine and persistent pain. The identification of the kainate receptor GLU(K5) in dorsal root ganglia, the dorsal horn, and trigeminal ganglia makes it a target of interest for these indications. We examined the in vitro and in vivo pharmacology of the competitive GLU(K5)-selective kainate receptor antagonist LY466195 [(3S,4aR,6S,8aR)-6-[[(2S)-2-carboxy-4,4-difluoro-1-pyrrolidinyl]-methyl]decahydro-3-isoquinolinecarboxylic acid)], the most potent GLU(K5) antagonist described to date. Comparisons were made to the competitive GLU(K5)/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist LY293558 [(3S,4aR,6R,8aR)-6-[2-(1(2)H-tetrazole-5-yl)ethyl]-decahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid], other decahydroisoquinoline GLU(K5) receptor antagonists, and the noncompetitive AMPA receptor antagonist LY300168 [1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodi-azepine]. When characterized electrophysiologically in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons, LY466195 antagonized kainate (30 microM)-induced currents with an IC50 value of 0.045 +/- 0.011 microM. In HEK293 cells transfected with GLU(K5), GLU(K2)/GLU(K5), or GLU(K5)/GLU(K6) receptors, LY466195 produced IC50 values of 0.08 +/- 0.02, 0.34 +/- 0.17, and 0.07 +/- 0.02 microM, respectively. LY466195 was efficacious in a dural plasma protein extravasation (PPE) model of migraine with an ID100 value of 100 microg/kg i.v. LY466195 was also efficacious in the c-fos migraine model, with a dose of 1 microg/kg i.v. significantly reducing the number of Fos-positive cells in the rat nucleus caudalis after electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion. Furthermore, LY466195 showed no contractile activity in the rabbit saphenous vein in vitro. The diethyl ester prodrug of LY466195 was also efficacious in the same PPE and c-fos models after oral administration at doses of 10 and 100 microg/kg, respectively while having no N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist-like behavioral effects at oral doses up to 100 mg/kg.
Paclitaxel (Taxol) is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of several tumors. However, its use is often associated with the generation of peripheral neuropathic pain expressed as mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. The molecular mechanism behind this debilitating side effect is obscure, and efficient drugs for its prevention are required. We sought to clarify the cellular changes in the involved nociceptor types underlying paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain and to test for an alleviating effect of gabapentin treatment in a murine model of paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain. We found that a single treatment with paclitaxel (4 mg/kg i.p.) led to a decrease in both thermal and mechanical nociceptive thresholds as well as a reduction in the thresholds for 250-Hz (A delta-fiber) and 2000 Hz (A beta-fiber) but not 5-Hz (C-fiber) sine wave electrical stimuli-induced paw withdrawal. The paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain was completely abrogated by gabapentin (30 mg/kg i.p.) treatment. Furthermore, we found that mRNA and protein levels of the voltage-gated calcium channel (alpha 2)delta-1 subunit (Ca(alpha 2)delta-1), one of the putative targets for gabapentin, was up-regulated in dorsal root ganglions (DRGs), as well as increased expression of Ca(alpha 2)delta-1 protein in medium/large-sized DRG neurons by immunohistochemistry, following paclitaxel treatment. This suggests that paclitaxel induces A-fiber-specific hypersensitization, which may contribute to the functional mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia, and that gabapentin could be a potential therapeutic agent for paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain.
Salvia divinorum is a natural occurring hallucinogen that is traditionally used by the Mazatec Indians of central Mexico. The diterpene salvinorin A was identified as an active component of S. divinorum over 20 years ago, but only recently has biochemical screening indicated that a molecular target of salvinorin A in vitro is the kappa-opioid receptor. We have examined whether salvinorin A, the C2-substituted derivative salvinorinyl-2-propionate, and salvinorin B can act as kappa-opioid receptor agonists in vivo. We found that following intracerebroventricular injection over a dose range of 1 to 30 microg of both salvinorin A and salvinorinyl-2-propionate produces antinociception in wild-type mice but not in a novel strain of kappa-opioid receptor knockout mice. Moreover, both salvinorin A and salvinorinyl-2-propionate reduce rectal body temperature, similar to conventional kappa-opioid receptor agonists, in a genotype-dependent manner. In addition, we determined that salvinorin A has high affinity for kappa 1- but not kappa 2-opioid receptors, demonstrating selectivity for this receptor subclass. Finally, treatment over the same dose range with salvinorin B, which is inactive in vitro, produced neither antinociceptive nor hypothermic effects in wild-type mice. These data demonstrate that salvinorin A is the active component of S. divinorum, selective for kappa(1)-opioid receptors, and that salvinorin A and specific structurally related analogs produce behavioral effects that require the kappa-opioid receptor.
Proteomic analyses of brain tissues are becoming an integral component of neuroscientific research. In particular, the essential role of the synapse in neurotransmission and plasticity has brought about extensive efforts to identify its protein constituents. Recent studies have used a combination of subcellular fractionation and proteomic techniques to identify proteins associated with different components of the synapse. Thus, a coherent map of the synapse proteome is rapidly emerging, and a timely review of these data is warranted. In the first part of this review, neuroproteomic techniques that have been used to analyze the synapse proteome are described. We then summarize the results from several recent proteomic analyses of mammalian synapses and discuss the similarities and differences in their profiling of synaptic proteins. Important advances in this field of research include the use of proteomics to analyze synaptic function and drug effects on synaptic proteins. This article presents an overview of proteomic analyses of the phosphorylation states of synaptic proteins and recent applications of neuroproteomic techniques to the study of drug addiction. Finally, we discuss the challenges in comparing proteomic studies of drug addiction and the future directions of this field in furthering our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic function and drug addiction.
Melatonin and its autonomic regulation serve important physiological functions. We recently demonstrated that stimulation of beta-adrenergic receptors only increases nighttime arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (Aa-Nat, the rate-limiting enzyme in melatonin synthesis) mRNA levels in mouse pineal gland in vitro, which suggests that pineal clocks may gate Aa-Nat gene expression. In the present study, our data reveal that cAMP analog increased Aa-Nat at any time of day but only in the presence of ionomycin. Using Fura-2AM in ratiometric calcium measurements, we show that isoproterenol stimulation increased intracellular free calcium levels at night, contrary to previous reports. Further, intra- or extracellular calcium depletion suppressed the isoproterenol-induced calcium responses as well as Aa-Nat gene expression. These results suggest calcium may be a critical factor in isoproterenol-induced Aa-Nat gene expression, which may be limited in the daytime. We also found that basal intracellular calcium levels were lower during the night and responses to isoproterenol and KCl depolarization were more robust. In addition, pineals of Cryptochrome mutant mice exhibited no significant difference between day and nighttime basal calcium or isoproterenol response. Together, these results suggest that basal calcium levels in the pineal may be controlled by the endogenous pineal clock, which may influence calcium dynamics, cellular homeostasis and sensitivity to external stimulation. Although the mechanism underlying Aa-Nat gene expression has been well studied, the role of calcium as a link between the pineal clock and Aa-Nat gene expression has been underestimated in rodent pineals.
This is the first US study to evaluate the clinical efficacy of acamprosate (Campral), a newly FDA-approved medication for maintaining abstinence in patients with alcohol dependence following alcohol withdrawal. We compared effects of the standard 2 g dose (n=258) and an exploratory 3 g dose of acamprosate (n=83) versus placebo (n=260), and evaluated drug safety in a double-blind, placebo-controlled 6-month trial conducted in 21 outpatient clinics across the US. Participants were 601 volunteers with current alcohol dependence recruited primarily by advertisement. All patients concomitantly received eight sessions of brief manual-guided counseling (www.alcoholfree.info). The main outcome measure was the percentage of alcohol-free days over the 6-month study. Self-report was validated by breath alcohol concentration, gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) and collateral informant interviews. The percentage of abstinent days did not differ significantly across groups in a priori analysis (54.3% for placebo, 56.1% for 2 g, 60.7% for 3 g). Post-hoc analysis controlling for baseline variables and treatment exposure found acamprosate was associated with a significantly higher percentage of abstinent days than placebo (52.3% for placebo, 58.2% for 2 g, 62.7% for 3 g; P=0.01), with an even greater effect in the subgroup of 241 patients having a baseline goal of abstinence (58.1% for placebo, 70.0% for 2 g, 72.5% for 3 g; P=0.02). There were no deaths or serious drug-related adverse events. The US study findings suggest that acamprosate is safe and well tolerated in a broadly inclusive sample of alcoholics and appears effective in populations of patients motivated to have a treatment goal of abstinence.
Epidemiological, clinical, and experimental studies have linked low or lowered cholesterol levels to aggressive behavior. However, no study has measured the relationship between aggression and apolipoprotein A-I/apolipoprotein B ratio, a robust indicator of cardiac risk. Plasma levels of total cholesterol, HDL-C, LDL-C, triglycerides, apolipoprotein A-I, and apolipoprotein B were measured and correlated with Aggression Questionnaire ratings in 20 young adult males with personality disorders and/or a high propensity toward aggressive behavior and in 40 control subjects. Compared with the control subjects, the subjects in the aggressive group had lower levels of apo A-I and a lower apo A-I/apo B ratio. Whereas in the control subjects, higher levels of aggression were correlated with lower levels of atherogenic lipoproteins (LDL-C and apo B), in the aggressive subjects higher levels of aggression were correlated with lower levels of anti-atherogenic lipoproteins (HDL-C and apo A-I) and higher levels of LDL-C. The results of this study confirm the existence of a relationship between blood lipids and aggressive behavior in young adult males and suggest that the apo A-I/apo B ratio might be an additional marker in the search for biological correlates of increased risk of violence.
Previous reports on compounds in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of pathological gamblers have focused on disturbed NA, DA and 5-HT function in the central nervous system. We have analysed precursors, transmitters and transmitter metabolites in 3 x 6 ml of CSF obtained from one female and 11 male pathological gamblers and 11 healthy male controls lumbar punctured at the L4-5 level after 8 h of fasting without preceding strict bedrest. Pathological gamblers displayed lower CSF levels of tryptophan and 5-HT while the opposite was the case for 5-HIAA, tyrosine, DA, HVA, DOPAC and HMPG. In contrast to previous studies, the NA level did not differ between pathological gamblers and healthy controls. A disrupted CSF gradient was noted for tryptophan, 5-HT, DA, HVA, DOPAC, NA and HMPG, but only in pathological gamblers. A disrupted gradient was found for 5-HIAA in both pathological gamblers and healthy controls. The results are in line with the presence of altered indoleamine and catecholamine function in pathological gamblers as well as an altered CSF transport from the brain to the lumbar compartment in such gamblers.

Coronavirus particles are enveloped and pleomorphic and are thus refractory to crystallization and symmetry-assisted reconstruction. A novel methodology of single-particle image analysis was applied to selected virus features to obtain a detailed model of the oligomeric state and spatial relationships among viral structural proteins. Two-dimensional images of the S, M, and N structural proteins of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and two other coronaviruses were refined to a resolution of approximately 4 nm. Proteins near the viral membrane were arranged in overlapping lattices surrounding a disordered core. Trimeric glycoprotein spikes were in register with four underlying ribonucleoprotein densities. However, the spikes were dispensable for ribonucleoprotein lattice formation. The ribonucleoprotein particles displayed coiled shapes when released from the viral membrane. Our results contribute to the understanding of the assembly pathway used by coronaviruses and other pleomorphic viruses and provide the first detailed view of coronavirus ultrastructure.
Indicators of adiposity, such as body-mass index (BMI), may be markers for changes in energy metabolism that influence dementia risk, progression, and ultimately death. Cross-sectional studies show that people with dementia have a lower BMI than those without dementia, which is potentially due to a greater rate of BMI decline occurring during the years immediately preceding dementia onset. However, a high BMI can also increase the risk for dementia when measured before clinical dementia onset, which might be due to vascular disorders or bioactive hormonal compounds that are secreted by adipose tissue. In this personal view, I consider how dementia is associated with BMI by looking at the role of BMI and obesity syndromes, mechanisms associated with adiposity, and the potential for hypothalamic dysregulation during the life course. Understanding the life course of adiposity by use of common surrogate measures, such as BMI, among those who do and do not develop dementia is relevant for understanding the causes of dementia and for shaping possible treatment options.
Diagnosis and treatment of psychogenic movement disorders are challenging for both neurologists and psychiatrists. Symptoms can mimic the full range of organic abnormal involuntary movements, affect gait and speech, or present as unusual undifferentiated movements. Typical clinical characteristics of these disorders are acute onset, fast progression, movement patterns incongruent with organic movement disorders, distractibility, variability, and simultaneous occurrence of various abnormal movements and dysfunctions. Avoidance of iatrogenic damage by unnecessary invasive tests or inappropriate medication, as well as use of appropriate psychiatric treatments are pivotal steps in the management of these disorders. The few clinical trials specific to psychogenic movement disorders focus on antidepressants and psychotherapy. Presence of a comorbid psychiatric diagnosis of depression or an anxiety disorder is a positive prognostic factor, whereas long-standing symptoms, insidious onset of movements, and a psychiatric diagnosis of hypochondriasis, factitious disorder, or malingering are associated with poor outcome.


Conditioning-specific reflex modification occurs when an unconditioned response is modified in the absence of the conditioned stimulus as a result of pairings of the conditioned stimulus and an unconditioned stimulus. In two experiments, we assessed conditioning-specific reflex modification in either a novel context (Experiment 1) or a context different from, but equally familiar in relation to, the training context (Experiment 2). Conditioning-specific reflex modification did not demonstrate sensitivity to a novel context but did demonstrate sensitivity to a change in familiar context. The data cannot be explained by unconditioned stimulus preexposure, overtraining, or context insensitivity. The results suggest that conditioning-specific reflex modification models normal stress and may be used to evaluate theories of and treatments for posttraumatic stress disorder.
Lobeline has high affinity for nicotinic receptors and alters presynaptic dopamine storage and release in brain. Moreover, lobeline decreases the reinforcing and locomotor-activating properties of methamphetamine, suggesting that lobeline may be a pharmacotherapy for psychostimulant abuse. This study determined if lobeline alters cocaine-induced hyperactivity and if lobeline alters the induction and/or expression of sensitization to cocaine. On Days 1-12, male rats were administered lobeline (0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg) or saline, placed in an automated activity monitor for 20 min, administered cocaine (10, 20 or 30 mg/kg) or saline and returned to the monitor for 60 min. On Day 13, the effect of lobeline on the induction and expression of sensitization to cocaine was determined. Lobeline did not alter the effect of cocaine after acute injection. However, 1.0 mg/kg lobeline attenuated cocaine (10 and 20 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity after repeated administration and prevented the development of sensitization to these cocaine doses. Interestingly, 0.3 mg/kg lobeline augmented cocaine (10 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity after repeated administration. Lobeline did not alter the effect of 30 mg/kg cocaine. The present results indicate a complex interaction of lobeline with cocaine and support other research indicating a role for nicotinic receptors in the development of sensitization to psychostimulants.
High sensitivity to magnetic susceptibility changes and accurate localization of functional activations are key requisites for pulse sequences used for BOLD fMRI. This paper seeks to develop a framework for analysing the performance of various k-space sampling techniques in this respect, with special emphasis on spiral EPI (spiral) and cartesian EPI (EPI) and their performance under influence of induced field gradients (SFGs) and stochastic noise. A numerical method for calculating synthetic MR images is developed and used to simulate BOLD fMRI experiments using EPI and spirals. The data is then examined for activation using a pixel-wise t test. Nine subjects are scanned with both techniques while performing a motor task. SPM99 is used for analysing the experimental data. The simulated spirals provide generally higher t scores at low SFGs but lose more strength than EPI at higher SFGs, where EPI activation is offset from the true position. In the primary motor area spirals provide significantly higher t scores (P &lt; 0.0002). In-plane variation of EPI is higher in phase-encoding direction than in frequency-encoding direction (P &lt; 0.003). In the low SFG areas spirals provide stronger activation than EPI and less spatial variability. Thus, spirals are recommended for fMRI in motor area and language areas.
FAIR, an arterial spin labelling technique, provides non-invasive, quantitative CBF values and arterial transit times deltat. This paper focuses on the negative impact of CSF partial voluming on FAIR results. To understand and solve this problem, we performed a theoretical analysis and a range of simulations. We then acquired FAIR data from a volunteer to illustrate our findings. We found that the determinant effect of CSF is a delayed zero-crossing during inversion recovery. The subtraction of magnitude inversion recovery data in FAIR generates erroneous negative data and distorted fit results: we simulated that for CSF percentages of 0-40%, CBF and deltat will be progressively overestimated by up to 50%. For higher CSF percentages the errors were found to increase steeply. We explored a straightforward solution: taking the magnitude of the FAIR data before fitting. This provided a remarkably strong antidote against the effects of CSF partial voluming: for CSF percentages of 0-40%, simulations now gave CBF values accurate within 1%, and deltat within 5%. The fit remained robust for high CSF fractions. Our analysis and simulations demonstrate that using magnitude FAIR data minimises the detrimental effects of CSF partial voluming. Data from a healthy volunteer illustrate these results.
Ex vivo biological sample imaging can complement in vivo MRI studies. Since ex vivo studies are typically performed at room temperature, and samples are frequently preserved by fixation, it is important to understand how environmental and chemical changes dictated by ex vivo studies alter the physical and MR properties of a sample. Diffusion and relaxation time measurements were used to assess the effects of temperature change and aldehyde fixation on the biophysical and MR properties of a model biological tissue comprised of erythrocyte ghosts suspended in buffer or agarose gel. Sample temperature was varied between 10 degrees C and 37 degrees C. Diffusion MRI data were analyzed with a biophysically appropriate two-compartment exchange model. Temperature change resulted in a complex alteration of water diffusion properties due to the compartmental nature of tissues and alteration in membrane permeability. Formaldehyde, Karnovsky's solution, and glutaraldehyde all caused statistically significant changes to the biophysical and MR properties of the samples. Fixation caused large decreases in water proton T2, which was restored to near prefixation values by washing free fixative from the samples. Water membrane permeability was also significantly altered by fixation. This study demonstrates that relating in vivo MR data to chemically fixed ex vivo data requires an understanding of the effects of sample preparation.
Functional MRI (fMRI) of the spinal cord has been demonstrated to provide reliable and sensitive maps of neuronal activity, particularly when combined across several experiments. Individual experiments reveal neuronal activity as well as errors. The dominant source of errors is hypothesized to be physiological motion, including cardiac and respiratory motion, flow of blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and motion of the spinal cord within the spinal canal. All of the hypothesized sources of error are therefore related to cardiac and respiratory motion, which can be recorded during an fMRI experiment. Analyses were carried out with a general linear model (GLM) with peripheral pulse and respiration recordings used as models of errors. The results demonstrate that the sensitivity of spinal fMRI is improved and errors are reduced when peripheral pulse traces are used in the GLM, but no improvement was detected with the inclusion of respiratory traces.
Non-Mendelian factors may influence central nervous system (CNS) phenotypes in patients with 22q11 Deletion Syndrome (22q11DS, also known as DiGeorge or Velocardiofacial Syndrome), and similar mechanisms may operate in mice carrying a deletion of one or more 22q11 gene orthologs. Accordingly, we examined the influence of parent of origin on expression of 25 murine 22q11 orthologs in the developing and mature CNS using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based analysis in interspecific crosses and quantification of mRNA in a murine model of 22q11DS. We found no evidence for absolute genomic imprinting or silencing. All 25 genes are biallelically expressed in the developing and adult brains. Furthermore, if more subtle forms of allelic biasing are present, they are very small in magnitude and most likely beyond the resolution of currently available quantitative approaches. Given the high degree of similarity of human 22q11 and the orthologous region of mmChr16, genomic imprinting most likely cannot explain apparent parent-of-origin effects in 22q11DS.
Two rare cases of intractable epilepsy caused by Dysembryoplastic Neuroepithelial Tumours (DNET) are reported and their different management discussed. The first case required vagal nerve stimulation and radiosurgery while the later was operated with the help of neuronavigation. Both had good outcome according to Engel classification after a one year follow up.

This review describes epidemiology, pathophysiology, risk factors, treatment and prevention of suicidal behavior in adolescents. As one of the leading causes of death of young adults, adolescent suicide has become a public health problem and an increase in the adolescent suicide rate has been observed over the past several decades. One important risk factor thought to contribute to the recent rise in suicidal behavior among young adults is increasing alcohol abuse among adolescents. The link between alcohol and suicide in adolescents is complicated and multiple risk factors are important in explaining and understanding suicidal behavior among adolescents. Comorbid psychopathology, which is common among adolescent alcohol abusers, substantially increases the risk for suicide behavior. Availability of alcohol and guns at home may also contribute to suicide risk in adolescents. Studies of stress hormones, brain neurotransmitters, hereditary factors, behavioral measures and gender differences shed light in understanding this complex phenomenon. Ideally, treatment of adolescents who receive a diagnosis of an alcohol use disorder and co-occurring suicidality should follow an integrated protocol that addresses both conditions. Future studies of psychological and neurobiological mechanisms of suicidality in adolescents with alcohol and/or substance abuse are merited.
Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2 is a trans-acting RNA-binding protein that mediates trafficking of RNAs containing the cis-acting A2 response element (A2RE). Previous work has shown that A2RE RNAs are transported to myelin in oligodendrocytes and to dendrites in neurons. hnRNP E1 is an RNA-binding protein that regulates translation of specific mRNAs. Here, we show by yeast two-hybrid analysis, in vivo and in vitro coimmunoprecipitation, in vitro cross-linking, and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy that hnRNP E1 binds to hnRNP A2 and is recruited to A2RE RNA in an hnRNP A2-dependent manner. hnRNP E1 is colocalized with hnRNP A2 and A2RE mRNA in granules in dendrites of oligodendrocytes. Overexpression of hnRNP E1 or microinjection of exogenous hnRNP E1 in neural cells inhibits translation of A2RE mRNA, but not of non-A2RE RNA. Excess hnRNP E1 added to an in vitro translation system reduces translation efficiency of A2RE mRNA, but not of nonA2RE RNA, in an hnRNP A2-dependent manner. These results are consistent with a model where hnRNP E1 recruited to A2RE RNA granules by binding to hnRNP A2 inhibits translation of A2RE RNA during granule transport.
We recently identified transmembrane protein shrew-1 and showed that it is able to target to adherens junctions in polarized epithelial cells. This suggested shrew-1 possesses specific basolateral sorting motifs, which we analyzed by mutational analysis. Systematic mutation of amino acids in putative sorting signals in the cytoplasmic domain of shrew-1 revealed three tyrosines and a dileucine motif necessary for basolateral sorting. Substitution of these amino acids leads to apical localization of shrew-1. By applying tannic acid to either the apical or basolateral part of polarized epithelial cells, thereby blocking vesicle fusion with the plasma membrane, we obtained evidence that the apically localized mutants were primarily targeted to the basolateral membrane and were then redistributed to the apical domain. Further support for a postendocytic sorting mechanism of shrew-1 was obtained by demonstrating that mu1B, a subunit of the epithelial cell-specific adaptor complex AP-1B, interacts with shrew-1. In conclusion, our data provide evidence for a scenario where shrew-1 is primarily delivered to the basolateral membrane by a so far unknown mechanism. Once there, adaptor protein complex AP-1B is involved in retaining shrew-1 at the basolateral membrane by postendocytic sorting mechanisms.
EF-hand Ca(2+)-sensor proteins are key molecules for transducing Ca(2+) signals into physiological answers and changes in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration control a variety of cellular responses, including proliferation, migration, and differentiation, which are relevant for tumor progression. The Ca(2+)-sensor visinin-like protein-1 (VILIP-1) has recently attracted major interest due to its putative tumor suppressor function. Whereas VILIP-1 is expressed in normal skin, it is downregulated in skin tumors in a murine tumor model. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of the Ca(2+)-sensor VILIP-1 in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and to correlate expression levels with clinicopathological features of the tumor. We examined VILIP-1 expression in 54 specimens of esophageal squamous cell carcinomas and 24 normal esophagus tissues, with immunohistochemical staining and immunofluorescence co-staining techniques. VILIP-1 expression was completely lost or significantly reduced in esophageal tumor tissue compared with normal squamous epithelium. Correlation with clinicopathological features indicated that there was significantly less VILIP-1 expression in lymph node positive (N = 1) versus lymph node negative (N = 0) tumors (P = 0.002). Although there was no significant difference between highly (G(1)), moderately (G(2)) and poorly differentiated (G(3)) tumors (P = 0.177), VILIP-1 expression in tumors is significantly correlated with the depth of tumor invasion (P = 0.028 between T1, T2, T3, and T4). In contrast, co-staining with the proliferation marker Ki-67 indicated no significant correlation with proliferation rates in tumors (Ki-67 index of the tumor). In summary, the expression of the Ca(2+)-sensor VILIP-1 was found to be lost during development of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. The protein expression level significantly correlates with invasive features, such as depth of tumor invasion and local lymph node metastasis, but not with proliferation rate of tumor cells.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are required in a number of critical cellular signaling events, including those underlying hippocampal synaptic plasticity and hippocampus-dependent memory; however, the source of ROS is unknown. We previously have shown that NADPH oxidase is required for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent signal transduction in the hippocampus, suggesting that NADPH oxidase may be required for NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) and hippocampus-dependent memory. Herein we present the first evidence that NADPH oxidase is involved in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory. We have found that pharmacological inhibitors of NADPH oxidase block LTP. Moreover, mice that lack the NADPH oxidase proteins gp91(phox) and p47(phox), both of which are mouse models of human chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), also lack LTP. We also found that the gp91(phox) and p47(phox) mutant mice have mild impairments in hippocampus-dependent memory. The gp91(phox) mutant mice exhibited a spatial memory deficit in the Morris water maze, and the p47(phox) mutant mice exhibited impaired context-dependent fear memory. Taken together, our results are consistent with NADPH oxidase being required for hippocampal synaptic plasticity and memory and are consistent with reports of cognitive dysfunction in patients with CGD.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) beta4/alpha3/alpha5 gene cluster encodes several heteromeric transmitter receptor subtypes that are essential for cholinergic synaptic transmission in adrenal gland, autonomic ganglia, pineal gland, and several nuclei in the central nervous system. However, the transcriptional mechanisms coordinating expression of these subunit genes in different cell populations are unknown. Here, we used transgenic methods to investigate long-range transcriptional control of the cluster. A 132-kb P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) encoding the rat cluster recapitulated the neurally- and endocrine-restricted expression patterns of the endogenous beta4/alpha3/alpha5 genes. Mutation of ETS factor binding sites in an enhancer, beta43', embedded in the beta4 3'-untranslated exon resulted in greatly diminished beta4, alpha3, and alpha5 expression in adrenal gland and to a lesser extent in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) but not in other tissues. Phylogenetic sequence analyses revealed several conserved noncoding regions (CNRs) upstream of beta4 and alpha5. Deletion of one of them (CNR4) located 20 kb upstream of beta4 resulted in a dramatic decrease in beta4 and alpha3 expression in the pineal gland and SCG. CNR4 was sufficient to direct LacZ transgene expression to SCG neurons, which express the endogenous beta4alpha3alpha5 subunits, and pineal cells, which express the endogenous beta4alpha3 combination. Finally, CNR4 was able to direct transgene expression to major sites of expression of the endogenous cluster in the brain. Together, our findings support a model in which cell type-specific shared long-range regulatory elements are required for coordinate expression of clustered nAChR genes.
Antipsychotic drugs are the primary therapeutic treatment for schizophrenia. In addition to their dopaminergic/serotonergic function, atypical antipsychotics differ from conventional antipsychotics in the way they affect glutamatergic receptor function. A cellular correlate of this may be the modulation of dendritic spines (DS). Here, we demonstrate that in rat dissociated hippocampal neurons 1.0 microM clozapine administration increased DS-enriched protein spinophilin by 70%, increased post-synaptic protein shank1a puncta density by 26% and increased overall primary dendrite DS density by 59%. Filopodia and mushroom DS were particularly affected by clozapine. Conversely, 0.1 microM haloperidol decreased spinophilin protein by 40%, caused a 25% decrease in shank1a puncta and reduced the numbers of filopodia. In contrast, neither haloperidol nor clozapine induced any change in the levels of the pre-synaptic protein synapsin. This indicates that clozapine and haloperidol differentially regulate DS and post-synaptic plasticity. These findings may provide a molecular and cellular correlate to the superior therapeutic profile of clozapine when compared with haloperidol.
D-amino acid oxidase (DAO) degrades D-serine, a co-agonist at the NMDA receptor (NMDAR). Hypofunction of the NMDAR has been suggested to contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Intriguingly, DAO has been recently identified as a risk factor for schizophrenia through genetic association studies. A naturally occurring mouse strain (ddY/DAO-) has been identified which lacks DAO activity. We have characterized this strain both behaviorally and biochemically to evaluate DAO as a target for schizophrenia. We have confirmed that this strain lacks DAO activity and shown for the first time it has increased occupancy of the NMDAR glycine site due to elevated extracellular D-serine levels and has enhanced NMDAR function in vivo. Furthermore, the ddY/DAO- strain displays behaviors which suggest that it will be a useful tool for evaluation of the clinical benefit of DAO inhibition in schizophrenia.
Several of the genes currently known to be associated, when mutated, with mental retardation, code for molecules directly involved in Rho guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) signaling. These include PAK3, a member of the PAK protein kinase family, which are important effectors of small GTPases. In many systems, PAK kinases play crucial roles regulating complex mechanisms such as cell migration, differentiation, or survival. Their precise functions in the central nervous system remain, however, unclear. Although their activity does not seem to be required for normal brain development, several recent studies point to a possible involvement in more subtle mechanisms such as neurite outgrowth, spine morphogenesis or synapse formation, and plasticity. This article reviews this information in the light of the current knowledge available on the molecular characteristics of the different members of this family and discuss the mechanisms through which they might contribute to cognitive functions.
The dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) mediates the removal of released DA. DAT is the major molecular target responsible for the rewarding properties and abuse potential of the psychostimulant amphetamine (AMPH). AMPH has been shown to reduce the number of DATs at the cell surface, and this AMPH-induced cell surface DAT redistribution may result in long-lasting changes in DA homeostasis. The molecular mechanism by which AMPH induces trafficking is not clear. Because AMPH is a substrate, we do not know whether extracellular AMPH stimulates trafficking through its interaction with DAT and subsequent alteration in DAT function, thereby triggering intracellular signaling or whether AMPH must be transported and then act intracellularly. In agreement with our previous studies, extracellular AMPH caused cytosolic redistribution of the wild-type human DAT (WT-hDAT). However, AMPH did not induce cytosolic redistribution in an uptake-impaired hDAT (Y335A-hDAT) that still binds AMPH. The divalent cation zinc (Zn(2+)) inhibits WT-hDAT activity, but it restores Y335A-hDAT uptake. Coadministration of Zn(2+) and AMPH consistently reduced WT-hDAT trafficking but stimulated cytosolic redistribution of Y335A-hDAT. Furthermore, direct intracellular application of AMPH, via a whole-cell patch pipette, stimulated the trafficking of Y335A-hDAT. Taken together, these data suggest that the DAT transport cycle is not required for AMPH-induced down-regulation and that an increase of intracellular AMPH is an essential component of DAT redistribution.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS), diagnosed according to the International RLS Study Group criteria, was investigated in 97 consecutive patients with polyneuropathy and found in 29 patients. RLS patients were more often women (22 of 29 vs. 33 of 68; P = 0.015), mainly with sensory neuropathy of small fiber type (15 of 29 vs. 16 of 68; P = 0.009). Changes of sensory action potentials were significantly less severe in RLS patients. In the RLS group, acquired neuropathies, and in particular dysimmune neuropathies, were significantly more frequent (27/29 vs. 46/68; P = 0.009). Thus, RLS is frequent in acquired polyneuropathy of sensory type and mild entity, mainly in women.
Together with Mario Vargas Llosa and Gabriel Garca Mrquez, Julio Cortzar was one of the most representative authors of the Latin American magical realism genre. Within his extensive body of work, many descriptions of characters suffering physical disabilities, as well as situations suggesting such medical conditions, can be extracted. In this review, two short stories by Cortzar are presented. In the first one, the main character could easily be a man suffering from corticobasal degeneration; in the second, an old woman with symptoms suggestive of progressive supranuclear palsy is clearly depicted. Despite the fact that one of the main ingredients in Cortzar's magical realism is fiction, cases described here fit real medical conditions quite well, making it hard to believe that they represent purely fantastic descriptions rather than the product of Cortzar's inquisitive observation and the description of real patients.
The role of genetic and environmental factors in etiopathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is debated. The prevalence of PD is higher among white than nonwhite populations, yet it is five times higher in nonwhites living in the United States than in Nigeria. We compare counts of melanized nigral neurons between neurologically normal Nigerians and British brains. Neuronal counts were estimated in an age-matched sample of 23 Nigerian and 7 British brains from neurologically normal individuals who had no Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites on alpha-synuclein immunostaining. Two investigators blind to age and ethnicity performed counts of melanized neurons in a single 7-mum hemisections showing the substantia nigra pars compacta. No significant difference exits in the number of neurons between the Nigerian and the British subjects (P = 0.1, NS). Differences in melanized nigral neuronal numbers may not explain differences in the prevalence of PD between white and nonwhite populations, suggesting factors other than neuronal numbers contribute to differential susceptibility of black vs. white races to PD.
A new method of movement analysis is validated, allowing an actigraph to discriminate tremor from other movements and store duration and intensity measures of both movement types. For algorithm optimization, wrist acceleration was recorded in nine controls and nine Parkinson's disease patients, while simultaneously rating their observed tremor minute by minute on item 20 of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. An optimization procedure to minimize false positives in controls while maximizing tremor detection in patients resulted in false positive tremor classification in 2.4% +/- 2.5% of the movement time of control subjects (range, 0%-7%), while providing tremor classification in 82.1% +/- 15.4% of the movement time in patients (range, 55%-100%), correlating r = 0.93 with their averaged observed tremor score. A second, generalizability study showed that application of the optimized algorithm resulted in accurate classification of 71% +/- 14% of the observed tremor time (range, 46%-90%) in another 9 patients and in a false positive classification in only 0.5% +/- 0.8% of the time in another 10 controls (range, 0%-2.4%). The commercial availability of this actigraph now for the first time makes it possible to investigate tremor fluctuations over several weeks. An example is given of how long-term monitoring can be of use in evaluation of symptom management.
Patients with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) respond to intravenous immune globulin (IVIg) and cyclophosphamide, although the benefit is not sustained. High-dose cyclophosphamide can induce a remission in patients with autoimmune diseases, including chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP). We describe a patient with refractory MMN who improved with high-dose cyclophosphamide (50 mg/kg for 4 days) without stem cell rescue. Following treatment she discontinued IVIg. At a 6-month examination, her strength had improved and she had regained the ability to write. High-dose cyclophosphamide may be a successful treatment for patients with MMN refractory to other therapies.
This study investigated human anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) involvement during a task that dissociated expectancy violation from social rejection. Across two studies, participants underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while making social judgments and receiving fictitious feedback that was either positive or negative and consistent or inconsistent with their expectations. The results demonstrate that the dorsal ACC is sensitive to expectancy violations, whereas the ventral ACC is differentially responsive to social feedback.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated in higher-order cognitive functions and in psychiatric disorders such as depression and schizophrenia. BDNF modulates synaptic transmission and plasticity primarily through the TrkB receptor, but the molecules involved in BDNF-mediated synaptic modulation are largely unknown. Myosin VI (Myo6) is a minus end-directed actin-based motor found in neurons that express Trk receptors. Here we report that Myo6 and a Myo6-binding protein, GIPC1, form a complex that can engage TrkB. Myo6 and GIPC1 were necessary for BDNF-TrkB-mediated facilitation of long-term potentiation in postnatal day 12-13 (P12-13) hippocampus. Moreover, BDNF-mediated enhancement of glutamate release from presynaptic terminals depended not only upon TrkB but also upon Myo6 and GIPC1. Similar defects in basal synaptic transmission as well as presynaptic properties were observed in Myo6 and GIPC1 mutant mice. Together, these results define an important role for the Myo6-GIPC1 motor complex in presynaptic function and in BDNF-TrkB-mediated synaptic plasticity.
Damage to the adult CNS often leads to persistent deficits due to the inability of mature axons to regenerate after injury. Mounting evidence suggests that the glial environment of the adult CNS, which includes inhibitory molecules in CNS myelin as well as proteoglycans associated with astroglial scarring, might present a major hurdle for successful axon regeneration. Here, we evaluate the molecular basis of these inhibitory influences and their contributions to the limitation of long-distance axon repair and other types of structural plasticity. Greater insight into glial inhibition is crucial for developing therapies to promote functional recovery after neural injury.
The precise wiring of the adult mammalian CNS originates during a period of stunning growth, guidance and plasticity that occurs during and shortly after development. When injured in adults, this intricate system fails to regenerate. Even when the obstacles to regeneration are cleared, growing adult CNS fibres usually remain misdirected and fail to reform functional connections. Here, we attempt to fill an important niche related to the topics of nervous system development and regeneration. We specifically contrast the difficulties faced by growing fibres within the adult context to the precise circuit-forming capabilities of developing fibres. In addition to focusing on methods to stimulate growth in the adult, we also expand on approaches to recapitulate development itself.
Computational neuroscience relies heavily on the simulation of large networks of neuron models. There are essentially two simulation strategies: (1) using an approximation method (e.g., Runge-Kutta) with spike times binned to the time step and (2) calculating spike times exactly in an event-driven fashion. In large networks, the computation time of the best algorithm for either strategy scales linearly with the number of synapses, but each strategy has its own assets and constraints: approximation methods can be applied to any model but are inexact; exact simulation avoids numerical artifacts but is limited to simple models. Previous work has focused on improving the accuracy of approximation methods. In this article, we extend the range of models that can be simulated exactly to a more realistic model: an integrate-and-fire model with exponential synaptic conductances.


Longstanding diabetes mellitus damages kidney, retina, peripheral nerve and blood vessels, but brain is not usually considered a primary target. We describe direct involvement of the brain, particularly white matter, in long-term (9 months) experimental diabetes of mice, not previously modeled, correlating magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with quantitative histological assessment. Leukoencephalopathy and cerebral atrophy, resembling that encountered in diabetic humans, developed in diabetic mice and was accompanied by time-related development of cognitive changes in behavioural testing. Increased RAGE (receptor for advanced glycation end products) expression, a mediator of widespread diabetic complications, increased dramatically at sites of white matter damage in regions of myelination. RAGE expression was also elevated within neurons, astrocytes and microglia in grey matter and within oligodendrocytes in white matter. RAGE null diabetic mice had significantly less neurodegenerative changes when compared to wild-type diabetic mice. Our findings identify a robust and novel model of cerebral, particularly white matter, involvement with diabetes associated with abnormal RAGE signaling.
Recent evidences suggest key roles of abnormal neurogenesis and astrogliosis in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. Alterations in the microenvironment of the stem cell, such as microglial activation and cyclooxygenase-2 induction may cause ectopic neurogenesis or astrogliosis. Here, we examined if inflammatory blockade with celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, could modulate the altered microenvironment in the epileptic rat brain. Celecoxib attenuated the likelihood of developing spontaneous recurrent seizures after pilocarpine-induced prolonged seizure. During the latent period, celecoxib prevented neuronal death and microglia activation in the hilus and CA1 and inhibited the generation of ectopic granule cells in the hilus and new glia in CA1. The direct inhibition of precursor cells by celecoxib was further demonstrated in human neural stem cells culture. These findings raise the evidence of COX-2 induction to act importantly on epileptogenesis and suggest a potential therapeutic role for COX-2 inhibitors in chronic epilepsy.
Antibodies raised against human alpha2-6 and beta2-4 nicotinic receptor subunits were utilized to fractionate (3)H-epibatidine binding in human temporal cortex and striatum. The predominant receptor subtypes in both regions contained alpha4 and beta2 subunits. In normal cortex, 10% of binding was also associated with alpha2 subunits, whereas in the striatum, contributions by alpha6 (17%) and beta3 (23%) were observed. Minimal binding (&lt; or =5%) was associated with alpha3. In Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, cortical loss of binding was associated with reductions in alpha4 (50%, P &lt; 0.01) and beta2 (30-38%, P &lt; 0.05). In Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, striatal deficits in alpha6 (91 and 59% respectively, P &lt; 0.01) and beta3 (72 and 75%, P &lt; 0.05) tended to be greater than for alpha4 and beta2 (50-58%, P &lt; 0.05). This study demonstrates distinct combinations of subunits contributing to heteromeric nicotinic receptor binding in the human brain that are area/pathway specific and differentially affected by neurodegeneration.
We are interested in cellular co-expression patterns of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunits 1-4 (GluR1-4) in substance P receptor (SPR)-containing neurons of the basal forebrain, which may act as a morphological basis for interaction between neurokinins and glutamate-driven neuronal signaling and excitotoxicity. Immunohistochemistry and laser scanning confocal microscopy in adult C57/BL mice revealed that distribution of SPR-positive neurons overlapped with that of GluR1-4-containing ones in most basal forebrain regions, i.e. the medial septal nucleus, nucleus of diagonal band of Broca, magnocellular preoptic nucleus and substantia innominata. Neurons showing both SPR and GluR1-4-immunoreactivities were found in above cholinergic neurons-rich containing basal forebrain regions. Semi-quantification analysis indicated that about 57-95% of SPR-positive neurons displayed GluR1-4-immunoreactivity. The percentages of AMPA receptor subunits co-localizing in SPR-positive neurons were GluR4 (48%), GluR1 (47%), GluR2 (26%) and GluR3 (20%), respectively. However, the neurons co-expressing SPR and GluR1-4 were hardly detected in the basal nucleus of Meynert of the basal forebrain. The co-localization of SPR and AMPA receptors has provided a molecular basis for functional interaction between neurokinins and AMPA receptors-mediated signaling in basal forebrain neurons. This study has also implied that glutamate-driven neuronal transmission and excitotoxicity can be modulated by neurokinin peptides in most basal forebrain regions but not in the basal nucleus of Meynert, suggesting that neurokinins or SP may play certain roles in determining neuronal functional properties or excitotoxic susceptibility in the various basal forebrain regions of mammals.
Since fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-1 lacks conventional amino-terminal signal peptide essential for endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway, the mode of release of this polypeptide remains to be fully understood. We attempted to characterize the non-classical (non-vesicular) mode of FGF-1 release in the analyses using immunocytochemistry and immunoblot of conditioned medium (CM) from astrocytes. FGF-1 was completely released from astrocytes upon serum-deprivation stress in a Brefeldin A-insensitive manner. In the immunoprecipitation study using anti-FGF-1 IgG, S100A13 was identified to be the major protein co-eluted with FGF-1. The interaction between GST-FGF-1 and Strep-tag II-S100A13 was found to be Ca(2+)-sensitive, and to require the C-terminal 11 amino acid peptide sequence of S100A13. The overexpression of Delta88-98 mutant of S100A13 selectively inhibited the serum-deprivation stress-induced release of FGF-1, but not the release of S100A13 mutant from C6 glioma cells. However, amlexanox, anti-allergic drug whose target is S100A13, completely inhibited the stress-induced release of FGF-1 as well as S100A13. The stress-induced release of both proteins was also abolished by BAPTA-AM, an intracellular Ca(2+) chelating agent. The serum-deprivation caused Ca(2+) spikes in omega-conotoxin GVIA and thapsigargin-sensitive manner. All these results suggest that S100A13 is a cargo molecule for the serum-deprivation stress-induced non-classical release of FGF-1, and that its driving force of protein-protein interaction and release is possibly mediated by Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) coupled to N-type Ca(2+) channel activity.
Impaired cerebral energy metabolism may be a major contributor to the secondary injury cascade that occurs following traumatic brain injury (TBI). To estimate the cortical energy metabolic state following mild and severe controlled cortical contusion (CCC) TBI in rats, ipsi-and contralateral cortical tissues were frozen in situ at 15 and 40 min post-injury and adenylate (ATP, ADP, AMP) levels were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and the energy charge (EC) was calculated. At 15 min post-injury, mildly brain-injured animals showed a 43% decrease in cortical ATP levels and a 2.4-fold increase in AMP levels (P &lt; 0.05), and there was a significant reduction of the ipsilateral cortical EC when compared to sham-injured animals (P &lt; 0.05). At 40 min post-injury, the ipsilateral adenylate levels and EC had recovered to the values observed in the sham-injury group. In the severe CCC group, there was a 51% decrease in ipsilateral cortical ATP levels and a 5.3-fold increase in AMP levels with a significant reduction of cortical EC at 15 min post-injury (P &lt; 0.05). At 40 min post-injury, a 2.6-fold ipsilateral increase in AMP levels and an 11% and 44% decrease in EC and ATP levels, respectively, remained (P &lt; 0.05). A 37-38% reduction of the total adenylate pool was observed ipsilaterally in both CCC severity groups at the early time-point, and a 19% and 28% decrease remained in the mild and severe CCC groups, respectively, at 40 min post-injury. Significant contralateral ATP and EC changes were only observed in the severe CCC group at 40 min post-injury (P &lt; 0.05). The energy-requiring secondary injury cascades that occur early post-injury do not challenge the brain tissue to the extent of ATP depletion and may provide a window of opportunity for therapeutic intervention.
Independent component analysis (ICA) of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data is commonly carried out under the assumption that each source may be represented as a spatially fixed pattern of activation, which leads to the instantaneous mixing model. To allow modeling patterns of spatio-temporal dynamics, in particular, the flow of oxygenated blood, we have developed a convolutive ICA approach: spatial complex ICA applied to frequency-domain fMRI data. In several frequency-bands, we identify components pertaining to activity in primary visual cortex (V1) and blood supply vessels. One such component, obtained in the 0.10 Hz band, is analyzed in detail and found to likely reflect flow of oxygenated blood in V1.
A significant proportion of adults believe they suffer from food allergy, and 20-65% of patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) attribute their symptoms to something in food that activates an abnormal response. This systematic review evaluates the role of food allergy in aetiology and management of these disorders. Activation of gastrointestinal mucosal immune system may be one of the causative factors in the pathogenesis of functional dyspepsia and IBS. This activation may result from effects of bacterial infection or other luminal factors including commensal microbial flora and food antigens. Some studies have reported on the role of food allergy in IBS; only one epidemiological study on functional dyspepsia and food allergy has been published. The mechanism by which food activates mucosal immune system is uncertain, but food specific IgE and IgG4 appeared to mediate the hypersensitivity reaction in a subgroup of IBS patients. Exclusion diets based on skin prick test, RAST for IgE or IgG4, hypoallergic diet and clinical trials with oral disodium cromoglycate have been conducted, and some success has been reported in a subset of IBS patients. Further well-controlled studies are needed to establish whether food allergy plays a role in the pathophysiology of functional dyspepsia and IBS.
We studied whether magnetoencephalography (MEG) could detect deceptive responses on a single-subject, trial-by-trial basis. To elicit spontaneous, ecologically valid deception, we developed a paradigm in which subjects in a simulated customs setting were presented with a series of pictures of items which might be in their baggage, and for each item, they decided whether to &quot;declare&quot; (tell the truth) or &quot;smuggle&quot; (lie). Telling the truth involved a small but certain monetary penalty, whereas lying involved both greater monetary risk and greater potential reward. Most subjects showed decreased signal power in the 8-12 Hz (alpha) range during deceptive responses as compared to truthful responses. In a cross-validation analysis, we were able to use alpha power to classify truthful and deceptive responses on a trial-by-trial basis, with significantly greater predictive accuracy than that achieved using simultaneously recorded skin conductance signals. Average predictive accuracy for spontaneous deception was greater than 78%, and for some subjects, predictive accuracy exceeded 90%. Our results raise the possibility that alpha power modulation during deception may reflect risk management and/or cognitive control.
The length of a vocal tract is reflected in the sound it is producing. The length of the vocal tract is correlated with body size and humans are very good at making size judgments based on the acoustic effect of vocal tract length only. Here we investigate the underlying mechanism for processing this main auditory cue to size information in the human brain. Sensory encoding of the acoustic effect of vocal tract length (VTL) depends on a time-stabilized spectral scaling mechanism that is independent of glottal pulse rate (GPR, or voice pitch); we provide evidence that a potential neural correlate for such a mechanism exists in the medial geniculate body (MGB). The perception of the acoustic effect of speaker size is influenced by GPR suggesting an interaction between VTL and GPR processing; such an interaction occurs only at the level of non-primary auditory cortex in planum temporale and anterior superior temporal gyrus. Our findings support a two-stage model for the processing of size information in speech based on an initial stage of sensory analysis as early as MGB, and a neural correlate of the perception of source size in non-primary auditory cortex.
In the kinetic analysis of dynamic PET data, one usually posits that the variation of the data through one dimension, time, can be described by a mathematical model encapsulating the relevant physiological features of the radioactive tracer. In this work, we posit that the remaining dimension, space, can also be modeled as a physiological feature, and we introduce this concept into a new computational procedure for the production of parametric maps. An organ and, in the instance considered here, the brain presents similarities in the physiological properties of its elements across scales: computationally, this similarity can be implemented in two stages. Firstly, a multi-scale decomposition of the dynamic frames is created through the wavelet transform. Secondly, kinetic analysis is performed in wavelet space and the kinetic parameters estimated at low resolution are used as priors to inform estimates at higher resolutions. Kinetic analysis in the above scheme is achieved by extension of the Patlak analysis through Bayesian linear regression that retains the simplicity and speed of the original procedure. Application to artificial and real data (FDG and FDOPA) demonstrates the ability of the procedure to reduce remarkably the variance of parametric maps (up to 4-fold reduction) without introducing sizeable bias. Significance of the methodology and extension of the procedure to other data (fMRI) and models are discussed.
There is strong evidence that depression involves alterations in multiple aspects of immunity that may contribute to the development or exacerbation of a number of medical disorders and also may play a role in the pathophysiology of depressive symptoms. Accordingly, aggressive management of depressive disorders in medically ill populations or individuals at risk for disease may improve disease outcome or prevent disease development. On the other hand, in light of data suggesting that immune processes may interact with the pathophysiologic pathways known to contribute to depression, novel approaches to the treatment of depression may target relevant aspects of the immune response. Taken together, the data provide compelling evidence that a psychoimmunologic frame of reference may have profound implications regarding the consequences and treatment of depression. In addition, this approach may be used to investigate the possibility that peripheral and central production of cytokines may account for neuropsychiatric symptoms in inflammatory diseases. This article summarizes evidence for a cytokine-mediated pathogenesis of depression and fatigue in MS. The effects of central inflammatory processes may account for some of the behavioral symptoms seen in patients who have MS that cannot be explained by psychosocial factors or CNS damage. This immune-mediated hypothesis is supported by indirect evidence from experimental and clinical studies of the effect of cytokines on behavior, which have found that both peripheral and central cytokines may cause depressive symptoms. Emerging clinical data from patients who have MS support an association of central inflammation (as measured by MRI) and inflammatory markers with depressive symptoms and fatigue. Based on the literature reviewed in this article, subtypes of MS fatigue and depression may exist that are caused by different pathogenetic mechanisms, including inflammation and CNS damage as well as psychosocial factors or predisposition. The existence of these subtypes could have important clinical implications. For example, an inflammatory depression may require different therapeutic approaches than a reactive depression in MS. Future research should aim to characterize these subtypes better with the goal of optimizing treatment.
At age of 57 years, a man experienced an episode of rhabdomyolysis. On that occasion muscle biopsy was not performed, however monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) was diagnosed. Further he developed a moderate proximal muscle weakness with CK level persistently elevated (1000-1200U/l). When he came to our observation, at age 67, a muscle biopsy revealed an amyloid myopathy and multiple myeloma was at the same time disclosed. Terminal complement complex C5b9 (membrane attack complex) deposits were found in the vessel walls and muscle fibers surface depicted by amyloid. Our case suggests to keep in mind the possibility that amyloid myopathy may begin as an isolate episode of rhabdomyolysis. The detection of complement complex C5b9 suggests that complement cascade is implicated in the muscular damage of amyloid myopathy.
Arthrogryposis multiplex congenital (AMC) describes multiple joint contractures resulting from lack of movement in utero. Antibodies directed at the fetal isoform of the muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) have been reported in a small number of asymptomatic mothers of AMC babies. We examined sera from 179 mothers of AMC babies and 20 parous and non-parous controls to look for antibodies to AChR or undefined muscle or neuronal proteins. We found positive AChR antibodies in only three sera (1.5%) from asymptomatic AMC mothers. However, there was reactivity with muscle or with neuronal antigens in 33% of the sera, and reactivity to undefined neuronal antigens was more common in sera from mothers of AMC babies with CNS involvement (p=0.001) than those without. The offspring of mothers with AChR antibodies may benefit from treatment during pregnancy. Other maternal antibodies require further study, but these observations add to the emerging literature on maternal antibodies associated with developmental intrauterine disorders.
Stem cells and progenitor cells derived from the developing human brain have been shown to differentiate into neurons and astrocytes. However, few studies have examined the functional, physiological properties of these differentiated neurons and astrocytes. In this study we have used immunocytochemistry in combination with electrophysiology to examine protein machinery and functional properties of neurons and astrocytes differentiated from human brain progenitor cells (hBPCs).Our results show that serum induces mainly astrocytic phenotype cells that express GFAP and have physiological properties that are typical of astrocytes. hBPCs differentiated with BDNF and PDGF develop mainly into neurons expressing mature neuronal proteins MAP-2, synaptobrevin II and vesicular glutamate transporter I in the process, plus a small population of GFAP-positive radial cells. Based on electrophysiology of BDNF/PDGF-treated cells two classes of cell were identified. Class I cells have functional neuronal properties, including functional voltage-gated Na(+) and K(+) currents, functional AMPA receptors and the ability to generate action potentials. A smaller subpopulation of cells (Class II cells) expresses GFAP and exhibit functional properties of astrocytes, including linear current-voltage relationship and dye-coupling.
Astroglia comprise an extremely morphologically diverse cell type that have crucial roles in neural development and function. Nonetheless, distinct regions of the CNS have traditionally been defined by the phenotypic characteristics and connectivity of neuros. In a complementary fashion, we present evidence that discrete regions of the adult CNS can be delineated based solely on the morphology, density and proliferation rates of astroglia. We used transgenic hGFAP-GFP mice in which robust expression of GFP in adult astroglia enables detailed morphological characterization of this diversely heterogeneous cell population with 3D confocal microscopy. By using three complementary methods for labeling adult astroglia (hGFAP-GFP expression, and GFAP and S100beta immunostaining), we find that there is a remarkably diverse, regionally stereotypical array of astroglial morphology throughout the CNS, and that discrete anatomical regions can be defined solely on the morphology of astroglia within that region. Second, we find that the density of astroglia varies dramatically across the CNS, and that astroglial density effectively delineates even the sub-regions of complex structures, such as the thalamus. We also find that regional astroglial density varies depending on how astroglia are labeled. To quantify and illustrate these broad differences in astroglial density, we generated an anatomical density atlas of the CNS. Third, the proliferation rate, or mitotic index, of astroglia in the adult CNS also effectively defines anatomical regions. These differences are present regardless of the astroglial-labeling method used. To supplement our atlas of astroglial density we generated an atlas of proliferation density for the adult CNS. Together, these studies demonstrate that the morphology, density and proliferation rate of astroglia can independently define the discrete cytoarchitecture of the adult mammalian CNS, and support the concept that regional astroglial heterogeneity reflects important molecular and functional differences between distinct classes of astroglia, much like the long-accepted heterogeneity of neuronal populations.
In order to gain insight into the pathogenesis of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), the mean tau load in frontal cortex was compared in 34 patients with frontotemporal dementia linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) with 12 different mutations in the tau gene (MAPT), 11 patients with sporadic FTLD with Pick bodies and 25 patients with early onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD). Tau load was determined, as percentage of tissue occupied by stained product, by image analysis of immunohistochemically stained sections using the phospho-dependent antibodies AT8, AT100 and AT180. With AT8 and AT180 antibodies, the amount of tau was significantly (P &lt; 0.001 in each instance) less than that in EOAD for both FTDP-17 (8.5% and 10.0% respectively) and sporadic FTLD with Pick bodies (16.1% and 10.0% respectively). With AT100, the amount of tau detected in FTDP-17 was 54% (P &lt; 0.001) of that detected in EOAD, but no tau was detected in sporadic FTLD with Pick bodies using this particular antibody. The amount of insoluble tau deposited within the brain in FTDP-17 did not depend in any systematic way upon where the MAPT mutation was topographically located within the gene, or on the physiological or structural change generated by the mutation, regardless of which anti-tau antibody was used. Not only does the amount of tau deposited in the brain differ between the three disorders, but the pattern of phosphorylation of tau also varies according to disease. These findings raise important questions relating to the role of aggregated tau in neurodegeneration - whether this represents an adaptive response which promotes the survival of neurones, or whether it is a detrimental change that directly, or indirectly, brings about the demize of the affected cell.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) disease is an important genetic cause of neurological disability. A variety of different clinical features are observed and one of the most common phenotypes is MELAS (Mitochondrial Myopathy, Encephalopathy, Lactic Acidosis and Stroke-like episodes). The majority of patients with MELAS have the 3243A&gt;G mtDNA mutation. The neuropathology is dominated by multifocal infarct-like lesions in the posterior cortex, thought to underlie the stroke-like episodes seen in patients. To investigate the relationship between mtDNA mutation load, mitochondrial dysfunction and neuropathological features in MELAS, we studied individual neurones from several brain regions of two individuals with the 3243A&gt;G mutation using dual cytochrome c oxidase (COX) and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) histochemistry, and Polymerase Chain Reaction Restriction Fragment Lenght Polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis. We found a low number of COX-deficient neurones in all brain regions. There appeared to be no correlation between the threshold level for the 3243A&gt;G mutation to cause COX deficiency within single neurones and the degree of pathology in affected brain regions. The most severe COX deficiency associated with the highest proportion of mutated mtDNA was present in the walls of the leptomeningeal and cortical blood vessels in all brain regions. We conclude that vascular mitochondrial dysfunction is important in the pathogenesis of the stroke-like episodes in MELAS patients. As migraine is a commonly encountered feature in MELAS, we propose that coupling of the vascular mitochondrial dysfunction with cortical spreading depression (CSD) might underlie the selective distribution of ischaemic lesions in the posterior cortex in these patients.
The patient was a 74-year-old man who developed gait and bulbar disturbances, which progressed for several years. His mother and a sister complained of a similar disturbance. On admission, generalized muscle atrophy and weakness were prominent, especially in the distal portions of the legs, with bulbar involvement. The patellar tendon reflexes were retained and the Achilles tendon reflexes were decreased with a positive right Babinski's sign. The ocular movements were restricted in vertical directions and, to a lesser extent, in horizontal directions. Sensory disturbance, ataxia, and extrapyramidal signs were not apparent on admission. A needle electromyogram demonstrated neurogenic changes. The laboratory examination was normal except for elevated blood glucose (320 mg/dL) and creatine kinase (1760 U/L). His general condition deteriorated so rapidly that intractable respiratory distress due to pneumonia led to a fatal outcome. The clinical diagnosis was motor neuron disease, although a familial background and a disturbance in ocular movements might have suggested other possibilities.
At least four disorders, ataxia telangiectasia (AT), an ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder, early-onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminemia (EAOH)/ ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 1 (AOA1), and ataxia with oculomotor apraxia type 2, are accompanied by ocular motor apraxia (OMA), which is an impairment of saccadic eye movement initiation. The characteristic pathological findings of EAOH/AOA1 and AT are a severe loss of Purkinje cells, severe myelin pallor of the posterior columns, and moderate neuronal loss in the dorsal root ganglia and anterior horn. Purkinje cells stimulate the fastigial nucleus and suppress omnipause neurons to initiate saccadic eye movement. The selective loss of Purkinje cells might cause OMA and disturb the cancellation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex. These disorders have the following common clinical features: ataxia, involuntary movements, and peripheral neuronopathy. In addition, the causative genes for these disorders are associated with the DNA/RNA quality control system. The impairment of DNA/ RNA integrity results in selective neuronal loss in these recessive-inherited ataxias.

Proline-rich-polypeptides (PRPs) isolated from bovine hypothalamus have been shown to render protection against neuronal injury of the brain and spinal cord. We examined two PRPs containing 15 and 10 amino acid residues (PRP-1 and PRP-4 synthetic polypeptide) for their effect, if any, on dopaminergic neuronal damage caused by the parkinsonian neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Effects of these PRPs on hydroxyl radical ((*)OH) generation in a Fenton-like reaction as well as from isolated mitochondria were monitored, employing a sensitive salicylate hydroxylation procedure. Balb/c mice treated (i.p., twice, 16 h apart) with MPTP (30 mg/kg) or PRP-1 (1.6 mg/kg), but not PRP-4 (1.6 mg/kg) showed significant loss of striatal dopamine and norepinephrine as assayed by an HPLC-electrochemical procedure. Pretreatment with the PRPs, 30 min prior to the neurotoxin administration failed to attenuate MPTP-induced striatal dopamine or norepinephrine depletion, but significantly attenuated the MPTP-induced decrease in dopamine turnover. A significant increase in the generation of (*)OH by the PRPs in a Fenton-like reaction or from isolated mitochondria suggests their pro-oxidant action, and explains their failure to protect against MPTP-induced parkinsonism in mice.
LY354740 is a potent and selective mGlu2/3 receptor agonist with activity in models of psychiatric disorders (anxiety, psychosis), and early clinical studies in anxiety patients. However, the specific receptor subtypes and brain regions which mediate mGlu2/3 receptor agonist pharmacology/efficacy are not well understood. Here we investigate the effects of deleting mGlu2 or mGlu3 receptors on basal and LY354740-regulated c-Fos expression in mouse brain using mGlu2 or mGlu3 knockout mice. Consistent with our earlier findings, LY354740 administration (20 mg/kg, i.p.) to wild-type mice increased c-Fos expression in specific limbic (central amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, midline thalamic nuclei) and non-limbic (thalamic dorsolateral geniculate nucleus, superior colliculus, Edinger-Westphal) structures, while modestly suppressing hippocampal c-Fos expression. The LY354740-induced increases in c-Fos expression in all the above regions were abolished by mGlu2, but not mGlu3, receptor deletion. Interestingly, basal c-Fos expression was significantly increased in the hippocampus of mGlu3, but not mGlu2, receptor knockouts compared to wild-type mice. Moreover, this increase was not suppressed by LY354740, such that in the CA3 region LY354740 now increased c-Fos expression in the mGlu3 knockouts. These results demonstrate that the LY354740-induced increases of c-Fos expression in specific brain regions, including the central and extended amygdala are specifically linked to mGlu2 receptors, and LY354740 suppressions of neuronal activity in the hippocampus are linked to mGlu3 receptors.
Recently, we have reported that extracellular protons allosterically modulated neuronal GABA(A) receptors [Mozrzymas, J.W., Zarnowska, E.D., Pytel, M., Mercik, K., 2003a. Modulation of GABA(A) receptors by hydrogen ions reveals synaptic GABA transient and a crucial role of desensitiztion process. Journal of Neuroscience 23, 7981-7992]. However, GABAARs in neurons are heterogeneous and the effect of hydrogen ions depends on the receptor subtype. In particular, gamma2 subunit sets the receptor sensibility to several modulators including protons. However, the mechanisms whereby protons modulate gamma2-containing and gamma2-free GABAARs have not been fully elucidated. To this end, current responses to ultrafast GABA applications were recorded for alpha1beta2gamma2 and alpha1beta2 receptors at different pH values. For both receptor types, increase in pH induced a decrease in amplitudes of currents elicited by saturating [GABA] but this effect was stronger for alpha1beta2 receptors. In the case of alpha1beta2gamma2 receptors, protons strongly affected the current time course due to a down regulation of binding and desensitization rates. This effect was qualitatively similar to that described in neurons. Protons strongly influenced the amplitude of alpha1beta2 receptor-mediated currents but the effect on their kinetics was weak suggesting a predominant direct non-competitive inhibition with a minor allosteric modulation. In conclusion, we provide evidence that extracellular protons strongly affect GABAA receptors and that, depending on the presence of the gamma2 subunit, the modulatory mechanisms show profound quantitative and qualitative differences.
A major concern in adolescent psychostimulant abuse is the long-term consequence of this practice, because early drug exposure may cause long-term adaptations, which render the organism more susceptible to drug abuse later in life. The incentive value of drug and natural reward in rodents is commonly assessed by the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm, which involves Pavlovian learning. The aims of the present study were to investigate: a) the acquisition, expression, maintenance and reinstatement of cocaine CPP from periadolescence (PD24-45) through adulthood (PD70); b) potential sexual dimorphism in adolescence and adulthood in response to cocaine-induced CPP; and c) the role of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) gene in long-term neural plasticity underlying responsiveness to cocaine and cocaine-associated cues. Adolescent wild type (WT) mice acquired significant cocaine (20 mg/kg) CPP that was maintained from PD24 through PD43. Upon extinction, CPP was reinstated in adulthood (PD70) following a priming injection of cocaine (5 mg/kg). In contrast, cocaine CPP acquired between PD26 and PD31 in adolescent nNOS knockout (KO) mice, was neither maintained nor reinstated by cocaine. There was no sexual dimorphism in adolescent WT and KO mice. Genotype differences and sexual dimorphism were observed in adult mice. Cocaine CPP in adult WT males (PD89-94) was maintained for 4 weeks post training, and subsequently reinstated by cocaine priming; the magnitude of CPP in adult WT males was lower than in female counterparts. CPP in adult KO males (PD88-93) was neither maintained nor reinstated by cocaine priming; in contrast, CPP in adult KO females was not significantly different from adult WT females. Results suggest that the nNOS gene is essential during adolescence of both sexes for the development of long-term neural plasticity underlying responsiveness to the incentive value of cocaine reward. Sexual dimorphism in response to cocaine CPP emerges in adulthood; nNOS contribution to long-term plasticity is therefore sexually dimorphic and age-dependent in female but not in male subjects.
Retigabine and flupirtine are two structurally related molecules provided of anticonvulsant and analgesic actions. The present study has investigated the neuroprotective potential, as well as the possible underlying molecular mechanisms, exerted by retigabine and flupirtine in rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs) exposed to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), oxygen and glucose deprivation followed by reoxygenation (OGD), or serum withdrawal (SW). Region-specific vulnerability of hippocampal subfields occurred with each of these injury models. Specifically, CA1 was the most susceptible region to both NMDA and OGD-induced neurodegeneration, whereas selective cell death in the dentate gyrus (DG) occurred upon OHSCs exposure to SW. The NMDA antagonist MK-801 (10-30 microM), despite blocking NMDA- and OGD-induced cell death, failed to prevent SW-induced neurodegeneration. Interestingly, retigabine (0.01-10 microM) and flupirtine (0.01-10 microM) dose-dependently prevented DG neuronal death induced by SW, with IC50 s of 0.4 microM and 0.7 microM, respectively. By contrast, retigabine and flupirtine (each at 10 microM) were less effective in counteracting NMDA- or OGD-induced toxicity in the CA1 region. Both retigabine and flupirtine (0.1-10 microM) reduced SW-induced ROS production in the DG with IC50 s of approximately 1 microM. This suggested that antioxidant actions of these compounds participated in OHSC neuroprotection during SW. By contrast, activation of KCNQ K+ channels seemed not to be involved in retigabine-induced OHSCs neuroprotection during SW, since linopirdine (20 microM) and XE-991 (10 microM), two KCNQ blockers, failed to reverse retigabine-induced neuronal rescue.
It has been known for well over a century that brain-damaged patients are often unaware of the very deficits that impair performance in everyday life. Pathologies of awareness have been described for many neurological, psychiatric and neuropsychological deficits and the construct of &quot;awareness&quot; or &quot;insight&quot; understandably now receives attention from many researchers within the clinical and cognitive neurosciences. This paper does not attempt to explain the nature of consciousness or its impairment but rather considers four aspects of consciousness/awareness that health care professionals interested in understanding, measuring and improving deficits of awareness should consider.


Stressful life events are commonly associated with the onset and maintenance of psychopathology and much research has focused on the role of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system in mediating psychopathology. Since CRF serves to integrate the stress response, it is possible that the CRF system plays a role as a neurochemical linkage between stress and psychopathology. CRF-binding protein (CRF-BP) is thought to modulate CRF activity by decreasing its actions. Therefore, in some psychopathological states, alterations in CRF-BP function may contribute to dysregulation of the CRF system. Since the amygdala CRF system mediates stress- and anxiety-related behaviors and alterations in amygdala function are associated with psychopathology, we examined amygdala CRF-BP gene expression in post-mortem brains from subjects with major depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia as well as in controls. In addition to characterizing the anatomic distribution of CRF-BP mRNA in the human amygdala and medial temporal lobe region, we found a significant decrease in CRF-BP mRNA levels in the basolateral amygdala of male bipolar and male schizophrenic subjects and the lateral amygdala of male bipolar subjects. These results raise the possibility that men with decreased amygdala CRF-BP may be more vulnerable to the effects of stress exposure on the etiology or maintenance of bipolar disorder or schizophrenia.
In healthy humans, there is an apparent dissociation between cognitive and affective consequences of reduced brain serotonin (5-HT), as rapid tryptophan depletion (RTD) causes alterations in a consistent constellation of cognitive processes in the general absence of mood deterioration. This study aimed to investigate possible neural mechanisms underlying this relative dissociation by measuring the effects of reduced 5-HT on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). A total of 16 healthy, euthymic male subjects (mean age 39+/-9 years) without a personal or family history of affective disorder had mood ratings and single photon emission computed tomography scans with the rCBF tracer 99mTc-HMPAO under reduced 5-HT (RTD) and control conditions. Across individuals, modest positive and negative changes in subjective happiness associated with RTD were significantly correlated with change of rCBF in a cluster comprising subgenual (affective) anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and associated regions (Brodmann's area (BA) 25, posterior BA11 and 47, caudate nucleus and ventral striatum; SPM99 p&lt;0.05, corrected). The covariation was such that increasing sadness was associated with increased rCBF and vice versa. Independent of mood change, RTD was associated with reduced rCBF in the dorsal (cognitive) ACC (BA32; SPM99 p&lt;0.05, corrected). The subgenual prefrontal cortex and dorsal ACC are important components of the ventral and dorsal neural systems that regulate and integrate affective and cognitive functions. The results therefore suggest that the dissociation between affective and cognitive consequences of RTD may possibly be attributable to differential effects of reduced 5-HT on these neural systems.
We investigated the response and relationship of glial cells and neurons in lumbar spinal cord to hyperalgesia induced by the unilateral subcutaneous formalin injection into the hindpaw of rats. It was demonstrated that Fos/NeuN immunoreactive (-IR) neurons, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-IR astrocytes and OX42-IR microglia were distributed in dorsal horn of lumbar spinal cord, predominantly in the superficial layer. In the time-course studies, GFAP-IR astrocytes were firstly detected, OX42-IR microglia were sequentially observed, Fos/NeuN-IR neurons were found slightly late. Immunoelectron microscopy studies established that many heterotypic gap junctions (HGJs), which consisting of Cx43-IR astrocytic process on one side and Cx32-IR dendrite on the other side, were present in superficial layer of dorsal horn. Ninety-one HGJs were found in 100 areas of experimental rats and occupied 91%, while only 39% HGJs were found in control rats. In experimental rats pretreated with intrathecal (i.t.) application of the carbenoxolone (a gap junction blocker) or fluorocitrate (a glial metabolic inhibitor), the paw withdrawal thermal latency was prolonged than those application of the sterile saline (i.t.). It suggests that spinal cord glial cells may play an important role for modulation of hyperalgesia induced by noxious stimuli through HGJs which located between astrocytes and neurons.
Synapses are packed with mitochondria, complex organelles with roles in energy metabolism, cell signaling, and calcium homeostasis. However, the precise mechanisms by which mitochondria influence neurotrans mission remain undefined. In this review, the authors discuss pharmacological and genetic analyses of synaptic mitochondrial function, focusing on their role in Ca2+ buffering and ATP production. Additionally, they will summarize recent data that implicate synaptic mitochondria in the regulation of neurotransmitter release during intense neuronal activity and link these findings to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases that feature disrupted synaptic mitochondria, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and hereditary spastic paraplegia.
FRANCESCO DURANTE FROM Letojanni, Sicily, was the first surgeon in the history of neurosurgery to successfully remove a cranial base meningioma. Durante was Chairman of Clinical Surgery at the Royal University of Rome (now University &quot;La Sapienza&quot;) for 45 years, participating in the birth of the &quot;Policlinic Umberto I,&quot; and was one of the most famous surgeons in the country. He was also a Master in general surgery, a Senator of the Kingdom of Italy, and a personal friend of the King of Italy and the Emperor of Austria-Hungary. His contributions are still applicable to medicine today, not only to the neurosurgical community, but also other surgical disciplines, because he developed innovative practices in the fields of oncology, general surgery, and orthopedics in addition to designing special surgical instruments. In commemoration of his legacy, the International Francesco Durante Award is bestowed upon world-renowned surgeons.

Dopaminergic cell loss in the mesencephalic substantia nigra is the hallmark of Parkinson's disease and may be associated with abnormal oxidative metabolic activity. However, the delicate balance underlying dopamine decline and oxidative stress is still a matter of debate. The aim of this study was to analyze the possible modulation of D2 agonists and antagonists on MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridinium ion) -induced cellular death in differentiated and undifferentiated PC12 cells. Using colorimetric assays, western blots and reverse transcriptase-PCR, we demonstrated that two D2 agonists, bromocriptine and quinpirole, consistently increased MPP+ -induced cytotoxicity in both differentiated and undifferentiated PC12 cells, whereas D2 antagonists do not modulate cell death. However, this increase in cellular death was reversed when bromocriptine or quinpirole were used in presence of D2 antagonists. On the other hand, 1-{2-[bis-(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl}-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (GBR 12909), a potent inhibitor of the dopamine transporter, partially reversed MPP+ -induced cellular death and completely abolished the increase of cellular death induced by bromocriptine. Dopamine agonists and antagonists also modulate the expression of the dopamine transporter in PC12 cells; in particular, bromocriptine may alter MPP+ uptake by increasing DAT expression We also show that, in our cellular paradigm, D2 receptor mRNA levels are more abundant that D3 mRNA levels and MPP+ and /or bromocriptine could not modulate D2 gene expression while D3 gene expression clearly decrease after MPP+ and /or bromocriptine treatment.
Stress can affect signal transduction in the brain, possibly resulting in the development of certain psychiatric disorders, such as depression and posttraumatic stress disorder. Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK) II is one of the protein kinases abundantly expressed in the brain, especially in the hippocampus, which plays an important role in synaptic plasticity, and is therefore involved in memory formation. Here, we provide a brief overview of the effects of stress on the levels of CaMKII and phosphorylation (activation) of CaMKII in the rat hippocampus through the glutamatergic system, alpha-amino-3-hydro-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors. Furthermore, we highlight the possible links between stress-mediated CaMKII modulation and the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether overnight exposure to 1 mT-50 Hz extremely low-frequency sinusoidal electromagnetic field (EMF) affects the expression and production of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) in human monocytes. RT-PCR and Western blot analysis demonstrate that EMF exposure affects the expression of iNOS and MCP-1 in cultured human mononuclear cells at the mRNA level and protein synthesis. Interestingly, the effects of EMF exposure clearly differed with respect to the potentiation and inhibition of iNOS and MCP-1 expression. Whereas iNOS was down-regulated both at the mRNA level and at the protein level, MCP-1 was up-regulated. These results provide helpful information regarding the EMF-mediated modulation of the inflammatory response in vivo. However, additional studies are necessary to demonstrate that EMF acts as a nonpharmacological inhibitor of NO and inducer of MCP-1 in some diseases where the balance of MCP-1 and NO may be important.
Cerebral small vessel disease results in lacunar infarcts and cognitive impairment. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) demonstrates a reduction in fractional anisotropy and increase in mean diffusivity, which correlates more strongly with cognition than conventional MRI. The underlying pathological basis for these DTI changes is not known. In this study magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to determine the biochemical basis of these DTI alterations. Twenty-five patients with lacunar stroke and radiological leukoaraiosis were recruited. Chemical shift imaging (CSI) and DTI were performed on a 1.5 T MRI scanner. A region of interest was positioned in the white matter of the centrum semiovale. Multivoxel CSI data were processed and the metabolite ratios estimated. DTI parameters corresponding to the exact region of tissue excited by CSI were obtained. Mean spectroscopy data and DTI values for each subject were correlated. Univariate analysis revealed a positive correlation between N-acetyl aspartate-creatine (NAA/Cr) and fractional anisotropy (r = 0.52, p = 0.008), and a negative correlation with mean diffusivity (r = -0.51, p = 0.009). Results remained little changed after controlling for mean percentage lesion and mean percentage white matter per voxel (with fractional anisotropy r = 0.54, p = 0.008, and with mean diffusivity r = -0.52, p = 0.01). These findings are consistent with axonal loss or dysfunction, or both, accounting for at least part of the DTI abnormalities found in patients with small vessel disease. It provides evidence that DTI identifies axonal disruption in white matter tracts.

The prevalence of obesity, and the human and economic costs of the disease, creates a need for better therapeutics and better understanding of the physiological processes that balance energy intake and energy expenditure. Leptin is the primary signal from energy stores and exerts negative feedback effects on energy intake. In common obesity, leptin loses the ability to inhibit energy intake and increase energy expenditure; this is termed leptin resistance. This review discusses the evidence in support of leptin resistance in mouse models and humans and the possible mechanisms of leptin resistance.
A potential role for fatty acid metabolism in the regulation of energy balance in the brain or in the periphery has been considered only recently. Fatty acid synthase (FAS) catalyzes the synthesis of long-chain fatty acids, whereas the breakdown of fatty acids by beta-oxidation is regulated by carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1, the rate-limiting enzyme for the entry of fatty acids into the mitochondria for oxidation. While the question of the physiological role of fatty acid metabolism remains to be resolved, studies indicate that inhibition of FAS or stimulation of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 using cerulenin or synthetic FAS inhibitors reduces food intake and incurs profound and reversible weight loss. Several hypotheses regarding the mechanisms by which these small molecules mediate their effects have been entertained. Centrally, these compounds alter the expression of hypothalamic neuropeptides, generally reducing the expression of orexigenic peptides. Whether through central, peripheral, or combined central and peripheral mechanisms, these compounds also increase energy consumption to augment weight loss. In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that at least part of C75's effects is mediated by modulation of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase, a member of an energy-sensing kinase family. These compounds, with chronic treatment, also alter gene expression peripherally to favor a state of enhanced energy consumption. Together, these effects raise the possibility that pharmacological alterations in fatty acid synthesis/degradation may serve as a target for obesity therapeutics.

Although ossiculoplasty, also known as ossicular chain reconstruction (OCR), was attempted initially in the early 1900s, it was not until the 1950s that it became commonplace and relatively well understood. Since then, there have been numerous technologic advances and a gain in the understanding of ossiculoplasty. However, successful OCR with resulting long-term stability can be a daunting task. Typically, the most common condition requiring revision OCR is chronic suppurative otitis media (COM) with or without cholesteatoma. Primary and revision OCR are performed also for blunt and penetrating trauma-induced conductive hearing loss, congenital defects (eg, atresia), and benign and malignant tumors. Typically, reconstruction in ears with COM is more difficult than in ears without infection. This article discusses the key factors involved in successful revision OCR.

CART is a neuropeptide that appears to play an important role in a variety of physiological processes. The major research focus into the function of CART peptide has been on feeding behavior, modulation of mesolimbic dopamine, and actions of psychostimulant drugs. The neuroanatomic expression profile of CART does however suggest other functions as well, and its presence within the limbic system points to a possible role in emotionality. There are now several published reports which describe a new role for CART as a mediator of anxiety-like behaviors in rodents. This review will summarize these findings and speculate on the mechanisms by which CART might be involved in the modulation of these behaviors. We will also consider what future studies need to be done to further clarify the role of this peptide in anxiety.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptides are putative neurotransmitters which appear to play a role in the rewarding and reinforcing effects of both natural (food) and unnatural (psychostimulants) stimuli. There is extensive anatomical, pharmacological, and behavioral evidence supporting the importance of CART peptides in psychostimulant, namely cocaine and amphetamine, abuse. For instance, CART mRNA and peptides are found in brain regions considered important in the reward and reinforcement of psychostimulants including the ventral tegmental area and the nucleus accumbens, which are part of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Consequently, in a pharmacological sense, CART peptides have been closely linked to the actions of mesolimbic dopamine. In addition, under certain conditions, psychostimulants alter CART mRNA and peptide levels. However, the exact conditions and mechanisms are unclear and may involve CART modulation by corticosterone and/or cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB). Finally, behavioral studies on CART and psychostimulants suggest a modulatory role for CART in the actions of psychostimulants as central administration of CART attenuates the behavioral effects of cocaine. This review discusses the anatomical, pharmacological, and behavioral evidence implicating a role for CART peptide in the rewarding and reinforcing properties of psychostimulants.
CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptides are neuropeptides expressed throughout the central nervous system and have been implicated in a variety of physiological processes. Research on the many physiological processes involving CART peptide have been somewhat limited by the lack of an identified CART antagonist. Development of CART peptide deficient mice has allowed scientists to further explore the many functions of CART peptide. This review briefly summarizes recent findings in the literature characterizing CART peptide deficient mice.
Over the past decade, CART peptide has been commonly associated with the rewarding and reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse and natural rewards such as food. The mesolimbic dopamine system is the predominant pathway involved in mediating reward and reinforcement. Many behavioral and neuroanatomical studies have been conducted in order to further elucidate the importance of CART-containing neurons within the mesolimbic dopamine system. This chapter will review the current knowledge of the localization, synaptic connectivity and neurochemical content of CART peptidecontaining neurons in nuclei of the mesolimbic reward pathway. These nuclei include the nucleus accumbens (NA), ventral midbrain, and the lateral hypothalamus (LH). In conclusion, an interconnected CART-containing loop between the NA, ventral midbrain and LH has evolved from these neuroanatomical studies that may have functional implications for CART peptide's involvement in reward and reinforcement.
CART peptides are important neuropeptides that are involved in a variety of physiologic processes. The regulation of the CART gene is critical since peptides are regulated and secreted in response to specific stimuli. CART mRNA must also be controlled in order to respond to specific stimuli such as psychostimulant drugs and leptin. The regulation of the CART gene is central to maintaining homeostasis of peptide production. The 5' upstream region of the CART gene contains powerful regulatory elements that must be involved in transcriptional regulation via different signaling pathways. This review touches on several aspects related to CART gene regulation such as: (i) CART genomic structure, (ii) stimuli that alter CART mRNA levels, (iii) promoter characterization, (iv) role of the cAMP/PKA/CREB signal transduction pathway, and (v) role of the CART 5' and 3' ends in CART mRNA regulation. The goal of this review is to present current data so as to encourage further work in the field of CART gene regulation.
Previous evidence obtained from several behavioral and biochemical studies suggested the existence of multiple CART receptors. However, identification of CART receptor binding has been largely unsuccessful until recently. The first evidence of CART signaling properties came from a study demonstrating that CART 55-102 inhibited voltage-dependent intracellular calcium signaling. More recent studies showed CART-induced dose- and time-dependent activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1 and 2 in AtT20 cell line. The activation of ERK was blocked by pertussis toxin but not genisten suggesting the involvement of Gi/o linked cascade in CART's signaling properties in AtT20 cells. Shortly after these findings, the evidence of CART 61-102 specific binding was obtained from the same cell line. This study demonstrated that [(125)I]-CART 61-102 was displaced only by active CART peptide but not by inactive CART fragments or several other unrelated peptides or drugs. The [(125)I]-CART 61-102 binding was saturable and it had a high affinity for a single site in AtT20 cells. The binding was also dependent on time, pH, temperature and protein concentration. The average (+/-S.E.M.) B(max) and K(d) values were 101.4+/-8.8 fmol/mg protein and 21.9+/-8.0 pM, respectively. These data indicate the existence of specific CART receptor binding in AtT20 cells where CART signaling has been demonstrated. The identification of a receptor clone in these cells may help us elucidate CART receptors in other tissues. Because CART is implicated with several physiological functions including feeding, drug reward and stress, identification of a CART receptor would provide a novel target for the development of pharmacological tools and drugs for obesity and other disorders.
The central role of CART peptide in feeding, drug abuse and stress has been widely researched however, CART's role in the peripheral system are less explored. CART peptide is present in a variety of peripheral tissues including sympathetic ganglion neurons, adrenal glands, gut, pancreas and blood. Studies that examined circulating CART demonstrated that the active fragment with a molecular weight of CART55-102 is present in the blood of rats and rhesus macaques. Interestingly, CART expression in these species exhibits a distinctive diurnal rhythm which correlates with the respective daily rhythms of corticosterone and feeding. In the rat, adrenalectomy significantly reduces blood CART levels and abolishes its daily rhythm while corticosterone replacement reinstates CART expression to control levels. In addition, direct administration of corticosterone significantly increases CART blood levels while administration of corticosterone synthesis blocker metyrapone, inhibits CART blood levels. These data suggest that the adrenal gland could be a source of blood CART and that glucocorticoids may play a role in the generation of CART's diurnal rhythm. Moreover, fuel availability may be important in the control of CART levels and its daily rhythm, since 24 h food restriction alters CART levels and abolishes its rhythm. In addition to blood, both CART peptide and mRNA exhibit food-dependent diurnal rhythm in discrete rat brain areas including the nucleus accumbens, amygdala and hypothalamus. Altogether, these findings suggest that CART is influenced by hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal interactions and that it may play a role in multiple physiological processes possibly involving feeding, stress, reward and motivation.
In three experiments, we investigated whether the amount of category overlap constrains the decision strategies used in category learning, and whether such constraints depend on the type of category structures used. Experiments 1 and 2 used a category-learning task requiring perceptual integration of information from multiple dimensions (an information-integration task) and Experiment 3 used a task requiring the application of an explicit strategy (a rule-based task). In the information-integration task, participants used perceptual-integration strategies at moderate levels of category overlap, but explicit strategies at extreme levels of overlap--even when such strategies were suboptimal. In contrast, in the rule-based task, participants used explicit strategies, regardless of the level of category overlap. These data are consistent with a multiple systems view of category learning, and suggest that categorization strategy depends on the type of task that is used, and on the degree to which each stimulus is probabilistically associated with the contrasting categories.
Microglial cells are considered as the pathologic sensors of the brain. In this paper, we review mechanisms of purinergic signaling in microglia. As ATP is not only considered as a physiological signaling substance but is also elevated in pathology, it is not surprising that microglia express a variety of P2X, P2Y and adenosin receptors. As a rapid physiological event, ATP triggers a cationic conductance, increases the potassium conductance and also elicits a calcium response. As a long-term effect, purinergic receptor activation is linked to the movement of microglial processes and, in the context of pathology, to chemotaxis. The purinoreceptors also modulate the release of substances from microglia, such as cytokines, nitric oxide, or superoxide, which are important in the context of a pathologic response.
Expression of specific gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor subunit genes in neurons is affected by endogenous modulators of receptor function such as neuroactive steroids. Neuroactive steroids such as the progesterone metabolite allopregnanolone might thus exert differential effects on GABA(A) receptor plasticity in neurons, likely accounting for some of the physiological actions of these compounds. Here we summarise experimental data obtained in vitro that show how fluctuations in the concentration of progesterone regulate both the expression and function of GABA(A) receptors. The data described in this manuscript are in agreement with the notion that fluctuations in the concentrations of progesterone and its metabolite allopregnanolone play a major role in the temporal pattern of expression of various subunits of the GABA(A) receptor. Thus, rapid and long-lasting increases or decreases in the concentrations of these steroid derivatives observed in physiological and patho-physiological conditions, or induced by pharmacological treatments, might elicit selective changes in GABA(A) receptor gene expression and function in specific neuronal populations. Given both the importance of GABA(A) receptors in the regulation of neuronal excitability and the large fluctuations in the plasma and brain concentrations of neuroactive steroids associated with physiological conditions and the response to environmental stimuli, these compounds are likely among the most relevant endogenous modulators that could affect emotional and affective behaviors.

Free sialic acid storage disorders, Salla disease (SD) and Infantile sialic acid storage disease (ISSD), are lysosomal storage diseases due to impaired function of a sialic acid transporter, sialin, at the lysosomal membrane. Several mutations of the sialin gene, SLC17A5, are known, leading either to the severe neonatal/infantile disease or to the milder, adult-type developmental disorder, Salla disease. Free sialic acid accumulation in lysosomes causes increased tissue concentration and consequently elevated urinary excretion. Prenatal diagnosis of SASD is possible either by determination of free sialic acid concentration or by mutation analysis of the SLC17A5 gene in fetal specimen, in chorionic villus biopsy particularly. Both techniques have been successfully applied in several cases, sialic acid assay more often in ISSD cases but mutation analysis preferentially in SD. Sialic acid assay of amniotic fluid supernatant or cultured amniotic fluid cells may give erroneous results and should not be used for prenatal diagnosis of these disorders. The present comments are mainly based on our experience of prenatal diagnosis of SD in Finnish families. A founder mutation in SLC17A5 gene, 115C-&gt; T, represents 95% of the disease alleles in the Finnish SD patients, which provides a unique possibility to apply mutation analysis. Therefore, molecular studies have successfully been used in 17 families since the identification of the gene and the characterization of the SD mutations. Earlier, eight prenatal studies were performed by measuring the free sialic acid concentration in chorionic villus samples.

People often make logically sound decisions using explicit reasoning strategies, but sometimes it pays to rely on more implicit &quot;gut-level&quot; intuition. The transitive inference paradigm has been widely used as a test of explicit logical reasoning in animals and humans, but it can also be solved in a more implicit manner. Some researchers have argued that the hippocampus supports relational memories required for making logical inferences. Here we show that the benzodiazepene midazolam, which inactivates the hippocampus, causes profound explicit memory deficits in healthy participants, but enhances their ability in making implicit transitive inferences. These results are consistent with neurocomputational models of the basal ganglia-dopamine system that learn to make decisions through positive and negative reinforcement. We suggest that disengaging the hippocampal explicit memory system can be advantageous for this more implicit form of learning.
Our reduced ability to correctly report two sequentially presented targets is seen in the robust effect known as the attentional blink (AB; Raymond, Shapiro, and Arnell, 1992). One recent report (Olivers and Nieuwenhuis, 2005) strikingly reveals the AB to be virtually abolished when non-task-demanding music occurs in the background. The authors suggest that a diffuse attentional state is the mediating factor. Here, we seek to broaden the finding's generality by determining if task-irrelevant visual motion and flicker also attenuate the AB. In our experiments, the AB task was presented together with a background field of moving dots that could move away from or toward the central AB task, or flicker. In the control condition, the dots remained static. The AB was attenuated--though to different degrees--in all experimental conditions, but not in the static condition. Our findings add to the generality of the previous conclusions, and we emphasize an account based on the overallocation of attention.



The rapid rise in the use of mobile communications has raised concerns about health issues related to low-level microwave radiation. The head and brain are usually the most exposed targets in mobile phone users. In the brain, two types of glial cells, the astroglial and the microglial cells, are interesting in the context of biological effects from microwave exposure. These cells are widely distributed in the brain and are directly involved in the response to brain damage as well as in the development of brain cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether 900 MHz radiation could affect these two different glial cell types in culture by studying markers for damage-related processes in the cells. Primary cultures enriched in astroglial cells were exposed to 900 MHz microwave radiation in a temperature-controlled exposure system at specific absorption rates (SARs) of 3 W/kg GSM modulated wave (mw) for 4, 8 and 24 h or 27 W/kg continuous wave (cw) for 24 h, and the release into the extracellular medium of the two pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin 6 (Il6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (Tnfa) was analyzed. In addition, levels of the astroglial cell-specific reactive marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (Gfap), whose expression dynamics is different from that of cytokines, were measured in astroglial cultures and in astroglial cell-conditioned cell culture medium at SARs of 27 and 54 W/kg (cw) for 4 or 24 h. No significant differences could be detected for any of the parameters studied at any time and for any of the radiation characteristics. Total protein levels remained constant during the experiments. Microglial cell cultures were exposed to 900 MHz radiation at an SAR of 3 W/kg (mw) for 8 h, and I16, Tnfa, total protein and the microglial reactivity marker ED-1 (a macrophage activation antigen) were measured. No significant differences were found. The morphology of the cultured astroglial cells and microglia was studied and appeared to be unaffected by microwave irradiation. Thus this study does not provide evidence for any effect of the microwave radiation used on damage-related factors in glial cells in culture.
Maturation of neuroendocrine regulations is an extremely complex process made up of several stages, that can be permanently affected by any exogenous substances able to interfere with the hormonal signalling at various levels. The Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (EDCs) are a heterogeneous group of xenobiotics with potential endocrine activities which have been identified as priority risk factors in toxicological research. The present review is aimed at suggesting a number of endocrine and behavioural endpoints to be used in experimental studies to: (i) characterize more thoroughly the functional effects of developmental exposure to agents known to act as endocrine disruptors and (ii) unmask possible interferences with the maturation of the hypothalamus-hypophysis-gonad/thyroid (HHG/Th) axis by different class of xenobiotics not considered as EDCs. A combined testing strategy, considering both markers of endocrine/hormonal maturation and behavioural endpoints under hormonal control in laboratory rodents, may evidence even subtle perturbations of the neuroendocrine homeostasis, that often go undetected.
Previous research has established that exposure to novel male mice can disrupt intrauterine implantation of fertilised ova in inseminated females and that much of this effect is mediated by factors in the male urine. The present studies were designed to examine whether the steroid content of male urine is sufficient to account for this effect. Pregnancy was terminated by exogenous 17beta-oestradiol administered intranasally on days 2-4 after insemination in doses as low as 0.14 microg/day. Enzyme immunoassay indicated that male mouse urine reliably contains unconjugated 17beta-oestradiol and testosterone. A small but significant increase in the amount of urinary oestradiol was observed in males housed nearby previously inseminated females as opposed to those housed in isolation. This influence was absent in the sire and absent in novel males when the sire was also present. The quantity of active steroids in novel male urine approaches the level sufficient to account for the disruption of implantation in nearby inseminated females.

The low tactile threshold in preterm infants when they are in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), while their physiological systems are unstable and immature, potentially renders them more vulnerable to the effects of repeated invasive procedures. There is a small but growing literature on pain and tactile responsivity following procedural pain in the NICU, or early surgery. Long-term effects of repeated pain in the neonatal period on neurodevelopment await further research. However, there are multiple sources of stress in the NICU, which contribute to inducing high overall 'allostatic load', therefore determining specific effects of neonatal pain in human infants is challenging.
This paper gives an overview of current science related to the concept of fetal pain. We have answered three important questions: (1) does fetal pain exist? (2) does management of fetal pain benefit the unborn child? and (3) which techniques are available to provide good fetal analgesia?
Esthesioneuroblastoma (olfactory neuroblastoma) is an uncommon neuroectodermal tumor. Its biological activity ranges from indolent growth to local recurrence and rapid widespread metastasis. Treatment options consist of surgical resection followed by radiation therapy for primary lesions and the addition of chemotherapy for advanced, recurrent, or metastatic lesions. Patients often present with nasal obstruction, rhinorrhea, recurrent epistaxis, hyposmia, or anosmia. However, we report the highly unusual case of a patient with an esthesioneuroblastoma who presented with atypical symptoms of headaches, sinus congestion, and fatigue before acutely losing consciousness. Imaging showed a large frontal skull-based tumor associated with intratumoral hemorrhage. The findings prompted an emergent combined anterior craniofacial resection with gross total resection of the tumor. Except for anosmia, the patient recovered almost completely. Postoperatively, she received adjuvant intensity-modulated radiation therapy and chemotherapy. This is the first reported case of an esthesioneuroblastoma presenting with hemorrhage and rapidly declining mental status, an acute neurological manifestation of which clinicians should be aware.

Arousal systems play a topical neurophysiologic role in protecting and tailoring sleep duration and depth. When they appear in NREM sleep, arousal responses are not limited to a single EEG pattern but are part of a continuous spectrum of EEG modifications ranging from high-voltage slow rhythms to low amplitude fast activities. The hierarchic features of arousal responses are reflected in the phase A subtypes of CAP (cyclic alternating pattern) including both slow arousals (dominated by the &lt;1Hz oscillation) and fast arousals (ASDA arousals). CAP is an infraslow oscillation with a periodicity of 20-40s that participates in the dynamic organization of sleep and in the activation of motor events. Physiologic, paraphysiologic and pathologic motor activities during NREM sleep are always associated with a stereotyped arousal pattern characterized by an initial increase in EEG delta power and heart rate, followed by a progressive activation of faster EEG frequencies. These findings suggest that motor patterns are already written in the brain codes (central pattern generators) embraced with an automatic sequence of EEG-vegetative events, but require a certain degree of activation (arousal) to become visibly apparent. Arousal can appear either spontaneously or be elicited by internal (epileptic burst) or external (noise, respiratory disturbance) stimuli. Whether the outcome is a physiologic movement, a muscle jerk or a major epileptic attack will depend on a number of ongoing factors (sleep stage, delta power, neuro-motor network) but all events share the common trait of arousal-activated phenomena.



We study a learning rule based upon the temporal correlation (weighted by a learning kernel) between incoming spikes and the internal state of the postsynaptic neuron, building upon previous studies of spike timing dependent synaptic plasticity (Kempter, R., Gerstner, W., van Hemmen, J.L., Wagner, H., 1998. Extracting Oscillations: Neuronal coincidence detection with noisy periodic spike input. Neural computation 10, 1987-2017; Kempter, R., Gerstner, W., van Hemmen, J.L., 1999. Hebbian learning and spiking neurons. Physical Reviewm E59, 4498-4514; van Hemmen, J.L., 2001. Theory of synaptic plasticity. In: Moss, F., Gielen, S. (Eds.), Handbook of biological physics. vol. 4, Neuro Informatics, neural modelling, Elsevier, Amsterdam, pp. 771-823. Our learning rule for the synaptic weight w(ij) is [formula: see text] where the t(j,mu) are the arrival times of spikes from the presynaptic neuron j and the function u(t) describes the state of the postsynaptic neuron i. Thus, the spike-triggered average contained in the inner integral is weighted by a kernel Gamma(s), the learning window, positive for negative, negative for positive values of the time difference s between post- and presynaptic activity. An antisymmetry assumption for the learning window enables us to derive analytical expressions for a general class of neuron models and to study the changes in input-output relationships following from synaptic weight changes. This is a genuinely non-linear effect (Song, S., Miller, K., Abbott, L., 2000. Competitive Hebbian learning through spike-timing dependent synaptic plasticity. Nature Neuroscience 3, 919-926).
Exposure to pollutant or toxic substances is known to induce adverse health effects but few studies have been devoted to study the impact on olfactory functioning although neuroreceptors in the nasal cavity are directly in contact with volatile molecules. Thus, this work was designed to evaluate in mice the potential modifications of the olfactory functioning during (1 month) and after (1 month) a prolonged toluene exposure at both sensitive/perceptive and cellular levels. Mice were exposed to 1000ppm of toluene for 5h/day, 5days/week for 4 weeks. Firstly, behavioral evaluation (T-maze test) to toluene sensitivity showed a constant decrease during all the 4 weeks of exposure (W1-W4) which continued during 2 weeks after the exposure (W5, W6). In contrast, during the last 2 weeks of the experiment (W7, W8), the sensitivity of mice to toluene went back to normal. Secondly, structural modifications, i.e. density of cells and thickness of olfactory epithelium were observed soon after the outset of exposure. The number of cells did not change at the beginning of exposure (W1, W2), decreased markedly later (W3, W4), increased significantly the first week of the recovery period (W5) and stayed stable during the following weeks (W6-W8). Concerning the thickness of neuroepithelium, the results at W1 showed a decrease followed by an increase suggesting an inflammatory process (W2, W3). In contrast, the results of W4 revealed an abrupt decrease of the thickness whereas the return to normal arose immediately at the outset of recovery period.
The salience map is a crucial concept for many theories of visual attention. On this map, each object in the scene competes for selection - the more conspicuous the object, the greater its representation, and the more likely it will be chosen. In recent years, the firing patterns of single neurons have been interpreted using this framework. Here, we review evidence showing that the expression of salience is remarkably similar across structures, remarkably different across tasks, and modified in important ways when the salient object is consistent with the goals of the participant. These observations have important ramifications for theories of attention. We conclude that priority--the combined representation of salience and relevance--best describes the firing properties of neurons.
Synaesthesia has been known to scientific research for over 100 years but has undergone something of a renaissance recently as new investigations begin to uncover its neurological basis. Rather than being an anomaly, it might offer beneficial insights into the basis of normal perception. A new study by Esterman et al. epitomises this current trend and claims to show that the posterior parietal cortex is a crucial locus of synaesthetic experience. As the posterior parietal cortex is commonly linked to normal sensory integration, Esterman et al.'s finding might lend support to the claim that synaesthesia is an extension of the normal perceptual processes assumed to occur in binding.
Innate behaviors offer a unique opportunity to use genetic analysis to dissect and characterize the neural substrates of complex behavioral programs. Courtship in Drosophila involves a complex series of stereotyped behaviors that include numerous exchanges of multimodal sensory information over time. As we will discuss in this review, recent work has demonstrated that male-specific expression of Fruitless transcription factors (Fru(M) proteins) is necessary and sufficient to confer the potential for male courtship behaviors. Fru(M) factors program neurons of the male central and peripheral nervous systems whose function is dedicated to sexual behaviors. This circuitry seems to integrate sensory information to define behavioral states and regulate conserved neural elements for sex-specific behavioral output. The principles that govern the circuitry specified by Fru(M) expression might also operate in subcortical networks that govern innate behaviors in mammals.
Neurons and glia talk to each other at synapses. Glia sense the level of synaptic activity and consequently regulate its efficacy via the release of neuromodulators. One such glia-derived modulator is D-serine, an amino acid that serves as an endogenous ligand for the strychnine-insensitive glycine-binding site of NMDA glutamate receptors. Here, we provide an overview of recent findings on the mechanisms of its synthesis, release and clearance at synapses, with an emphasis on the dichotomy of behaviour of this novel messenger in the brain. The discovery of the good and ugly faces of this gliotransmitter is an important issue of modern neuroscience that has repercussions for the treatment of brain disorders.
We previously identified a 66 kDa axonemal protein (Ci-Axp66.0) in sperm of the ascidian Ciona intestinalis. Here we found that Ci-Axp66.0 shows sequence similarity to the DC2 subunit of the Chlamydomonas outer arm docking complex. Analysis of secondary structure of Ci-Axp66.0 suggested that the N-terminal two-thirds of the molecule is rich in coiled coil structure, as in Chlamydomonas DC2. Immunogold localization revealed that it is located in the vicinity of outer arm dynein. Ci-Axp66.0 was partly extracted from the axonemes by a high salt solution and co-purified with outer arm dynein. This co-purification was not affected by the absence of Mg(2+) in isolation buffer, indicating that Ci-Axp66.0 is associated with outer arm dynein. These results suggest that Ci-Axp66.0 is a component of the outer arm dynein docking complex in the axonemes of Ciona sperm.
Recently, the nucleotide sequences of entire genomes became available. This information combined with older sequencing data discloses the exact chromosomal location of millions of nucleotide markers stored in the databases at NCBI, EMBO or DDBJ. Despite having resolved the intron/exon structures of all described genes within these genomes with a stroke of a pen, the sequencing data opens up other interesting possibilities. For example, the genomic mapping of the end sequences of the human, murine and rat BAC libraries generated at The Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR), reveals now the entire encompassed sequence of the inserts for more than a million of these clones. Since these clones are individually stored, they are now an invaluable source for experiments which depend on genomic DNA. Isolation of smaller fragments from such clones with standard methods is a time consuming process. We describe here a reliable one-step cloning technique to obtain a DNA fragment with a defined size and sequence from larger genomic clones in less than 48 hours using a standard vector with a multiple cloning site, and common restriction enzymes and equipment. The only prerequisites are the sequences of ends of the insert and of the underlying genome.
Asymmetric distributions of activities of the protein kinases Akt and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta) are critical for the formation of neuronal polarity. However, the mechanisms underlying polarized regulation of this pathway remain unclear. In this study, we report that the instability of Akt regulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is required for neuron polarity. Preferential distribution in the axons was observed for Akt but not for its target GSK-3beta. A photoactivatable GFP fused to Akt revealed the preferential instability of Akt in dendrites. Akt but not p110 or GSK-3beta was ubiquitinated. Suppressing the UPS led to the symmetric distribution of Akt and the formation of multiple axons. These results indicate that local protein degradation mediated by the UPS is important in determining neuronal polarity.

The loss of intracellular K+ promotes neuronal apoptosis. The mechanism by which K+ acts on apoptosis, however, remains largely unknown. Here we showed that K+ selectively affects DNA binding activity of transcriptional factors in vitro. Low K+ concentration ([K+]) promoted the DNA binding activity of p53 and Forkhead, proapoptotic transcriptional factors, whereas it inhibited that of cAMP-responsive element-binding protein, an anti-apoptotic transcriptional factor. In contrast, K+ did not affect the DNA binding activity of Ying Yang 1, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein and early growth response protein-1. The expression of bax and bim, proapoptotic genes known to be regulated by p53 and Forkhead, respectively, was enhanced in cortical neurons deprived of serum, a condition known to cause K+ loss, whereas the expression of c-fos, a cAMP-responsive element-binding protein target gene, was inhibited. Furthermore, blocking K+ channels suppressed the enhancement of bim mRNA level and the reduction of c-fos mRNA level induced by K+ loss, whereas it had no effect on the stimulation of Forkhead or cAMP-responsive element-binding protein induced by K+ loss. These results suggest that low intracellular [K+] selectively affects DNA binding activity of transcriptional factors to regulate gene expression related to neuronal apoptosis.
Alpha-synuclein has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. Recent studies revealed its role as a negative regulator of dopamine release in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Alpha-synuclein may, however, play a more universal role in dopaminergic neurotransmission. It may represent an endogenous modulator in the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, and be involved in brain reward. We show here that the absence of alpha-synuclein resulting from spontaneous mutation in a subline of C57BL/6J mice greatly increased the rate of operant behavior during intracranial self-stimulation. The present work demonstrates that a lack of alpha-synuclein sensitized the brain reward system, implying that the levels of alpha-synuclein expression may predispose an individual to drug abuse or to a number of psychiatric diseases.
Evidence of glutamatergic dysfunction in schizophrenia associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor has historically demonstrated changes primarily attributable to neurons. We propose an astrocytic component to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dysfunction in this illness. We studied the expression of serine racemase, an astrocytic enzyme which synthesizes the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor coagonist D-serine, using Western blot analysis in postmortem hippocampus and cortex in schizophrenia and a comparison group. We found increased expression in the hippocampus in schizophrenia. This is the first study to demonstrate alterations in schizophrenia of an astrocytic enzyme responsible for synthesizing a neuromodulator, and further evidence that astrocytes may play a direct role in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor dysfunction in schizophrenia.
Cerebral cortical activity in healthy, full-term human neonates (10 boys and 10 girls) was evaluated using spectral estimation of electroencephalogram frequency content with new equipment and analysis technique allowing the assessment of the lowest frequencies (i.e. infraslow waves). The activity was analysed under quiet sleep and active wakefulness taking sex into consideration. During sleep, the mean amount of infraslow activity was 27% larger in boys, whereas during wakefulness the average amount of higher frequencies was 17% larger in girls. Both these differences indicate an earlier maturation of cortical function in girls than in boys.
Sensory stimulation is an essential component of neuronal functions, including information processing, dendritic and axonal refinement, synaptic plasticity, and neuronal survival. We examined the roles of sensory stimulation in the maintenance of olfactory sensory neurons in the olfactory epithelium using the adult mouse olfactory system as the model system. Obstruction of sensory stimulation through unilateral naris occlusion caused downregulation of proliferation and upregulation of apoptosis of neurons in the olfactory epithelium. Sensory stimulation is therefore important in maintaining homeostasis in the adult olfactory epithelium. Our study contributes to further understanding the roles and mechanisms of sensory stimulation in the postnatal neuronal development as well as to the damage and potential treatments of patients who suffer recurrent nasal obstruction.
Magnetic brain responses were recorded to clarify the cortical representation of vowel processing in Japanese. We investigated the peak latencies and equivalent current dipoles of the auditory N1m responses to the Japanese vowels [a], [i], [o], and [u]. In intraindividual analyses for a single participant, well-replicated results for the dipole parameters supported the existence of phoneme-specific cortical maps for vowels. In the interindividual analyses for the eight participants, [a] and [i] elicited significantly earlier N1m responses than [u], and the dipole for [i] was more posteriorly oriented than [a] in the left hemisphere. The results of the current study suggest left hemispheric predominance in vowel processing and that factors associated with a different language system may modify the cortical map.
The present study investigated whether the human mirror-neuron system exhibits gender differences. Neuromagenetic mu (approximately 20 Hz) oscillations were recorded over the right primary motor cortex, which reflect the mirror neuron activity, in 10 female and 10 male participants while they observed the videotaped hand actions and moving dot. In accordance with previous studies, all participants had mu suppression during the observation of hand action, indicating activation of primary motor cortex. Interestingly, the female participants displayed apparently stronger (P &lt; 0.05) suppression for the hand action than for the moving dot whereas the men showed the opposite (P &lt; 0.05). These findings have implications for the extreme male brain theory of autism and support the hypothesis of a dysfunctional mirror-neuron system in autism.
The pretectum is one of the primary visual centers, and plays an important role in the visuomotor reflexes. It also receives projections from the cerebellar nuclei that are considered to regulate these reflexes. Gamma aminobutylic acid (GABA) and glutamate are supposed to be two major neurotransmitters of the projection neurons of the cerebellar nuclei. We double labeled the projecting neurons with a tracer, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), and with an antiserum to glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme that synthesizes GABA. The results indicated that about 40% of the pretectal-projecting neurons of the cerebellar nuclei were GAD immunoreactive. The GAD positive pretectal-projecting neurons were significantly smaller than the GAD negative projecting neurons. Our findings thus suggest the existence of two distinct cerebello-pretectal projection systems: one is mediated by GABAergic inhibitory projections, while the other is mediated by non-GABAergic, probably glutamatergic excitatory ones.
In the rat dentate gyrus, mu opioid receptor (MOR) agonists disinhibit principal cells, promoting excitation, but whether MOR protein is differentially distributed to interneuron subtypes is unknown. Here, the distribution of MOR immunoreactivity was semi-quantitatively examined in neurochemically identified interneurons using fluorescence microscopy. We find that MOR- and parvalbumin-immunoreactivities are frequently co-localized, while MOR- and somatostatin-immunoreactivities are less commonly co-localized. This suggests that MORs are most frequently on interneurons specialized to inhibit granule cell output, and are on a limited number of interneurons that inhibit granule cell distal dendrites.
Although TRPV(1) vanilloid receptors (TRPV(1)Rs) have been assumed to be present in the brain, their role is not well-defined. Here, we tested the widely used TRPV(1)R agonists (E)-capsaicin (0.1-100 microM) and resiniferatoxin (RTX, 0.1 microM) on resting and K(+)-evoked Ca(2+) entry and radiolabelled GABA release in rat hippocampal nerve terminals. (E)-capsaicin and RTX failed to evoke Ca(2+) transients or to trigger [(3)H]GABA outflow. Both (E)-capsaicin (EC(50), 40.4 microM) and its enantiomer (Z)-capsaicin (EC(50), 22.9 microM), which is inactive at the TRPV(1)R, inhibited the K(+)-evoked Ca(2+) entry, and to similar extent, the Ca(2+)-dependent K(+)-evoked [(3)H]GABA release. The TRPV(1)R enhancer/partial agonist 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (1-300 microM) induced rapid Ca(2+) entry. None of the above-mentioned findings proved to be sensitive to the TRPV(1)R antagonists iodoresiniferatoxin (I-RTX; 3 microM) and SB366791 (3 microM). The CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist AM251 (EC(50), 1.1 microM) and I-RTX (EC(50), 4.6 microM) also diminished the K(+)-evoked Ca(2+) entry per se. We observed competitive antagonism between I-RTX and AM251, indicating that the two molecules may act at the same site. In conclusion, there is a need to examine the discrepancy between ex vivo and in vitro data to understand the neurochemical and physiological functions of brain TRPV(1)Rs.
Television viewing (TVV) has been linked with obesity, possibly through increased sedentary behavior and/or through increased ingestion during TVV. The proposition that TVV causes increased feeding, however, has not been subjected to experimental verification until recently. Our objective was to determine if the amount eaten of two familiar, palatable, high-density foods (pizza and macaroni and cheese) was increased during a 30-min meal when watching TV. In a within-subjects design, one group of undergraduates (n = 10) ate pizza while watching a TV show of their choice for one session and when listening to a symphony during the other session. A second group of undergraduates (n = 10) ate macaroni and cheese (M&amp;C). TVV increased caloric intake by 36% (one slice on average) for pizza and by 71% for M&amp;C. Eating patterns also differed between conditions. Although the length of time to eat a slice of pizza remained stable between viewing conditions, the amount of time before starting another slice was shorter during TVV. In contrast, M&amp;C was eaten at a faster rate and for a longer period of time during TVV. Thus, watching television increases the amount eaten of high-density, palatable, familiar foods and may constitute one vector contributing to the current obesity crisis.
Partial peripheral nerve injury often leads to chronic pain states, including allodynia and hyperalgesia. The purpose of this study was to investigate the involvement of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and opioid receptors in the behavioural responses following chronic constriction nerve injury (CCI). The animals were injected a combination of MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg, 20 min before, and 6 h after the operation) and morphine (8 mg/kg, 30 min prior to the operation) and were tested for allodynia and hyperalgesia reactions at 0, 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 days after CCI. Compound action potentials were also recorded from the injured nerve 2 weeks post-operation to indicate nerve injury state electrophysiologically. Our results indicate that the CCI model importantly influences the behavioural responses to both the thermal and mechanical stimulations. Also, the pre-emptive co-administration of MK-801 and morphine has suppressive effects on the cold allodynia but a slight alleviation on the mechano-allodynia and heat hyperalgesia.
We have recently adapted a reinstatement model, commonly used to study relapse to drugs of abuse, to study the role of stress and anxiety in relapse to palatable food seeking [Ghitza UE, Gray SM, Epstein DH, Rice KC, Shaham Y. The anxiogenic drug yohimbine reinstates palatable food seeking in a rat relapse model: a role of CRF(1) receptors. Neuropsychopharmacology [in press]]. We found that the anxiogenic drug yohimbine, as well as pellet-priming, reinstate food seeking in food restricted rats previously trained to lever press for palatable food pellets (25% fat, 48% carbohydrate). Here, we studied the generality of the effect of yohimbine and pellet priming on reinstatement of food seeking by using three distinct pellet types: non-sucrose carbohydrate (NSC) (5.5% fat, 60% carbohydrate, 4.5% fiber), fiber (0% fat, 0% carbohydrate, 91% fiber) and sucrose (0% fat, 91% carbohydrate, 4% fiber). Rats were placed on a restricted diet (75-80% of daily standard food) and for 9-12 intermittent training days (9 h/day, every other day) lever-pressed for the food pellets under a fixed ratio-1 (20-s timeout) reinforcement schedule. Subsequently, the rats were given 9-10 daily extinction sessions during which lever-presses were not reinforced, and were then injected with yohimbine (0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 mg/kg, i.p.) or given a single food pellet to induce reinstatement of food seeking. Yohimbine reinstated food seeking previously reinforced by NSC and sucrose pellets, but had a minimal effect on food seeking in rats previously trained to lever press for fiber pellets. Pellet priming produced a greater degree of reinstatement of lever pressing in rats previously trained on NSC pellets than in rats trained on fiber or sucrose pellets. Results suggest that the magnitude of the effect of yohimbine and pellet priming on reinstatement of food seeking depends in part on the composition of the food pellets used during training.
Estradiol exerts an inhibitory effect on food intake via interactions with anorexigenic peptides, like cholecystokinin, that function to decrease meal size. It is currently unknown whether estradiol also interacts with orexigenic compounds implicated in the physiological control of food intake. Thus, the primary goal of this study was to determine whether estradiol decreases the orexigenic effect of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), a neuropeptide that, like estradiol, appears to influence food intake by selectively affecting the controls of meal size. Food and water intake were monitored following lateral ventricular (icv) infusions of 5 mug MCH or saline vehicle in oil- and estradiol-treated ovariectomized rats. MCH increased food intake throughout the first 4 h of the dark phase in oil-treated rats, but only for the last 2 h of the same 4-h interval in estradiol-treated rats. As a result, the orexigenic effect of MCH was significantly lower in estradiol-treated rats, relative to oil-treated rats. During this interval of MCH-stimulated feeding, a prandial increase in water intake was not observed in either oil- or estradiol-treated rats. We conclude that estradiol decreases the orexigenic effect of MCH in ovariectomized rats.
We have previously demonstrated that old and young rats mount similar fevers after intraperitoneal (i.p.) LPS injection at a warm ambient temperature (Ta) of 31 degrees C, but not at a cooler Ta of 21 degrees C. LPS stimulates the synthesis and release of proinflammatory cytokines, particularly interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), necessary for fever development, and possibly this is attenuated at the lower Ta. If so, then administration of exogenous IL-1 beta should enable old rats to mount fevers equivalent to those of young rats regardless of Ta. Here, young (3-5 months) and old (23-29 months) Long-Evans rats were maintained at Ta 21 or 31 degrees C for 3 days prior to i.p. or intravenous (i.v.) injection of rat recombinant IL-1 beta (1 microg/kg) or vehicle. Three days later, rats were given the alternate injection at the same T(a). At least 5 days later, the same rats were injected at the other Ta. Body temperature was continuously monitored throughout the experiments. Young rats mounted fevers after LPS at both Ta's and i.p. fevers were lower than i.v. fevers. Old rats developed fevers that were equivalent to those of young rats at 31 degrees C regardless of route of administration, but no fever responses were evident at 21 degrees C. These data suggest that the attenuated fever of old rats is not due to an inability to produce IL-1 beta, but rather to a deficiency further along in the fever pathway. In addition, these results show that, as with LPS, Ta plays a role in the ability of old rats to mount fever in response to IL-1 beta.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia. Research advances have enabled detailed understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of the hallmarks of the disease--ie, plaques, composed of amyloid beta (Abeta), and tangles, composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. However, as our knowledge increases so does our appreciation for the pathogenic complexity of the disorder. Familial Alzheimer's disease is a very rare autosomal dominant disease with early onset, caused by mutations in the amyloid precursor protein and presenilin genes, both linked to Abeta metabolism. By contrast with familial disease, sporadic Alzheimer's disease is very common with more than 15 million people affected worldwide. The cause of the sporadic form of the disease is unknown, probably because the disease is heterogeneous, caused by ageing in concert with a complex interaction of both genetic and environmental risk factors. This seminar reviews the key aspects of the disease, including epidemiology, genetics, pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment, as well as recent developments and controversies.
Gymnema sylvestre (gymnema) contains gurmarin that selectively inhibits responses to sweet substances in rodents. The present study investigated possible interaction between gurmarin and the submandibular saliva in rats fed diet containing gymnema. Electrophoretic analyses demonstrated that relative amounts of two proteins in the saliva clearly increased in rats fed the gymnema diet. However, rats previously given section of the bilateral glossopharyngeal nerve showed no such salivary protein induction. Analyses of amino acid sequence indicate that two proteins are rat kallikrein 2 (rK2) and rat kallikrein 9 (rK9). rK2 and rK9, a family of serine proteases, have a striking resemblance of cleavage site in the protein substrates. Interestingly, gurmarin possesses comparable residues with those rK2 and rK9 prefer. The kallikreins significantly inhibited immunoreaction between gurmarin and antigurmarin antiserum. These results suggest that rK2 and rK9 increased by chemosensory information for the gymnema diet via the glossopharyngeal nerve might cleave gurmarin or at least cause specific binding with it.
The present study evaluated the neurotoxicity of various gangliosides against dopaminergic neurons in mesencephalic cultures. Among them, GD1a and GD1b but not GD3 and GQ1b were found to be neurotoxic against dopaminergic neurons as determined by TH immunocytochemistry and [(3)H]DA uptake. When quantified and expressed as a percentage of control values, treatment with 60-200 microg/ml GD1a and GD1b attenuated the number of TH-ip neurons by 31-47% and 37-55%, respectively, compared with non-treated control cultures. Consistent with the results of the TH immunocytochemistry, treatment with 60-200 microg/ml GD1a and GD1b reduced [(3)H]DA uptake levels by 27-56% and 41-60%, respectively, compared with non-treated control cultures. This neurotoxicity was almost completely abolished in the presence of neuraminidase, which removes the sialic acid residues from ganglioside, or in the treatment of insulin or IGF-1. Additional immunostaining also showed a significant loss of GABAergic neurons in GD1a or GD1b-treated cultures, indicating non-selective neurotoxicity of GD1a and GD1b. Moreover, these gangliosides had little effect on nitric oxide (NO) production in mesencephalic or microglia cultures. Together, these data suggest that GD1a and GD1b exert a direct neurotoxicity against dopaminergic neurons independent of NO and/or microglia.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the biosynthetic enzyme of catecholamine, is synthesized specifically in catecholaminergic neurons. Thus, it is possible that neuronal cell type-specific expression of this gene is coordinately regulated. One of the neuron-specific transcription regulators, neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF)/repressor element 1 (RE1) silencing transcription factor (REST), represses the expression of neuronal genes in non-neuronal cells. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms that control catecholaminergic neuronal expression of human TH, we initially characterized the 5' regulatory region. Previous studies have shown that a 3174 bp fragment of the human TH promoter confers specific expression to the reporter gene in dopaminergic neuron-like cell lines. Within this 5' regulatory region, three putative neuron-restrictive silencer elements (NRSE)/RE1 were identified, which bound NRSF/REST in a sequence-specific manner, as confirmed using EMSA and ChIP assays. In transient transfection assays, deletion or mutation of NRSE/RE1 elements led to a 7-fold increase in activity of the 3.2 kb TH promoter in human neural stem cells (NSCs), but had no major effects on differentiated neuron-like cells. Suppression of NRSF/REST functions with either the histone deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin, or DN-NRSF induced TH promoter activity. Our data strongly suggest that NRSF/REST functions as a repressor of TH transcription in NSCs via a mechanism dependent on the TH NRSE/RE1 sites.
Microglial interaction with extracellular beta-amyloid fibrils (fAbeta) is mediated through an ensemble of cell surface receptors, including the B-class scavenger receptor CD36, the alpha(6)beta(1)-integrin, and the integrin-associated protein/CD47. The binding of fAbeta to this receptor complex has been shown to drive a tyrosine kinase-based signaling cascade leading to production of reactive oxygen species and stimulation of phagocytic activity; however, little is known about the intracellular signaling cascades governing the microglial response to fAbeta. This study reports a direct mechanistic link between the fAbeta cell surface receptor complex and downstream signaling events responsible for NADPH oxidase activation and phagosome formation. The Vav guanine nucleotide exchange factor is tyrosine-phosphorylated in response to fAbeta peptides as a result of the engagement of the microglia fAbeta cell surface receptor complex. Co-immunoprecipitation studies demonstrate an Abeta-dependent association between Vav and both Lyn and Syk kinases. The downstream target of Vav, the small GTPase Rac1, is GTP-loaded in an Abeta-dependent manner. Rac1 is both an essential component of the NADPH oxidase and a critical regulator of microglial phagocytosis. The direct role of Vav in fAbeta-stimulated intracellular signaling cascades was established using primary microglia obtained from Vav(-/-) mice. Stimulation of Vav(-/-) microglia with fAbeta failed to generate NADPH oxidase-derived reactive oxygen species and displayed a dramatically attenuated phagocytic response. These findings directly link Vav phosphorylation to the Abeta-receptor complex and demonstrate that Vav activity is required for fAbeta-stimulated intracellular signaling events upstream of reactive oxygen species production and phagosome formation.
Glutamate transporters (excitatory amino acid transporters, EAAT) play an important role in maintaining extracellular glutamate homeostasis and regulating glutamate neurotransmission. However, very few studies have investigated the regulation of EAAT expression. A binding sequence for the regulatory factor X1 (RFX1) exists in the promoter region of the gene encoding for EAAT3, a neuronal EAAT, but not in the promoter regions of the genes encoding for EAAT1 and EAAT2, two glial EAATs. RFX proteins are transcription factors binding to X-boxes of DNA sequences. Although RFX proteins are necessary for the normal function of sensory neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans, their roles in the mammalian brain are not known. We showed that RFX1 increased EAAT3 expression and activity in C6 glioma cells. RFX1 binding complexes were found in the nuclear extracts of C6 cells. The activity of EAAT3 promoter as measured by luciferase reporter activity was increased by RFX1 in C6 cells and the neuron-like SH-SY5Y cells. However, RFX1 did not change the expression of EAAT2 proteins in the NRK52E cells. RFX1 proteins were expressed in the neurons of rat brain. A high expression level of RFX1 proteins was found in the neurons of cerebral cortex and Purkinje cells. Knockdown of the RFX1 expression by RFX1 antisense oligonucleotides decreased EAAT3 expression in rat cortical neurons in culture. These results suggest that RFX1 enhances the activity of EAAT3 promoter to increase the expression of EAAT3 proteins. This study provides initial evidence for the regulation of gene expression in the nervous cells by RFX1.
The antiapoptotic role of Bcl-2 can be regulated by its phosphorylation in serine and threonine residues located in a nonstructured loop that links BH3 and BH4 domains. p38 MAPK has been identified as one of the kinases able to mediate such phosphorylation, through direct interaction with Bcl-2 protein in the mitochondrial compartment. In this study, we identify, by using mass spectrometry techniques and specific anti-phosphopeptide antibodies, Ser(87) and Thr(56) as the Bcl-2 residues phosphorylated by p38 MAPK and show that phosphorylation of these residues is always associated with a decrease in the antiapoptotic potential of Bcl-2 protein. Furthermore, we obtained evidence that p38 MAPK-induced Bcl-2 phosphorylation plays a key role in the early events following serum deprivation in embryonic fibroblasts. Both cytochrome c release and caspase activation triggered by p38 MAPK activation and Bcl-2 phosphorylation are absent in embryonic fibroblasts from p38alpha knock-out mice (p38alpha(-/-) MEF), whereas they occur within 12 h of serum withdrawal in p38alpha(+/+) MEF; moreover, they can be prevented by p38 MAPK inhibitors and are not associated with the synthesis of the proapoptotic proteins Bax and Fas. Thus, Bcl-2 phosphorylation by activated p38 MAPK is a key event in the early induction of apoptosis under conditions of cellular stress.
The catalytic core of the peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL) domain of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase was investigated with respect to its ability to function as a ureidoglycolate lyase and the identity and role of its bound metal ions. The purified PAL catalytic core (PALcc) contains molar equivalents of calcium and zinc along with substoichiometric amounts of iron and functions as a ureidoglycolate lyase. Limiting iron availability in the cells synthesizing PALcc reduces the specific activity of the enzyme produced. Concentrated samples of native PALcc have an absorption maximum at 560 nm, suggestive of a phenolate-Fe(III) charge transfer complex. An essential role for a Tyr residue was confirmed by elimination of PAL activity following site-directed mutagenesis. Purified PALcc in which the only conserved Tyr residue (Tyr(654)) was mutated to Phe was secreted normally, but was catalytically inactive and lacked bound iron and bound zinc. Our data demonstrate an essential role for Tyr(654) and suggest that it serves as an Fe(III) ligand in an essential iron-zinc bimetallic site.
Compounds containing a 5-carbamoyl-8-fluoro-3-amino-3,4-dihydro-2H-1-benzopyran and a 3-alkylindole moiety linked through a common basic nitrogen were prepared and evaluated for 5-HT1A affinity, serotonin rat transporter affinity, and functional antagonist activity in vitro. 26a was found to be the most potent and selective compound in this series and was shown to possess neurochemical activity in vivo by producing acute and rapid increases in 5-HT in the rat frontal cortex.
Merlin and ezrin are homologous proteins with opposite effects on neoplastic growth. Merlin is a tumor suppressor inactivated in the neurofibromatosis 2 disease, whereas upregulated ezrin expression is associated with increased malignancy. Merlin's tumor suppressor mechanism is not known, although participation in cell cycle regulation has been suggested. To characterize merlin's biological activities, we screened for molecules that would interact with merlin but not ezrin. We identified the cyclin B-binding protein and cell cycle regulator HEI10 as a novel merlin-binding partner. The interaction is mediated by the alpha-helical domain in merlin and the coiled-coil domain in HEI10 and requires conformational opening of merlin. The two proteins show partial subcellular colocalization, which depends on cell cycle stage and cell adhesion. Comparison of Schwann cells and schwannoma cultures demonstrated that the distribution of HEI10 depends on merlin expression. In transfected cells, a constitutively open merlin construct affected HEI10 protein integrity. These results link merlin to the cell cycle control machinery and may help to understand its tumor suppressor function.
Sagittal slices of neonatal rat neocortex, extending from the prefrontal to the occipital area, were cultured separately or in pairs, oriented in such a way that axons projecting from the ventricular surface of each explant could innervate the other one. Functional connections were made between as well as within the explants, and spontaneous field potentials and associated action potentials occurred in variable bursts, and with varying degrees of synchrony. Spike-train analysis revealed that the activity patterns seen in these 'mega' co-cultures closely mimic 'trac alternant' patterns, consisting of trains of burst discharges recurring several times per minute, which are characteristic for the immature intact cerebral cortex during slow-wave sleep. The prefrontal region was consistently less active than the occipital area but the two were qualitatively similar with respect to their patterns of neuronal firing. Isolated mega-cultures, on the other hand, despite their large size, exhibited only intermittent brief bursts that closely resembled those observed both in occipital cortex tissue fragments and in dissociated cell cultures. The mega-co-culture preparation thus appears to give the best currently available approximation to intrinsic cerebral discharge patterns in vivo.
The vagus nerve is thought to participate in signal transduction from the immune system to the CNS. The role of the vagus in the physiological, behavioral and neurochemical responses to intraperitoneally (ip) injected interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) was studied using awake subdiaphragmatically vagotomized rats. The rats were injected ip with saline and IL-1beta (1 microg/rat) in random order. For the next 2-4 h, they were monitored for locomotor activity, body temperature via abdominally implanted telethermometers, hypothalamic norepinephrine (NE) secretion using in vivo microdialysis and blood sampled via intravenous catheters to determine concentrations of ACTH and corticosterone to assess hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activation. Saline injections were followed by transient increases in locomotor activity, body temperature, dialysate NE and plasma concentrations of ACTH and corticosterone. These responses were not significantly altered by vagotomy. IL-1beta injections resulted in short-lived increases in shivering and longer decreases in locomotor activity, as well as a delayed modest fever. IL-1beta also induced prolonged elevations of hypothalamic microdialysate NE, as well as plasma ACTH and corticosterone. Similar responses were observed regardless of the order of the saline and IL-1beta injections. Subdiaphragmatic vagotomy prevented the IL-1-induced increases in body temperature and the increase in dialysate NE, and markedly attenuated the increases in plasma ACTH and corticosterone. The results indicate close temporal relationships between the apparent release of NE and the increase in body temperature and the HPA activation. This together with the effects of vagotomy suggests that the activation of NE in turn increases body temperature and activates the HPA axis. However, because IL-1beta induces a limited HPA activation in subdiaphragmatically vagotomized rats, the vagus nerve does not appear to be the only route by which ip IL-1beta can activate the HPA axis. It is suggested that IL-1beta-induced vagal activation of hypothalamic NE is the major mechanism of HPA activation at low doses of IL-1beta. However, IL-1beta can also exert direct effects on IL-1 receptors on cerebral blood vessels, activating cyclooxygenases and hence synthesis of prostaglandins which in turn can affect body temperature, behavior and HPA axis activation.
In this paper, we present a magnetoencephalographic study of the fetal auditory response to external stimuli and to the sound of the mother's heartbeat. We describe how an ad hoc functional selection procedure allowed us to isolate the sources in the fetal brain responding to sounds only, after the application to the recorded data of a standard Independent Component Analysis algorithm. In our experiment, acoustic stimuli were delivered to twelve healthy women with uncomplicated pregnancies at a time between 36 and 40 weeks gestational age, with their fetuses in breech presentation. Ultrasound images allowed determination of the region over the women's abdomen nearest to the fetal head, over which both the acoustic stimulator and the MEG sensors were subsequently placed. In 8 out of the 12 cases, our analysis provided consistent evidence of a fetal response both to the mother's heartbeat and to the external auditory stimulation; both were characterized by a clear prominent component at around 200 ms latency, which is widely accepted as the marker of the fetal response to auditory stimuli.

One of the core symptoms of cocaine addiction is compulsive drug-seeking behavior. Although the precise neural substrates are unknown, it has been hypothesized that this behavior involves cocaine-induced hypofunction of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) or &quot;hypofrontality.&quot; To test this hypothesis, PFC neuronal activity was monitored in rats during approximately 3 weeks of cocaine self-administration (SA). Rats were trained to press a lever to self-administer cocaine in daily 2 h sessions. Responding was reinforced contingent on a modified fixed-ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement. In the first SA session, the overall firing rate and burst rate were significantly decreased after cocaine infusions relative to the period immediately before the session. These effects disappeared after &gt; or = 10 d of drug SA and were replaced by a significant increase in burst duration and firing rate within a burst. Notably, however, the level of basal activity before the first drug infusion of each SA session decreased significantly after multiple weeks of cocaine exposure. Collectively, these data support the view that although repeated sessions of cocaine SA decrease basal PFC activity, increased burst-related firing in response to cocaine infusions suggests that processing of cocaine-related information is enhanced and may contribute to increased control by cocaine over cocaine-seeking behavior.
Although p53 is a key modulator of cellular stress responses, the mechanism of p53-mediated apoptosis is ambiguous. p53 can mediate apoptosis in response to death stimuli by transcriptional activation of proapoptotic genes and transcriptional-independent mechanisms. Recent studies have shown that the p53 protein can directly induce permeabilization of the outer mitochondrial membrane by forming a inhibitory complex with a protective Bcl-2 family protein, resulting in cytochrome c release. However, how the mitochondrial p53 pathway mediates neuronal apoptosis after cerebral ischemia remains unclear. We examined the interaction between the mitochondrial p53 pathway and vulnerable hippocampal CA1 neurons in rats using a transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) model. Western blot analysis and immunofluorescent staining revealed mitochondrial p53 translocation after tGCI in the hippocampal CA1 neurons. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed that translocated p53 bound to Bcl-X(L) in the mitochondrial fraction. To examine the effect of a specific p53 inhibitor on the mitochondrial p53 pathway and apoptotic cell death after tGCI, we intravenously administered pifithrin-alpha (PFT). Mitochondrial p53 translocation and interaction between p53 and Bcl-X(L) were prevented by treatment with PFT. Moreover, cytochrome c release from mitochondria and subsequent apoptotic CA1 neuronal death were decreased with PFT treatment. These results suggest that the mitochondrial p53 pathway is one of the novel mechanisms mediating delayed death of vulnerable hippocampal CA1 neurons after tGCI.
Muscle-specific tyrosine kinase receptor (MuSK) has been believed to be mainly expressed and functional in muscle, in which it mediates the formation of neuromuscular junctions. Here we show that MuSK is expressed in the brain, particularly in neurons, as well as in non-neuronal tissues. We also provide evidence that MuSK expression in the hippocampus is required for memory consolidation, because temporally restricted knockdown after training impairs memory retention. Hippocampal disruption of MuSK also prevents the learning-dependent induction of both cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPbeta) expression, suggesting that the role of MuSK during memory consolidation critically involves the CREB-C/EBP pathway. Furthermore, we found that MuSK also plays an important role in mediating hippocampal oscillatory activity in the theta frequency as well as in the induction and maintenance of long-term potentiation, two synaptic responses that correlate with memory formation. We conclude that MuSK plays an important role in brain functions, including memory formation. Therefore, its expression and role are broader than what was believed previously.
Intracellular vesicular trafficking and membrane fusion are important processes for nervous system development and for the function of neural circuits. Synaptosomal-associated protein 25 kDa (SNAP-25) is a component of neural soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) core complexes that mediate the exocytotic release of neurotransmitters at chemical synapses. Previous results from mouse mutant models and pharmacological/neurotoxin blockades have demonstrated a critical role for SNAP-25-containing SNARE complexes in action potential (AP)-dependent release at cholinergic and glutamatergic synapses and for calcium-triggered catecholamine release from chromaffin cells. To examine whether SNAP-25 participates in the evoked release of other neurotransmitters, we investigated the expression and function of SNAP-25 in GABAergic terminals. Patch-clamp recordings in fetal Snap25-null mutant cortex demonstrated that ablation of SNAP-25 eliminated evoked GABA(A) receptor-mediated postsynaptic responses while leaving a low level of spontaneous AP-independent events intact, supporting the involvement of SNAP-25 in the regulated synaptic transmission of early developing GABAergic neurons. In hippocampal cell cultures of wild-type mice, punctate staining of SNAP-25 colocalized with both GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic markers, whereas stimulus-evoked vesicular recycling was abolished at terminals of both transmitter phenotypes in Snap25-/- neurons. Moreover, immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed coexpression of SNAP-25, VGAT (vesicular GABA transporter), and GAD65/67 (glutamic acid decarboxylase 65/67) in interneurons within several regions of the adult brain. Our results thus provide evidence that SNAP-25 is critical for evoked GABA release during development and is expressed in the presynaptic terminals of mature GABAergic neurons, consistent with its function as a component of a fundamental core SNARE complex required for stimulus-driven neurotransmission.
Aquaporins are known as water channels; however, an additional ion channel function has been observed for several including aquaporin-1 (AQP1). Using primary cultures of rat choroid plexus, a brain tissue that secretes CSF and abundantly expresses AQP1, we confirmed the ion channel function of AQP1 and assessed its functional relevance. The cGMP-gated cationic conductance associated with AQP1 is activated by an endogenous receptor guanylate cyclase for atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). Fluid transport assays with confluent polarized choroid plexus cultures showed that AQP1 current activation by 4.5 mum ANP decreases the normal basal-to-apical fluid transport in the choroid plexus; conversely, AQP1 block with 500 mum Cd2+ restores fluid transport. The cGMP-gated conductance in the choroid plexus is lost with targeted knockdown of AQP1 by small interfering RNA (siRNA), as confirmed by immunocytochemistry and whole-cell patch electrophysiology of transiently transfected cells identified by enhanced green fluorescent protein. The properties of the current (permeability to Na+, K+, TEA+, and Cs+; voltage insensitivity; and dependence on cGMP) matched properties characterized previously in AQP1-expressing oocytes. Background K+ and Cl- currents in the choroid plexus were dissected from AQP1 currents using Cs-methanesulfonate recording salines; the background currents recorded in physiological salines were not affected by AQP1-siRNA treatment. These results confirm that AQP1 can function as both a water channel and a gated ion channel. The conclusion that the AQP1-associated cation current contributes to modulating CSF production resolves a lingering concern as to whether an aquaporin ionic conductance can have a physiologically relevant function.


The muscle's wide array of functional characteristics is mediated by the existence of fiber types, differing one from the other in terms of contractile and metabolic protein isoforms content. Numerous classification systems have evolved, describing the muscle's physical, architectural and metabolic characteristics. Nevertheless, it appears that those characteristics assemble in more or less independent modules, excluding the development of a generalized classification of muscle fiber types. The discovery of several mechanisms allowing for the muscle to adapt to training or other changes opens new interventional perspectives regarding sport performances, as well as the maintenance of an adequate musculature in patients.
In the classic &quot;What the frog's eye tells the frog's brain,&quot; Lettvin and colleagues showed that different types of retinal ganglion cell send specific kinds of information. For example, one type responds best to a dark, convex form moving centripetally (a fly). Here we consider a complementary question: how much information does the retina send and how is it apportioned among different cell types? Recording from guinea pig retina on a multi-electrode array and presenting various types of motion in natural scenes, we measured information rates for seven types of ganglion cell. Mean rates varied across cell types (6-13 bits . s(-1)) more than across stimuli. Sluggish cells transmitted information at lower rates than brisk cells, but because of trade-offs between noise and temporal correlation, all types had the same coding efficiency. Calculating the proportions of each cell type from receptive field size and coverage factor, we conclude (assuming independence) that the approximately 10(5) ganglion cells transmit on the order of 875,000 bits . s(-1). Because sluggish cells are equally efficient but more numerous, they account for most of the information. With approximately 10(6) ganglion cells, the human retina would transmit data at roughly the rate of an Ethernet connection.
Mammalian puberty requires activation of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) neurons. In turn, these neurons are controlled by transsynaptic and glia-to-neuron communication pathways, which employ diverse cellular proteins for proper function. We have now used a high throughput relative quantitative proteomics technique to identify such proteins. We selected the method of two-dimensional liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (2DLC-MS/MS) and cleavable isotope-coded affinity tags (cICAT), to both identify and quantify individual proteins within a complex protein mixture. The proteins used derived from the hypothalamus of juvenile (25-day-old) and peripubertal (first proestrus, LP) female rats, and their identity was established by analyzing their mass spectra via database searching. Five proteins involved in glutamate metabolism were detected and two of them appeared to be differentially expressed. They were selected for further analysis, because of their importance in controlling glutamate synthesis and degradation, and their preferential expression in astroglial cells. One, glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) catalyzes glutamate synthesis; its hypothalamic content detected by 2DLC-MS/MS increases at first proestrus. The other, glutamine synthetase (GS), catalyzes the metabolism of glutamate to glutamine; its content decreases in proestrus. Western blot analysis verified these results. Because these changes suggested an increased glutamate production at puberty, we measured glutamate release from hypothalamic fragments from juvenile 29-day old rats, and from rats treated with PMSG to induce a premature proestrus surge of luteinizing hormone (LH). To determine the net output of glutamate in the absence of re-uptake we used the excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) inhibitor l-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (PDC). PDC elicited significantly more glutamate- and LHRH-release from the proestrus hypothalamus. Thus, an increase excitatory drive to the LHRH neuronal network provided by glutamatergic inputs of glial origin, is an event contributing to the pubertal activation of LHRH secretion.
Acid-sensitive ion channels (ASICs) are proton-gated and belong to the family of degenerin channels. In the mammalian nervous system, ASICs are most well known in sensory neurons, where they are involved in nociception, occurring when injury or inflammation causes acidification. ASICs also are widely expressed in the CNS, and some synaptic roles have been revealed. Because neuronal activity can produce pH changes, ASICs may respond to local acidic transients and alter the excitability of neuronal circuits more widely than is presently appreciated. Furthermore, ASICs have been found to underlie calcium transients that contribute to neuronal death. Degeneration of midbrain dopamine neurons is characteristic of advanced idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Therefore, we tested for functional ASICs in midbrain dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra compacta. Patch-clamp electrophysiology applied to murine midbrain slices revealed abundant acid-sensitive channels. The ASICs were gated and desensitized by extracellular application of millimolar concentrations of NH(4)Cl. Although the NH(4)Cl solution contains micromolar concentrations of NH(3) at pH 7.4, our evidence indicates that NH(4)(+) gates the ASICs. The proton-gated and the ammonium-gated currents were inhibited by tarantula venom (psalmotoxin), which is specific for the ASIC1a subtype. The results show that acid-sensitive channels are expressed in midbrain dopamine neurons and suggest that ammonium sensitivity is a widely distributed ASIC characteristic in the CNS, including the hippocampus. The ammonium sensitivity suggests a role for ASIC1s in hepatic encephalopathy, cirrhosis, and other neuronal disorders that are associated with hyperammonemia.
To investigate functional mechanisms underlying cortical motor plasticity in the intact and injured brain, we used &quot;behaviorally relevant,&quot; long-duration intracortical microstimulation. We now report the existence of complex, multijoint movements revealed with a 500-msec duration intracortical stimulation in rat motor cortex. A consistent topographic distribution of these complex motor patterns is present across the motor cortex in nave rats. We further document the plasticity of these complex movement patterns after focal cortical injury, with a significant expansion of specific complex movement representations in response to rehabilitative training after injury. Notably, the degree of functional recovery attained after cortical injury and rehabilitation correlates significantly with a specific feature of map reorganization, the ability to reexpress movement patterns disrupted by the initial injury. This evidence suggests the existence of complex movement representations in the rat motor cortex that exhibit plasticity after injury and rehabilitation, serving as a relevant predictor of functional recovery.

In the mammalian pancreas, high concentrations of Zn(2+) are co-secreted with insulin, which may then permeate via abundant L-type Ca(2+) channels (LTCC) present on the beta-cells. Neither the mechanisms utilized by these cells to lower cytosolic Zn(2+) nor the implications of increased intracellular Zn(2+) on beta-cell survival are well understood. To address this, we employed cell imaging of Zn(2+) and Ca(2+) in the beta-insulinoma cell line, Min6. Depolarization induced an intense zinc influx that was blocked by nifedipine and verapamil, indicating that Zn(2+) permeates via the LTCC. Both Ca(2+) and Zn(2+) permeated concomitantly, yet while Ca(2+) was subsequently removed from the cytosol, Zn(2+) was retained in the cells. Fluorescent staining of vesicular Zn(2+) using ZP1 demonstrated that Zn(2+) could be slowly sequestered following a brief exposure to low concentration of Zn(2+). In contrast, cells were unable to sequester Zn(2+) following application of high concentrations, which was followed by massive cell death. Our results demonstrate homeostatic crosstalk between the plasma membrane and intracellular zinc transporters and suggest that attenuating zinc influx may enhance beta-cell survival.
In this study, we investigated the molecular basis for the altered signal transduction associated with soluble amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) oligomer-mediated neurotoxicity in the hippocampus, which is primarily linked to cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer disease (AD). As measured by media lactate dehydrogenase levels, and staining with propidium iodide, acute exposure to low micromolar concentrations of the Abeta1-42 oligomer significantly induced cell death. This was accompanied by activation of the ERK1/2 signal transduction pathway in rat organotypic hippocampal slices. Notably, this resulted in caspase-3 activation by a process that led to proteolytic cleavage of Tau, which was recently confirmed to occur in AD brains. Tau cleavage likely occurred in the absence of overt synaptic loss, as suggested by the preserved levels of synaptophysin, a presynaptic marker. Moreover, among the pharmacological agents tested to inhibit several kinase cascades, only the ERK inhibitor significantly attenuated Abeta1-42 oligomer-induced toxicity concomitant with the reduction of activation of ERK1/2 and caspase-3 to a lesser extent. Importantly, the caspase-3 inhibitor also decreased Abeta oligomer-induced cell death, with no appreciable effect on the ERK signaling pathway, although such treatment was effective in reducing caspase-3 activation and Tau cleavage. Therefore, these results suggest that local targeting of the ERK1/2 signaling pathway to reduce Tau cleavage, as occurs with the inhibition of caspase-3 activation, may modulate the neurotoxic effects of soluble Abeta oligomer in the hippocampus and provide the rationale for symptomatic treatment of AD.
In SCF (Skp1/Cullin/F-box protein) ubiquitin ligases, substrate specificity is conferred by a diverse array of F-box proteins. Only in fully assembled SCF complexes, it is believed, can substrates bound to F-box proteins become ubiquitinated. Here we show that Fbx2, a brain-enriched F-box protein implicated in the ubiquitination of glycoproteins discarded from the endoplasmic reticulum, binds the co-chaperone/ubiquitin ligase CHIP (C terminus of Hsc-70-interacting protein) through a unique N-terminal PEST domain in Fbx2. CHIP facilitates the ubiquitination and degradation of Fbx2-bound glycoproteins, including unassembled NMDA receptor subunits. These findings indicate that CHIP acts with Fbx2 in a novel ubiquitination pathway that links CHIP to glycoprotein quality control in neurons. In addition, they expand the repertoire of pathways by which F-box proteins can regulate ubiquitination and suggest a new role for PEST domains as a protein interaction motif.
Fast neurotransmitter release at presynaptic terminals occurs at specialized transmitter release sites where docked secretory vesicles are triggered to fuse with the membrane by the influx of Ca2+ ions that enter through local N type (CaV2.2) calcium channels. Thus, neurosecretion involves two key processes: the docking of vesicles at the transmitter release site, a process that involves the scaffold protein RIM (Rab3A interacting molecule) and its binding partner Munc-13, and the subsequent gating of vesicle fusion by activation of the Ca2+ channels. It is not known, however, whether the vesicle fusion complex with its attached Ca2+ channels and the vesicle docking complex are parts of a single multifunctional entity. The Ca2+ channel itself and RIM were used as markers for these two elements to address this question. We carried out immunostaining at the giant calyx-type synapse of the chick ciliary ganglion to localize the proteins at a native, undisturbed presynaptic nerve terminal. Quantitative immunostaining (intensity correlation analysis/intensity correlation quotient method) was used to test the relationship between these two proteins at the nerve terminal transmitter release face. The staining intensities for CaV2.2 and RIM covary strongly, consistent with the expectation that they are both components of the transmitter release sites. We then used immunoprecipitation to test if these proteins are also parts of a common molecular complex. However, precipitation of CaV2.2 failed to capture either RIM or Munc-13, a RIM binding partner. These findings indicate that although the vesicle fusion and the vesicle docking mechanisms coexist at the transmitter release face they are not parts of a common stable complex.
This study evaluated the plastic changes of c-jun and c-fos in the right sixth lumbar dorsal root ganglion (L6 DRG), Rexed's lamina II in representative spinal segments L3, L5, and L6 and in the nucleus dorsalis (ND) at L3 segments after electro-acupuncture (EA) in cats subjected to removal of L1-L5 and L7-S2 DRG. Following dorsal root ganglionectomy, there was a significant increase in the density of c-jun immunoreactivity in the neurons and glia in spinal lamina II and in the ND; there was also marked elevation in the expression of c-fos in ND. In both cases there was no change in the c-jun and c-fos immunoreactivity in the DRG. After EA in the operated animals, there was an up-regulation in the expression of c-jun in the L6 DRG and the associated spinal lamina II; however, increased c-fos expression was detected only in the L6 DRG. Western blot and RT-PCR were also performed to quantitatively explore the mRNA and protein expression changes in the spinal dorsal horn and associated DRG. Following partial deafferentation, there was a significant increase in the protein level of both c-jun and c-fos in the dorsal horn, while, in both cases there was no change in c-jun and c-fos protein and mRNA in the DRG. After EA in the operated animals, both c-jun protein and its mRNA in the L6 DRG as well as the associated dorsal horn of L6 spinal segment were upregulated, but increased c-fos protein and its mRNA was observed only in the L6 DRG. These findings suggested that c-jun and c-fos might be related to the acupuncture promoted spinal cord plasticity as reported previously.
Substantia nigra reticulata is the major output structure of the basal ganglia involved in somatosensory integration and organization of movement. While previous work in vitro and in anesthetized animal preparations suggests that these neurons are autoactive and points to GABA as a primary input regulating their activity, single-unit recording coupled with iontophoresis was used in awake, unrestrained rats to further clarify the role of tonic and phasic GABA input in maintenance and fluctuations of substantia nigra reticulata neuronal activity under physiologically relevant conditions. In contrast to glutamate, which was virtually ineffective at stimulating substantia nigra reticulata neurons in awake rats, all substantia nigra reticulata neurons tested were inhibited by iontophoretic GABA and strongly excited by bicuculline, a GABA-A receptor blocker. The GABA-induced inhibition had short onset and offset latencies, a fading response pattern (a rapid decrease in rate followed by its relative restoration), and was independent of basal discharge rate. The bicuculline-induced excitation was inversely related to discharge rate and current (dose)-dependent in individual units. However, the average discharge rate during bicuculline applications at different currents increased to a similar plateau ( approximately 60 impulses/s), which was about twice the mean basal rates. The excitatory effects of bicuculline were phasically inhibited or completely blocked by brief GABA applications and generally mimicked by gabazine, another selective GABA antagonist. These data as well as neuronal inhibitions induced by nipecotic acid, a selective GABA uptake inhibitor, suggest that substantia nigra reticulata neurons in awake, quietly resting conditions are under tonic, GABA-mediated inhibition. Therefore, because of inherent autoactivity and specifics of afferent inputs, substantia nigra reticulata neurons are very sensitive to phasic alterations in GABA input, which appears to be the primary factor determining fluctuations in their activity states under physiological conditions. While these cells are relatively insensitive to direct activation by glutamate, and resistant to a continuous increase in GABA input, they appear to be very sensitive to a diminished GABA input, which may release them from tonic inhibition and determine their functional hyperactivity.
Accumulating evidences suggest that neuroinflammation is involved in the progressive death of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. Several studies have shown that intranigral injection of lipopolysaccharide induces inflammation in the substantia nigra leading to death of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells. To better understand how the inflammatory response gives rise to neurotoxicity we induced inflammation in substantia nigra by injecting lipopolysaccharide. The damage of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons was evaluated by immunohistochemistry, reverse transcription-PCR and Western blot analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase. In parallel, activation of microglial cells, a hallmark of inflammation in CNS, was revealed by immunohistochemistry. Similarly the expression of molecules involved in the inflammatory response and apoptotic pathway was also tested, such as cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6), inducible nitric oxide synthase and caspase-11. Tyrosine hydroxylase expression (both mRNA and protein) started to decrease around 3 days post-injection. At the mRNA level, our results showed that the cytokines expression peaked shortly (3-6 h) after lipopolysaccharide injection, followed by the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase and caspase-11 (14 h). However, inducible nitric oxide synthase protein peaked at 24 h and lasted for 14 days. The lipopolysaccharide-induced loss of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons was partially inhibited by co-injection of lipopolysaccharide with S-methylisothiourea, an inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. Co-injections of lipopolysaccharide with SB203580, a p38 MAP kinase inhibitor, reduced inducible nitric oxide synthase and caspase-11 mRNA expression, and also rescued dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra. In summary, this is the first report to describe in vivo the temporal profile of the expression of these inflammatory mediators and proteins involved in dopaminergic neuronal death after intranigral injection of lipopolysaccharide. Moreover data strongly support that lipopolysaccharide-induced dopaminergic cellular death in substantia nigra could be mediated, at least in part, by the p38 signal pathway leading to activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase and caspase-11.
Sensorimotor gating is a phenomenon that is linked with dopamine neurotransmission in limbic and cortical areas, and disruption of sensorimotor gating has been consistently demonstrated in schizophrenia patients. The nuclear receptor Nurr1 is essential for development of dopamine neurons and, using Nurr1-null heterozygous mice, has been found to be important for normal dopamine neurotransmission as null heterozygous mice have reduced limbic and cortical dopamine levels and elevated open-field locomotor activity. The current investigation compared sensorimotor gating, as measured by prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response, in Nurr1 wild-type and null heterozygous mice. When mice were weaned between 19 and 21 days of age either into isolation or groups of three to five and tested 12 weeks later, prepulse inhibition was elevated in group-raised null heterozygous mice and significantly disrupted in isolated null heterozygous mice as compared with isolation-raised wild-type mice and group-raised null heterozygous mice. Isolation had no effect on prepulse inhibition in wild-type mice. Isolation reduced tissue dopamine levels and elevated dopamine turnover in the nucleus accumbens and striatum in both wild-type and null heterozygous mice. In the prefrontal cortex, isolation reduced dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in null heterozygous as compared with isolation-raised wild-type mice, whereas no differences were observed between group-raised wild-type and null heterozygous mice. Neither the null heterozygous genotype nor isolation had any effect on basal or stress-induced corticosterone levels. These data suggest that the Nurr1 null heterozygous genotype predisposes these mice to isolation-induced disruption of prepulse inhibition that may be related to the interactions between intrinsic deficiencies in dopamine neurotransmission as a result of the null heterozygous genotype and isolation-induced changes in dopamine neurotransmission. Post-weaning isolation of Nurr1 null heterozygous mice provides a model to explore the interactions of genetic predisposition and environment/neurodevelopment on dopamine function that has important relevance to neuropsychiatric disorders.
Previous studies have suggested that experience and environmental conditions can affect the progression and severity of symptoms in Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, earlier reports have indicated that enriched environment promotes the survival of dopaminergic grafts in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Here we investigated whether environmental enrichment affects normal motor function and the severity of dopamine depletion in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Adult female Long-Evans rats were pre-trained and tested daily in a skilled reaching task. One group of rats was placed in an enriched environment while one group was housed under standard conditions. During this time period, reaching success of animals exposed to the enriched environment improved as compared with animals living in standard housing. The animals remained in the two housing conditions for six weeks prior to receiving unilateral infusion of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine into the nigrostriatal bundle. The daily behavioral testing continued up to four weeks after lesion. The observations showed that rats housed in an enriched environment significantly improved in reaching success during the first three weeks after lesion as compared with rats housed in the standard condition. Qualitative movement analysis, drug-induced rotation and histological findings indicate that compensatory processes in particular might have accounted for the behavioral improvements. These data are discussed in relation to possible mechanisms of experience-dependent modulation of the pathology of Parkinson's disease.
Hyperammonemia is responsible for many of the neurological alterations in patients with hepatic encephalopathy by mechanisms that remain unclear. Hyperammonemia alters phosphorylation of brain protein kinase C substrates and impairs N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-associated signal transduction. The aim of this work was to analyze, in rat cerebellar neurons in culture, the effects of ammonia exposure on NMDA receptor phosphorylation, MK801 binding and surface expression. Ammonia reduces MK801 binding to NMDA receptors and the surface expression of the NR1 and NR2A subunits. As phosphorylation of serines in the NR1 C1 cassette has been implied in receptor trafficking, we assessed whether hyperammonemia alters phosphorylation of these serines. Basal phosphorylation of serines 890, 896 and 897 was increased in neurons exposed to ammonia, while NMDA-induced phosphorylation of S896 and S897 was reduced. Exposure to ammonia also increased basal phosphorylation of Akt but reduced NMDA and BDNF stimulation of Akt phosphorylation. These results suggest that alterations in receptor surface expression and possibly the phosphorylation state of the NR1 subunit of NMDA receptors may contribute to the impairment by ammonia of signal transduction pathways modulated by NMDA receptors.
Hippocampal CA1 neurons receive multiple rhythmical inputs with relatively independent phases during theta activity. It, however, remains to be determined how these multiple rhythmical inputs affect oscillation properties in membrane potential of the CA1 pyramidal cell. In order to investigate oscillation properties in the subthreshold membrane potential, we generated oscillations in the membrane potential of the CA1 pyramidal cells in rat hippocampal slices in vitro with a sinusoidal current injection into the pyramidal soma at theta band frequencies (4-7 Hz), and analyzed effect of rhythmically excitatory synaptic inputs. The Schaffer collaterals were stimulated with a cyclic Gaussian stimulation method, whose pulse intervals were distributed at 10 pulses/cycle (5 cycles/s). We found that the cyclic Gaussian stimulations induced membrane potential oscillations and their phase delays from the mean of the pulse distribution were dependent on membrane potential oscillation amplitude. We applied four pairs of cyclic Gaussian stimulations and somatic sinusoidal current stimulations at the same frequency (5 Hz) with varying phase differences (-pi/2, 0, pi/2, pi rad). The paired stimulations induced phase distributions of the oscillation in the membrane potential, which showed a dependency on an increasing membrane potential oscillation amplitude response to cyclic Gaussian stimulation. This membrane potential dynamic was exhibited by the mixture of the membrane potential oscillation-amplitude-dependent phase delay and the linear summation of the two sinusoidal waves. These suggest that phases of the membrane potential oscillation are modulated by excitatory synaptic inputs. This phase-modulation by excitatory synaptic inputs may play a crucial role for memory operation in the hippocampus.
Cell biology of triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2, a receptor expressed in brain cells (microglia and possibly neurons and oligodendrocytes) which is responsible for a neurological and psychiatric genetic disease, polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy otherwise called the Nasu-Hakola disease, is still largely unknown. Using immortalized mouse N9 microglial cells we demonstrate that triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2 is mostly distributed intracellularly in two pools: a deposit in the Golgi complex and a population of exocytic vesicles, distinct from endosomes and lysosomes, which is continuously translocated to, and recycled from the cell surface. Results with ionomycin and gamma-interferon, showing rapid and slow increases, respectively, of triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2 surface density, documented that the exocytosis of the receptor-rich vesicles is regulated. Pulse labeling in the cold of surface triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2 with its antibody (or Fab fragment) followed by chase at 37 degrees C showed internalization, with recovery of the antibody in endosomes and lysosomes. However, part of the receptor/antibody complex, internalized for up to 30 min chase, was recycled to the cell surface within 2 min of ionomycin stimulation, together with a fraction of the total biotinylated surface protein chased in parallel. The internalized receptor appears therefore to get access to exocytic organelles distinct from lysosomes which may resemble the exocytic vesicles of resting cells. These results document that, in microglial cells, the surface density of the triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2 and thus, presumably, the response to its activation, is continuously adapted and can be greatly increased, even at rapid rate, as a function of cell activation.
Two cold-sensitive transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, TRPA1 and TRPM8, have been identified and considered interesting because of their possible roles in thermosensation, nociception and other functions. Recently, we have reported that the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase occurred in primary afferent neurons in response to noxious heat stimulation of the peripheral tissue, i.e. activity-dependent activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase and p38 in dorsal root ganglion neurons. In the present study, we investigated the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase, p38, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase in the rat dorsal root ganglion by cold stimulation using immunohistochemistry. Cold stimuli (28-4 degrees C) were applied by immersion of the hind paw into a water bath (six times of 10 s stimulation and 10 s interval, total 2 min). Noxious cold stimulation induced phosphorylated-extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase and phosphorylated-p38, but not phosphorylated-c-Jun N-terminal kinase, in small to medium diameter sensory neurons with a peak at 2 min after stimulation. We found that a cold stimulation at 4 degrees C showed a marked increase in the number of activated neurons. Furthermore, double staining for phosphorylated-extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase and phosphorylated-p38 showed no colocalization in the dorsal root ganglion neurons. We then performed double-labeling experiments for TRPA1 and TRPM8 mRNA and phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase. The majority of phosphorylated-extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-positive neurons also expressed TRPM8 mRNA, whereas phosphorylated-p38 heavily colocalized with TRPA1 mRNA after noxious cold stimulation. Our data suggest that the noxious, but not innocuous, cold stimulation in vivo induced differential activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase and p38 pathways in each subpopulation containing TRPA1 or TRPM8 in dorsal root ganglion.
The role of the primary somatosensory cortex in thermal pain perception has been established. However, the cortical circuitry that mediates the thermo-nociceptive information processing has not been elucidated. The aim of present study was to investigate the intracortical synaptic currents in primary somatosensory cortex evoked by short laser pulses and to determine their transmission pathway. Noxious CO2 laser pulse stimuli or innocuous electrical and mechanical stimuli were delivered to the hind paw of halothane-anesthetized rats. Multi-channel field potentials were recorded simultaneously in primary somatosensory cortex and laminar-specific transmembrane currents were analyzed using a current source density method. A distinct spatial-temporal pattern of intra-cortical sink source currents was evoked by laser pulse stimuli. The amplitude of the early component was graded by laser energy output and influenced by contralateral signals, whereas the late components were not intensity-dependent and exhibited bilateral excitation. Intra-cortical current flows revealed that synaptic activation occurred initially at layers IV and VI separately and then was relayed transynaptically to the more superficial and the deeper layers. Latency, amplitude and intracortical distributions of the activated intra-cortical currents evoked by noxious stimuli differed significantly from those evoked by innocuous stimuli. Conduction velocity data together with the results of tetrodotoxin, capsaicin and morphine treatments indicated that the early and late components were mediated separately by A-delta and C fibers. Our results suggest that large and small diameter thermal nociceptive afferents generated laminar-specific intracortical synaptic currents in primary somatosensory cortex and that these excitatory synaptic currents were conveyed separately by lateral and medial thalamic nuclei.
Using a voltage-imaging technique, we analyzed the acute effect of ischemia, hypoxia and hypoglycemia on the neuronal network function of the rat spinal cord. Ischemic, hypoxic, or hypoglycemic stress was loaded to spinal cord slices with an oxygen- and glucose-free, oxygen-free, or glucose-free mock cerebrospinal fluid, respectively. Depolarizing signals in the dorsal horn, induced by dorsal root stimulation, consisted of fast (pre-synaptic) and slow (post-synaptic) components. The slow component was attenuated much more than the fast component under an ischemic condition (P&lt;0.0002). Post-synaptic neuronal activities in lamina III-IV were suppressed earlier than those in lamina I-II. The nerve fiber was relatively resistant to ischemia. As long as the fast component was preserved in the dorsal horn, the suppression of the fast and slow components was reversible. There was a significant difference (P&lt;0.05) in the recovered slow component sizes between the group in which the fast component was suppressed by more than 20% by ischemia and the group in which the suppression was less than 20%. Further prolonged stress irreversibly eliminated most of the slow component, and attenuated the fast component (to 59+/-8%) accompanied by cellular damage in histology. Suppression of neural activity by hypoxic or hypoglycemic stress was less prominent than that by ischemia. Prolonged ischemic stress suddenly and irreversibly eliminated depolarizing signals in the ventral horn accompanied by morphological damage of motoneurons. Immunohistochemical staining was negative for apoptosis. We have, for the first time, analyzed the processes of spinal cord disturbance induced by ischemia, hypoxia and hypoglycemia at the neuronal network level by directly observing the regional neuronal network activities within the spinal cord. We conclude that synaptic transmission in the dorsal horn, especially in deep regions, is vulnerable and first affected by these stresses. Severe ischemic stress induces irreversible dysfunction of neurons accompanied by eventual cell death in both dorsal and ventral horns.
Traditionally the posterior parietal cortex was believed to be a sensory structure. More recently, however, its important role in sensory-motor integration has been recognized. One of its functions suggested in this context is the forming of intentions, i.e. high-level cognitive plans for movements. The selection and planning of a specific movement defines motor intention. In this study we used rapid event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging of healthy human subjects to investigate the involvement of posterior parietal cortex in motor intention in response to valid imperative cues. Subjects were provided with either neutral, motor or spatial cues. Neutral cues simply alerted, motor cues indicated which hand to use for response, and spatial cues indicated on which side the target would appear. Importantly, identical targets and responses followed these cues. Therefore any differential neural effects observed are independent from the actual movement performed. Differential blood oxygen level dependent signal changes for motor vs. neutral as well as motor vs. spatial cue trials were found in the left supramarginal gyrus, as hypothesized. The results demonstrate that neural activity in the left supramarginal gyrus underlies motor plans independent from the execution of the movement and thus extend previous neuropsychological and functional imaging data on the role of the left supramarginal gyrus in higher motor cognition.
The area postrema functions as one interface between the immune system and the brain. Immune cells within the area postrema express immunoreactivity for the pro-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta following challenge with immune stimulants, including lipopolysaccharide (from bacterial cell walls). As a circumventricular organ, the area postrema accesses circulating immune-derived mediators, but also receives direct primary viscerosensory signals via the vagus nerve. Neurons in the area postrema contribute to central autonomic network neurocircuitry implicated in brain-mediated host defense responses. These experiments were directed toward clarifying relationships between immune cells and neurons in the area postrema, with a view toward potential mechanisms by which they may communicate. We used antisera directed toward markers indicating microglia (CR3/CD11b; OX-42), resident macrophages (CD163; ED-2), or dendritic cell-like phenotypes (major histocompability complex class II; OX-6), in area postrema sections from lipopolysaccharide-treated rats processed for light, laser scanning confocal, and electron microscopy. Lipopolysaccharide treatment induced interleukin-1beta-like immunoreactivity in immune cells that either associated with the vasculature (perivascular cells, a subtype of macrophage) or associated with neuronal elements (dendritic-like, and unknown phenotype). Electron microscopic analysis revealed that some immune cells, including interleukin-1beta-positive cells, evinced membrane apposition with neuronal elements, including dendrites and terminals, that could derive from inputs to the area postrema such as vagal sensory fibers, or intrinsic area postrema neurons. This arrangement provides an anatomical substrate by which immune cells could directly and specifically influence individual neurons in the area postrema, that may support the induction and/or maintenance of brain responses to inflammation.
In vitro studies have demonstrated that prolonged N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) blockade triggers a homeostatic up-regulation of NMDARs at synapses. Such upregulation can also be seen within 30 min in vivo in adult rats, implicating trafficking of reserve pools of NMDARs. Here, we evaluated the involvement of filamentous actin (F-actin), the major cytoskeletal component in spines, in this rapid in vivo homeostatic response, using biotinylated phalloidin as its probe. We also immuno-labeled spines for drebrin A, an F-actin-binding protein found at excitatory synapses and with a proposed role of modulating F-actin's cross-linking with one another and interactions with NMDARs. Quantitative 2-D analysis of ultrastructural images revealed that NMDAR blockade increased filamentous actin labeling per spine by 62.5% (P&lt;0.005). The proportion of dendritic spines immuno-labeled for drebrin A also increased significantly, from 67.5% to 85% following NMDAR blockade (P&lt;0.001), especially among larger spines. The frequency distributions of spine widths and postsynaptic density lengths were not affected by the D-(+)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-APV) treatment. However, the average postsynaptic density length was reduced by 25 nm among the fewer, drebrin A immuno-negative spines, indicating that drebrin A confers stability to synapse size. We propose that, in a homeostatic in vivo response, increases of drebrin A and F-actin within spines can enhance NMDAR trafficking by reducing cytoskeletal rigidity within the spine cytoplasm without changing the overt morphology of axo-spinous synapses. Alternatively or in addition, the cytoskeletal redistribution within spine cytoplasm may be triggered by the D-APV-induced, homeostatic up-regulation of NMDAR.
The rapid eye movement dreaming sleep stage and schizophrenia are both characterized by common intracerebral disconnections, disturbed responsiveness and sensory deafferentation processes. Moreover, in both states, there is dorsolateral prefrontal deactivation as shown by the decrease of blood flow. Finally, identical pharmacological and neurochemical variations are observed for acetylcholine, dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin and glutamate concentrations. Consequently, rapid eye movement sleep could become a useful new neurobiological model of this mental disease since more functional than current rat models using stimulation, lesion or drugs.
In CA1 area and the hilus of the dentate gyrus of the mouse hippocampus, drastic reduction of NeuN, calbindin, calretinin, or parvalbumin immunopositive neurons was shown at 3, 7 and 60 days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. In gliotic CA1 area at 60 days, few dendritic branches of calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons could be found suggesting reorganization of the afferents of surviving calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons. Calbindin, calretinin, or parvalbumin and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) double labeling showed that calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons in gliotic CA1 area at 60 days were surviving instead of newly generated neurons. Iontophoretic injection of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the medial septum and the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca or the lateral entorhinal cortex showed contacts between Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin immunopositive en passant and terminal boutons and surviving calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons in the hippocampus. The presence in the gliotic hippocampus of enlarged and/or aggregated bouton-like structures 60 days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus is indicative for the reorganization of connections between the hippocampal afferents and surviving hippocampal neurons. This reconstruction could be a factor in the ongoing epileptic activity in this model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy.
Guanosinetriphosphate cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) catalyzes the initial step in the de novo biosynthesis of (6R)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin, an important determinant of the rate of catecholamine and nitric oxide biosynthesis. Administration of estrogen in vivo was found to elevate GTPCH mRNA levels in several catecholaminergic locations. To examine the mechanism, PC12 cells were co-transfected with a reporter construct containing 2988 bp of rat GTPCH promoter fused to luciferase gene, and expression vectors for estrogen receptors. Addition of 2.5-20 nM of 17 beta-estradiol increased GTPCH promoter-driven luciferase activity in the presence of either estrogen receptor alpha or estrogen receptor beta indicating, for the first time, that 17 beta-estradiol can regulate GTPCH gene expression via transcriptional mechanisms. However, there were differences in dose dependence and time course with estrogen receptor alpha or estrogen receptor beta. With estrogen receptor alpha, the effect was greater with lower doses of 17 beta-estradiol. At the same dose, the response with estrogen receptor beta was observed somewhat earlier than with estrogen receptor alpha and with 20 nM 17 beta-estradiol was effective even after 6 h. These responses to 17 beta-estradiol required estrogen receptors and specific agonists for estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta, 4,4,4,-(4-propil-[1H-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl)tris-phenol and 2,3-bis[4-hydroxyphenyl]propionitrile respectively, triggered increased GTPCH promoter activity. In addition, neither estradiol, nor the selective agonists activated GTPCH promoter without transfection of appropriate estrogen receptor expression vectors. Addition of 17 beta-estradiol, or the selective agonists, also elevated endogenous GTPCH mRNA levels. The results demonstrate that estrogen can have a direct effect on GTPCH gene expression. Although estradiol increased GTPCH promoter activity in the presence of estrogen receptors, it attenuated the response of the promoter and endogenous gene to cyclic AMP, suggesting the crosstalk between estrogen and cyclic AMP pathways in the regulation of GTPCH gene expression. These findings reveal the significance of estrogen in modulating regulation of rate limiting enzyme in the (6R)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis, which may have implications for sex-related differences in vulnerability in related disorders.
Analysis of nuclear receptor action on the eukaryotic genome highlights the importance of coactivators on gene transcription. The steroid receptor coactivator-1 in particular is the focus of an intense research and physiological or behavioral studies have confirmed that it plays a major role in the modulation of steroid and thyroid receptors activity. However, little is known about the regulation of steroid receptor coactivator-1 expression the brain. The goal of this study was to determine the potential factors modulating steroid receptor coactivator-1 synthesis in Japanese quail by quantification of its mRNA with real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and of the corresponding protein via Western blotting. Contrary to previously published results from our laboratory [Charlier TD, Lakaye B, Ball GF, Balthazart J (2002) The steroid receptor coactivator SRC-1 exhibits high expression in steroid-sensitive brain areas regulating reproductive behaviors in the quail brain. Neuroendocrinology 76:297-315], we found here that sexually mature females had a higher concentration of steroid receptor coactivator-1 in the preoptic area/hypothalamus compared with males. Steroid receptor coactivator-1 expression in the male preoptic area/hypothalamus was up-regulated by testosterone and tended to be decreased by stress. We also identified a significant correlation between the time of the day and the expression of the coactivator in the optic lobes, hippocampus, telencephalon and hindbrain but the pattern of changes in expression as a function of the time of the day varied from one brain area to another. Together, these data support the idea that steroid receptor coactivator-1 is not constitutively expressed but rather is finely regulated by steroids, stress and possibly other unidentified factors.
Retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheat germ agglutinin showed that the pubococcygeus muscles of the female rat are innervated by a population of motoneurons located in a column approximately 2 mm in length in the central region of lamina IX of the sixth lumbar-first sacral spinal cord segments. These neurons have a dendritic distribution that projects to the lateral, medial and ventral regions of the gray matter. Values for soma size, primary dendrite length and arborization area obtained from intact animals that were in diestrous-2, were significantly reduced following ovariectomy. After hormone priming of the ovariectomized animals with estradiol benzoate and progesterone, an additional injection of estradiol benzoate alone or followed by progesterone increased the labeled length of the primary dendrites distributed to the lateral, but not to the medial or ventral regions of the gray matter in the spinal cord. However, dendritic labeling was not significantly increased when only progesterone was additionally injected. It therefore seems that pubococcygeus muscle motoneurons of the female rat are sensitive to the effects of gonadal hormones.
We have previously demonstrated that GEC1 interacts with the kappa opioid receptor and GEC1 expression enhances cell surface expression of the receptor in Chinese hamster ovary cells. In this study, we generated an antiserum (PA629) directed against GEC1 in rabbits, characterized its specificity, and investigated distribution of GEC1 in tissues and in brain regions and spinal cord and its subcellular localization in hypothalamic neurons in the rat. Immunofluorescence staining demonstrated that PA629 recognized HA-GEC1 transfected into Chinese hamster ovary cells, but not HA-GABARAP or HA-GATE-16, although the three share high homology. Pre-incubation of PA629 with GST-GEC1, but not GST, abolished the staining. In immunoblotting, affinity-purified PA629 (PA629p) recognized GEC1, GABARAP and GATE-16. GEC1 migrated slower than GABARAP and GATE-16, with a M(r) of 16 kDa for GEC1 and M(r) of 14 kDa for GABARAP and GATE-16. Immunoblotting results showed that GEC1 level was higher in liver and brain than in lung and heart, and very low in kidney and skeletal muscle. GEC1 was present in all rat brain regions examined and spinal cord. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that GEC1 immunoreactivity was distributed ubiquitously in the rat CNS with highly intense immunoreactivity in various brain nuclei and motor neurons of the spinal cord. Ultrastructural examination of neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus showed that GEC1 was associated with endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus and distributed along plasma membranes and in cytosol. Coupled with our previous observation that GEC1 interacts with N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor, these findings strongly suggest that GEC1 functions in intracellular trafficking in the biosynthesis pathway and perhaps also the endocytic pathway. The widespread distribution of GEC1 suggests that GEC1 may be associated with many proteins, in addition to the kappa opioid receptor.
Nerve injury can produce hypersensitivity to noxious and normally innocuous stimulation. Injury-induced central (i.e. spinal) sensitization is thought to arise from enhanced afferent input to the spinal cord and to be critical for expression of behavioral hypersensitivity. Descending facilitatory influences from the rostral ventromedial medulla have been suggested to also be critical for the maintenance, though not the initiation, of experimental neuropathic pain. The possibility that descending facilitation from the rostral ventromedial medulla is required for the maintenance of central sensitization was examined by determining whether ablation of mu-opioid receptor-expressing cells within the rostral ventromedial medulla prevented the enhanced expression of repetitive touch-evoked FOS within the spinal cord of animals with spinal nerve ligation injury as well as nerve injury-induced behavioral hypersensitivity. Rats received a single microinjection of vehicle, saporin, dermorphin or dermorphin-saporin into the rostral ventromedial medulla and 28 days later, underwent either sham or spinal nerve ligation procedures. Animals receiving rostral ventromedial medulla pretreatment with vehicle, dermorphin or saporin that were subjected to spinal nerve ligation demonstrated both thermal and tactile hypersensitivity, and showed significantly increased expression of touch-evoked FOS in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to nerve injury compared with sham-operated controls at days 3, 5 or 10 post-spinal nerve ligation. In contrast, nerve-injured animals pretreated with dermorphin-saporin showed enhanced behaviors and touch-evoked FOS expression in the spinal dorsal horn at day 3, but not days 5 and 10, post-spinal nerve ligation when compared with sham-operated controls. These results indicate the presence of nerve injury-induced behavioral hypersensitivity associated with nerve injury-induced central sensitization. Further, the results demonstrate the novel concept that once initiated, maintenance of nerve injury-induced central sensitization in the spinal dorsal horn requires descending pain facilitation mechanisms arising from the rostral ventromedial medulla.
Although neonatal hypoxia can lead to brain damage, mild hypoxic episodes may be beneficial, as illustrated by tolerance induction by preconditioning, a process that might involve neurogenesis. To examine if brief hypoxia in newborn rats could stimulate the generation of neurons, pups were exposed for 5 min to 100% N2. Cell density and apoptosis were monitored in various brain regions and cell proliferation was studied by the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine. Hypoxia did not result in detectable cell death but promoted cell proliferation in the ensuing three weeks in the subventricular zone and hippocampal dentate gyrus, with increased cell density in hippocampus CA1 pyramidal cells and granular layer of the dentate gyrus. Newly generated cells expressed neuronal markers (NeuroD or neuronal nuclear antigen) and were able to migrate from germinative zones to specific sites, in particular from the subventricular zone to the CA1 layer along the posterior periventricle. Neurogenesis was associated with an early activation of the extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 pathway, and pre-hypoxic administration of U0126, an inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase, impaired hypoxia effect on cell proliferation. Neurobehavioral capacities of hypoxic rats paralleled those of controls, but early exposure to hypoxia was associated with significantly improved memory retrieval scores at 40 days. In conclusion, brief neonatal hypoxia may trigger delayed generation of potentially functional neurons without concomitant cell death. This may constitute an interesting model for studying cell key events involved in the induction of neurogenesis.
Urocortin 1, highly conserved metazoan gene of the corticotropin-releasing hormone family, is a simple gene structured in two exons and the corresponding intron. The urocortin 1 prepropeptide is entirely coded in the second exon. Preliminary non-isotopic in situ hybridization experiments with an oligonucleotide complementary to an intron sequence of the urocortin 1 gene showed a significant cytoplasmic-like staining, suggesting the occurrence of an intron-retained urocortin 1 transcript. This observation prompted us to study whether the urocortin 1 gene presents alternative splicing by intron retention event. Confocal fluorescent in situ hybridization for urocortin 1 RNA and the use of the specific DNA dye TOPRO-3 allowed us to show significant expression of the intron-retained urocortin 1 transcript that did not colocalize with TOPRO-3 staining indicating a cytoplasmic localization for the intron-retained urocortin 1 transcript. The natural occurrence of a polyadenylated intron-retained urocortin 1 RNA was further documented by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (PCR), primed with oligo(dT), of total RNA extracted from three brain regions, a midbrain region containing the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, cerebellum and prefrontal cortex. In the three brain regions studied, it was possible to amplify both intron-less as well as intron-retained urocortin 1 transcripts. The use of PCR primers that simultaneously amplify both urocortin 1 transcripts allowed us to show that the expression of both urocortin 1 transcripts differs among the brain regions analyzed, suggesting a tissue specific regulation of this alternative splicing. In silico analysis of the five known mammalian urocortin 1 genomic sequences showed high conservation of the urocortin 1 intron sequence. Further studies should investigate the regulation of this intron retention event and its consequence for the functionality of the urocortin 1 gene.
The chick auditory brain stem has been a useful model system for examining the afferent-dependent signals that regulate postsynaptic neurons. Like other sensory systems, compromised afferent input results in rapid death and atrophy of postsynaptic neurons. The present paper explores the possible contributions of an oxidative stress pathway in determining neuronal fate following deafferentation. Levels of reactive oxygen species, lipid damage measured by 4-hydroxynonenal formation, and a compensatory reactive oxygen species-induced response regulated by glutathione s transferase M1 and the reactive oxygen species-sensitive transcriptional factor, nuclear respiratory factor 1 were examined. Unilateral cochlea removal surgery was performed on young posthatch chicks. Labeling in the cochlear nucleus, nucleus magnocellularis, on opposite sides of the same tissue sections were compared by densitometry. The results showed a dramatic increase in reactive oxygen species in the deafferented nucleus magnocellularis by 6 h following cochlea removal. This increase in reactive oxygen species was accompanied by lipid damage and a compensatory upregulation of both glutathione s transferase M1 and nuclear respiratory factor 1. Double-labeling revealed that glutathione s transferase M1 expression was highest in neurons that were likely to survive deafferentation, as assessed immunocytochemically with Y10b, a marker for ribosomal integrity. Together, these data suggest reactive oxygen species are generated and a compensatory detoxifying pathway is upregulated in the first few hours following deafferentation. This is consistent with the hypothesis that oxidative stress plays a role in determining whether a given neuron survives following deafferentation.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is an adjunctive treatment for refractory epilepsy. Using a seizure-prone Fast-kindling rat strain with known comorbid behavioral features, we investigated the effects of VNS on spatial memory, epileptogenesis, kindled seizures and body weight. Electrodes were implanted in both amygdalae and around the left vagus nerve of 17 rats. Following recovery, rats were tested in the Morris water-maze utilizing a fixed platform paradigm. The VNS group received 2 h of stimulation prior to entering the Morris water-maze. Rats were then tested in the kindling paradigm wherein the VNS group received 2 h of stimulation prior to daily kindling stimulation. Finally, the abortive effects of acute VNS against kindling-induced seizures were determined in fully kindled rats by applying VNS immediately after the kindling pulse. Body weight, water consumption and food intake were measured throughout. Memory performance in the Morris water-maze was not different between control and vagus nerve stimulation rats. Similarly, kindling rate was unaffected by antecedent VNS. However, pro-convulsive effects (P&lt;0.05) were noted, when VNS was administered prior to the kindling pulse in fully kindled rats. Yet, paradoxically, VNS showed anti-convulsant effects (P&lt;0.01) in those rats when applied immediately after the kindling stimulus. Body weight was significantly lower throughout kindling (P&lt;0.01) in VNS-treated rats compared with controls, which was associated with reduced food intake (P&lt;0.05), but without difference in water consumption. VNS appears to be devoid of significant cognitive side effects in the Morris water-maze in Fast rats. Although VNS exhibited no prophylactic effect on epileptogenesis or seizure severity when applied prior to the kindling stimulus, it showed significant anti-convulsant effects in fully kindled rats when applied after seizure initiation. Lastly, VNS prevented the weight gain associated with kindling through reduced food intake.
The initiation and maintenance of physiological and pathophysiological oscillatory activity depends on the synaptic interactions within neuronal networks. We studied the mechanisms underlying evoked transient network oscillation in acute slices of the adolescent rat somatosensory cortex and modeled its underpinning mechanisms. Oscillations were evoked by brief spatially distributed noisy extracellular stimulation, delivered via bipolar electrodes. Evoked transient network oscillation was detected with multi-neuron patch-clamp recordings under different pharmacological conditions. The observed oscillations are in the frequency range of 2-5 Hz and consist of 4-12 mV large, 40-150 ms wide compound synaptic events with rare overlying action potentials. This evoked transient network oscillation is only weakly expressed in the somatosensory cortex and requires increased [K+]o of 6.25 mM and decreased [Ca2+]o of 1.5 mM and [Mg2+]o of 0.5 mM. A peak in the cross-correlation among membrane potential in layers II/III, IV and V neurons reflects the underlying network-driven basis of the evoked transient network oscillation. The initiation of the evoked transient network oscillation is accompanied by an increased [K+]o and can be prevented by the K+ channel blocker quinidine. In addition, a shift of the chloride reversal potential takes place during stimulation, resulting in a depolarizing type A GABA (GABAA) receptor response. Blockade of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-proprionate (AMPA), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), or GABA(A) receptors as well as gap junctions prevents evoked transient network oscillation while a reduction of AMPA or GABA(A) receptor desensitization increases its duration and amplitude. The apparent reversal potential of -27 mV of the evoked transient network oscillation, its pharmacological profile, as well as the modeling results suggest a mixed contribution of glutamatergic, excitatory GABAergic, and gap junctional conductances in initiation and maintenance of this oscillatory activity. With these properties, evoked transient network oscillation resembles epileptic afterdischarges more than any other form of physiological or pathophysiological neocortical oscillatory activity.
Basic research shows that the physiological and molecular mechanisms of very low frequency (&lt;1 Hz) electroencephalogram (EEG) waves of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep differ from those of the higher (1-4 Hz) delta frequencies. Human studies show that the across-NREM period dynamics of very low frequency and 1-4 Hz EEG also differ. These differences and the reported failure of very low frequency EEG power to increase after a night of total sleep deprivation raise the question of whether very low frequency EEG shows the other homeostatic properties established for higher delta frequencies. Here we tested the relation of very low frequency EEG power density to prior waking duration across a normal day and whether these low frequencies meet another criterion for homeostatic sleep EEG: conservation of power across a late nap and post-nap sleep. Data from 19 young adults recorded in four separate sessions of baseline, daytime nap and post-nap sleep were analyzed. Power density in very low frequency NREM EEG increased linearly when naps were taken later in the day (i.e. were preceded by longer waking durations). In the night following an 18:00 h nap, very low frequency power was reduced by roughly the amount of power in the nap. Thus, very low frequency EEG meets two major homeostatic criteria. We hypothesize that these low frequencies reflect the executive rather than the functional processes by which NREM sleep reverses the effects of waking brain activity.
The temporal sequence of changes in electrophysiological properties during postnatal development in different neuronal populations has been the subject of previous studies. Those studies demonstrated major physiological modifications with age, and postnatal periods in which such changes are more pronounced. Until now, no similar systematic study has been performed in motoneurons of the oculomotor nucleus. This work has two main aims: first, to determine whether the physiological changes in oculomotor nucleus motoneurons follow a similar time course for different parameters; and second, to compare the temporal sequence with that in other neuronal populations. We recorded the electrophysiological properties of 134 identified oculomotor nucleus motoneurons from 1 to 40 days postnatal in brain slices of rats. The resting membrane potential did not significantly change with postnatal development, and it had a mean value of -61.8 mV. The input resistance and time constant diminished from 82.9-53.1 M omega and from 9.4-4.9 ms respectively with age. These decrements occurred drastically in a short time after birth (1-5 days postnatally). The motoneurons' rheobase gradually decayed from 0.29-0.11 nA along postnatal development. From birth until postnatal day 15 and postnatal day 20 respectively, the action potential shortened from 2.3-1.2 ms, and the medium afterhyperpolarization from 184.8-94.4 ms. The firing gain and the maximum discharge increased with age. The former rose continuously, while the increase in maximum discharge was most pronounced between postnatal day 16 and postnatal day 20. We conclude that the developmental sequence was not similar for all electrophysiological properties, and was unique for each neuronal population.
The present study aimed to investigate whether tonic cutaneous pain exerts any effect on the cortical processing of nociceptive input and if this effect may involve only body parts in pain. Tonic cutaneous pain was obtained in nine healthy human subjects by infusion of a hypertonic saline (5%) in the s.c. tissue over the hypothenar muscles (10 ml/h for 20 min). Nociceptive cutaneous CO2 laser-evoked potentials were recorded after stimulation of the right hand dorsum, which was adjacent to the painful area, and the right perioral region, corresponding to the adjacent cortical sensory area. Laser-evoked potentials were obtained before saline injection, at the peak pain and 20 min after pain disappeared. During saline infusion, the laser-evoked pain to right hand stimulation was reduced and the vertex laser-evoked potentials (N2a-P2, mean latency 181 ms and 319 ms for the N2a and the P2 potentials, respectively), which are generated in the anterior cingulate cortex, were significantly decreased in amplitude compared with the baseline. Moreover, the topography of these potentials was modified by cutaneous pain, shifting from the central toward the parietal region. Dipolar modeling showed that the dipolar source in the anterior cingulate cortex moved backward during saline infusion. This result suggests that cutaneous pain may modify the relative activities of the anterior and posterior anterior cingulate cortex parts, which are thought to be devoted to encode different aspects of pain sensation. No laser-evoked potential change was observed after stimulation of the right perioral region, suggesting that functional changes in the nociceptive system are selective for the painful regions and not for areas with cortical proximity.
Several postmortem and neuroimaging studies suggest that central nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors are important in both the pathophysiology and pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia. However, while antipsychotic drugs are routinely used in the therapeutics of schizophrenia, little is known about their effects on the densities of these receptors when they are administered for extended periods of time (a common practice in the clinical setting). In the present study in rats, the residual effects of prior chronic exposure to representative first generation antipsychotics and second generation antipsychotics on the densities of high affinity nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor in the brain were investigated. Test subjects were treated with the first generation antipsychotics, haloperidol (2.0 mg/kg/day) or chlorpromazine (10.0 mg/kg/day) or the second generation antipsychotics, risperidone (2.5 mg/kg/day) or olanzapine (10.0 mg/kg/day) in drinking water for periods of 90 or 180 days, given a drug-free washout period (i.e. returned to normal drinking water) for two weeks and then killed. Quantitative receptor autoradiography was subsequently performed using 16 mum sagittal slices of whole brain incubated with [3H]-epibatidine, [3H]-pirenzepine or [3H]-AFDX-384 to measure high affinity nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, M1 and M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, respectively. The most notable experimental result was a moderate, but significant (P&lt;0.01) increase in [3H]-AFDX-384 binding sites in a number of brain regions (including cortex, hippocampus, subiculum, substantia innominata, and thalamus) associated with prior exposure to olanzapine for 90, but not 180 days. Olanzapine was also associated with a significantly higher density of [3H]-pirenzepine binding sites in cortex lamina I after 90 days of prior drug exposure. These data indicate that chronic treatment with a commonly used second generation antipsychotic, olanzapine is associated with modest increases in M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in memory-related brain regions that may eventually abate with longer periods of chronic drug exposure.
Non-volatile chemosignals in rodents are detected by unique receptors in the vomeronasal organ of the accessory olfactory system. Although the vomeronasal organ has been implicated in the regulation of sexually dimorphic behavioral and neuroendocrine functions, the underlying cellular mechanisms are undetermined. In previous studies we showed that exposure to soiled male bedding augmented immediate early gene immunoreactivity in neurons of the basal zone of the vomeronasal organ, an effect that depended on gender and sex steroid expression. To determine whether this effect could be due to differences in vomeronasal organ receptor expression, we examined two representatives (VR1 and VR4) from different subfamilies of the V2R family of receptors that are expressed in the basal zone of the vomeronasal organ. Adult Swiss-Webster male and female mice were gonadectomized and implanted with capsules containing 17beta-estradiol, testosterone or neither steroid (control). Two weeks later vomeronasal organs were processed for in situ hybridization using probes from the N-terminal extracellular domains of VR1 and VR4. Expression of both VR1 and VR4 was significantly higher in males than in females. Estradiol, but not testosterone-treated, males had significantly lower levels of VR1 expression in the caudal vomeronasal organ compared with untreated gonadectomized males. In contrast, testosterone enhanced VR4 expression in males relative to similarly treated females. Despite these effects, we found no evidence that vomeronasal organ neurons express either androgen or estrogen receptors. These data show that expression of vomeronasal organ receptors in mice is sexually dimorphic and regulated by sex steroids. Thus, gonadal hormones may affect the response of vomeronasal organ neurons to chemosignals by altering levels of the receptors to which they bind.
Valproic acid is widely used for the treatment of epilepsy and mood disorders, but its mode of action is unclear. Treatment of neuronal cells with valproic acid promotes neurite sprouting, is neuroprotective and drives neurogenesis; however its effects on non-neuronal brain cells are less clear. We report that valproic acid induces apoptosis in the mouse microglial cell line, BV-2, at concentrations within the therapeutic range. When BV-2 cells were incubated for 24 h with 500-1000 microM valproic acid we observed a reduction in cell number, the appearance of apoptotic morphology and increased caspase 3 cleavage. Exposure of a macrophage cell line (RAW 264.7) to similar concentrations of valproic acid also led to reduced cell number but no caspase 3 cleavage, suggesting these cells responded to valproic acid with reduced proliferation rather than apoptosis. This was confirmed using bromodeoxyuridine incorporation studies. Similar concentrations of valproic acid added to Neuro-2a, SK-N-SH and C6 cell lines as well as human NTera-2 astrocytes did not evoke cell death. The caspase 3 inhibitor DEVD-CHO inhibited valproic acid-induced apoptosis in BV-2 cells whereas the MEK inhibitor U0126 potentiated valproic acid-mediated apoptosis. These results demonstrate that valproic acid selectively induces apoptosis in BV-2 cells by way of a caspase 3-mediated action. As activated microglia secrete neurotoxins in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and HIV dementia, valproic acid may alleviate these diseases by selectively killing microglia.

Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) based metabolomics in combination with multivariate data analysis may become valuable tools to study environmental effects of pharmaceuticals and other chemicals in aquatic organisms. To explore the usefulness of this approach in fish, we have used 1H NMR metabolomics to compare blood plasma and plasma lipid extracts from rainbow trout exposed to the synthetic contraceptive estrogen ethinylestradiol (EE2) with plasma from control fish. The plasma metabolite profile was affected in fish exposed to 10 ng/L but not 0.87 ng/L of EE2, which was in agreement with an induced vitellogenin synthesis in the high dose group only, as measured by ELISA. The main affected metabolites were vitellogenin, alanine, phospholipids and cholesterol. The responses identified by this discovery-driven method could be put in context with previous knowledge of the effects of estrogens on fish. This adds confidence to the approach of using NMR metabolomics to identify environmental effects of pharmaceuticals and other contaminants.
A rare type of ganglion cell in mammalian retina is directly photosensitive. These novel retinal photoreceptors express the photopigment melanopsin. They send axons directly to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), intergeniculate leaflet (IGL), and olivary pretectal nucleus (OPN), thereby contributing to photic synchronization of circadian rhythms and the pupillary light reflex. Here, we sought to characterize more fully the projections of these cells to the brain. By targeting tau-lacZ to the melanopsin gene locus in mice, ganglion cells that would normally express melanopsin were induced to express, instead, the marker enzyme beta-galactosidase. Their axons were visualized by X-gal histochemistry or anti-beta-galactosidase immunofluorescence. Established targets were confirmed, including the SCN, IGL, OPN, ventral division of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGv), and preoptic area, but the overall projections were more widespread than previously recognized. Targets included the lateral nucleus, peri-supraoptic nucleus, and subparaventricular zone of the hypothalamus, medial amygdala, margin of the lateral habenula, posterior limitans nucleus, superior colliculus, and periaqueductal gray. There were also weak projections to the margins of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Co-staining with the cholera toxin B subunit to label all retinal afferents showed that melanopsin ganglion cells provide most of the retinal input to the SCN, IGL, and lateral habenula and much of that to the OPN, but that other ganglion cells do contribute at least some retinal input to these targets. Staining patterns after monocular enucleation revealed that the projections of these cells are overwhelmingly crossed except for the projection to the SCN, which is bilaterally symmetrical.
We examined the thalamocortical connections of electrophysiologically identified locations in the hand and forelimb representations in areas 3b, 1, and 5 in the New World titi monkeys (Callicebus moloch), and of area 7b/AIP. Labeled cells and terminals in the thalamus resulting from the injections were related to architectonic boundaries. As in previous studies in primates, the hand representation of area 3b has dense, restricted projections predominantly from the lateral division of the ventral posterior nucleus (VPl). Projections to area 1 were highly convergent from several thalamic nuclei including the ventral lateral nucleus (VL), anterior pulvinar (PA), VPl, and the superior division of the ventral posterior nucleus (VPs). In cortex immediately caudal to area 1, what we term area 5, thalamocortical connections were also highly convergent and predominantly from nuclei of the thalamus associated with motor, visual, or somatic processing such as VL, the medial pulvinar (PM), and PA, respectively; with moderate projections from VP, central lateral nucleus (CL), lateral posterior nucleus (LP), and VPs. Finally, thalamocortical connections of area 7b/AIP were from a range of nuclei including PA, PM, LP/LD, VL, CL, PL, and CM. The current data support two conclusions drawn from previous studies in titi monkeys and other primates. First, cortex caudal to area 1 in New World monkeys is more like area 5 than area 2. Second, the presence of thalamic input to area 5 from both motor nuclei and somatosensory nuclei of the thalamus, suggests that area 5 could be considered a highly specialized sensorimotor area.
Adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus is assuming an increasingly important role in supporting hippocampal-dependent learning and the modulation of mood and anxiety. Moreover, injury to the developing postnatal dentate gyrus has profound effects on neurogenesis and hippocampal learning throughout life. Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures represent an attractive model for studying neurogenesis both in the early postnatal and adult hippocampus, as they retain much of their anatomical and functional circuitry in vitro. Ongoing neurogenesis has been recently demonstrated in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. However, cell proliferation, one of the critical components of neurogenesis, has yet to be characterized in this culture system. We examined single-pulse S-phase bromo-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling in the dentate granule layer with respect to the septotemporal position of origin of the slice culture, the medium the cultures were grown in, and the time the cultures were maintained in vitro up to 14 days, when they are believed to have matured to a near adult state. Using single 10-microm sections through a culture as our reference volume, we report significant effects of septotemporal position on the number of granule layer cells and the number of cells in S-phase, as estimated by short-survival (2 hours) BrdU studies. We report a declining rate of BrdU incorporation, evidence of significant structural changes within the granule cell layer, and differences in cell death between culture media over the first 14 days in vitro. We report caution with the use of BrdU cell density and changes in cell number to indirectly estimate proliferation.
Genetic strategies for perturbing activity of selected neurons hold great promise for understanding circuitry and behavior. Several such strategies exist, but there has been no direct demonstration of reversible inactivation of mammalian neurons in vivo. We previously reported quickly reversible inactivation of neurons in vitro using expression of the Drosophila allatostatin receptor (AlstR). Here, adeno-associated viral vectors are used to express AlstR in vivo in cortical and thalamic neurons of rats, ferrets, and monkeys. Application of the receptor's ligand, allatostatin (AL), leads to a dramatic reduction in neural activity, including responses of visual neurons to optimized visual stimuli. Additionally, AL eliminates activity in spinal cords of transgenic mice conditionally expressing AlstR. This reduction occurs selectively in AlstR-expressing neurons. Inactivation can be reversed within minutes upon washout of the ligand and is repeatable, demonstrating that the AlstR/AL system is effective for selective, quick, and reversible silencing of mammalian neurons in vivo.

Hebbian learning models require that neurons are able to both strengthen and weaken their synaptic connections. Hippocampal synaptic plasticity, in the form of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), has been implicated in both spatial memory formation as well as novelty acquisition. In addition, the ventral tegmental area-hippocampal loop has been proposed to control the entry of information into long-term memory, whereas the dopaminergic system is believed to play an important role in information acquisition and synaptic plasticity. D1/D5 dopamine receptors are positively coupled to adenylyl cyclase and have been to modulate certain forms of synaptic plasticity, particularly in vitro. We investigated how D1/D5 dopamine receptors modify long-lasting synaptic plasticity at CA1 synapses of adult freely moving rats and found that receptor activation lowered the threshold for the induction of both LTP and LTD. Specific types of learning are associated with specific types of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. We found that object-configuration learning, facilitation of late-phase LTD by object exploration, and late-phase LTP by exploration of empty space were all prevented by D1/D5 receptor antagonism. Furthermore, receptor antagonism prevented electrically induced late-LTP, whereas receptor activation facilitated induction of both LTP and LTD by patterned electrical stimulation. These findings suggest that the dopaminergic system, acting via D1/D5 receptors, gates long-term changes in synaptic strength and that these changes are a critical factor in the acquisition of novel information.
Recent efforts to define the functions of the primate rhinal (entorhinal and perirhinal) cortical areas have focused on their interaction with the hippocampus in the mediation of normal memory. Less is known on the functional meaning of their strong connections to the amygdala, a key substrate for emotion. A previous study (Meunier and Bachevalier, 2002) showed evidence that complete rhinal ablations yield changes in monkeys' behavioral responses to affectively salient stimuli. Here, we studied monkeys with separate entorhinal or perirhinal ablations in the same paradigm, where responses were triggered by four stimuli: an unfamiliar human, a conspecific stimulus, a toy snake, and a familiar (generally rewarded) junk object. The two separate lesions produced similar changes, and each replicated the effects of complete rhinal lesions (i.e., attenuated affiliation and enhanced defense). Failure to modulate responses based on previous experience (i.e., memory difficulties) may explain these affective changes. This interpretation does not account, however, for the sparing of some memory-dependent modulations of defense, nor for the lack of correlation between the animals' affective changes and their own recognition memory performance. Alternatively, rhinal damage may introduce a negative bias in the risk assessment of affectively salient stimuli, a proposal more compatible with Gray and McNaughton's (2000) anxiety-centered view of medial temporal functions, than with prominent mnemonic/perceptual functional models of the hippocampal/rhinal duo. Reconciling the two perspectives may improve our understanding of rhinal functions.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors perform diverse functions in the nervous system. As a result, multiple receptor subtypes have evolved with different kinetics, ion permeability, expression patterns, and regulation by second messengers. Kainate receptors show slower recovery from desensitization and have different affinities for agonists than AMPA receptors. Based on analysis of ligand binding domain crystal structures, we identified interdomain interactions in the agonist-bound state that are conserved in kainate receptors and absent in AMPA receptors. Mutations in GluR6 designed to disrupt these contacts reduced agonist apparent affinity, speeded up receptor deactivation and increased the rate of recovery from desensitization. Conversely, introduction of mutations in GluR2 that enabled additional interdomain interactions in the agonist-bound state increased agonist apparent affinity 15-fold, and slowed both deactivation and recovery from desensitization. We conclude that interdomain interactions have evolved as a distinct mechanism that contributes to the unique kinetic properties of AMPA and kainate receptors.
Word segmentation, detecting word boundaries in continuous speech, is a critical aspect of language learning. Previous research in infants and adults demonstrated that a stream of speech can be readily segmented based solely on the statistical and speech cues afforded by the input. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the neural substrate of word segmentation was examined on-line as participants listened to three streams of concatenated syllables, containing either statistical regularities alone, statistical regularities and speech cues, or no cues. Despite the participants' inability to explicitly detect differences between the speech streams, neural activity differed significantly across conditions, with left-lateralized signal increases in temporal cortices observed only when participants listened to streams containing statistical regularities, particularly the stream containing speech cues. In a second fMRI study, designed to verify that word segmentation had implicitly taken place, participants listened to trisyllabic combinations that occurred with different frequencies in the streams of speech they just heard (&quot;words,&quot; 45 times; &quot;partwords,&quot; 15 times; &quot;nonwords,&quot; once). Reliably greater activity in left inferior and middle frontal gyri was observed when comparing words with partwords and, to a lesser extent, when comparing partwords with nonwords. Activity in these regions, taken to index the implicit detection of word boundaries, was positively correlated with participants' rapid auditory processing skills. These findings provide a neural signature of on-line word segmentation in the mature brain and an initial model with which to study developmental changes in the neural architecture involved in processing speech cues during language learning.
Cell fate commitment in the developing CNS frequently depends on localized cell-cell interactions. In the avian visual system the optic nerve oligodendrocytes are derived from founder cells located at the floor of the third ventricle. Here we show that the induction of these founder cells is directly dependent on signaling from the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons. The appearance of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) correlates with the projection of RGC axons, and early eye removal dramatically reduces the number of OPCs. In vitro signaling from retinal neurites induces OPCs in responsive tissue. Retinal axon induction of OPCs is dependent on sonic hedgehog (Shh) and neuregulin signaling, and the inhibition of either signal reduces OPC induction in vivo and in vitro. The dependence of OPCs on retinal axonal cues appears to be a common phenomenon, because ocular retardation (or(J)) mice lacking optic nerve have dramatically reduced OPCs in the midline of the third ventricle.
Saccades modulate the relationship between visual motion and smooth eye movement. Before a saccade, pursuit eye movements reflect a vector average of motion across the visual field. After a saccade, pursuit primarily reflects the motion of the target closest to the endpoint of the saccade. We tested the hypothesis that the saccade produces a spatial weighting of motion around the endpoint of the saccade. Using a moving pursuit stimulus that stepped to a new spatial location just before a targeting saccade, we controlled the distance between the endpoint of the saccade and the position of the moving target. We demonstrate that the smooth eye velocity following the targeting saccade weights the presaccadic visual motion inputs by the distance from their location in space to the endpoint of the saccade, defining the extent of a spatiotemporal filter for driving the eyes. The center of the filter is located at the endpoint of the saccade in space, not at the position of the fovea. The filter is stable in the face of a distracter target, is present for saccades to stationary and moving targets, and affects both the speed and direction of the postsaccadic eye movement. The spatial filter can explain the target-selecting gain change in postsaccadic pursuit, and has intriguing parallels to the process by which perceptual decisions about a restricted region of space are enhanced by attention. The effect of the spatial saccade plan on the pursuit response to a given retinal motion describes the dynamics of a coordinate transformation.
The basis of neuron-specific pathogenesis, resulting from the expression of misfolded proteins, is poorly understood and of central importance to an understanding of the cell-type specificity of neurodegenerative disease. In this study, we developed a new model for neuron-specific polyQ pathogenesis in Caenorhabditis elegans by pan-neuronal expression that exhibits polyQ length-dependent aggregation, neurotoxicity, and a pathogenic threshold at a length of 35-40 glutamines. Analysis of specific neurons in C. elegans revealed that only at the threshold length, but not at shorter or longer lengths, polyQ proteins can exist in a soluble state in certain lateral neurons or in an aggregated state in motor neurons of the same animal. These results provide direct experimental evidence that the expression of a single species of a toxic misfolded protein can exhibit a range of neuronal consequences.
Although the hippocampus plays a crucial role in the formation of spatial memories, as these memories mature they may become additionally (or even exclusively) dependent on extrahippocampal structures. However, the identity of these extrahippocampal structures that support remote spatial memory is currently not known. Using a Morris water-maze task, we show that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) plays a key role in the expression of remote spatial memories in mice. To first evaluate whether the ACC is activated after the recall of spatial memory, we examined the expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos, in the ACC. Fos expression was elevated after expression of a remote (1 month old), but not recent (1 d old), water-maze memory, suggesting that ACC plays an increasingly important role as a function of time. Consistent with the gene expression data, targeted pharmacological inactivation of the ACC with the sodium channel blocker lidocaine blocked expression of remote, but spared recent, spatial memory. In contrast, inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus disrupted expression of spatial memory, regardless of its age. We further showed that inactivation of the ACC blocked expression of remote spatial memory in two different mouse strains, after training with either a hidden or visible platform in a constant location, and using the AMPA receptor antagonist CNQX. Together, our data provide evidence that circuits supporting spatial memory are reorganized in a time-dependent manner, and establish that activity in neurons intrinsic to the ACC is critical for processing remote spatial memories.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the presence of large numbers of fibrillar amyloid deposits in the form of senile plaques in the brain. The fibrils in senile plaques are composed of 40- and 42-residue amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides. Several lines of evidence indicate that fibrillar Abeta and especially soluble Abeta aggregates are important in the pathogenesis of AD, and many laboratories have investigated soluble Abeta aggregates generated from monomeric Abeta in vitro. Of these in vitro aggregates, the best characterized are called protofibrils. They are composed of globules and short rods, show primarily beta-structure by circular dichroism (CD), enhance the fluorescence of bound thioflavin T, and readily seed the growth of long fibrils. However, one difficulty in correlating soluble Abeta aggregates formed in vitro with those in vivo is the high probability that cellular interfaces affect the aggregation rates and even the aggregate structures. Reports that focus on the features of interfaces that are important in Abeta aggregation have found that amphiphilic interactions and micellar-like Abeta structures may play a role. We previously described the formation of Abeta(1-40) aggregates at polar-nonpolar interfaces, including those generated at microdroplets formed in dilute hexafluoro-2-propanol (HFIP). Here we compared the Abeta(1-40) aggregates produced on sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) micelles, which may be a better model of biological membranes with phospholipids that have anionic headgroups. At both HFIP and SDS interfaces, changes in peptide secondary structure were observed by CD immediately when Abeta(1-40) was introduced. With HFIP, the change involved an increase in predominant beta-structure content and in fluorescence with thioflavin T, while with SDS, a partial alpha-helical conformation was adopted that gave no fluorescence. However, in both systems, initial amorphous clustered aggregates progressed to soluble fibers rich in beta-structure over a roughly 2 day period. Fiber formation was much faster than in the absence of an interface, presumably because of the close intermolecular proximity of peptides at the interfaces. While these fibers resembled protofibrils, they failed to seed the aggregation of Abeta(1-40) monomers effectively.
Cell adhesion is a crucial step in proliferation, differentiation, migration, apoptosis, and metastasis. In previous works we have shown that cell adhesion is modulated by ouabain, a highly specific inhibitor of Na+,K+-ATPase, recently found to be a hormone. In the present work we pursue the investigation of the effect of ouabain on a special type of cell-cell interaction: the rescue of ouabain-sensitive MDCK cells (W) by ouabain-resistant cells (R). In cultured monolayers of pure W cells, ouabain triggers the &quot;P--&gt;A mechanism&quot; (from pump/adhesion) consisting of a cascade of phosphorylations that retrieves adhesion-associated molecules occludin and beta-catenin and results in detachment of the cell. When W cells are instead cocultured with R cells, the P--&gt;A reaction is blocked, and W cells are rescued. Furthermore, in these R/W cocultures ouabain promotes cell-cell communication by means of gap junctions by specifically enhancing the expression of connexin 32 and addressing this molecule to the plasma membrane. Ouabain also promotes the internalization of the beta-subunit of the Na+,K+-ATPase. These observations open the possibility that the crucial processes mentioned at the beginning would be under the control of the hormone ouabain.
It was, until now, not entirely clear how the nervous system attains its cellular phenotypic diversity and wired complexity during development. Here we describe how environmental interactions alone can modify the development of neurogenic precursor cells. Upon evaluating distinct growth-permissive substrates in an embryonic stem cell-neurogenesis assay, we found that laminin, fibronectin, and gelatin instruct neural fate and alter the functional specification of neurons when applied at distinct stages of development. Changes in phenotypic, electrophysiological, and molecular characteristics could resemble cellular events and interactions in the early embryonic brain and may explain why these extracellular matrix components transiently demarcate certain developing brain structures.
Over two million Americans are afflicted with schizophrenia, a debilitating mental health disorder with a unique symptomatic and epidemiological profile. Genomics studies have hinted towards candidate schizophrenia susceptibility chromosomal loci and genes. Modern proteomic tools, particularly mass spectrometry and expression scanning, aim to identify both pathogenic-revealing and diagnostically significant biomarkers. Only a few studies on basic proteomics have been conducted for psychiatric disorders relative to the plethora of cancer specific experiments. One such proteomic utility enables the discovery of proteins and biological marker fingerprinting profiling techniques (SELDI-TOF-MS), and then subjects them to tandem mass spectrometric fragmentation and de novo protein sequencing (MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS) for the accurate identification and characterization of the proteins. Such utilities can explain the pathogenesis of neuro-psychiatric disease, provide more objective testing methods, and further demonstrate a biological basis to mental illness. Although clinical proteomics in schizophrenia have yet to reveal a biomarker with diagnostic specificity, methods that better characterize the disorder using endophenotypes can advance findings. Schizophrenia biomarkers could potentially revolutionize its psychopharmacology, changing it into a more hypothesis and genomic/proteomic-driven science.
The Center for Behavioral Neuroscience was launched in the fall of 1999 with support from the National Science Foundation, the Georgia Research Alliance, and our eight participating institutions (Georgia State University, Emory University, Georgia Institute of Technology, Morehouse School of Medicine, Clark-Atlanta University, Spelman College, Morehouse College, Morris Brown College). The CBN provides the resources to foster innovative research in behavioral neuroscience, with a specific focus on the neurobiology of social behavior. Center faculty working in collaboratories use diverse model systems from invertebrates to humans to investigate fear, aggression, affiliation, and reproductive behaviors. The addition of new research foci in reward and reinforcement, memory and cognition, and sex differences has expanded the potential for collaborations among Center investigators. Technology core laboratories develop the molecular, cellular, systems, behavioral, and imaging tools essential for investigating how the brain influences complex social behavior and, in turn, how social experience influences brain function. In addition to scientific discovery, a major goal of the CBN is to train the next generation of behavioral neuroscientists and to increase the number of women and under-represented minorities in neuroscience. Educational programs are offered for K-12 students to spark an interest in science. Undergraduate and graduate initiatives encourage students to participate in interdisciplinary and inter-institutional programs, while postdoctoral programs provide a bridge between laboratories and allow the interdisciplinary research and educational ventures to flourish. Finally, the CBN is committed to knowledge transfer, partnering with community organizations to bring neuroscience to the public. This multifaceted approach through research, education, and knowledge transfer will have a major impact on how we study interactions between the brain and behavior, as well as how the public views brain function and neuroscience.
Neurons of the vertebrate central nervous system have the capacity to modify synapse number, morphology, and efficacy in response to activity. Some of these functions can be attributed to activity-induced synthesis and secretion of the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF); however, the molecular mechanisms by which BDNF mediates these events are still not well understood. Using time-lapse confocal analysis, we show that BDNF mobilizes synaptic vesicles at existing synapses, resulting in small clusters of synaptic vesicles &quot;splitting&quot; away from synaptic sites. We demonstrate that BDNF's ability to mobilize synaptic vesicle clusters depends on the dissociation of cadherin-beta-catenin adhesion complexes that occurs after tyrosine phosphorylation of beta-catenin. Artificially maintaining cadherin-beta-catenin complexes in the presence of BDNF abolishes the BDNF-mediated enhancement of synaptic vesicle mobility, as well as the longer-term BDNF-mediated increase in synapse number. Together, this data demonstrates that the disruption of cadherin-beta-catenin complexes is an important molecular event through which BDNF increases synapse density in cultured hippocampal neurons.
Protein kinases and phosphatases catalyze opposing reactions of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation, which may modulate the function of crucial signaling proteins in central nervous system. This is an important mechanism in the regulation of intracellular signal transduction pathways in nociceptive neurons. To explore the role of protein phosphatase in central sensitization of spinal nociceptive neurons following peripheral noxious stimulation, using electrophysiological recording techniques, we investigated the role of two inhibitors of protein phosphatase type 2A (PP2A), fostriecin and okadaic acid (OA), on the responses of dorsal horn neurons to mechanical stimuli in anesthetized rats following intradermal injection of capsaicin. Central sensitization was initiated by injection of capsaicin into the plantar surface of the left paw. A microdialysis fiber was implanted in the spinal cord dorsal horn for perfusion of ACSF and inhibitors of PP2A, fostriecin and okadaic acid. We found that in ACSF pretreated animals, the responses to innocuous and noxious stimuli following capsaicin injection increased over a period of 15 min after injection and had mostly recovered by 60 min later. However, pre- or post-treatment with the phosphatase inhibitors, fostriecin or OA, significantly enhanced the effects of capsaicin injection by prolonging the responses to more than 3 hours. These results confirm that blockade of protein phosphatase activity may potentiate central sensitization of nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord following capsaicin injection and indicate that protein phosphatase type 2A may be involved in determining the duration of capsaicin-induced central sensitization.
The present study investigates the effects of neighborhood size and neighborhood frequency in reading Chinese two-character words. The neighborhood size of a word is defined as the summation of neighbors sharing the first constituent (neighborhood size 1) and the second constituent (neighborhood size 2) characters. The first experiment found two opposite neighborhood size effects in lexical decision of high-frequency and low-frequency words. The regression analysis showed that neighborhood size 1 influenced word reading more than the neighborhood size 2. The second experiment confirmed this finding and showed that reading words with higher frequency neighbors took a longer time and elicited greater N400 and LPC than those without higher frequency neighbors. These findings indicate that, when reading Chinese two-character words, all words sharing the first constituent character are activated in the early stage of word recognition and the existence of high-frequency words among neighbors leads to greater competition in the stage of semantic integration and response selection.
A mismatch negativity event-related potential protocol was administered to dyslexic children and their respective controls to test whether a specific auditory deficit concerning phonetic processing or a lower level auditory processing deficit was present in developmental dyslexia. Three different contrast conditions were explored, including nonphonological sounds, contrasted in pitch and duration, and phonemes. Mismatch negativity amplitudes differed significantly between groups in the duration condition, whereas no differences were found in the frequency and phoneme conditions. Moreover, the dyslexic children had delayed mismatch negativity latencies in the three contrast conditions. Our results suggest a deficit in low-level auditory discrimination in dyslexic children, in particular when detecting stimulus duration, and support the rapid auditory processing theory of dyslexia.
Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we compared responses during visually guided saccades with those evoked during memory-guided saccades, in which participants executed saccades to remembered locations. Eye movements were recorded in the magnetic resonance tomograph. Significantly stronger activation during memory-guided saccades was observed in the posterior portion of the right inferior frontal gyrus, in the left inferior frontal eye field, in the posterior parietal cortex, as well as in the right posterior superior temporal gyrus. The posterior part of the dorsal anterior cingulum and a small voxel cluster in the dorsolateral prefrontal area, anterior to the left inferior frontal eye field, were only active in the memory-guided condition.
The event-related potential technique was used to investigate the time course and scalp-potential topography for the numerical distance effect in a number-matching task. Twenty undergraduates judged whether a number matched or did not match another number presented 1.5 s earlier. Compared with number pairs with a 'small' numerical distance (distance=1), number pairs with a 'large' numerical distance (greater than 2) showed a longer latency and a greater positive amplitude in the N240 component. This numerical distance effect was limited to fronto-central electrodes. These results were discussed in terms of the neural bases of the numerical distance effect during the automatic processing of numbers.

The aim of this study was to characterize endogenous nitroproteins, and those proteins that interact with nitroproteins, in a human pituitary nonfunctional adenoma so as to clarify the role of protein nitration in adenomas. A nitrotyrosine affinity column (NTAC) was used to preferentially enrich and isolate endogenous nitroproteins and nitroprotein-protein complexes from a tissue homogenate that was prepared from a human pituitary nonfunctional pituitary adenoma. The preferentially enriched endogenous nitroproteins and nitroprotein-protein complexes were subjected to trypsin digestion, desalination, and tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Nine nitroproteins (Rho-GTPase-activing protein 5, leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor subfamily A member 4 precursor, zinc finger protein 432, cAMP-dependent protein kinase type I-beta regulatory subunit, sphingosine-1-phosphate lyase 1, centaurin beta 1, proteasome subunit alpha type 2, interleukin 1 family member 6, and rhophilin 2) and three proteins (interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase-like 2, glutamate receptor-interacting protein 2, and ubiquitin) that interacted with nitroproteins were discovered. The nitration site of each nitroprotein was located onto the functional domain where nitration occurred, and each nitroprotein was related to a corresponding functional system. Those data indicate that protein nitration might be an important molecular event in the formation of a human pituitary nonfunctional adenoma.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been implicated in behavioral responses associated with inflammation, sickness behavior and various nervous system disorders. We studied a range of different behaviors in IL-6-knockout (IL-6ko) and wild-type (WT) male mice. No significant differences were observed in ambulatory, exploratory, and stereotypic activities in home or novel cages, in an open field (OF), in the multicompartment chamber (MCC), or in the elevated plus-maze (EPM). IL-6ko mice shed fewer fecal boli than WT mice in the OF, in novel cages and in the MCC although this effect was not statistically significant in the OF. In novel cages, intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of IL-6 (1 microg) depressed ambulatory activity slightly more in IL-6ko than in WT mice. Restraint and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta, 100 ng i.p.) decreased exploration of mice in the MCC and EPM, but there was no indication of altered sensitivity in IL-6ko mice. No significant differences were detected in the tail suspension and the Porsolt forced swim tests. IL-1beta and lipopolysaccharide (LPS 1 microg i.p.) injection depressed sweetened milk and solid food intake similarly in IL-6ko and WT mice, but IL-6 had no effect, suggesting that IL-6 is not involved in these effects of IL-1 or LPS. However, IL-1beta and LPS depressed body weight more in WT than in IL-6ko mice. Plasma corticosterone and basal concentrations of catecholamines, indoleamines and their metabolites in several brain regions were similar. The responses in these measures to IL-1beta and LPS were also similar, except that there were no significant changes in tryptophan and serotonin metabolism in IL-6ko mice. This may reflect a role for IL-6 in the tryptophan and serotonin responses to IL-1 and LPS. It is concluded that the lack of IL-6 is not associated with substantial alterations in several different mouse behaviors, and in the responses to restraint, IL-1beta, IL-6 and LPS.
Sensitisation in contralateral turning behaviour and induction of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) after subchronic intermittent L-DOPA were compared for their predictive validity as model of parkinsonian dyskinetic movements. L-DOPA treatment produced sensitisation in turning behaviour in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, when animals were evaluated in hemispherical bowls but not in cages. In contrast, sensitisation in AIMs was obtained both in hemispherical bowls and cages. Results provide evidence that the choice of the environment used in evaluation of AIMs and turning behaviour is of crucial importance.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is a neuropeptide found throughout the brain, particularly in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and hypothalamus. CART was initially discovered and named based on the upregulation of its mRNA in the striatum after acute cocaine or amphetamine injection in rats. CART is also known to participate in a wider range of physiological functions including feeding, anxiety, bone resorption, and insulin regulation. In this report, we demonstrate that knockout mice lacking a functional CART gene show similar cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization and cocaine self-administration to their wild type siblings. Intravenous cocaine self-administration did not differ between CART wild type and knockout mice during acquisition, during schedules of reinforcement that require higher response ratios, or across a range of doses. In conclusion, these data indicate that CART is not integral to the effects of psychostimulants in mice lacking CART throughout development, although it may play a regulatory role in the intact animal.
Forkhead proteins comprise a highly conserved family of transcription factors, named after the original forkhead gene in Drosophila. To date, over 100 forkhead genes have been identified in a large variety of species, all sharing the evolutionary conserved 'forkhead' DNA-binding domain, and the cloning and characterization of forkhead genes have continued in recent years. Forkhead transcription factors regulate the expression of countless genes downstream of important signalling pathways in most, if not all, tissues and cell types. Recent work has provided novel insights into the mechanisms that contribute to their functional diversity, including functional protein domains and interactions of forkheads with other transcription factors. Studies using loss- and gain-of-function models have elucidated the role of forkhead factors in developmental biology and cellular functions such as metabolism, cell division and cell survival. The importance of forkhead transcription factors is underlined by the developmental defects observed in mutant model organisms, and multiple human disorders and cancers which can be attributed to mutations within members of the forkhead gene family. This review provides a comprehensive overview of current knowledge on forkhead transcription factors, from structural organization and regulatory mechanisms to cellular and developmental functions in mice and humans. Finally, we will discuss how novel insights gained from involvement of 'Foxes' in the mechanisms underlying human pathology may create new opportunities for treatment strategies.

Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is a leading schizophrenia susceptibility gene. The NRG1 locus on chromosome 8p shows linkage to the disorder, and genetic association has been found between schizophrenia and various non-coding polymorphisms and haplotypes, especially at the 5' end of the NRG1 gene, in many but not all case-control and family studies. NRG1 is a pleiotropic growth factor, important in nervous system development and functioning; roles include the modulation of neuronal migration, synaptogenesis, gliogenesis, neuron-glia communication, myelination, and neurotransmission. Understanding the neurobiology of NRG1 and its involvement in schizophrenia is challenged by the complexity of the gene, which gives rise to multiple functionally distinct isoforms, including six &quot;types&quot; of NRG1 defined by 5' exon usage. Type IV and type I NRG1 may be particularly relevant to schizophrenia, with initial data showing altered expression of these isoforms in the disorder or in association with NRG1 risk alleles. We review the structure and functions of NRG1, consider the evidence for and against it being a schizophrenia susceptibility gene, and discuss mechanisms that might underlie the contribution of NRG1 to disease pathophysiology.
Previously, chemistry effort on the gem-cyclohexane series of gamma-secretase inhibitors has focused on the 4-position of the cyclohexane ring. Recently chemistry has been directed towards the 3-position and substitution here has also provided compounds with high gamma-secretase activity.
Neal and Cunningham (Neal, M. J., and J. R. Cunningham. 1995. J. Physiol. (Lond.). 482:363-372) showed that GABA(B) agonists and glycinergic antagonists enhance the light-evoked release of retinal acetylcholine. They proposed that glycinergic cells inhibit the cholinergic Starburst amacrine cells and are in turn inhibited by GABA through GABA(B) receptors. However, as recently shown, glycinergic cells do not appear to have GABA(B) receptors. In contrast, the Starburst amacrine cell has GABA(B) receptors in a subpopulation of its varicosities. We thus propose an alternate model in which GABA(B)-receptor activation reduces the release of ACh from some dendritic compartments onto a glycinergic cell, which then feeds back and inhibits the Starburst cell. In this model, the GABA necessary to make these receptors active comes from the Starburst cell itself, making them autoreceptors. Computer simulations of this model show that it accounts quantitatively for the Neal and Cunningham data. We also argue that GABA(B) receptors could work to increase the sensitivity to motion over other stimuli.
Interferon consensus sequence-binding protein (ICSBP)/interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF-8) is a transcription factor that plays critical roles in the differentiation of defined dendritic-cell (DC) populations and in the immune response to many pathogens. In this study, we show that splenic DCs (s-DCs) from ICSBP(-/-) mice are markedly defective in their ability to capture and to present exogenous antigens (Ags) to naive CD4(+) T lymphocytes. We found that CD8alpha(+) DCs and, to a lesser extent, CD8alpha(-) DCs from ICSBP(-/-) mice are impaired at internalizing Ags, either through a receptor-mediated pathway or by macropinocytosis, in spite of having a more immature phenotype than their wild-type (WT) counterparts. These features reflected a greatly impaired ability of ICSBP(-/-) s-DCs to present injected soluble ovalbumin (OVA) to OVA-specific CD4(+) T cells in vivo. Conversely, bone marrow (BM)-derived DCs from ICSBP(-/-) mice, in keeping with their immature phenotype, exhibited higher endocytic activity than WT cells. However, Ag-loaded ICSBP(-/-) BM-DCs were defective in priming Ag-specific CD4(+) T lymphocytes and failed to induce a contact hypersensitivity (CHS) response when injected into competent WT hosts. Together, these results indicate that, throughout the developmental program of DCs, ICSBP differentially controls Ag uptake and MHC class II (MHC-II) presentation affecting both functions only in differentiated peripheral DCs.

We report a 68-year-old woman who developed refractory non-convulsive generalized status epilepticus secondary to anti-Hu antibodies, detected by immunofluorescence and confirmed by Western immunoblotting. The patient presented with rapidly evolving impairment in consciousness and electroencephalographic evidence of lateralized pseudoperiodic sharp-wave discharges. Ataxia and sensory neuropathy developed within the first two weeks. To our knowledge, this is the first description of a very rapidly progressive non-convulsive status epilepticus of paraneoplastic origin. Serum anti-Hu antibodies deserve to be considered among the investigations required in the evaluation of rapidly progressive epileptic syndromes even when little or no imaging abnormalities are found.
Psychiatric and neurological disturbances can show up with panic attack symptoms. This report illustrates the difficulty in distinguishing between panic disorder and epilepsy in a subgroup of epileptic patients that suffer panic attacks as symptoms of seizures. This is the first report of panic attacks due to a focal lesion involving the left temporal lobe and the second case of panic attacks related to a meningioma.
We describe a family with tauopathy involving three autopsied siblings. All of the three siblings, as well as their grandmother, exhibited parkinsonism responsive to levodopa in one of the three, later associated with a possible reduction in spontaneity, compatible with frontal lobe dysfunction. Autopsy findings shared by the three siblings included, marked degeneration in the basal ganglia, especially in the substantia nigra and mild to moderate spongiosis in the cerebral cortices (mainly frontal) with achromatic neurons and tau/Gallyas-positive spherical aggregates resembling astrocytic plaques. Widespread deposition of tau in neurons, thread-like structures and oligodendrocytes as coiled body was robust in these lesions, whereas alpha-synuclein-positive deposits were absent. These features are compatible with sporadic corticobasal degeneration (CBD). Hippocampal neurons were characterized by its non-fibrillary tau deposits in the cytoplasm, as similarly visualized with Gallyas silver stain (Gal), while the Campbell-Switzer method (CS) failed to exhibit argyrophilia. This staining profile of neuronal cytoplasm with non-fibrillary structure (tau+/Gal+/CS-) is characteristic for tau-positive cortical neurons in CBD, distinct from typical neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer type, positive for both Gal and CS. Moreover, degenerative change was more evident in CA2 than in CA1, as noted in some cases of tauopathy with accumulation of 4-repeat tau such as CBD. This familial tauopathy can be classified as an extremely rare example of CBD based on the distribution of characteristic lesions and staining profiles of tau-deposits.

Recent research has demonstrated that avian species may show an enhanced locomotor response to repeated drug exposure, a phenomenon called sensitization. Further research in this domain is warranted as such results not only establish the generality of previous findings, but may lend to a better understanding of sensitization in general. At present, there are no well-studied measurement devices for automating the measurement of bird movement. The present research evaluated a mechanical device comprised of moveable floor panels to assess its suitability. Evaluations of the device were made over the course of repeated cocaine administration. The results showed that there was high correspondence between the apparatus' responses and human observers' responses to movement by pigeons. The apparatus, furthermore, provided useful data on spatial orientation that revealed individual differences in the response to cocaine beyond those available from a collapsed measure of overall output. In sum, this recording strategy appears a viable instrument for the measurement of avian locomotion.
Brain surgery, and in particular epilepsy surgery, offers the unique opportunity to study viable human central nervous tissue in vitro. This does not only open a window to address the basic mechanisms underlying human disease, such as epilepsy, but it allows to venture into investigating neurophysiological functions per se. In the present paper, we describe the most commonly used methods in the electrophysiological (and, at least to some extent, also histochemical and molecular) analysis of human tissue in vitro. In addition, we consider the pitfalls and limitations of such studies, in particular regarding the issue of tissue sampling procedures and control experiments.
The purpose of this study was to develop an anatomical technique that could directly demonstrate the motoneuron projections to the muscle both before injury and again following reinnervation. Investigation focused on the identification of a long-term retrograde fluorescent tracer that would label original motoneurons and persist long enough for reinnervating motoneurons to become labeled by a second fluorescent tracer. True Blue (TB) was evaluated as a potential long-term tracer, Fluoro-ruby (FR) and Fluoro-emerald (FE) were tested as potential short-term tracers in 45 adult Sprague-Dawley rats. In the initial phase of the study, TB was injected into the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle in 16 rats and sacrificed 1 week to 6 months later, to study its persistence. During the second stage, a short-term tracer was injected into the TA muscles bilaterally in 15 rats with survival time ranging from 4 to 28 days. Sequential double labeling was subsequently performed using the combination of TB and FR in 14 rats. The number and brightness of TB cells did not change over 6 months time, a period sufficient for complete reinnervation. FR and FE showed maximum labeling of motoneurons at 1 week after tracer application. In the double labeling study, we could easily distinguish double-labeled cells from those labeled only by TB or FR. These results suggest that sequential double labeling of TB and FR is a valuable method for long-term muscle reinnervation studies.
The paw withdrawal latency to thermal radiant heat stimuli is a widely used nociceptive measure to study hyperalgesic mechanisms. In the present study, in addition to the paw withdrawal latency, two behavioral components of pain behaviors, paw licking and paw lifting have been characterized and quantified. The thermal stimuli were successively applied to the plantar surface of the rat hind paws and recorded the behavioral responses to each of the stimuli. Noxious radiant heat significantly increased the frequency of paw lifting behavior in nave rats. On the other hand, the thermal stimuli significantly evoked the occurrence of paw licking behavior in inflamed paws and it was maintained at all time points of measurements. The paw withdrawal latency decreased in inflamed rats in comparison with control rats. These data informs that noxious radiant heat specifically evokes the frequency of paw lifting behavior in normal physiological condition, and paw licking behavior in a pathological inflammatory condition. These findings suggest that in addition to the measurement of PWL, scoring of paw licking and lifting behaviors will improve the sensitivity of this pain test.
A liquid chromatography method coupled with electrochemical detection has been developed for the direct measurement 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in brain microdialysates. The separation conditions have been optimized to detect only the 5-HT and 5-HIAA in dialysates and elute the other monoamines and their metabolites in the void. Linear regression analysis of chromatographic peak area as a function of concentration in the range 5-1000 pg/mL gave correlation coefficients over 0.995. Sample stability and an assay validation for precision and accuracy were also performed. The limit of detection (S/N = 3) for 5-HT was 12 femtomol/mL. The method has been applied to simultaneously measure extracellular 5-HT and 5-HIAA in brain microdialysates from the pineal gland and caudate-putamen of awake and freely-moving rats under basal conditions.
Temporal lobe epilepsy in humans is a chronic condition with a highly variable temporal evolution. Animal models of this disorder have been developed to recapitulate many of the characteristics seen in humans with temporal lobe epilepsy. These animal models generate chronic spontaneous electrographic and motor seizures with a progressive increase in frequency over many months. In order to understand the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms driving epileptogenesis, a practical means for accurately assessing seizure progression over this extended time period must be devised. In this report, we describe the use of a three-channel radiotelemetry system to record spontaneous electrographic interictal &quot;spikes&quot; and seizure activity from the cortical surface and the two hippocampi. This approach has allowed continuous recording before, during, and several months after kainate-induced status epilepticus. The important advantages of this approach are the potential for long-term continuous electrographic recording with comparatively unrestricted behavior; the disadvantages include increased cost, surgical difficulty and lower frequency-response in the recordings.
Analysis of apoptosis in brain tissue following ischemia, hypoxia, or oxidative stress has technical limitations. The use of counting cells displaying apoptotic morphology is time intensive, vulnerable to sampling errors, and suffers from low numbers of total recorded events. Other cell death assays such as agarose gel analysis of DNA fragmentation, TUNEL, or ELISA are time intensive, limited to a single endpoint measure, and can be technically difficult to perform or reproduce. To overcome these limitations, we set out to develop a technique using flow cytometry to measure apoptosis based on the physical properties of light scatter produced from isolated nuclei. This dye/marker free approach would bypass many of the inherent encumbrances and reproducibility problems found in other apoptosis assays. Here we demonstrate that this new technique, using flow cytometry performed on isolated nuclei, allows rapid quantitation of apoptosis in a variety of brain tissues without the need for intercalating dyes or fluorescent markers. We conclude that this technique significantly improves currently available protocols to quantify apoptosis from tissue and offers the possibility to perform additional analysis on the same population of nuclei via downstream assays.
With the availability of sophisticated genetic techniques, the mouse is a valuable mammalian model to study the molecular and cellular basis of cognitive behaviors. However, the small size of mice makes it difficult for a systematic investigation of activity patterns of neural networks in vivo. Here we report the development and construction of a high-density ensemble recording array with up to 128-recording channels that can be formatted as single electrodes, stereotrodes, or tetrodes. This high-density recording array is capable of recording from hundreds of individual neurons simultaneously in the hippocampus of the freely behaving mice. This large-scale in vivo ensemble recording techniques, once coupled with mouse genetics, should be valuable to the study of complex relationship between the genes, neural network, and cognitive behaviors.
Drosophila melanogaster, an established model for genetic manipulation, has recently been used for studying olfactory perception, learning, and memory. Some of these important behavioral phenomena have been dissected with defined mutants, some to a single biochemical lesion, expressed in central brain structures known as the mushroom bodies. A previously introduced preparation used a window in the head capsule through which these structures could be imaged using genetically expressed fluorescent calcium sensors while applying physiological odorant stimuli. Unfortunately, technical constraints prevented direct manipulation of the mushroom bodies with this preparation. I describe here a preparation that will allow, for the first time, the direct pharmacological manipulation of these important structures during imaging in the living adult fly. Responses to discreet applications of acetylcholine were reversibly blocked with tubocurare and reversibly eliminated in calcium-free Ringers. This new technique will significantly enhance the usefulness of the Drosophila model system, allowing a more quantitative examination of the mechanisms involved in olfactory learning and memory.
A miniature lightweight radio telemetric device is described which is shown to be suitable for recording neuronal activity in freely behaving animals. Its size (12 x 5 x 8 mm) and weight (1.0-1.1 g with batteries, 0.4-0.5 g without) make the device particularly suitable for recording neuronal units in small animals such as mice or zebra finches. The device combines a high impedance preamplifier, RC-filters and an FM-transmitter. Using the device we recorded action potentials in field L of freely behaving zebra finches (12-17 g) through chronically implanted tungsten electrodes. In freely behaving birds we observed frequency dependent responses of field L units to auditory stimuli for periods of up to 7 days. We investigated the effect of the device on singing and locomotor activity of the zebra finches. Singing and locomotion were significantly affected on the first day after surgery. Both anesthesia and the presence of the transmitter contributed to the observed effect. After 1 day of recovery, singing activity returned to 99.6% and perch-hopping activity to 55.3% of the baseline levels. It is concluded that the device is well suited for recording spike trains from small animals while they behave freely and naturalistically.
Cultures of ovine cerebral and cerebellar neurons from mid-term sheep foetal brains, 9-15 weeks old, have been established for the first time. These foetal brains are relatively mature, being at similar stages of development as peri and post-natal rodent brains. Cultures were routinely maintained for 3-4 weeks, and longer. Nearly all the cells from the younger foetuses adhered as neurons. The proportion of glial cells increased with age, as did the risk of cultures being overtaken by glial cells. Cultured neurons were bipolar, tripolar and multipolar, similar to the morphologies of neurons in vivo. Older foetuses also yield more complex neurons, notably giant cells. Other properties of the cultured neurons also mimic in vivo observations, including neurite beading, complexity in neurotransmitter class (GABAergic and glutamatergic) and calcium binding protein (calbindin and calretinin) content. Single cell divisions of neurons were observed in younger cultures by time-lapse photography and the occurrence of telophase nuclei. The advantage of the high yield of genetically identical cells obtained from a single sheep foetus, 150 million, was extended by cryopreservation of neurons after snap freezing, and later culture. These cultures showed the same characteristics as cultures from the freshly plated cells.
Multiunit electrodes, in particular tetrodes and polytrodes, are able to isolate action potentials from many neurons simultaneously. However, inaccuracies in the post-acquisition reconstruction of recorded spike waveforms can affect the reliability of spike detection and sorting. Here we show that bandlimited interpolation with sample-and-hold delay correction reduces waveform variability, leading to improved reliability of threshold-based event detection and improved spike sorting accuracy. Interpolation of continuously acquired data is, however, computationally expensive. A cost-benefit analysis was made of varying sampling rates from 12.5 kHz (no interpolation) to 100 kHz (eight times oversampling, with respect to the Nyquist frequency), taking into consideration the final application of the data. For most purposes, including spike sorting, sample rates below 25 kHz with bandlimited interpolation to 50 kHz were ideal, with negligible gains above this rate. A practical benefit, especially for large electrode arrays, is that the bandwidth and storage requirements can be greatly reduced by using data acquisition rates at or slightly above the Nyquist frequency.
The vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT-2) sequesters cytoplasmic dopamine (DA) into vesicles for storage and subsequent release. VMAT-2 activity has traditionally been measured in small synaptic vesicles isolated from rat striatum by monitoring [3H] DA uptake and in cellular expression systems using fast scan cyclic voltammetry. This is the first report using rotating disk electrode (RDE) voltammetry to measure VMAT-2 DA uptake and efflux in small synaptic vesicles. DA uptake profiles followed mixed order kinetics with apparent zero order kinetics for the first 25 s and apparent first order kinetics thereafter. Vesicular DA uptake was temperature- and ATP-dependent and was blocked by the VMAT-2 inhibitor tetrabenazine. Initial velocities of DA uptake were kinetically resolved and displayed Michaelis-Menten kinetics with a Km and Vmax of 289 +/- 59 nM and 1.9 +/- 0.2 fmol/(s microg protein), respectively. Methamphetamine-induced DA efflux was blocked by tetrabenazine and kinetically resolved with an initial velocity of 0.54 +/- 0.08 fmol/(s microg protein). These results suggest that RDE voltammetry can be used to make kinetically resolved measurements of vesicular DA uptake and efflux and will allow the design of experiments that could reveal important information about the kinetics of VMAT-2 activity and its inhibition.
The rat electrical kindling model has been widely utilized in epilepsy research. This study aimed to identify the optimum &quot;MRI compatible&quot; bipolar stimulating and recording electrodes to enable serial MRI acquisition in this model. Two types of custom-made electrodes (gold and carbon) were compared with commercial platinum-iridium alloy electrodes for suitability based on size, effect on image quality and kindling induction. The custom-made gold electrodes, based on these parameters, were found to be most suitable. These electrodes enable the study of epileptogenesis utilizing MRI in this model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE).
A universally accepted method for efficiently detecting neuronal activity changes (NACs) in neurophysiological studies has not been established. Visual inspection is still considered to be one of the most reliable methods, although it is limited when it is used for analyzing large quantities of data. In this study, an algorithm that considers interspike intervals (ISIs) was developed to define the onset of NACs. Two criteria, involving the mean and the standard deviation (S.D.) of the ISIs during a control period, were used in the ISI algorithm to evaluate the NACs that occurred during a detection period. The first, an ISI decrease of more than 1 S.D. from the mean ISI of the control period, proved to be an effective criterion for qualifying the increased NACs (firing rate increases). The second, an ISI increase greater than 3 S.D.s, efficiently demarcated periods of decreased NACs (firing rate decreases). Statistically significant correlations between the detection of NAC onset times by the ISI algorithm and the detection of those times by visual inspections were observed after offline analyses of recorded neuronal activity. The present results suggest that this ISI algorithm is a reliable and efficient way of defining the onset of NACs.
We have examined the function of a conserved serine residue (Ser670) in the S2 ligand-binding region of the NR2A N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit, using recombinant NR1/NR2A receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Mutation of Ser670 to glycine (S670G) in NR2A reduced the potency of glutamate by 124-fold. Single-channel conductance and the duration of apparent open periods of NR2A(S670G) receptor mutants were, however, indistinguishable from wild-type NMDA receptors. NR1/NR2A(S670G) shut-time distributions were best described by a mixture of six exponential components, and the four shortest shut intervals of each distribution were considered to occur within a channel activation (burst). Bursts of single-channel openings were fitted with a mixture of four exponential components. The longest two components carried the majority of the charge transfer and had mean durations of 9.6 +/- 0.5 and 29.6 +/- 1.5 ms. The overall channel open probability during a burst was high (mean, 0.83 +/- 0.06). Consistent with a shortening of NMDA receptor-channel burst lengths was the observation of an increased deactivation rate of macroscopic currents evoked by brief applications of glutamate to outside-out membrane patches. Correlations between shut times and adjacent open times were observed in all data records. Noticeably, shorter than average openings tended to occur next to long closed periods, whereas longer than average openings tended to occur next to short closings. Our single-channel data, together with modelling using a kinetic scheme to describe channel activations, support our hypothesis that the S670G point mutation reduces the dwell time of glutamate in its binding site.
Neurosteroids regulate neuronal excitability and are expressed at particularly high levels in the CNS during the perinatal period. Further, neurosteroid levels are increased by a variety of stressors including hypoxia, asphyxia, parturition, ethanol exposure and infection. One mechanism by which neurosteroids regulate neuronal activity is by negative or positive modulation of GABA(A) receptor function. Perinatal respiration is strongly modulated by GABAergic synaptic drive, and GABA release is increased during hypoxia to contribute to hypoxia-induced depression of neonatal ventilation. Here, we use in vitro and in vivo rat models to test the hypothesis that GABA(A) receptor-mediated modulation of perinatal respiration is markedly influenced by the presence of neurosteroids. The principal finding of this study was that the efficacy of GABA(A) receptor-mediated modulation of respiratory membrane potential and rhythmogenesis is markedly enhanced by allopregnanolone and depressed by dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate. These data demonstrate that the modulation of breathing via GABA(A) receptor activation will be determined by the overall balance of negative and positive neurosteroid modulators within respiratory nuclei. This adds a level of complexity that must be considered when examining the depression of breathing in mammals associated with various behavioural states and pathogenic conditions such as apnoea and sudden death suspected to be associated with central respiratory dysfunction.
In clonal pituitary GH(3) cells, spontaneous action potentials drive the opening of Ca(v)1 (L-type) channels, leading to Ca(2+) transients that are coupled to prolactin gene transcription. Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been shown to stimulate prolactin synthesis by GH(3) cells, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Here we studied whether NGF influences prolactin gene expression and Ca(2+) currents. By using RT-PCR, NGF (50 ng ml(-1)) was found to augment prolactin mRNA levels by approximately 80% when applied to GH(3) cells for 3 days. A parallel change in the prolactin content was detected by Western blotting. Both NGF-induced responses were mimicked by an agonist (Bay K 8644) and prevented by a blocker (nimodipine) of L-type channels. In whole-cell patch-clamp experiments, NGF enhanced the L-type Ca(2+) current by approximately 2-fold within 60 min. This effect reversed quickly upon growth factor withdrawal, but was maintained for days in the continued presence of NGF. In addition, chronic treatment (&gt;or= 24 h) with NGF amplified the T-type current, which flows through Ca(v)3 channels and is thought to support pacemaking activity. Thus, NGF probably increases the amount of Ca(2+) that enters per action potential and may also induce a late increase in spike frequency. MC192, a specific antibody for the p75 neurotrophin receptor, but not tyrosine kinase inhibitors (K252a and lavendustin A), blocked the effects of NGF on Ca(2+) currents. Overall, the results indicate that NGF activates the p75 receptor to cause a prolonged increase in Ca(2+) influx through L-type channels, which in turn up-regulates the prolactin mRNA.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is the origin of a 'life-and-death' signal that reflects central cardiovascular regulatory failure during brain stem death. Using an experimental endotoxaemia model, we evaluated the hypothesis that the 60 kDa heat shock protein 60 (HSP60) reduces cardiovascular fatality during brain stem death via an anti-apoptotic action in the RVLM. In Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anaesthesia, proteomic or Western blot analysis revealed a progressive augmentation of HSP60 expression in the RVLM after intravenous administration of Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (30 mg kg(-1)). Pretreatment with a microinjection of actinomycin D or cycloheximide into bilateral RVLM significantly blunted this HSP60 increase, whereas real-time PCR showed progressive augmentation of hsp60 mRNA. Intriguingly, superimposed on the augmented expression was a progressive decline in mitochondrial, or elevation in cytosolic, HSP60 in ventrolateral medulla. Loss-of-function manipulations in the RVLM using anti-HSP60 antiserum or antisense hsp60 oligonucleotide exacerbated mortality by potentiating the cardiovascular depression during experimental endotoxaemia, alongside intensified nucleosomal DNA fragmentation, elevated cytoplasmic histone-associated DNA fragments or augmented cytochromec-caspase-3 cascade of apoptotic signalling in the RVLM. Immunoprecipitation coupled with immunoblot analysis further revealed a progressive increase in the complex formed between HSP60 and mitochondrial or cytosolic Bax or mitochondrial Bcl-2 during endotoxaemia, alongside a dissociation of the cytosolic HSP60-Bcl-2 complex. We conclude that HSP60 redistributed from mitochondrion to cytosol in the RVLM confers neuroprotection against fatal cardiovascular depression during endotoxaemia via reduced activation of the cytochrome c-caspase-3 cascade of apoptotic signalling through enhanced interactions with mitochondrial or cytosolic Bax or Bcl-2.
The Ca(V)beta subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels regulate the trafficking and biophysical properties of these channels. We have taken advantage of mutations in the tyrosine residue within the alpha interaction domain (AID) in the I-II linker of Ca(V)2.2 which reduce, but do not abolish, the binding of beta1b to the AID of Ca(V)2.2. We have found that the mutation Y388S decreased the affinity of Ca(V)beta1b binding to the Ca(V)2.2 I-II linker from 14 to 329 nm. However, the Y388S mutation had no effect on current density and cell surface expression of Ca(V)2.2/alpha2delta-2/beta1b channels expressed in human embryonic kidney tsA-201 cells, when equivalent proportions of cDNA were used. Furthermore, despite the 24-fold reduced affinity of Ca(V)beta1b for the Y388S I-II linker of Ca(V)2.2, all the key features of modulation as well as trafficking by Ca(V)beta subunits remained intact. This is in contrast to the much more marked effect of the W391A mutation, which abolished interaction with the Ca(V)2.2 I-II linker, and very markedly affected the trafficking of the channels. However, using the Xenopus oocyte expression system, where expression levels can be accurately titrated, when Ca(V)beta1b cDNA was diluted 50-fold, all evidence of interaction with Ca(V)2.2 Y388S was lost, although wild-type Ca(V)2.2 was still normally modulated by the reduced concentration of beta1b. These results indicate that high affinity interaction with the alpha1 subunit is not necessary for any of the modulatory effects of Ca(V)beta subunits, but occupancy of the interaction site is important, and this will occur, despite the reduced affinity, if the Ca(V)beta subunit is present in sufficient excess.

The current study used event-related fMRI to examine BOLD responses associated with two factors that behaviorally determine speed of lexical decision: frequency and emotion. Thirteen healthy adults performed a visual lexical decision task, discriminating between words and orthographically and phonologically legal nonwords. The study involved a 2 (Frequency: high and low) x 3 (Emotional arousal: highly negative, mildly negative, and neutral words) design with word categories matched for number of letters and concreteness. There were significant main effects for both frequency and emotion in lexical decision reaction times but no significant interaction. Negative word lexical decisions were associated with increased activation in bilateral amygdala and middle temporal cortex as well as rostral anterior and posterior cingulate cortex. Low-frequency word lexical decisions, relative to high-frequency word lexical decisions, were associated with increased bilateral activity in inferior frontal cortex. Inferior frontal cortex activation was particularly low during lexical decision for high-frequency emotional words but significant for high-frequency neutral emotional words. We suggest that this is because the semantic representation of high-frequency emotional words may receive sufficient additional augmentation via the reciprocal activation from the amygdala such that selective augmentation by inferior frontal cortex to achieve lexical decision is unnecessary.
Cortical responses, recorded by electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography, can be characterized in the time domain, to study event-related potentials/fields, or in the time-frequency domain, to study oscillatory activity. In the literature, there is a common conception that evoked, induced, and on-going oscillations reflect different neuronal processes and mechanisms. In this work, we consider the relationship between the mechanisms generating neuronal transients and how they are expressed in terms of evoked and induced power. This relationship is addressed using a neuronally realistic model of interacting neuronal subpopulations. Neuronal transients were generated by changing neuronal input (a dynamic mechanism) or by perturbing the systems coupling parameters (a structural mechanism) to produce induced responses. By applying conventional time-frequency analyses, we show that, in contradistinction to common conceptions, induced and evoked oscillations are perhaps more related than previously reported. Specifically, structural mechanisms normally associated with induced responses can be expressed in evoked power. Conversely, dynamic mechanisms posited for evoked responses can induce responses, if there is variation in neuronal input. We conclude, it may be better to consider evoked responses as the results of mixed dynamic and structural effects. We introduce adjusted power to complement induced power. Adjusted power is unaffected by trial-to-trial variations in input and can be attributed to structural perturbations without ambiguity.
Neural correlates of the processing of musical syntax-like structures have been investigated via expectancy violation due to musically unrelated (i.e., unexpected) events in musical contexts. Previous studies reported the implication of inferior frontal cortex in musical structure processing. However - due to the strong musical manipulations - activations might be explained by sensory deviance detection or repetition priming. Our present study investigated neural correlates of musical structure processing with subtle musical violations in a musical priming paradigm. Instrumental and sung sequences ended on related and less-related musical targets. The material controlled sensory priming components, and differences in target processing required listeners' knowledge on musical structures. Participants were scanned with functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) while performing speeded phoneme and timbre identification judgments on the targets. Behavioral results acquired in the scanner replicated the facilitation effect of related over less-related targets. The blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal linked to target processing revealed activation of right inferior frontal areas (i.e., inferior frontal gyrus, frontal operculum, anterior insula) that was stronger for less-related than for related targets, and this was independent of the material carrying the musical structures. This outcome points to the implication of inferior frontal cortex in the processing of syntactic relations also for musical material and to its role in the processing and integration of sequential information over time. In addition to inferior frontal activation, increased activation was observed in orbital gyrus, temporal areas (anterior superior temporal gyrus, posterior superior temporal gyrus and sulcus, posterior middle temporal gyrus) and supramarginal gyrus.
We investigated whether individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) would show attentional modulation for social (face) and non-social (house) stimuli. Sixteen individuals with ASD and 16 matched control participants completed a task in which pairs of face and house stimuli were present on every trial, with one of the pairs randomly assigned to attended locations and the other to unattended locations. Both mass-univariate (SPM) and region of interest analyses suggested that responses to houses were modulated by attention in both groups, but that only the control participants demonstrated attentional modulation of face-selective regions. Thus, the participants with ASD demonstrated a lack of attentional modulation which was particularly evident for the social stimulus. Analyses of effective connectivity indicated that these results were due to a failure of attention to modulate connectivity between extrastriate areas and V1. We discuss how these results may suggest a mechanism to explain the reduced salience of social stimuli in ASD.
How does the human brain allow us to interact with and navigate through a constantly changing world? Whilst controlled experiments using functional brain imaging can give insightful snapshots of neuronal responses to relatively simplified stimuli, they cannot hope to mirror the challenges faced by the brain in the real world. However, trying to study the brain mechanisms supporting daily living represents a huge challenge. By combining functional neuroimaging, an accurate interactive virtual simulation of a bustling central London (UK), and a novel means of 'reading' participants' thoughts whilst they moved around the city, we ascertained the online neural correlates underpinning navigation in this real-world context. A complex choreography of neural dynamics was revealed comprising focal and distributed, transient and sustained brain activity. Our results provide new insights into the specific roles of individual brain areas, in particular the hippocampus, retrosplenial, and frontal cortices, as well as offering clues about how functional specialisations operate within dynamic brain systems.
It is a topic of current interest whether learning in humans relies on the acquisition of abstract rule knowledge (rule-based learning) or whether it depends on superficial item-specific information (instance-based learning). Here, we identified brain regions that mediate either of the two learning mechanisms by combining fMRI with an experimental protocol shown to be able to dissociate both learning mechanisms. Subjects had to learn object-position conjunctions in several trials and blocks. In a learning condition, either objects (Experiment 1) or positions (Experiment 2) were held constant within-blocks. In contrast to a control condition in which object-position conjunctions were trial-unique, a performance increase within and across-blocks was observed in the learning condition of both experiments. We hypothesized that within-block learning mainly relies on instance-based processes, whereas across-block learning might depend on rule-based mechanisms. A within-block parametric fMRI analysis revealed a learning-related increase of lateral prefrontal and striatal activity and a learning-related decrease of hippocampal activity in both experiments. By contrast, across-block learning was associated with an activation modulation in distinct prefrontal-striatal brain regions, but not in the hippocampus. These data indicate that hippocampal and prefrontal-striatal brain regions differentially contribute to instance-based and rule-based learning.
Age-related deficits in visual selective attention suggest that the efficiency of inhibitory processes is particularly affected by aging. To investigate whether processing inefficiencies observed in visual attention are similar in auditory attention and when shifting attention across modalities, we conducted an fMRI study with healthy young and older adults using a task that required sustained auditory and visual selective attention and cross-modal attention shifts. Older adults in this study performed as well as the younger adults, but showed age-related differences in BOLD responses. The most striking of these differences were bilateral frontal and parietal regions of significantly increased activation in older adults during both focused and shifting attention. Our data suggest that this increased activation did not reflect new recruitment, but reliance on brain regions typically used by younger adults when task demands are greater. Older adults' activation patterns suggested that even during focused attention conditions they were &quot;shifting&quot; attention to stimuli in the unattended modality. Increased activation during processing of both task-relevant and task-irrelevant information implies age-related loss of processing selectivity. These patterns may reflect both task-specific compensatory neural recruitment and degradation of sensory inhibition.

Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta has emerged as a key molecule that regulates neuronal apoptosis. To examine the molecular mechanism(s) through which GSK-3beta regulates this process, we studied the subcellular localization of GSK-3beta following exposure of the cells to well-characterized apoptotic stimuli. Here, we report that the induction of apoptosis by withdrawal of serum and potassium triggers dephosphorylation of GSK-3beta at serine 9 and subsequent translocation of these molecules into neuronal lipid raft microdomains. Inhibition of GSK-3beta by small molecule inhibitors blocks specific phosphorylation of lipid raft associated protein Tau. Consistent with the notion that the lipid raft domains may serve as a platform for the cellular signaling complexes, disruption of lipid rafts protected neurons from apoptosis induced by withdrawal of serum and potassium as well as by HIV-1 Tat. Our observations reveal novel interaction of GSK-3beta and raft domains, and suggest that such interaction could contribute to neuronal apoptosis.
Advances in understanding basic developmental and physiological processes often have direct relevance to human disease. They provide insights into pathogenic mechanisms and reveal new pathways that can be exploited in diagnosis and the development of therapeutics.
In human and rodent cells, MTH1, an oxidized purine nucleoside triphosphatase, efficiently hydrolyzes oxidized dGTP, GTP, dATP and ATP such as 2'-deoxy-8-oxoguanosine triphosphate (8-oxo-dGTP) and 2'-deoxy-2-hydroxyadenosine triphosphate (2-OH-dATP) in nucleotide pools, thus avoiding their incorporation into DNA or RNA. MTH1 is expressed in postmitotic neurons as well as in proliferative tissues, and it is localized both in the mitochondria and nucleus, thus suggesting that MTH1 plays an important role in the prevention of the mutagenicity and cytotoxicity of such oxidized purines as 8-oxoG which are known to accumulate in the cellular genome. Our recent studies with MTH1-deficient mice or cells revealed that MTH1 efficiently minimizes accumulation of 8-oxoG in both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA in the mouse brain as well as in cultured cells, thus contributing to the protection of the brain from oxidative stress.


Although estrogen has beneficial actions in brain, recent clinical trials demonstrated adverse neural effects of hormone therapy in postmenopausal women. The cause(s) of this disconnect between experimental and clinical findings may include unanticipated effects of progestins. We report that both natural progesterone and the clinical progestin medroxyprogesterone acetate block estrogen neuroprotection. These findings underscore the need to evaluate neural actions of progestins in the rational design of hormone therapy.
Stress early in life puts the individual at a greater risk for developing mental disorders in adulthood. The animal model of maternal separation involves daily removal of pups from their mother over the early postnatal period and leads to several behavioral deficits in adults. Since this period corresponds to a time of extensive developmental changes in the glutamatergic system, glutamate receptor mRNA expression was studied in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Male Wistar rats were either separated from their mother for 15 min (MS15 or 'handling') or 360 min (MS360) once a day from pnd 1-21 and glutamate receptor expression levels were measured at 25 weeks of age using real-time RT-PCR analysis. A third group of animal facility reared (AFR) rats was included as a control for the handling group. In the hippocampus, mRNA expression of NMDA NR2B and AMPA GluR1 and GluR2 receptors was significantly lower in MS360 rats relative to MS15. In addition, expression of the glutamate transporter GLAST was increased in MS360 relative to MS15. No differences were observed for AFR rats relative to MS15, which indicates that the hippocampal effects were not a result of handling or maternal care. For the prefrontal cortex, no difference in mRNA expression was observed for NMDA NR2A and NR2B or AMPA GluR1 and GluR2. These findings suggest that prolonged maternal separation produces neuroadaptive changes in the hippocampus that may, at least partially, account for the behavioral deficits previously observed in this animal model.
Despite numerous studies on the neural basis of numerical processing, few studies have examined the neural substrates of one of the most basic numerical processing-number sequence recitation. The present study used fMRI to investigate neural substrates of number sequence recitation, focusing on the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and perisylvian areas. This study used a 2 (number versus alphabet) x 2 (forward versus backward recitation) design. 12 Chinese undergraduates were asked to recite overtly but gently numerical and alphabetical sequences forward and backward. Results showed that, for both numerical and alphabetic sequences, the left IPS was activated when performing backward recitation, but not when performing forward recitation. In terms of perisylvian areas, all four tasks elicited activation in bilateral superior temporal gyrus and inferior frontal gyrus, but forward recitation elicited greater activation in the left posterior superior temporal gyrus than did backward recitation, whereas backward recitation elicited greater activation in the left inferior frontal gyrus than did forward recitation. These results suggest that forward recitation of numbers and the alphabet is typically based on verbal processing of numbers implemented in the perisylvian area, whereas backward recitation would likely require additional neural resources in the IPS.

Neural activity in the inferior colliculus (IC) likely plays an integral role in the processing of various auditory parameters, such as sound location and frequency. However, little is known about the extent to which IC neural activity may be influenced by the context in which sounds are presented. In this study, we examined neural activity of IC neurons in the rhesus monkey during an auditory task in which a sound served as a localization target for a saccade. Correct performance was rewarded, and the magnitude of the reward was varied in some experiments. Neural activity was also assessed during a task in which the monkey maintained fixation of a light while ignoring the sound, as well as when sounds were presented in the absence of any task. We report that neural activity increased late in the trial in the saccade task in 58% of neurons and that the level of activity throughout the trials could be modulated by reward magnitude for many neurons. The late-trial neural activity similarly increased in the fixation task in 39% of the neurons tested for this task but was not observed when sounds were presented in the absence of a behavioral task and reward. Together, these results suggest that a reward-related signal influences neural activity in the IC.
The left dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) is thought to play a dominant role in the selection of movements made by either hand. We used transcranial magnetic stimulation to study the functional connectivity of the left PMd and right primary motor cortex (M1) during an acoustic choice reaction time (RT) task involving contraction of the thumb and forefinger. The facilitatory and inhibitory pathways that can be demonstrated between left PMd and right M1 at rest were suppressed during most of the reaction period. However, they were activated briefly at the start of the reaction period, depending on whether the cue indicated that the forthcoming movement had to be made with the left or the right hand. The facilitatory pathway was active at 75 ms in those trials in which the subjects were required to move the left hand, whereas the inhibitory pathway was active at 100 ms in trials in which the subjects had to move the right hand. These changes in excitability did not occur in hand muscles not used in the task. There were no significant changes in the excitability of intracortical circuits [short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF)] in the right M1. Interhemispheric interactions between the right PMd and left M1 were mainly inhibitory at rest and showed the same temporal profile of interhemispheric inhibition as for left PMd-right M1, although no evidence was found for facilitatory interactions. The results illustrate the importance of PMd not only in facilitating cued movements but also in suppressing movements that have been prepared but are not used.
Patch-clamp recording from dendrites has lead to a significant increase in our understanding of the mechanisms underlying signal integration and propagation in neurons. The majority of synaptic input to neurons, however, is made onto small-diameter dendrites, currently beyond the scope of patch-clamp recording techniques. Here we use both calcium and voltage imaging to investigate propagation of action potentials (APs) in fine basal dendrites of cortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons. High-frequency (200 Hz) AP bursts caused supralinear increases in dendritic calcium at distal, but not proximal, basal locations. Supralinear increases in dendritic calcium were also observed at distal basal locations during AP trains above a critical frequency (approximately 100 Hz). Using voltage imaging, we show that single APs undergo significant attenuation as they propagate into basal dendrites, whereas AP bursts lead to generation of dendritic calcium spikes. Focal and bath application of 4-AP increased the amplitude of calcium transients evoked by APs at distal, but not proximal, locations, suggesting that A-type potassium channels regulate AP backpropagation into basal dendrites. Finally, we show that pairing EPSPs with AP bursts is an effective means of activating synaptic NMDA receptors in basal dendrites. The experimental observations on the role of A-type potassium channels in regulation of AP backpropagation in basal dendrites, as well as the generation of dendritic calcium spikes during AP bursts, were reproduced in a morphologically realistic neuronal model with uniform distributions of dendritic sodium, calcium, and potassium channels. Together, these findings have important implications for understanding dendritic integration and synaptic plasticity in cortical basal dendrites.
There is general agreement that, after initial processing in unimodal sensory cortex, the processing pathways for spoken and written language converge to access verbal meaning. However, the existing literature provides conflicting accounts of the cortical location of this convergence. Most aphasic stroke studies localize verbal comprehension to posterior temporal and inferior parietal cortex (Wernicke's area), whereas evidence from focal cortical neurodegenerative syndromes instead implicates anterior temporal cortex. Previous functional imaging studies in normal subjects have failed to reconcile these opposing positions. Using a functional imaging paradigm in normal subjects that used spoken and written narratives and multiple baselines, we demonstrated common activation during implicit comprehension of spoken and written language in inferior and lateral regions of the left anterior temporal cortex and at the junction of temporal, occipital, and parietal cortex. These results indicate that verbal comprehension uses unimodal processing streams that converge in both anterior and posterior heteromodal cortical regions in the left temporal lobe.



A recent theoretical emphasis on complex interactions within neural systems underlying consciousness has been accompanied by proposals for the quantitative characterization of these interactions. In this article, we distinguish key aspects of consciousness that are amenable to quantitative measurement from those that are not. We carry out a formal analysis of the strengths and limitations of three quantitative measures of dynamical complexity in the neural systems underlying consciousness: neural complexity, information integration, and causal density. We find that no single measure fully captures the multidimensional complexity of these systems, and all of these measures have practical limitations. Our analysis suggests guidelines for the specification of alternative measures which, in combination, may improve the quantitative characterization of conscious neural systems. Given that some aspects of consciousness are likely to resist quantification altogether, we conclude that a satisfactory theory is likely to be one that combines both qualitative and quantitative elements.

Transplantation of growth-permissive cells or tissues was used to bridge a lesion cavity and induce axonal growth in experimental spinal cord injury (SCI). Axonal interactions between host and transplant may be affected by upregulation of inhibitory chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) following various transplantation strategies. The extent of axonal growth and functional recovery after transplantation of embryonic spinal cord tissue decreases in adult compared to neonatal host. We hypothesized that CSPGs contribute to the decrease in the extent to which transplant supports axonal remodeling and functional recovery. Expression of CSPGs increased after overhemisection SCI in adult rats but not in neonates. Embryonic spinal cord transplant was surrounded by CSPGs deposited in host cord, and the interface between host and transplant seemed to contain a large amount of CSPGs. Intrathecally delivered chondroitinase ABC (C'ase) improved recovery of distal forelimb usage and skilled motor behavior after C4 overhemisection injury and transplantation in adults. This behavioral recovery was accompanied by an increased amount of raphespinal axons growing into the transplant, and raphespinal innervation to the cervical motor region was promoted by C'ase plus transplant. Moreover, C'ase increased the number of transplanted neurons that grew axons to the host cervical enlargement, suggesting that degradation of CSPGs supports remodeling not only of host axons but also axons from transplanted neurons. Our results suggest that CSPGs constitute an inhibitory barrier to prevent axonal interactions between host and transplant in adults, and degradation of the inhibitory barrier can potentiate transplant-mediated axonal remodeling and functional recovery after SCI.
Retrograde and anterograde tracers were microinjected into the folia of crus I of the cat cerebellum to investigate spatial localization in olivo-cerebellar and cortico-nuclear projections. The folia were shown to be mainly occupied in rostrocaudal succession by three zones receiving their olivo-cerebellar climbing fiber afferents from parts of, respectively, the dorsal lamella of the principal olive, the ventral lamella of the principal olive, and the rostral half of the medial accessory olive. These zones are presumably parts of the D(2), D(1), and C(2) cerebellar cortical zones, as earlier proposed by Rosina and Provini ([1982] Neuroscience 7:2657-2676). Their respective nuclear target territories were found to be in the rostroventral quadrant of nucleus lateralis, the caudoventral quadrant of nucleus lateralis, and the ventral half of nucleus interpositus posterior. The medial-to-lateral width of each zone was shown to be innervated by different groups of olive cells and to project respectively to medial and lateral parts of the nuclear territory for that zone, consistent with the existence in crus I of olivo-cortico-nuclear microcomplexes (cf. Ito [1984] New York: Raven Press). Parts of the length of each zone located within different folia were also shown to relate to different groups of olive cells and to different regions of the zone's overall nuclear territory. Interfolial localizations, which were heavily overlapping in nature, intersected orthogonally with those for zone width. The fine-grain topography implies that individual microzones exist within each of the zones present within crus I. The results also have implications for the possibility that lateral cerebellar pathways are involved in cognition.
Chronic paraplegia resulting from severe spinal cord injury (SCI) is considered to be an irreversible condition. Nevertheless, recent studies utilizing adult stem cells appear to offer promise in the treatment of this and other neurological diseases. Here, we show that progressive functional motor recovery is achieved over the course of the year following the administration of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) in traumatic central spinal cord cavities of adult rats with chronic paraplegia. At this time, functional recovery is almost complete and associated with evident nervous tissue regeneration in the previously injured spinal cord.
Activation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) is implicated in neuronal survival. The mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) activates a transcription factor CREB. Previously, we reported that N-acetyl-O-methyldopamine (NAMDA) protects neurons from ischemia via enhancing ERK dependent CREB phosphorylation. To investigate whether NAMDA induces endogenous survival pathways in apoptotic conditions and whether the neuroprotectant enhances a preexisting survival pathway, we determined the degree of ERK-CREB activation and resistance to apoptosis in staurosporine-treated SK-N-BE(2)C neurons. Compared to forskolin-treated apoptotic cultures, NAMDA-treated cultures induced a minimum activation on ERK (pERK) or CREB (pCREB). However, NAMDA enhanced the activation of ERK and CREB in the presence of forskolin (1.7-fold increase for pCREB, 2.1-fold increase for pERK2, p&lt;0.05 from forskolin). The effect was completely blocked by a specific MEK inhibitor U0126, suggesting the involvement of ERK dependent CREB signaling. Cleavage of caspase-3 and poly-(ADP-ribose)-polymerase was additively reduced in cultures treated with NAMDA and forskolin simultaneously, but not in the presence of U0126. The data showed that NAMDA enhances forskolin-induced ERK-CREB activation and potentiates forskolin-induced resistance to apoptosis. The study indicates that enhancing endogenous survival pathways by NAMDA combined with other neuroprotective measure(s) might be a useful strategy to reduce apoptosis.
It has been reported that inflammatory processes are associated with the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the treatment of AD using anti-inflammatory agents slows the progress of AD. Marine algae have been utilized in food products as well as in medicine products for a variety of purposes. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of methanol extracts of Ulva conglobata (U. conglobata), a marine algae, on glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in the murine hippocampal HT22 cell line and the anti-inflammatory effects on interferon gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced microglial activation in BV2 cells. U. conglobata methanol extracts significantly attenuated the neurotoxicity induced by glutamate in HT22 cells and inhibited nitric oxide production induced by IFN-gamma in BV2 cells. U. conglobata methanol extract treatments were also examined and it was found that they almost completely suppressed the expression of the proinflammatory enzyme cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). These results suggest that U. conglobata possesses therapeutic potential for combating neurodegenerative diseases associated with neuroinflammation.
Transient receptor potential channels (TRPC) are plasma membrane, non-selective cationic channels and have been proposed as candidates involved in the regulation of cellular Ca2+ influx. TRPC are involved in metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs) in the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. We previously observed several subtypes of TRPC to be expressed at an mRNA level in the substantia nigra dopamine neurons. In particular, TRPC1 and TRPC5 are most frequently expressed in the substantia nigra. Our recent immunohistochemical findings showed that TRPC1 are mainly distributed in the dendrites of dopamine neurons. In the present study we have investigated, by means of immunohistochemistry and dual label immunofluorescence, the anatomical distribution of TRPC5 in the substantia nigra, and we have shown their preferential localization into the neuronal nuclei. Our findings suggest a role of TRPs in the calcium signaling system of the nucleus, although its physiological meaning needs further investigations.
The purpose of the present study was to elucidate regional differences in the vulnerability of cerebellar foliations of rats exposed to X-irradiation. Effects of X-irradiation on foliations were examined with respect to histological changes in Purkinje cells and Bergmann glial fibers by calbindin-D28k (CB) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry, respectively. Wistar rats were exposed to X-irradiation (1.5 Gy) on postnatal day (PND) 1. At 3 weeks of age, the cerebellum was examined. The cerebella of rats exposed to X-irradiation showed smaller and abnormal foliations compared with controls. Fewer cerebellar foliations due to fusion with neighboring folia were observed in folia I-III and VIa-VII. Moreover, the extent of such abnormalities was more severe in the latter folia. CB-immunoreactive (IR) Purkinje cells exhibited thin, short, disoriented dendrites that had invaded the granular layer or white matter. On the other hand, GFAP-IR Bergmann glial fibers had not extended their processes into the molecular layer perpendicular to the pial surface, and they appeared thin and disoriented. Accordingly, the above cerebellar abnormalities were more severe in folia I-III, VIa-VII and X than in other regions. In contrast to the histological alterations in these folia, there were no apparent qualitative differences in folia IV-V between X-irradiated and controls. These findings indicate regional difference in the vulnerability of cerebellar folia to X-irradiation. Such differences might be attributed to the cerebellar neurogenetic gradient.
Neurotensin (NT) has been suggested to interact with dopamine systems in different forebrain sites to exert both antipsychotic- and psychostimulant-like effects. We previously found that genetic or pharmacological manipulations that disrupt endogenous NT signaling attenuate antipsychotic drug-induced Fos expression in the dorsolateral and central striatum but not other striatal regions. To assess the role of NT in psychostimulant responses, we examined the ability of d-amphetamine (AMP) to induce Fos in wild-type and NT null mutant mice. AMP-elicited Fos expression was significantly attenuated in the medial striatum of NT null mutant mice, but was unaffected in other striatal territories. Similar results were obtained in rats and mice pretreated with the high affinity neurotensin receptor (NTR1) antagonist SR 48692. The effect of the NTR1 antagonist was particularly apparent in the striatal patch (striosome) compartment, as defined by mu-opioid receptor immunoreactivity. These data suggest that NT is required for the full activation by AMP of medial striatal neurons.
Recently, Schwend and Gustafsson tried to use the MALDI-TOF methods to confirm one of the results reported by Yang et al., which provided definitive evidences to demonstrate the localization of estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) in the mitochondria of multiple cell types, using immunocytochemistry, immunoblot, and proteomic approaches. Analysis of the data with the MASCOT database algorithm provided no evidence for the presence of ERbeta in the mouse live mitochondria, in which very low ERbeta expression has been detected in their own report. On the other hand, our MALDI-TOF analysis using human heart mitochondrial protein has identified 7 and 8 sequences that could be potentially from ERbeta and ERbeta3, respectively, but not from ATP synthases. Further, none of the sequences identified by us as those of ERbeta and ERbeta3 shares m/z targeted by Schwend and Gustafsson in their measurements. Therefore, the claim by Gustafsson's laboratory about false positives in MALDI-TOF detection of ERbeta in mitochondria has no relevance to our report.
DJ-1 is an antioxidant protein whose loss of function by gene mutations has been linked to familial Parkinson's disease (PD). The main objective of the present study was to determine if this molecule was also involved in the pathogenesis of sporadic PD. For this purpose, quantitative immunoblot assays were performed to evaluate DJ-1 in cerebrospinal fluids (CSF) collected from sporadic PD patients (n=40) and non-PD controls (n=38). The results showed that the CSF DJ-1 levels in PD were significantly higher than those in non-PD controls. Especially, upregulation of CSF DJ-1 in the early stage of PD (Yahr I-II) were distinct compared to those in the advanced stage of PD (Yahr III-IV) and non-PD controls (p&lt;0.001 by ANOVA with post hoc Bonferroni's test), suggesting a protective role of DJ-1 against oxidative stress during the early stage. Thus, we propose that CSF DJ-1 could be a possible biomarker for early sporadic PD.


RhoGEFs are central controllers of small G-proteins in cells and are regulated by several mechanisms. There are at least 22 human RhoGEFs that contain SH3 domains, raising the possibility that, like several other enzymes, SH3 domains control the enzymatic activity of guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) domains through intra- and/or intermolecular interactions. The structure of the N-terminal SH3 domain of Kalirin was solved using NMR spectroscopy, and it folds much like other SH3 domains. However, NMR chemical shift mapping experiments showed that this Kalirin SH3 domain is unique, containing novel cooperative binding site(s) for intramolecular PXXP ligands. Intramolecular Kalirin SH3 domain/ligand interactions, as well as binding of the Kalirin SH3 domain to the adaptor protein Crk, inhibit the GEF activity of Kalirin. This study establishes a novel molecular mechanism whereby intramolecular and intermolecular Kalirin SH3 domain/ligand interactions modulate GEF activity, a regulatory mechanism that is likely used by other RhoGEF family members.
Indazoles are regioselectively protected at N-2 by a 2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxymethyl (SEM) group using novel conditions. The SEM group can efficiently direct regioselective C-3 lithiation, and the resulting nucleophile can react with a wide range of electrophiles to generate novel indazole derivatives. The SEM group can be removed by treatment with TBAF in THF or aqueous HCl in EtOH.
The receptive field properties of striate cortical (V1) cells degrade in senescent macaque monkeys. We have now carried out extracellular single unit studies of the receptive field properties of cells in extrastriate visual cortex (area V2) in very old rhesus (Macaca mulatta) monkeys. This study provides evidence that both the orientation and direction selectivities of V2 cells in old monkeys degrade significantly. Decreased selectivity is accompanied by increased visually driven and spontaneous responses. As a result, V2 cells in old animals exhibit markedly decreased signal-to-noise ratios. A significant degradation of neural function in extrastriate cortex may underlie the declines in higher order visual function that accompany normal aging.
We investigated the involvement of the adrenal glucocorticoid, corticosterone, in the control of the rhythmic expression of the circadian clock protein, Period2, in forebrain nuclei known to be sensitive to glucocorticoids, stressors and drugs of abuse, the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the central nucleus of the amygdala. We found previously that the daily rhythm of Period2 in these nuclei is uniquely dependent on the integrity of the adrenal glands (Amir S, Lamont EW, Robinson B, Stewart J (2004) A circadian rhythm in the expression of PERIOD2 protein reveals a novel SCN-controlled oscillator in the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. J Neurosci 24:781-790; Lamont EW, Robinson B, Stewart J, Amir S (2005) The central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala exhibit opposite diurnal rhythms of expression of the clock protein Period2. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 102:4180-4184). We now show that, in rats, in the absence of the adrenals, corticosterone replacement via the drinking water, which is associated with daily fluctuations in corticosterone levels, restores the rhythm of Period2 in the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central nucleus of the amygdala. Corticosterone replacement via constant-release pellets has no effect. These results underscore the importance of circadian glucocorticoid signaling in Period2 rhythms in the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central nucleus of the amygdala and suggest a novel mechanism whereby stressors, drugs of abuse, and other abnormal states that affect the patterns of circulating glucocorticoids can alter the functional output of these nuclei.
Cyclooxygenase-2 is expressed at low levels in a subset of neurons in CNS and is rapidly induced by a multiplicity of factors including seizure activity. A putative relationship exists between cyclooxygenase-2 induction and glutamatergic neurotransmission. Cyclooxygenase-1 is constitutively expressed in glial cells and has been specifically linked to microglia. In this study we evaluated cyclooxygenase-2 protein immunocytochemically and found markedly enhanced immunostaining primarily in olfactory-limbic regions at 2, 6 and 24 h following kainate-induced status epilepticus. Impressive enhanced cyclooxygenase-2 immunoreactivity was localized in anterior olfactory nucleus, tenia tecta, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, piriform cortex, lateral and basolateral amygdala, orbital frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens (shell) and associated areas of ventral striatum, entorhinal cortex, dentate gyrus granule cells and hilar neurons, hippocampal CA subfields and subiculum. Alternate sections were processed for dual immunocytochemical analysis utilizing c-Fos and cyclooxygenase-2 antiserum to examine the possibility that the neuronal induction of cyclooxygenase-2 was associated with seizure activity. Neurons that showed a timeline of cyclooxygenase-2 upregulation were found to possess c-Fos immunopositive nuclei. Additional results from all seizure groups showed cyclooxygenase-1 induction in microglia, which was confirmed by Western blot analysis of hippocampus. Western blot and real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed significant upregulation of cyclooxygenase-2 expression, confirming its induction in neurons. These data indicate that cyclooxygenase-2 induction in a neuronal network can be a useful marker for pathways associated with seizure activity.
During the non-breeding season, anestrous ewes do not experience ovarian cycles but exposure to a ram or its odor results in the activation of the luteinizing hormone secretion leading to ovulation. The aim of our work was to identify the neural pathways involved in this phenomenon. Using Fos immunocytochemistry, we examined the brain areas activated by the male or its fleece, in comparison with ewes exposed to the female fleece or the testing room (control group). In comparison with the control group, the male or its odor significantly increases Fos neuronal expression in the main and accessory olfactory bulbs, anterior olfactory nucleus, cortical and basal amygdala, dentate gyrus, ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, piriform and orbitofrontal cortices. The main olfactory bulb, the cortical amygdala and the dentate gyrus are specifically more activated by the male odor than the female odor. Using a procedure of double labeling for Fos and gonadotropin-releasing hormone, we also compared the number of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons activated in the four groups of females. The male or its odor significantly increases the number and the proportion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone cells expressing Fos-immunoreactivity in the preoptic area and the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, whereas no such induction of Fos-immunoreactivity was found in gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons of ewes exposed to the female odor or the testing room. These findings emphasize the role of the main olfactory system in the detection and the integration of the ram odor, and also suggest the participation of the accessory olfactory system. Numerous structures widely distributed seem involved in the processing of the male olfactory cue to reach the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes are potent pro-inflammatory mediators. Cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 is one of the two cysteinyl leukotriene receptors cloned. We recently reported that cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 antagonists protected against cerebral ischemic injury, and an inducible expression of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 was found in neuron- and glial-appearing cells after traumatic injury in human brain. To determine the role of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 in ischemic brain injury, we investigated the temporal and spatial profile of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 expression in rat brain from 3 h to 14 days after 30 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion, and observed the effect of pranlukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 antagonist, on the ischemic injury. We found that cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 mRNA expression was up-regulated in the ischemic core both 3-12 h and 7-14 days, and in the boundary zone 7-14 days after reperfusion. In the ischemic core, cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 was primarily localized in neurons 24 h, and in macrophage/microglia 14 days after reperfusion; while in the boundary zone it was localized in proliferated astrocytes 14 days after reperfusion. Pranlukast attenuated neurological deficits, reduced infarct volume and ameliorated neuron loss in the ischemic core 24 h after reperfusion; it reduced infarct volume, ameliorated neuron loss and inhibited astrocyte proliferation in the boundary zone 14 days after reperfusion. Thus, we conclude that cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 mediates acute neuronal damage and subacute/chronic astrogliosis after focal cerebral ischemia.
To determine the synaptic source of the respiratory-related activity of laryngeal motoneurons, spike-triggered averaging of the membrane potentials of laryngeal motoneurons was conducted using spikes of respiratory neurons located between the Btzinger complex and the rostral ventral respiratory group as triggers in decerebrate, paralyzed cats. We identified one excitatory and two inhibitory sources for inspiratory laryngeal motoneurons, and two inhibitory sources for expiratory laryngeal motoneurons. In inspiratory laryngeal motoneurons, monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials were evoked by spikes of inspiratory neurons with augmenting firing patterns, and monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) were evoked by spikes of expiratory neurons with decrementing firing patterns and by spikes of inspiratory neurons with decrementing firing patterns. In expiratory laryngeal motoneurons, monosynaptic IPSPs were evoked by spikes of inspiratory neurons with decrementing firing patterns and by spikes of expiratory neurons with augmenting firing patterns. We conclude that various synaptic inputs from respiratory neurons contribute to shaping the respiratory-related trajectory of membrane potential of laryngeal motoneurons.
Brain edema and severe alterations of the glial and endothelial cells have recently been demonstrated in the dystrophin-deficient mdx mouse, an experimental model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, and an increase in microvessel density in patients affected by Duchenne muscular dystrophy has also been shown. In order to further elucidate the mechanisms underlying the angiogenetic processes occurring in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, in this study we analyzed matrix-metalloproteinase-2 and -9 expression in the brain of 20-month-old mdx and control mice by means of immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, immunoblotting and gelatin zymography. Moreover, we studied vascular endothelial growth factor expression by means of Western blot and immunohistochemistry, and by dual immunofluorescence using anti-vascular endothelial growth factor and anti matrix-metalloproteinase-2 and-9 antibodies. Ultrastructural features of the brain choroidal plexuses were evaluated by electron microscopy. Spatial relationships between endothelium and astrocyte processes were studied by confocal laser microscopy, using an anti-CD31 antibody as a marker of endothelial cells, and anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as a marker of glial cells. The results demonstrate that high expression of matrix-metalloproteinase-2 and matrix-metalloproteinase-9 protein content occurs in mdx brain and in choroidal plexuses where, by in situ hybridization, matrix-metalloproteinase-2 and matrix-metalloproteinase-9 mRNA was localized in the epithelial cells. Moreover, matrix-metalloproteinase-2 mRNA was found in both mdx perivascular astrocytes and blood vessels, while matrix-metalloproteinase-9 mRNA was localized in mdx vessels. Through zymography, increased expression of matrix-metalloproteinase-2 and matrix-metalloproteinase-9 was found in mdx brain compared with the controls. These enhanced matrix-metalloproteinase levels in mdx mice were found to be associated with increased vascular endothelial growth factor expression, as determined by immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry and with ultrastructural alterations of the mdx choroidal epithelial cells and brain vessels, as previously reported [Nico B, Frigeri A, Nicchia GP, Corsi P, Ribatti D, Quondamatteo F, Herken R, Girolamo F, Marzullo A, Svelto M, Roncali L (2003) Severe alterations of endothelial and glial cells in the blood-brain barrier of dystrophic mdx mice. Glia 42:235-251]. Indeed, in the mdx epithelial cells of the plexuses, the apical microvilli were located on the lateral membranes, whereas in the controls they were uniformly distributed over the free ventricular surface. Moreover, by dual immunofluorescence, a colocalization of vascular endothelial growth factor and matrix-metalloproteinase-2 and matrix-metalloproteinase-9 was found in the ependymal and epithelial cells of plexuses in mdx mice and, under confocal laser microscopy, mdx CD-31 positive vessels were enveloped by less GFAP-positive astrocyte processes than the controls. Overall, these data point to a specific pathogenetic role of matrix-metalloproteinase-2 and matrix-metalloproteinase-9 in neurological dysfunctions associated with Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
The ability of exercise to benefit neuronal and cognitive plasticity is well recognized. This study reveals that the effects of exercise on brain neuronal and cognitive plasticity are in part modulated by a central source of insulin-like growth factor-I. Exercise selectively increased insulin-like growth factor-I expression without affecting insulin-like growth factor-II expression in the rat hippocampus. To determine the role that insulin-like growth factor-I holds in mediating exercise-induced neuronal and cognitive enhancement, a specific antibody against the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor was used to block the action of insulin-like growth factor-I in the hippocampus during a 5-day voluntary exercise period. A two-trial-per-day Morris water maze was performed for five consecutive days, succeeded by a probe trial 2 days later. Blocking hippocampal insulin-like growth factor-I receptors did not significantly attenuate the ability of exercise to enhance learning acquisition, but abolished the effect of exercise on augmenting recall. Blocking the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor significantly reversed the exercise-induced increase in the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA and protein and pro-brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein, suggesting that the effects of insulin-like growth factor-I may be partially accomplished by modulating the precursor to the mature brain-derived neurotrophic factor. A molecular analysis revealed that exercise significantly elevated proteins downstream to brain-derived neurotrophic factor activation important for synaptic function, i.e. synapsin I, and signal transduction cascades associated with memory processes, i.e. phosphorylated calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II and phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase II. Blocking the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor abolished these exercise-induced increases. Our results illustrate a possible mechanism by which insulin-like growth factor-I interfaces with the brain-derived neurotrophic factor system to mediate exercise-induced synaptic and cognitive plasticity.
Seizure is a form of excessive neuronal excitation and seizure-induced neuronal damage has profound effects on the prognosis of epilepsy. In various seizure models, the inactivation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) occurs during seizure activity preceding neuronal cell death. CaMKII is a multifunctional protein kinase enriched in the brain and involved in various ways the regulation of neuronal activity. CaMKII inactivation during seizure activity may modify neuronal cell survival after seizure. However, the mechanism for CaMKII inactivation and its consequence after seizure recovery remain to be elucidated yet. In the present study, we employed a prolonged seizure model by systemic injection of kainic acid into rats and biochemically examined the activity state of CaMKII. In status epilepticus induced by kainic acid, not only the inactivation of CaMKII in brain homogenate, but also a shift in the distribution of CaMKII protein from the soluble to particulate fraction occurred in both hippocampus and parietal cortex. The particulate CaMKII showed a large decrease in the specific activity and a concurrent large increase in the autophosphorylation ratio at Thr-286 (alpha) and at Thr-287 (beta). In contrast, the soluble CaMKII showed normal or rather decreased specific activity and autophosphorylation ratio. After 24 h of recovery from kainic acid-induced status epilepticus, all such changes had disappeared. On the other hand, the total amount of CaMKII was decreased by 35% in hippocampus and 20% in parietal cortex, but the existing CaMKII was indistinguishable from those of controls in terms of the autonomous activity ratio, specific activity and autophosphorylation ratio. Thus, CaMKII inactivation in kainic acid-induced status epilepticus seems to be derived not from simple degradation of the enzyme, but from the formation of the autophosphorylated, inactivated and sedimentable CaMKII. Such a form of CaMKII may be important during pathological conditions in vivo in preventing excessive CaMKII activation due to Ca2+ overload.
The impact of early emotional experience on the development of serotonergic and dopaminergic fiber innervation of the nucleus accumbens, hippocampal formation and the amygdala was quantitatively investigated in the precocious rodent Octodon degus. Two animal groups were compared: 1) degus which were repeatedly separated from their parents during the first three postnatal weeks, after weaning they were individually reared in chronic social isolation and 2) controls which were reared undisturbed with their families. In the deprived animals 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive fiber densities were increased in the core region of the nucleus accumbens (up to 126%), in the central nucleus of the amygdala (up to 112%) and in the outer subregion of the dentate gyrus stratum moleculare (up to 149%), whereas decreased fiber densities were detected in the dentate subgranular layer (down to 86%) and in the stratum lacunosum of the hippocampal cornu ammonis region 1 (down to 86%). Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fiber densities were increased in the core (up to 115%) and shell region (up to 113%) of the nucleus accumbens of deprived animals, whereas decreased fiber densities (down to 84%) were observed in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. In the stratum granulosum and subgranular layer the fiber densities increased up to 168% and 127% respectively. In summary, these results indicate that the postnatal establishment of the monoaminergic innervation of limbic areas is modulated in response to early emotional experience, and that this environmental morphological adaptation is highly region specific.
We have examined the cellular and subcellular distribution and the patterns of expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and of its high affinity receptor, tyrosine kinase B (TrkB), in retinorecipient regions of the brain, including the superior colliculus, the lateral geniculate nucleus and the olivary pretectal nucleus. In the retinorecipient layers of the superior colliculus, BDNF protein and mRNA were present in the cell bodies of a subpopulation of neurons, and BDNF protein was present in the neuropil as punctate or fiber-like structures. In the lateral geniculate nucleus, however, BDNF mRNA was not detected, and BDNF protein was restricted to punctate and fiber-like structures in the neuropil, especially in the most superficial part of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, just below the optic tract. At the ultrastructural level, BDNF protein was localized predominantly to axon terminals containing round synaptic vesicles and pale mitochondria with irregular cristae, which made asymmetric (Gray type I) synaptic specializations (R-boutons). Enucleation of one eye was followed by loss of BDNF immunoreactivity and disappearance of BDNF-positive R-boutons in the contralateral visual centers, confirming the retinal origin of at least most of these terminals. TrkB was present in postsynaptic densities apposed to immunoreactive R-boutons in the superior colliculus and lateral geniculate nucleus, and was also associated with axonal and dendritic microtubules. These findings suggest that BDNF is synthesized by a subpopulation of retinal ganglion cells and axonally transported to visual centers where this neurotrophin is assumed to play important roles in visual system maintenance and/or in modulating the excitatory retinal input to neurons in these centers.
Some neural mechanism must prevent the full expression of the baroreceptor reflex during static exercise because arterial blood pressure increases even though the baroreceptors are functioning. Two likely candidates are central command and input from the thin fiber muscle afferents evoking the exercise pressor reflex. Recently, activation of the mesencephalic locomotor region, an anatomical locus for central command, was found to inhibit the discharge of nucleus tractus solitarius cells that were stimulated by arterial baroreceptors in decerebrated cats. In contrast, the effect of thin fiber muscle afferent input on the discharge of nucleus tractus solitarius cells stimulated by baroreceptors is not known. Consequently in decerebrated unanesthetized cats, we examined the responses of barosensory nucleus tractus solitarius cells to stimulation of thin fiber muscle afferents and to stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region, a maneuver which evoked fictive locomotion. We found that electrical stimulation of either the mesencephalic locomotor region or the gastrocnemius nerve at current intensities that recruited group III afferents inhibited the discharge of nucleus tractus solitarius cells receiving baroreceptor input. We also found that the inhibitory effects of both gastrocnemius nerve stimulation and mesencephalic locomotor region stimulation converged onto the same barosensory nucleus tractus solitarius cells. We conclude that the nucleus tractus solitarius is probably the site whereby input from both central command and thin fiber muscle afferents function to reset the baroreceptor reflex during exercise.
In our present work utilizing the retrograde or anterograde transport of tracers (biotinylated dextran amine and Fluorogold, respectively) we have provided direct evidence for the cells of origin of the limboretinal pathway in rats and their termination in the retina using light microscopic approach. Administration of biotinylated dextran amine into the vitreous body resulted in nerve cell body labeling in several structures: the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, the hippocampus (CA1, CA3), the dentate gyrus, the indusium griseum, the olfactory tubercle, and the medial habenula, all of them belong to the limbic system. We estimated that the total number of retrogradely labeled cells is 1495+/-516. We have seen fiber labeling in the retinorecipient suprachiasmatic nucleus and in the primary visual center, the lateral geniculate body, but labeled nerve cell bodies in these structures were never seen. Iontophoretic application of Fluorogold into the hippocampal formation, where the major part of the biotinylated dextran amine-labeled cell bodies was observed, resulted in labeled fibers in the optic nerve and in the retina indicating that the retrogradely labeled cells in the hippocampus and the dentate gyrus among others are the cells of origin of the centrifugal visual fibers. Sections showing biotinylated dextran amine labeling were stained for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone immunoreactivity using immunohistochemistry. Some biotinylated dextran amine-labeled cells also showed vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone immunoreactivity. We conclude that the limboretinal pathway exists and that the cells of origin are partially vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone immunoreactive.
Before exocytotic release of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA, this amino acid has to be stored in synaptic vesicles. Accumulation of GABA in vesicles is achieved by a specific membrane-integrated transporter termed vesicular GABA transporter. This vesicular protein is mainly located at presynaptic terminals of GABAergic interneurons. In the present study we investigated the effects of focal ischemia on the expression of the vesicular GABA transporter. Vesicular GABA transporter mRNA and protein expression was examined after photothrombosis in different cortical and hippocampal brain regions of Wistar rats. In situ hybridization and quantitative real-time RT-PCR were performed to analyze vesicular GABA transporter mRNA. Both vesicular GABA transporter mRNA-stained perikarya and mRNA expression levels remained unaffected. Vesicular GABA transporter protein-containing synaptic terminals and somata were visualized by immunohistochemistry. The pattern of vesicular GABA transporter immunoreactivity as well as the protein expression level revealed by semiquantitative image analysis and by Western blot remained stable after stroke. The steady expression of vesicular GABA transporter mRNA and protein after photothrombosis indicates that the exocytotic release mechanism of GABA is not affected by ischemia.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus of the anterior hypothalamus is the center of an internal biological clock in mammals. Glutamate is the neurotransmitter of retino-hypothalamic tract responsible for mediating the circadian actions of light in rodents. N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, particularly NR2B subunit are reported to be principally involved in photic resetting of the biological clock in vivo and in slice culture. But, the precise cellular mechanisms of the resetting are not elucidated, because no adequate neuronal cell lines derived from the suprachiasmatic nucleus have been established. We established a neuronal cell line, N14.5, derived from the suprachiasmatic nucleus of a transgenic rat harboring the temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 large T-antigen gene. When the cells were cultured at 39 degrees C, the morphological features were turned fibroblastic into neuronal round cell body with neurite extensions. These cells showed immunoreactivities for neuronal markers (betaIII-tubulin, microtubule-associated protein 2 and TAU2) and as well as for vasoactive intestinal peptide which is expressed in the ventrolateral region of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The cells expressed N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, particularly NR1 and NR2B subunits as revealed by quantitative PCR. N-methyl-d-aspartate activated phosphorylation of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase and increased expression level of Per1 and Per2 mRNA. These results suggest that the N14.5 is a novel neuronal cell line derived from the ventrolateral region of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and that N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors expressed in the cells are a functional receptor. The N14.5 cells may be a useful tool to elucidate numerous chronobiological processes, especially resetting mechanism induced by an external light signal.
Suppression of depolarizing postsynaptic potentials and isolated GABA-A receptor-mediated fast inhibitory postsynaptic potentials by the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, oxotremorine-M (10 microM), was investigated in adult and immature (P14-P30) rat piriform cortical (PC) slices using intracellular recording. Depolarizing postsynaptic potentials evoked by layers II-III stimulation underwent concentration-dependent inhibition in oxotremorine-M that was most likely presynaptic and M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-mediated in immature, but M1-mediated in adult (P40-P80) slices; percentage inhibition was smaller in immature than in adult piriform cortex. In contrast, compared with adults, layer Ia-evoked depolarizing postsynaptic potentials in immature piriform cortex slices in oxotremorine-M, showed a prolonged multiphasic depolarization with superimposed fast transients and spikes, and an increased 'all-or-nothing' character. Isolated N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated layer Ia depolarizing postsynaptic potentials (although significantly larger in immature slices) were however, unaffected by oxotremorine-M, but blocked by dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Fast inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked by layer Ib or layers II-III-fiber stimulation in immature slices were significantly smaller than in adults, despite similar estimated mean reversal potentials ( approximately -69 and -70 mV respectively). In oxotremorine-M, only layer Ib-fast inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were suppressed; suppression was again most likely presynaptic M2-mediated in immature slices, but M1-mediated in adults. The degree of fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential suppression was however, greater in immature than in adult piriform cortex. Our results demonstrate some important physiological and pharmacological differences between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic systems in adult and immature piriform cortex that could contribute toward the increased susceptibility of this region to muscarinic agonist-induced epileptiform activity in immature brain slices.
Protein phosphatase 1 plays a major role in the governance of excitatory synaptic activity, and is subject to control via the neuromodulatory actions of dopamine. Mechanisms involved in regulating protein phosphatase 1 activity include interactions with the structurally related cytoskeletal elements spinophilin and neurabin, synaptic scaffolding proteins that are highly enriched in dendritic spines. The requirement for these proteins in dopamine-related neuromodulation was tested using knockout mice. Dopamine D1-mediated regulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor activity was deficient in both striatal and prefrontal cortical neurons from neurabin knockout mice; in spinophilin knockout mice this deficit was manifest only in striatal neurons. At corticostriatal synapses long-term potentiation was deficient in neurabin knockout mice, but not in spinophilin knockout mice, and was rescued by a D1 receptor agonist. In contrast, long-term depression was deficient in spinophilin knockout mice but not in neurabin knockout mice, and was rescued by D2 receptor activation. Spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic current frequency was increased in neurabin knockout mice, but not in spinophilin knockout mice, and this effect was normalized by D2 receptor agonist application. Both knockout strains displayed increased induction of GluR1 Ser(845) phosphorylation in response to D1 receptor stimulation in slices, and also displayed enhanced locomotor activation in response to cocaine administration. These effects could be dissociated from cocaine reward, which was enhanced only in spinophilin knockout mice, and was accompanied by increased immediate early gene induction. These data establish a requirement for synaptic scaffolding in dopamine-mediated responses, and further indicate that spinophilin and neurabin play distinct roles in dopaminergic signal transduction and psychostimulant response.
S100beta is a calcium-binding peptide produced mainly by astrocytes that exerts paracrine and autocrine effects on neurons and glia. We have previously shown that S100beta is markedly elevated at the mRNA level in the spinal cord following peripheral inflammation, intraplantar administration of complete Freund's adjuvant in the rat. The purpose of the present study was to further investigate the role of astrocytic S100beta in mediating behavioral hypersensitivity in rodent models of persistent pain. First, we assessed the lumbar spinal cord expression of S100beta at the mRNA and protein level using real-time RT-PCR, Western blot and immunohistochemistry analysis following L5 spinal nerve transection in rats, a rodent model of neuropathic pain. Second, we assessed behavioral hypersensitivity (mechanical allodynia) in wild type and genetically modified mice lacking or overexpressing S100beta following L5 spinal nerve transection. Third, we assessed the expression level of S100beta protein in the CD1 wild type mice after nerve injury. We report that lumbar spinal S100beta mRNA steadily increased from days 4-28 after nerve injury. S100beta protein in the lumbar spinal cord was significantly increased in both rats and mice at day 14 following nerve injury as compared with sham control groups. S100beta genetically deficient mice displayed significantly increased tactile thresholds (reduced response to non-noxious stimuli) after nerve injury as compared with the wild type group. S100beta overexpressing mice displayed significantly decreased tactile threshold responses (enhanced response to non-noxious stimuli). Together, these results from both series of experiments using a peripheral nerve injury model in two different species implicate the involvement of glial-derived S100beta in the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain.
Using a combination of double retrograde tracing and serotonin immunofluorescence staining, we examined whether individual serotonergic and nonserotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus are sources of collateralized axonal projections to vestibular nuclei and the central amygdaloid nucleus in the rat. Following unilateral injections of Diamidino Yellow into the vestibular nuclei and Fast Blue into the central amygdaloid nucleus, it was observed that approximately one-fourth of the dorsal raphe nucleus neurons projecting to the vestibular nuclei send axon collaterals to the central amygdaloid nucleus. Immunofluorescence staining for serotonin revealed that more than half of the dorsal raphe nucleus neurons from which these collateralized projections arise contain serotonin-like immunoreactivity. These findings indicate that a subpopulation of serotonergic and nonserotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus cells may act to co-modulate processing in the vestibular nuclei and the central amygdaloid nucleus, regions implicated in the generation of emotional and affective responses to real and perceived motion.
The effects of ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, on memory in animals have been limited to the sub-anesthetic dose given prior to training in previous studies. We evaluated the effects of post-training anesthetic doses of ketamine to selectively manipulate memory consolidation, and the effect of pre-retention sub-anesthetic doses of ketamine on memory retrieval in passive avoidance and T-maze tasks in mice. Repeated post-training anesthetic doses of ketamine impaired the consolidation of memory in the T-maze but not in passive avoidance paradigms. This impairment was not permanent but diminished 1-2 days after ketamine withdrawal. Sub-anesthetic post-training doses of ketamine (5 mg/kg) had no effect on memory consolidation, and larger doses (10, 20 and 50 mg/kg) did not influence the retrieval of memory in the T-maze. The data suggest that repeated anesthetic doses of ketamine block NMDA receptors and affect memory consolidation. Moreover, NMDA mechanisms antagonized by ketamine appear to be selectively involved in spatial (T-maze) memory mechanisms but may not be necessary for non-spatial (passive avoidance) memory consolidation.
Glucose transporters play a critical role in mammalian brain energy metabolism because glucose is the principal brain energy source and these transporters promote glucose movement into neural cells. When glucose is unavailable, fructose can serve as an alternative energy source. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction and actin as a reference mRNA, we investigated the impact of fructose feeding on rat brain and other tissue mRNA expression of glucose transporter 5 which has high affinity for fructose. Brain mRNA levels of glucose transporter 5 increased 1.5-fold in 35-day old rats after 7 days of fructose feeding compared with controls, whereas it increased 2.5-fold in jejunum. Semi-quantitative analysis of protein expression by immunofluorescence of glucose transporter 5 in rat hippocampi indicated a 2.4-fold increase. We demonstrated the specificity of fructose feeding on glucose transporter 5 expression by showing that the expression of the neuronal glucose transporter 3 and insulin-regulated glucose transporter 4 were unaffected. In addition, the expression of glucose transporter 5 increased in fructose fed older adult rats (8-months and 12-months old) when compared with controls. These results suggest that short-term fructose feeding increases the expression of glucose transporter 5 in both young and aging adult rats. Increased brain expression of glucose transporter 5 is likely to be important in the role of fructose as an alternative energy source.
The nucleus accumbens is involved in different types of emotional learning, ranging from appetitive instrumental learning to Pavlovian fear conditioning. In previous studies, we found that temporary inactivation of the nucleus accumbens blocked both the acquisition and expression of conditioned fear. This was not due to altered dopaminergic activity as we have also found that intra-nucleus accumbens infusions of the dopamine agonist amphetamine do not affect either the acquisition or the expression of conditioned fear. Therefore, in the present study we examined whether cholinergic activity in the nucleus accumbens is involved in the acquisition and expression of conditioned fear. Specifically, the effect of intra-nucleus accumbens infusions of the unselective cholinergic agonist carbachol on the acquisition and expression of conditioned fear was assessed. Across several experiments, we measured fear to visual and acoustic conditioned stimuli and to the experimental context. Further, two different measures of conditioned fear were recorded: fear potentiation of startle and freezing. Intra-nucleus accumbens carbachol infusions disrupted acquisition as well as expression of conditioned fear, regardless of the modality of the fear-eliciting stimulus or of the specific measure of conditioned fear. This disruption of conditioned fear was not simply a by-product of enhanced motor activity which also occurred after intra-nucleus accumbens carbachol infusions. Interestingly, despite the substantial effect of intra-nucleus accumbens carbachol on expression of conditioned fear, the results of the final experiment suggest that these rats extinguish similarly to control rats. Taken together, the present results indicate that acetylcholine within the nucleus accumbens is important for the learning and retrieval of conditioned fear.
The tripeptide, phenylalanine-glutamate-glycine (FEG) and its d-isomeric form phenylalanine-(D) glutamate-(D) glycine (feG), derived from submandibular gland peptide-T, significantly reduce the allergic inflammatory response and leukocyte trafficking and neutrophil migration into intestine, heart and lungs. Due to these actions, we hypothesized that feG would attenuate the early inflammatory response to spinal cord injury, reduce free radical production and improve neurological outcomes, like other leukocyte-limiting strategies we have used previously. We tested this using a clip compression model of spinal cord injury in rats. Following spinal cord injury at the 4th thoracic cord segment, we quantified leukocyte infiltration, free radical formation and oxidative damage at the lesion site after feG or control peptide phenylalanine-(D) aspartate-(D) glycine treatment. In rats treated with feG at 2 and 12 h, or 6 and 12 h after spinal cord injury, mean myeloperoxidase activity and ED-1 expression were significantly lower ( approximately 40%) than in controls at 24 h. Free radical formation generated in injured spinal cord was detected using 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin-diacetate as a fluorescent probe. Free radical production in the injured cord increased significantly after spinal cord injury and feG treatment significantly reduced this free radical production. Oxidative enzymes, lipid peroxidation and cell death were also significantly ( approximately 40%), gp91 ( approximately 30%), thiobarbituric acid reactive substance levels ( approximately 35%), 4-hydroxynonenal-bound protein ( approximately 35%) and caspase-3 ( approximately 32%). Early administration of feG decreases infiltration of inflammatory cells into the injured spinal cord and intraspinal free radical formation, thereby reducing oxidative damage and secondary cell death after spinal cord injury.
Previously, we have shown that hypoxia results in increased generation of nitric oxide free radicals in the cerebral cortex of newborn piglets that may be due to up-regulation of nitric oxide synthases, neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase. The present study tests the hypothesis that hypoxia results in increased expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase in the cerebral cortex of newborn piglets and that the increased expression is nitric oxide-mediated. Newborn piglets, 2-4 days old, were divided to normoxic (n=4), hypoxic (n=4) and hypoxic-treated with 7-nitro-indazole-sodium salt, a selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor (hypoxic-7-nitro-indazole-sodium salt, n=6, 1 mg/kg, 60 min prior to hypoxia). Piglets were anesthetized, ventilated and exposed to an FiO2 of 0.21 or 0.07 for 60 min. Cerebral tissue hypoxia was documented biochemically by determining ATP and phosphocreatine. The expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase was determined by Western blot using specific antibodies for neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase. Protein bands were detected by enhanced chemiluminescence, analyzed by imaging densitometry and the protein band density expressed as absorbance (OD x mm(2)). The density of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the normoxic, hypoxic and hypoxic-7-nitro-indazole-sodium salt groups was: 41.56+/-4.27 in normoxic, 61.82+/-3.57 in hypoxic (P&lt;0.05) and 47.80+/-1.56 in hypoxic-7-nitro-indazole-sodium salt groups (P=NS vs normoxic), respectively. Similarly, the density of inducible nitric oxide synthase in the normoxic, hypoxic and hypoxic-7-nitro-indazole-sodium salt groups was: 105.21+/-9.09, 157.71+/-13.33 (P&lt;0.05 vx normoxic), 117.84+/-10.32 (p=NS vx normoxic), respectively. The data show that hypoxia results in increased expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase proteins in the cerebral cortex of newborn piglets and that the hypoxia-induced increased expression is prevented by the administration of 7-nitro-indazole-sodium salt. Furthermore, the neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibition prevented the inducible nitric oxide synthase expression for a period of 7 days after hypoxia. Since administration of 7-nitro-indazole-sodium salt prevents nitric oxide generation by inhibiting neuronal nitric oxide synthase, we conclude that the hypoxia-induced increased expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase is mediated by neuronal nitric oxide synthase derived nitric oxide. We speculate that during hypoxia nitric oxide-mediated up-regulation of nitric oxide synthases will continue the perpetual cycle of nitric oxide generation--&gt;NOS up-regulation--&gt;nitric oxide generation resulting in hypoxic neuronal death.
Hippocampal theta frequency and amplitude decrease as locomotor approach slows and the goal is reached. This study compared the declines of these theta parameters and related them to behavioral events. Theta activity was recorded with bipolar electrodes spanning cornu Ammon, sector 1 or cornu Ammon, sectors 2/3 cell layers of the dorsal hippocampus in 12 rats trained to approach and depress a treadle which exposed a milk dipper. Behavioral events were identified using a video capture system (20-ms sampling) synchronized to the hippocampal recording system (10-ms sampling). Peri-event averages of theta activity were made around the initial paw contact with the treadle, the presentation of the dipper, and the first lick at the dipper. Phase relationships between averaged hippocampal slow wave activity and behavioral events occasionally were found but they were inconsistent. In averages of both amplitude and frequency, times of minimum were less variable around paw contact indicating that compared with reward presentation and consummatory behavior, it more closely related to the processes determining the declines. Theta amplitude declined more rapidly than frequency and reached an earlier minimum in averages around initial paw contact and dipper presentation. Mean amplitude minimum occurred after the paw contact at 159 ms but the decline of frequency continued into the licking bout with its minimum occurring at 343 ms. The findings indicate that during the termination of approach locomotion, the amplitude of hippocampal theta activity is closely related to specific expected sensorimotor events.
While morphine remains one of the most widely used opioids for the treatment of painful conditions, other opioids are also commonly employed. Because of the interactions between opioids and gonadal hormones, in particular opioid-induced hypogonadism, this study investigated the effects of widely used opioids on plasma testosterone and estradiol levels and brain testosterone levels in male rats. Animals were s.c. injected with two concentrations of morphine (5 or 10 mg/kg), fentanyl (0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg), tramadol (10 or 40 mg/kg), buprenorphine (0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg) or saline (0.7 ml/kg). Four or 24 h after treatment, the rats were deeply anesthetized to collect blood samples from the abdominal aorta and to perfuse the brains with saline. Plasma and brain hormone levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. In rats studied 4 h after treatment, all the opioids except tramadol 10 mg/kg decreased plasma testosterone in comparison with saline administration. At the same time, plasma estradiol levels were lower than control in the groups treated with the low doses of morphine, tramadol and buprenorphine, while estradiol remained at control levels in the other groups. Twenty-four hours after treatment, plasma testosterone levels were different (higher) than control in the animals treated with the low doses of morphine, fentanyl and buprenorphine. Estradiol was lower than control in the low dose groups, while the high doses did not produce any changes with respect to control. Four hours after treatment, brain testosterone was drastically decreased in all groups except buprenorphine, in which it remained at control levels. All groups returned to control levels at 24 h after treatment. In conclusion, opioids exert important effects on plasma and CNS sex hormone levels. The different magnitude and time-course of the effects of the different opiates on testosterone and estradiol levels are likely due to their different mechanism of action.
Accumulating evidence suggests that a disruption of zinc (Zn) homeostasis may play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Although several Zn transporter proteins responsible for the regulation of Zn balance are present in the brain, there has been little study of these proteins in Alzheimer's disease. To determine if alterations of Zn transporter proteins exist, levels of Zn transporter-4, which functions to remove Zn from the cytoplasm to endosomal/lysosomal compartments, and Zn transporter-6, which allocates cytoplasmic Zn to the trans-Golgi network, were measured in the hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus, superior and middle temporal gyrus, and cerebellum of subjects with mild cognitive impairment, early Alzheimer's disease, late stage Alzheimer's disease, and age-matched controls using Western blot analysis and protein specific antibodies. Our results show that Zn transporter-4 and Zn transporter-6 are significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased in hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus of early Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's disease subjects. Zn transporter-6 is also increased (P&lt;0.1) in the superior and middle temporal gyrus of Alzheimer's disease brain.
Two volatile agents, isoflurane and sevoflurane have similar anesthetic properties but different potencies; this allows the discrimination between anesthetic potency and other properties on the protective mechanisms of volatile anesthesia. Two times the minimal alveolar concentration of an anesthetic is approximately the maximally used clinical concentration of that agent; this concentration is 2% for isoflurane and 4% for sevoflurane. We measured the effects of isoflurane and sevoflurane on cornus ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal cells in rat hippocampal slices subjected to 10 min of hypoxia (95% nitrogen 5% carbon dioxide) and 60 min of recovery. Anesthetic was delivered to the gas phase using a calibrated vaporizer for each agent. At equipotent anesthetic concentrations, sevoflurane (4%) but not isoflurane (2%), enhanced the initial hyperpolarization (6.7 vs. 3.4 mV), delayed the hypoxic rapid depolarization (521 vs. 294 s) and reduced peak hypoxic cytosolic calcium concentration (203 vs. 278 nM). While both agents reduced the final membrane potential at 10 min of hypoxia compared with controls, 4% sevoflurane had a significantly greater effect than 2% isoflurane (-24.4 vs. -3.5 mV). The effect of these concentrations of isoflurane and sevoflurane was not different for sodium, potassium or ATP concentrations at 10 min of hypoxia, the only difference at 5 min of hypoxia was that ATP was better maintained with 4% sevoflurane (2.2 vs. 1.3 nmol/mg). If the same absolute concentration (4%) of isoflurane and sevoflurane is compared then the cellular changes during hypoxia are similar for both agents and they both improve recovery. We conclude that an anesthetic's absolute concentration and not its anesthetic potency correlates with improved recovery of CA1 pyramidal neurons. The mechanisms of sevoflurane-induced protection include delaying and attenuating the depolarization and the increase of cytosolic calcium and delaying the fall in ATP during hypoxia.
In urethane-anesthetized male rats, a branch of the hypogastric nerve was shown, anatomically and electrophysiologically, to supply the vas deferens. Recordings from this nerve revealed a low level of tonic activity, which was predominantly efferent motor activity. Administration of p-chloroamphetamine i.v., elicited a rhythmic burst of neuronal activity, coherent with rhythmic pressure increases in the vas deferens and contractions of the bulbospongiosus muscles, which together comprise ejaculation. This response to p-chloroamphetamine was still present after complete transection of the spinal cord at T8-T9. These data indicate that p-chloroamphetamine is capable of activating the spinal neuronal circuits that generate the pattern of autonomic and somatic responses similar to those of sexual climax. Furthermore based on the best documented action of p-chloroamphetamine, the results suggest that the excitability of the pattern generator is regulated by serotonergic, dopaminergic or noradrenergic receptors in the lumbosacral spinal cord. We conclude this animal model will enable robust studies of the pharmacology and physiology of central neural mechanisms involved in ejaculation and sexual climax.
This experiment assessed the effect of neonatal ventral hippocampus lesions in rats, a heuristic approach to model schizophrenia, on continuous delayed alternation and conditional discrimination learning performance before and after complete cerebral maturation. Delays (0, 5, 15, and 30 s) were introduced in the tasks to help dissociate between a hippocampal and a prefrontal cortex dysfunction. At postnatal day (PND) 6 or 7, rats received bilateral microinjections of ibotenic acid or phosphate-buffered saline in the ventral hippocampus. From PND 26 to PND 35, rats were tested on the alternation task in a T-maze; from PND 47 to PND 85, the same rats were tested in the discrimination task where a stimulus and a response location had to be paired. Deficits in ventral hippocampus-lesioned rats were observed in both tasks whether a delay was introduced before a response or not. Impaired performance regardless of delay length, combined with high rates of perseverative errors, suggested a post-lesional prefrontal cortex dysfunction which persisted from the juvenile stage into adulthood. Premature cognitive impairments could not be predicted on the basis of the neurodevelopmental animal model of schizophrenia. Nevertheless, they appear consistent with accounts of premorbidly compromised memory, both immediate and delayed, in subgroups of schizophrenia patients.
In a previous study it has been demonstrated that fear conditioning is associated with a long-lasting potentiation of parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synaptic transmission in vermal lobules V and VI. Since modifications of intrinsic membrane properties have been suggested to mediate some forms of memory processes, we investigated possible changes of Purkinje cell intrinsic properties following the same learning paradigm and in the same cerebellar region. By means of the patch clamp technique, Purkinje cell passive and active membrane properties were evaluated in slices prepared from rats 10 min or 24 h after fear conditioning and in slices from control nave animals. None of the evaluated parameters (input resistance, inward rectification, maximal firing frequency and the first inter-spike interval, post-burst afterhyperpolarization, action potential threshold and amplitude, action potential afterhyperpolarization) was significantly different between the three studied groups also in those cells where parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse was potentiated. Our results show that fear learning does not affect the intrinsic membrane properties involved in Purkinje cell firing. Therefore, at the level of Purkinje cell the plastic change associated with fear conditioning is specifically restricted to synaptic efficacy.
We investigated extraneural manifestations in scrapie-infected transgenic mice expressing prion protein lacking the glycophosphatydylinositol membrane anchor. In the brain, blood, and heart, both abnormal protease-resistant prion protein (PrPres) and prion infectivity were readily detected by immunoblot and by inoculation into nontransgenic recipients. The titer of infectious scrapie in blood plasma exceeded 10(7) 50% infectious doses per milliliter. The hearts of these transgenic mice contained PrPres-positive amyloid deposits that led to myocardial stiffness and cardiac disease.
Behavioral and computational studies predict that synaptic plasticity of excitatory mossy fiber inputs to cerebellar nuclear neurons is required for associative learning, but standard tetanization protocols fail to potentiate nuclear cell EPSCs in mouse cerebellar slices. Nuclear neurons fire action potentials spontaneously unless strongly inhibited by Purkinje neurons, raising the possibility that plasticity-triggering signals in these cells differ from those at classical Hebbian synapses. Based on predictions of neuronal activity during delay eyelid conditioning, we developed quasi-physiological induction protocols consisting of high-frequency mossy fiber stimulation and postsynaptic hyperpolarization. Robust, NMDA receptor-dependent potentiation of nuclear cell EPSCs occurred with protocols including a 150-250 ms hyperpolarization in which mossy fiber stimulation preceded a postinhibitory rebound depolarization. Mossy fiber stimulation potentiated EPSCs even when postsynaptic spiking was prevented by voltage-clamp, as long as rebound current was evoked. These data suggest that Purkinje cell inhibition guides the strengthening of excitatory synapses in the cerebellar nuclei.
Synaptic vesicles have been proposed to form through two mechanisms: one directly from the plasma membrane involving clathrin-dependent endocytosis and the adaptor protein AP2, and the other from an endosomal intermediate mediated by the adaptor AP3. However, the relative role of these two mechanisms in synaptic vesicle recycling has remained unclear. We now find that vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1 interacts directly with endophilin, a component of the clathrin-dependent endocytic machinery. In the absence of its interaction with endophilin, VGLUT1 recycles more slowly during prolonged, high-frequency stimulation. Inhibition of the AP3 pathway with brefeldin A rescues the rate of recycling, suggesting a competition between AP2 and -3 pathways, with endophilin recruiting VGLUT1 toward the faster AP2 pathway. After stimulation, however, inhibition of the AP3 pathway prevents the full recovery of VGLUT1 by endocytosis, implicating the AP3 pathway specifically in compensatory endocytosis.
Experimental and computational analyses of cerebellar function indicate that excitatory synapses onto deep nucleus neurons are likely to be a critical site of plasticity during motor learning. In this issue of Neuron, Pugh and Raman report that unconventional stimulus protocols can drive synaptic plasticity in the deep cerebellar nuclei.
Down's syndrome patients develop dementia similar to Alzheimer's disease and show elevated levels of amyloid precursor protein in brain. Two papers in this issue of Neuron show that reduced retrograde transport or signaling of the neurotrophins NGF or BDNF, respectively, may account for the neuronal pathology in mouse models of Down's syndrome.

The objective was to investigate putative associations between brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene (BDNF) polymorphisms and brain morphology in patients with schizophrenia and healthy control subjects. Four BDNF polymorphisms were genotyped and analyzed versus 39 brain volume measures in 96 patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and 104 healthy subjects. In all subjects, quantitative data on segmented gray, white, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tissue class volumes of total brain and major cerebral lobes including ventricular CSF were obtained using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In a randomly selected subset of this population (n = 101-122), MR volumes from cerebellar tonsil, hemispheres, and vermis subregions, striatal structures, hippocampus, and corpus callosum were also measured. The BDNF 11757 G/C polymorphism was highly significantly associated with frontal gray matter volume variation in patients alone and in patients and control subjects combined. In patients only, the 270 C/T polymorphism was associated with total caudate volume. Significant associations were demonstrated between the BDNF 11757 G/C and Val66Met polymorphisms and a global haplotype estimate of four BDNF polymorphisms and the posterior superior cerebellar vermis volume in the controls as well as in the combined group, but not in the patients. The 11757 G/C polymorphism was associated with cerebellar hemisphere white and gray matter volumes in the combined group. The BDNF -633 T/A polymorphism was associated with gray matter of the putamen in the controls. Trends for associations between several polymorphisms/haplotype estimates and MRI volumes were found. BDNF gene variation may influence brain morphology. The effects may be different in patients with schizophrenia and healthy subjects.

The primate prefrontal cortex plays a central role in choosing goals, along with a wide variety of additional functions, including short-term memory. In the present study, we examined neuronal activity in the prefrontal cortex as monkeys used abstract response strategies to select one of three spatial goals, a selection that depended on their memory of the most recent previous goal. During each trial, the monkeys selected a future goal on the basis of events from the previous trial, including both the symbolic visual cue that had appeared on that trial and the previous goal that the monkeys had selected. When a symbolic visual cue repeated from the previous trial, the monkeys stayed with their previous goal as the next (future) goal; when the cue changed, the monkeys shifted from their previous goal to one of the two remaining locations as their future goal. We found that prefrontal neurons had activity that reflected either previous goals or future goals, but only rarely did individual cells reflect both. This finding suggests that essentially separate neural networks encode these two aspects of spatial information processing. A failure to distinguish previous and future goals could lead to two kinds of maladaptive behavior. First, wrongly representing an accomplished goal as still pending could cause perseveration or compulsive checking, two disorders commonly attributed to dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex. Second, mistaking a pending goal as already accomplished could cause the failures of omission that occur commonly in dementia.
We investigated the neural mechanisms underlying the timing procedure that was devised by Libet et al. (1983) to measure the onset of conscious motor intentions in spontaneous actions. We previously showed that, when participants were required to estimate the onset of their intentions using this procedure, the activity in the presupplementary motor area (pre-SMA) was enhanced. Here, we show that when participants were required to estimate the onset of their motor executions (instead of their intentions), the activity in the cingulate motor area was enhanced. Across participants, the degree of this neural enhancement was correlated with the degree of perceptual bias: the higher the degree of enhancement, the earlier the perception. Analysis of data from a previous experiment suggests that the same principle holds true for the relationship between the perceived onset of intentions and the activity in the pre-SMA. We therefore argue that the timing method of Libet et al. (1983) is problematic, because the measuring process affects the neural representations of action and thus also the perceived onsets that the method is designed to measure.
The ability of neurons to fire precise patterns of action potentials is critical for encoding inputs and efficiently driving target neurons. At the axon initial segment and nodes of Ranvier, where nerve impulses are generated and propagated, a high density of Na(v)1.2 sodium channels is developmentally replaced by Na(v)1.6 channels. In retinal ganglion cells (GCs), this isoform switch coincides with the developmental transition from single spikes to repetitive firing. Also, Na(v)1.6 channels are required for repetitive spiking in cerebellar Purkinje neurons. These previous observations suggest that the developmental appearance of Na(v)1.6 underlies the transition to repetitive spiking in GCs. To test this possibility, we recorded from GCs of med (Na(v)1.6-null) and wild-type mice during postnatal development. By postnatal day 18, when the switch to Na(v)1.6 at GC initial segments is normally complete, the maximal sustained and instantaneous firing rates were lower in med than in wild-type GCs, demonstrating that Na(v)1.6 channels are necessary to attain physiologically relevant firing frequencies in GCs. However, the firing impairment was milder than that reported previously in med Purkinje neurons, which prompted us to look for differences in compensatory sodium channel expression. Both Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.1 channels accumulated at initial segments and nodes of med GCs, sites normally occupied by Na(v)1.6. In med Purkinje cells, only Na(v)1.1 channels were found at initial segments, whereas in other brain regions, only Na(v)1.2 was detected at med initial segments and nodes. Thus, compensatory mechanisms in channel isoform distribution are cell specific, which likely results in different firing properties.
Sleep deprivation results in the loss of our ability to suppress a prepotent response. The extent of decline in this executive function varies across individuals. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study the neural correlates of sleep deprivation-induced differences in inhibitory efficiency. Participants performed a go/no-go task after normal sleep and after 24 h of total sleep deprivation. Regardless of the extent of change in inhibitory efficiency, sleep deprivation lowered go/no-go sustained, task-related activation of the ventral and anterior prefrontal (PFC) regions bilaterally. However, individuals better able to maintain inhibitory efficiency after sleep deprivation could be distinguished by lower stop-related, phasic activation of the right ventral PFC during rested wakefulness. These persons also showed a larger rise in such activation both here and in the right insula after sleep deprivation relative to those whose inhibitory efficiency declined.
Local or dendritic protein synthesis is required for long-term functional synaptic change, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). LTP and LTD both rely on similar signal transduction cascades, which regulate translation initiation. Current research indicates that the specificity by which new proteins participate in either LTP or LTD may be determined in part by specific RNA-binding proteins as well as activity-dependent capture.
It is now widely accepted that mRNAs localize to dendrites and that translation of these mRNAs is regulated in response to neuronal activity. Recent studies have begun to reveal the underpinnings of these processes and to underscore the importance of local protein synthesis to synaptic remodeling and plasticity. When Steward and Levy (1982) first reported their observation of polyribosomes at the base of spines, the prevailing view was that all proteins were synthesized in the cell body and then transported to distal compartments of neurons. Steward and Levy's discovery, however, raised the intriguing possibility that mRNAs could be transported to synapses and locally translated in response to synaptic stimulation. This provided an elegant mechanism for spatially restricting gene expression within the neuron, such that individual synapses could independently regulate their morphology and efficacy, in a persistent, protein synthesis-dependent manner, in response to specific stimuli. It is now widely accepted that mRNAs do localize to dendrites and that translation of these mRNAs contributes to synaptic plasticity. As is evident from the collection of Mini-Reviews on dendritic protein synthesis in this issue of The Journal of Neuroscience, the field has evolved to focus on a series of key questions, including the following: (1) what mRNAs are present in dendrites? (2) How are these mRNAs transported from the nucleus into the dendrite? (3) How is translation of these mRNAs regulated by neuronal activity? and (4) What is the function of local translation of specific transcripts? In this brief introductory overview, we will consider each of these questions in turn.
A growing proportion of the U.S. workforce will have been raised in disadvantaged environments that are associated with relatively high proportions of individuals with diminished cognitive and social skills. A cross-disciplinary examination of research in economics, developmental psychology, and neurobiology reveals a striking convergence on a set of common principles that account for the potent effects of early environment on the capacity for human skill development. Central to these principles are the findings that early experiences have a uniquely powerful influence on the development of cognitive and social skills and on brain architecture and neurochemistry, that both skill development and brain maturation are hierarchical processes in which higher level functions depend on, and build on, lower level functions, and that the capacity for change in the foundations of human skill development and neural circuitry is highest earlier in life and decreases over time. These findings lead to the conclusion that the most efficient strategy for strengthening the future workforce, both economically and neurobiologically, and improving its quality of life is to invest in the environments of disadvantaged children during the early childhood years.
The contribution of neuropeptide Y (NPY), deriving from adrenal medulla, to the adrenosympathetic tone is unknown. We found that in response to NPY, primary cultures of mouse adrenal chromaffin cells secreted catecholamine, and that this effect was abolished in cultures from NPY Y(1) receptor knockout mice (Y(1)-/-). Compared with wild-type mice (Y(1)+/+), the adrenal content and constitutive release of catecholamine were increased in chromaffin cells from Y(1)-/- mice. In resting animals, catecholamine plasma concentrations were higher in Y(1)-/- mice. Comparing the adrenal glands of both genotypes, no differences were observed in the area of the medulla, cortex, and X zone. The high turnover of adrenal catecholamine in Y(1)-/- mice was explained by the enhancement of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity, although no change in the affinity of the enzyme was observed. The molecular interaction between the Y(1) receptor and TH was demonstrated by the fact that NPY markedly inhibited the forskolin-induced luciferin activity in Y(1) receptor-expressing SK-N-MC cells transfected with a TH promoter sequence. We propose that NPY controls the release and synthesis of catecholamine from the adrenal medulla and consequently contributes to the sympathoadrenal tone.
We report here the results of a chemical genetic screen using small molecules with known pharmacologies coupled with a cortical brain slice-based model for ischemic stroke. We identified a small-molecule compound not previously appreciated to have neuroprotective action in ischemic stroke, the cardiac glycoside neriifolin, and demonstrated that its properties in the brain slice assay included delayed therapeutic potential exceeding 6 h. Neriifolin is structurally related to the digitalis class of cardiac glycosides, and its putative target is the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase. Other cardiac glycoside compounds tested also showed neuroprotective activity, although with lower apparent potencies. In subsequent whole-animal studies, we found that neriifolin provided significant neuroprotection in a neonatal model of hypoxia/ischemia and in a middle cerebral artery occlusion model of transient focal ischemia. The neuroprotective potential of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase is of particular interest because of its known &quot;druggability&quot;; indeed, Food and Drug Administration-approved, small-molecule compounds such as digitoxin and digoxin have been in clinical usage for congestive heart failure and arrhythmias for several decades. Thus, an existing cardiac glycoside or closely related compound could provide an accelerated path toward clinical trial testing for ischemic stroke. Our findings underscore the important role that hypothesis-neutral, high-content, tissue-based screens can play in the identification of new candidate drugs and drug targets for the treatment of diseases for which validated therapeutic pathways are not currently available.
We document a helper-independent reverse genetics system for rescuing infectious arenaviruses from cloned cDNAs. We constructed plasmids containing full-length cDNAs of the antigenomic (ag) L and S segments of the Armstrong (ARM) strain of the prototypic Arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) flanked at their 5'- and 3'-termini by the T7 RNA polymerase (T7RP) promoter and ribozyme sequences, respectively. These plasmids directed intracellular synthesis of viral L and S ag RNA species in cells expressing plasmid-supplied T7RP. Co-expression of plasmid-supplied LCMV trans-acting factors, nucleoprotein (NP) and polymerase (L), resulted in replication and expression of L and S ag and genome RNA species, and generation of LCMV infectious progeny termed rT7/LCMV. The recombinant rT7/LCMV was unequivocally identified based on a genetic tag introduced in the recombinant S segment. In addition, rT7/LCMV exhibited growth and biological properties predicted for an ARM-like LCMV. To our knowledge, this is the first documented Arenavirus rescue, as well as of an ambisense negative strand (NS) RNA virus, entirely from cloned cDNAs. Our results extend the use of reverse genetic approaches for DNA-mediated virus rescue to all known virus families with NS RNA genome.
It is believed that locus coeruleus (LC) influences the sensory information processing. However, its role in cortical surround inhibitory mechanism is not well established. In this experiment, using controlled mechanical displacement of whiskers; we investigated the effect of electrical stimulation of LC on response of layer V barrel cortical neurons in anesthetized rat. LC was stimulated 0, 50, 100, 200 and 400 ms before principal or adjacent whiskers deflection. For assessing the effect of LC stimulation on inhibitory receptive filed of barrel neurons, adjacent whisker was also deflected 20 ms before principal whisker deflection, and LC stimulation was applied 0-400 ms before principal whisker displacement. We found that LC stimulation increase the response magnitude of layer V neurons to principal whisker deflection (significant in 50-400 ms intervals). This increase was also observed in response to adjacent whisker deflection (significant in 100 ms interval). The response latency of neurons was decreased when LC was stimulated 400 ms before principal whisker deflection but LC stimulation did not affect the neuronal response latency to adjacent whisker displacement. Inhibitory effect of adjacent whisker deflection on neuronal response magnitude was increased by LC stimulation, tested in combined whisker displacement. These findings suggest that LC, by modulating the neuronal responses, enhances the neuronal responsiveness to sensory stimuli and increases their surround inhibition in cortex.
Oxidative stress has been associated with motor neuron disease (MND). The human body has several antioxidant defense systems to repair the damage caused by oxidative stress. The activity of these systems is thought to be reduced in neurodegenerative diseases, which may increase the level of oxidative damage and be a contributing factor to motor neuron death. In the present study, we compared the total antioxidant capacity (TAC) of human serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of MND patients with that of a control group including patients with migraine, tension headache and psychiatric disorders. Within-subject serum and CSF TAC were strongly correlated (r=0.639; p=0.000), and CSF TAC was significantly lower in MND patients as compared to controls after adjustment for known influencing factors (112.7 micromol Fe/L+/-11.7 versus 135.2 micromol Fe/L+/-19.7; p=0.012). No differences in serum or CSF TAC were observed among the clinical forms of MND considered in this work. In conclusion, the CSF TAC was strongly correlated with serum TAC, and a decrease in CSF TAC was demonstrated in MND patients compared to controls that was not independent from serum antioxidants, this translating in a systemic (but prevailing in the CNS) oxidative damage in this pathology.
The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is a circadian oscillator that receives a dense serotonergic innervation from the median raphe nucleus. Serotonin (5-HT) modulates the effects of light on circadian behavior by acting on 5-HT1B receptors on retinohypothalamic (RHT) terminals in the SCN. Activation of 5-HT1B presynaptic receptors on RHT terminals inhibits glutamate release. However, 5-HT1B receptor knockout (5-HT1B KO) mice have attenuated behavioral responses to light [P.J. Sollars, M.D. Ogilvie, A.M. Simpson, G.E. Pickard, Photic entrainment is altered in the 5-HT1B receptor knockout mouse, J. Biol. Rhythms 21 (2006) 21-32]. To assess the cellular response of the 5-HT1B KO SCN to light, light-induced Fos expression was analyzed in 5-HT1B KO and wild-type (WT) mice. In addition, the distribution of melanopsin containing retinal ganglion cells that contribute the majority of axons to the RHT was examined in 5-HT1B KO mice and compared to that of WT mice. Light-induced Fos expression in the SCN was reduced in 5-HT1B KO mice compared to WT mice at circadian time (CT) 16 and CT 23 in a manner similar to the reduction previously described in light-induced behavioral phase shifts. The number of melanopsin retinal ganglion cells was similar in WT and 5-HT1B KO mice. These data taken together with previous data suggest that functional removal of the 5-HT1B receptor results in reduced functional light input to the SCN.
Hemodynamic monitoring in the care of the critically ill neuroscience patient provides information that assists the clinician in minimizing secondary neuronal injury. Whereas no technology replaces the critical care nurse's physical assessment, hemodynamic and neurological monitoring provides additional data beyond what is possible with the clinical examination alone. If neurological technology, such as intracranial pressure monitoring, is not available, hemodynamic monitoring along with the neurological examination provides limited but useful information essential to minimizing secondary neuronal injury. The use of hemodynamic monitoring in critically ill neuroscience patients is best exemplified in the management of cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Although improved outcomes have not been scientifically substantiated, multimodality monitoring of intracranial dynamics and systemic hemodynamics and manipulation of these parameters during hypertensive hypervolemic hemodilution therapy may lessen the incidence of cerebral infarction secondary to vasospasm. Monitoring systemic hemodynamics and intracranial dynamics simultaneously assists in prevention, prompt recognition, and effective treatment of neurological deterioration.
Tectal plate cysts are very rare. We report two adult patients with benign tectal plate cyst and secondary hydrocephalus. The first patient had an unusual eye movement disorder with bilateral upper eyelid retraction (Collier's sign), limited upgaze, severe upgaze evoked nystagmus and retraction nystagmus. The second patient presented with ataxia and failure of upward gaze. Endoscopic fenestration of the tectal plate cyst and endoscopic third ventriculostomy in both cases result in neurological improvement. To the best of our knowledge, similar lesions at this site have not been reported in adults. The differential diagnosis with arachnoid cysts of the quadrigeminal CSF cistern is discussed.





The prevention of Alzheimer disease (AD) remains an important goal because of its high prevalence in our society and its associated costs. Two types of primary prevention trials have been conducted in AD to date: trials in independent cohorts specifically recruited for an AD primary prevention trial and cohorts in other studies randomized to a drug of interest where appropriate cognitive measures can be added. There have been numerous difficulties in conducting primary prevention trials in AD because of the need for a large sample size, long length of poor follow up, and adverse event profile or toxicity of the agents being studied. Many primary prevention trials are ongoing. However, to date, no primary prevention trial has successfully delayed the development of AD. Future primary prevention trials for AD will need to carefully consider issues of safety, tolerability, ability to follow subjects over long periods of time, methods of collecting data, and strategies to enhance recruitment to carry out such trials.
Epidemiologic evidence suggests that individuals with higher IQ, education, occupational attainment, or participation in leisure activities have a reduced risk of developing Alzheimer disease (AD). The concept of cognitive reserve (CR) posits that individual differences in how tasks are processed provide differential reserve against brain pathology or age-related changes. This may take 2 forms. In neural reserve, preexisting brain networks that are more efficient or have greater capacity may be less susceptible to disruption. In neural compensation, alternate networks may compensate for pathology's disruption of preexisting networks. Imaging studies have begun to identify the neural substrate of CR. Because CR may modulate the clinical expression of AD pathology, it is an important consideration in studies of &quot;preclinical&quot; AD and treatment studies. There is also the possibility that directly enhancing CR may help forestall the diagnosis of AD.
UCH-L3 belongs to the ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase family that deubiquitinates ubiquitin-protein conjugates in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. A murine Uchl3 deletion mutant displays retinal degeneration, muscular degeneration, and mild growth retardation. To elucidate the function of UCH-L3, we investigated histopathological changes and expression of apoptosis- and oxidative stress-related proteins during retinal degeneration. In the normal retina, UCH-L3 was enriched in the photoreceptor inner segment that contains abundant mitochondria. Although the retina of Uchl3-deficient mice showed no significant morphological abnormalities during retinal development, prominent retinal degeneration became manifested after 3 weeks of age associated with photoreceptor cell apoptosis. Ultrastructurally, a decreased area of mitochondrial cristae and vacuolar changes were observed in the degenerated inner segment. Increased immunoreactivities for manganese superoxide dismutase, cytochrome c oxidase I, and apoptosis-inducing factor in the inner segment indicated mitochondrial oxidative stress. Expression of cytochrome c, caspase-1, and cleaved caspase-3 did not differ between wild-type and mutant mice; however, immunoreactivity for endonuclease G was found in the photoreceptor nuclei in the mutant retina. Hence, loss of UCH-L3 leads to mitochondrial oxidative stress-related photoreceptor cell apoptosis in a caspase-independent manner. Thus, Uchl3-deficient mice represent a model for adult-onset retinal degeneration associated with mitochondrial impairment.
We have observed that the vasoactive peptide endothelin-1 is a potent inducer of migration of primary human brain-derived microvascular endothelial cells. By blocking signal transduction pathways with specific inhibitors, and using dominant negative mutant infections, we have demonstrated that multiple pathways are involved in endothelin-1-induced migration. Absolutely required for migration are protein tyrosine kinase Src, Ras, protein kinase C (PKC), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, ERK, and JNK; partial requirements were exhibited by cAMP-activated protein kinase and p38 kinase. Partial elucidation of the signal transduction sequences showed that the MAPKs ERK, JNK, and p38 are positioned downstream of both PKC and cAMP-activated protein kinase in the signal transduction scheme. The results show that human brain endothelial cell migration has distinct characteristics, different from cells derived from other vascular beds, or from other species, often used as model systems. Furthermore, the results indicate that endothelin-1, secreted by many tumors, is an important contributor to tumor-produced proangiogenic microenvironment. This growth factor has been associated with increased microvessel density in tumors and is responsible for endothelial cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tubule formation. Because many signal transduction pathways investigated in this study are potential or current targets for anti-angiogenesis therapy, these results are of critical importance for designing physiological antiangiogenic protocols.
Glucocorticoids have been implicated in hypoglycemia-induced autonomic failure but also contribute to normal counterregulation. To determine the influence of normal and hypoglycemia-induced levels of glucocorticoids on counterregulatory responses to acute and repeated hypoglycemia, we compared plasma catecholamines, corticosterone, glucagon, and glucose requirements in male wild-type (WT) and glucocorticoid-deficient, corticotropin-releasing hormone knockout (CRH KO) mice. Conscious, chronically cannulated, unrestrained WT and CRH KO mice underwent a euglycemic (Prior Eu) or hypoglycemic clamp (Prior Hypo) on day 1 followed by a hypoglycemic clamp on day 2 (blood glucose both days, 65 +/- 1 mg/dl). Baseline epinephrine and glucagon were similar, and norepinephrine was elevated, in CRH KO vs. WT mice. CRH KO corticosterone was almost undetectable (&lt;1.5 microg/dl) and unresponsive to hypoglycemia. CRH KO glucose requirements were significantly higher during day 1 hypoglycemia despite epinephrine and glucagon responses that were comparable to or greater than those in WT. Hyperinsulinemic euglycemia did not increase hormones or glucose requirements above baseline. On day 2, Prior Hypo WT had significantly higher glucose requirements and significantly lower corticosterone and glucagon responses. Prior Hypo and Prior Eu CRH KO mice had similar day 2 glucose requirements. However, Prior Hypo CRH KO mice had significantly lower day 2 epinephrine and norepinephrine vs. Prior Eu CRH KO and tended to have lower glucagon than on day 1. We conclude that glucocorticoid insufficiency in CRH KO mice correlates with 1) impaired counterregulation during acute hypoglycemia and 2) complex effects after repeated hypoglycemia, neither preventing decreased hormone responses nor worsening glucose requirements.
Recent advances in neuronal culturing techniques have supplied a new set of tools for studying neural tissue, providing effective means to study molecular aspects of regulatory elements in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SON). To combine molecular biology techniques with electrophysiological recording, we modified an organotypic culture protocol to permit transfection and whole cell patch-clamp recordings from SON cells. Neonatal mouse brain coronal sections containing the SON were dissected out, placed on a filter insert in culture medium, and incubated for at least 4 days to allow attachment to the insert. The SON was identifiable using gross anatomical landmarks, which remained intact throughout the culturing period. Immunohistochemical staining identified both vasopressinergic and oxytocinergic cells present in the cultures, typically appearing in well-defined clusters. Whole cell recordings from these cultures demonstrated that certain properties of the neonatal mouse SON were comparable to adult mouse magnocellular neurons. SON neurons in both neonatal cultures and acute adult slices showed similar sustained outward rectification above -60 mV and action potential broadening during evoked activity. Membrane potential, input resistance, and rapidly inactivating potassium current density (IA) were reduced in the cultures, whereas whole cell capacitance and spontaneous synaptic excitation were increased, perhaps reflecting developmental changes in cell physiology that warrant further study. The use of the outlined organotypic culturing procedures will allow the study of such electrophysiological properties of mouse SON using whole cell patch-clamp, in addition to various molecular, techniques that require longer incubation times.
A binding assay for human fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) using the scintillation proximity assay (SPA) technology is described. This SPA uses the specific interactions of [3H]R(+)-methanandamide (MAEA) and FAAH expressing microsomes to evaluate the displacement activity of FAAH inhibitors. We observed that a competitive nonhydrolyzed FAAH inhibitor, [3H]MAEA, bound specifically to the FAAH microsomes. Coincubation with an FAAH inhibitor, URB-597, competitively displaced the [3H]MAEA on the FAAH microsomes. The released radiolabel was then detected through an interaction with the SPA beads. The assay is specific for FAAH given that microsomes prepared from cells expressing the inactive FAAH-S241A mutant or vector alone had no significant ability to bind [3H]MAEA. Furthermore, the binding of [3H]MAEA to FAAH microsomes was abolished by selective FAAH inhibitors in a dose-dependent manner, with IC50 values comparable to those seen in a functional assay. This novel SPA has been validated and demonstrated to be simple, sensitive, and amenable to high-throughput screening.
We present the results of two experiments that probe the ability of rhesus macaques to match visual arrays based on number. Three monkeys were first trained on a delayed match-to-sample paradigm (DMTS) to match stimuli on the basis of number and ignore continuous dimensions such as element size, cumulative surface area, and density. Monkeys were then tested in a numerical bisection experiment that required them to indicate whether a sample numerosity was closer to a small or large anchor value. Results indicated that, for two sets of anchor values with the same ratio, the probability of choosing the larger anchor value systematically increased with the sample number and the psychometric functions superimposed. A second experiment employed a numerical DMTS task in which the choice values contained an exact numerical match to the sample and a distracter that varied in number. Both accuracy and reaction time were modulated by the ratio between the correct numerical match and the distracter, as predicted by Weber's Law.

Sleep disturbances are hallmark symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Where the subjective experience of nightmares and insomnia in PTSD patients is very real indeed and demands treatment, objective research findings on disordered sleep architecture in PTSD are inconclusive and inconsistent. After reviewing the literature an insufficient number of controlled studies are published to formulate evidence-based guidelines. Several studies have methodological limitations, such as small group sizes and heterogenic samples. Large randomized controlled trials (RCTs) need to be conducted in order to further develop adequate therapeutic interventions. Objective parameters for insomnia and nightmares need to be identified for understanding underlying mechanisms of disturbed sleep in PTSD, and for evaluating therapy.
Recent studies have reported an association between exposure to childhood abuse or neglect and alterations in brain structure or function. One limitation of these studies is that they are correlational and do not provide evidence of a cause-effect relationship. Preclinical studies on the effects of exposure to early life stress can demonstrate causality, and can enrich our understanding of the clinical research if we hypothesize that the consequences of early abuse are predominantly mediated through the induction of stress responses. Exposure to early abuse and early stress has each been associated with the emergence of epileptiform electroencephalogram (EEG) abnormalities, alterations in corpus callosum area, and reduced volume or synaptic density of the hippocampus. Further, there is evidence that different brain regions have unique periods when they are maximally sensitive to the effects of early stress. To date, preclinical studies have guided clinical investigations and will continue to provide important insight into studies on molecular mechanisms and gene-environment interactions.
Animal research on brain mechanisms involved in psychiatric disorders presents an enormous challenge because it is impossible to precisely model symptoms of a human disorder in a rat or mouse. Nevertheless, there are uses for animal models as long as the limitations are recognized. Animal research related to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) points to acute and chronic stressors, such as restraint or immobilization as being the most relevant stimuli to study how neural and endocrine systems are affected, both immediately and long term. Of particular relevance are the onset and duration of effects of stressors on brain areas subserving emotional memories, such as the amygdala, prefrontal cortex, and hippocampus. The hippocampus plays a role in memory and in vegetative functions of the body. The hippocampus receives input from the amygdala and its function in spatial memory is altered by amygdala activity. Repeated stress in the rat suppresses dentate gyrus neurogenesis and causes dendrites of hippocampal and medial prefrontal cortical neurons to shrink. Conversely, it causes basolateral amygdala neurons to increase in dendritic complexity and sprout new synapses. Repeated stress also increases fear and aggression, reduces spatial memory, and alters contextual fear conditioning. Antidepressants and mood stabilizers have diverse effects on these processes. New data indicate that a single stress episode can cause a delayed alteration in synapse formation in the basolateral amygdala without changing dendritic length and branching. Further studies are examining the structural changes in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus as a result of single traumatic stressors, which may reflect the functional interactions with the amygdala. Together with mechanistic studies of the role of adrenal glucocorticoids and catecholamines, these results may tell us how the brain is shaped by acute and repeated uncontrollable stress in ways that then can be investigated in human anxiety disorders.
The research showing how exposure to extreme stress affects brain function is making important contributions to understanding the nature of traumatic stress. This includes the notion that traumatized individuals are vulnerable to react to sensory information with subcortically initiated responses that are irrelevant, and often harmful, in the present. Reminders of traumatic experiences activate brain regions that support intense emotions, and decrease activation in the central nervous system (CNS) regions involved in (a) the integration of sensory input with motor output, (b) the modulation of physiological arousal, and (c) the capacity to communicate experience in words. Failures of attention and memory in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) interfere with the capacity to engage in the present: traumatized individuals &quot;lose their way in the world.&quot; This article discusses the implications of this research by suggesting that effective treatment needs to involve (a) learning to tolerate feelings and sensations by increasing the capacity for interoception, (b) learning to modulate arousal, and (c) learning that after confrontation with physical helplessness it is essential to engage in taking effective action.
Information on stress hormones and sleep disturbance in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is on the basis of clinical samples and samples of other selective populations. Neurobiological studies nested in a large epidemiological community sample were recently reported. PTSD was compared with several control groups, defined by exposure and by diagnostic classification on the basis of comorbidity with Major Depression. Key findings were: (a) higher mean catecholamines in persons with PTSD versus controls; (b) no difference in mean cortisol between groups; (c) comorbid PTSD and depression was associated with higher cortisol in women; and (d) polysomnographic studies failed to detect clinically relevant sleep disturbance in PTSD, although an increase in brief arousal from REM was detected. Methodological questions raised by discrepancies between biological findings from epidemiologic versus clinical and other selective samples are discussed.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is typically accompanied by both acute and chronic alterations in the stress response. These alterations have mostly been described in individuals under baseline conditions, but studies have also used a challenge model to assess the role of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in the stress response. The purpose of this article was to assess the effect of long-term treatment with the selective reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), paroxetine, on stress reactivity in patients with PTSD. We assessed diurnal salivary cortisol and urinary cortisol as well as cortisol, heart rate, and behavioral responses to a standardized cognitive stress challenge, in 13 female patients with chronic PTSD before and after 12 months of paroxetine treatment. Treatment resulted in a significant decrease in PTSD symptoms. Twenty-four-hour urinary cortisol was lower compared to base line after successful treatment. Treatment resulted in a decrease of salivary cortisol levels on all time points on a diurnal curve. Despite similar stress perception, cortisol response to the cognitive stress challenge resulted in a 26.5% relative decrease in stress-induced salivary cortisol with treatment. These results suggest that successful treatment with SSRI in chronic PTSD is associated with a trend for a decrease in baseline diurnal cortisol and with reduced cortisol reactivity to stress.
The receptors mediating vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) enhancement of synaptic transmission to pyramidal cell bodies were investigated. RO 25-1553 (VPAC2agonist) mimicked the excitatory effect of VIP on population spike (PS) amplitude. [K15, R16, L27] VIP (1-7)/GRF (8-27) (VPAC1 agonist) caused only a small increase in PS amplitude. The effect of VPAC2 agonist (but not of the VPAC1 agonist) persisted upon blockade of GABAergic transmission and was strongly attenuated upon inhibition of PKA. In conclusion, VPAC2 receptor activation mediates VIP enhancement of PS amplitude in the hippocampus essentially through a PKA-dependent mechanism.
Hedgehog (HH) is a secreted protein named for the bristle phenotype observed in Drosophila embryos that lack the corresponding gene. Three homologs have been characterized in vertebrates, all which have critical roles in the development of multiple organ systems. Moreover, these proteins regulate stem cell production and activation during tissue repair after injury, and appear to drive proliferation in a variety of type of tumors, including those arising in the brain, foregut, lung, breast, pancreas, stomach, and prostate. Early evidence from Drosophila, and later work in vertebrates established the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) pathway as a major pathway which opposes HH signaling, doing so by phosphorylating intracellular signaling mediators and targeting them for degradation. Thus, it seems possible that ligands which activate G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) may act in some cases to oppose or enhance HH signaling. We studied a possible interaction of pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) with sonic hedgehog (SHH) in the developing cerebellum, where both PACAP and SHH are know to act. PACAP and the PAC1-specific agonist, maxadilan, were found to completely block the proliferative action of SHH on developing cerebellar granule neurons. It remains to be determined if HH/GPCR antagonistic interactions play additional important roles in development, plasticity, tissue repair, cancer, and other processes.

The histological classification of brain tumors currently is based on the morphological appearance and protein expression patterns that reflect specific cell types within the central nervous system. Recent studies have suggested that the cells of origin for brain tumors may persist in the fully formed tumors, and that these &quot;cancer stem cells&quot; might represent the relevant cellular targets for anticancer therapy. In this regard, insights into the developmental neurobiology of brain tumors has significant impact on our understanding of the molecular and cellular pathogenesis of these devastating cancers, as well as the development of new strategies for treating brain tumors.

Gemcitabine (dFdCyd) is a deoxycytidine analogue showing a broad spectrum of cytotoxic activity; additionally, at non-cytotoxic concentrations, it is a potent radiosensitiser. Its in vitro and in vivo effects were studied on C6 rat glioma. In vitro, dFdCyd induced an increase in S-phase cells at the end of treatment, with a reduction in G1 and G2 cell cycle-phase cells and relevant effects on the apoptotic rate. The in vivo effects of dFdCyd were studied on rats bearing intracranial C6 glioma. The drug was administered at a dose of 120 mg/Kg every 3 days x 4 doses. A significant effect on tumour growth was detected by longitudinal MRI analyses. Furthermore, the drug induced an inhibitory effect on tumour growth, 72 h after a 300 mg/Kg single dose. Analyses performed on tumour specimens showed relevant G1-phase accumulation and about 45% apoptotic cells. The present results justify further studies to determine the potential efficacy of dFdCyd in the treatment of malignant gliomas.
Primary intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) is rare. We defined primary IVH as haemorrhage into the ventricles only as detected by computerized tomographic (CT) brain scan. This is in contrast with other intracerebral haemorrhages (e.g. basal ganglia/thalamic with intraventricular extension). The clinical condition of the patient ranges from minimal neurological deficits to coma/death. It also carries with it a poor prognosis of up to 80% when all four ventricles are involved. We present a 45-year-old Chinese female who presented with a hypertensive IVH which was managed successfully with ventricular drainage and intraventricular urokinase therapy. An adrenal phaeochromocytoma was diagnosed which was subsequently removed laparoscopically. The patient has recovered well in all aspects. This case report will discuss management of IVH and the importance of searching for secondary causes of hypertension.
Tissue samples from 56 bird and 11 mammal species of different trophic levels, collected from 1994 to 1995 from the Urbino-Pesaro area in the Marche region of central Italy, were analyzed for the presence of organochlorine compounds (polychlorinated biphenyls and p,p'-DDE) and heavy metals (Pb, Cd, Cr, and Hg). Results revealed interspecies differences in pollutant residue concentrations. A clear relationship between contaminant and trophic levels emerged depending on several factors specific to the chemicals and the organisms, the importance of dietary accumulation, and metabolic capacity as it increased toward higher trophic levels. Polychlorinated biphenyls and p,p'-DDE were found in all of the bird and mammal species analyzed (bird- or fish-eating birds), and insectivore mammals showed the highest level of these contaminants. Pb and Hg residues were also widely detected and reflected trophic-level differences. The highest concentration of Pb was found in herbivorous or bird-eating aquatic invertebrates and in insectivorous mammals, particularly in the hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus), whereas the highest Hg levels were found in fish-eating birds. All of the other heavy metals were detected at low concentrations and represented background levels for birds and mammals, with the exception of increased amounts of Cd and Cr, respectively, found in stone marten (Martes foina) and fox (Vulpes vulpes). Data from this study provided information on baseline levels of interest to monitor status and trends in chemical residue in biota in this specific area, and therefore they represent a tool to evaluate potential ecologic, wildlife, and human health exposure.

Atg4B, a mammalian homologue of yeast Atg4, has been shown to play an important role in the processing of LC3, a mammalian homologue of yeast Atg8, but the tissue distribution of Atg4B remains unknown. To better understand the role of Atg4B in rat tissue cells, we prepared antibodies against Atg4B, and PC12 cells in which the expression of Atg4B was knocked down by RNA interference. In the RNA interference-treated PC12 cells, for which the expression of Atg4B was 10% of wild-type PC12 cells, the expression of cytosolic LC3-I was similar to that in wild-type cells. Knockdown cell lysates, however, suppressed the cleavage of recombinant proLC3 to LC3-I. Moreover, the expression of Atg4B protein and mRNA was ubiquitous in rat tissues; however, the expression levels were not identical, but were dependent on the tissue, with the expression high in brain and testicular tissue, and low in muscular and heart tissue. In brain tissue, the expression of Atg4B protein and mRNA was higher in neurons, especially in the cerebellum and olfactory bulb, as evidenced by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. These lines of evidence suggest that Atg4B plays a major role in the processing of LC3 and is widely distributed in rat tissues. In particular, in brain tissues, autophagy may be deeply associated with the metabolism of neurons, especially in the cerebellum.
Intracellular protein degradation decreases with age, altering the important balance between protein synthesis and breakdown. Slowly, protein accumulation events increase causing axonopathy, synaptic deterioration, and subsequent cell death. As toxic species accumulate, autophagy-lysosomal protein degradation pathways are activated. Responses include autophagic vacuoles that degrade damaged cellular components and long-lived proteins, as well as enhanced levels of lysosomal hydrolases. Although such changes correlate with neuronal atrophy in age-related neurodegenerative disorders and in related models of protein accumulation, the autophagic/lysosomal responses appear to be compensatory reactions. Recent studies indicate that protein oligomerization/ aggregation induces autophagy and activates lysosomal protein degradation in an attempt to clear toxic accumulations. Such compensatory responses may delay cell death and account for the gradual nature of protein deposition pathology that can extend over months/years in model systems and years/decades in the human diseases. Correspondingly, enhancement of compensatory pathways shifts the balance from pathogenesis to protection. Positive modulation of protein degradation processes represents a strategy to promote clearance of toxic accumulations and to slow the synaptopathogenesis and associated cognitive decline in aging-related dementias.

Mice from eight inbred strains were studied for their acute sensitivity to ethanol as indexed by the degree of hypothermia (HT), indexed as the reduction from pre-injection baseline of their body temperature. Two weeks later, mice were tested for their loss of righting reflex (LRR) after a higher dose of ethanol. The LRR was tested using the &quot;classical&quot; method of watching for recovery in animals placed on their backs in a V-shaped trough and recording duration of LRR. In a separate test, naive animals of the same strains were tested for HT repeatedly to assess the development of rapid (RTOL) and chronic tolerance (CTOL). We have recently developed a new method for testing LRR that leads to a substantial increase in the sensitivity of the test. Strains also have been found to differ in the new LRR test, as well as in the development of acute functional tolerance (AFT) to this response. In addition, our laboratory has periodically published strain difference data on the older versions of the HT and LRR responses. The earlier tests used some of the exact substrains tested currently, while for some strains, different substrains (usually, Nih versus Jax) were tested. We examined correlations of strain means to see whether patterns of strain differences were stable across time and across different test variants assessing the same behavioral construct. HT strain sensitivity scores were generally highly correlated across a 10-23 years period and test variants. The CTOL to HT was well-correlated across studies, and was also genetically similar to RTOL. The AFT, however, was related to neither RTOL nor CTOL, although this may be because different phenotypic end points were compared. The LRR data, which included a variant of the classical test, were not as stable. Measures of LRR onset were reasonably well correlated, as were those taken at recovery (e.g., duration). However, the two types of measures of LRR sensitivity to ethanol appear to be tapping traits that differ genetically. Also, the pattern of genetic correlation between HT and LRR initially reported in 1983 was not seen in current and contemporaneous studies. In certain instances, substrain seems to matter little, while in others, substrains differed a great deal. These data are generally encouraging about the stability of genetic differences.
Bitter taste has evolved as a central warning signal against the ingestion of potentially toxic substances appearing in the environment. The molecular events in the perception of bitter taste start with the binding of specific water-soluble molecules to G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) called T2Rs and expressed at the surface of taste receptor cells. The functional characterisation of T2R receptors is far from been completed due to the difficulty to functionally express them in heterologous systems. Taking advantage of the parallelisms between the Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) and mammalian GPCR signalling pathways, we developed a C. elegans-based expression system to express functional human and rodent GPCRs of the T2R family. We generated transgenic worms expressing T2Rs in ASI chemosensory neurons and performed behavioural assays using a variety of bitter tastants. As a proof of the concept, we generated transgenic worms expressing human T2R4 or its mouse ortholog T2R8 receptors, which respond to two bitter tastants previously characterised as their functional ligands, 6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil and denatoniun. As expected, expression of human T2R4 or its mouse ortholog T2R8 in ASI neurons counteracted the water-soluble avoidance to 6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil and denatoniun observed in control wild-type worms. The expression in ASI neurons of human T2R16, the ligand of which, phenyl-beta-d-glucopyranoside, belong to a chemically different group of bitter tastants, also counteracted the water-soluble avoidance to this compound observed in wild-type worms. These results indicate that C. elegans is a suitable heterologous expression system to express functional T2Rs providing a tool to efficiently search for specific taste receptor ligands and to extend our understanding of the molecular basis of gustation.
Membrane-embedded voltage-activated potassium channels (Kv) bind intracellular scaffold proteins, such as the Post Synaptic Density 95 (PSD-95) protein, using a conserved PDZ-binding motif located at the channels' C-terminal tip. This interaction underlies Kv-channel clustering, and is important for the proper assembly and functioning of the synapse. Here we demonstrate that the C-terminal segments of Kv channels adjacent to the PDZ-binding motif are intrinsically disordered. Phylogenetic analysis of the Kv channel family reveals a cluster of channel sequences belonging to three out of the four main channel families, for which an association is demonstrated between the presence of the consensus terminal PDZ-binding motif and the intrinsically disordered nature of the immediately adjacent C-terminal segment. Our observations, combined with a structural analogy to the N-terminal intra-molecular ball-and-chain mechanism for Kv channel inactivation, suggest that the C-terminal disordered segments of these channel families encode an inter-molecular fishing rod-like mechanism for K(+) channel binding to scaffold proteins.
In primates, it is well known that there is a consistent relationship between the duration, peak velocity and amplitude of saccadic eye movements, known as the 'main sequence'. The reason why such a stereotyped relationship evolved is unknown. We propose that a fundamental constraint on the deployment of foveal vision lies in the motor system that is perturbed by signal-dependent noise (proportional noise) on the motor command. This noise imposes a compromise between the speed and accuracy of an eye movement. We propose that saccade trajectories have evolved to optimize a trade-off between the accuracy and duration of the movement. Taking a semi-analytical approach we use Pontryagin's minimum principle to show that there is an optimal trajectory for a given amplitude and duration; and that there is an optimal duration for a given amplitude. It follows that the peak velocity is also fixed for a given amplitude. These predictions are in good agreement with observed saccade trajectories and the main sequence. Moreover, this model predicts a small saccadic dead-zone in which it is better to stay eccentric of target than make a saccade onto target. We conclude that the main sequence has evolved as a strategy to optimize the trade-off between accuracy and speed.





Novel synthetic routes have been devised for the preparation of previously inaccessible 2,3,7-trisubstituted pyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4]triazines 2. These compounds are high affinity ligands for the GABA(A) benzodiazepine binding site and some analogues show functional selectivity for agonism at alpha3-containing receptors over alpha1-containing receptors with the lead compound being 32.
1. A-349821 is a selective histamine H3 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist. Herein, binding of the novel non-imidazole H3 receptor radioligand [3H]A-349821 to membranes expressing native or recombinant H3 receptors from rat or human sources was characterized and compared with the binding of the agonist [3H]N--methylhistamine ([3H]NMH). 2. [3H]A-349821 bound with high affinity and specificity to an apparent single class of saturable sites and recognized human H3 receptors with 10-fold higher affinity compared to rat H3 receptors. [3H]A-349821 detected larger populations of receptors compared to [3H]NMH. 3. Displacement of [3H]A-349821 binding by H3 receptor antagonists/inverse agonists was monophasic, suggesting recognition of a single binding site, while that of H3 receptor agonists was biphasic, suggesting recognition of both high- and low-affinity H3 receptor sites. 4. pKi values of high-affinity binding sites for H3 receptor competitors utilizing [3H]A-349821 were highly correlated with pKi values obtained with [3H]NalphaMH, consistent with labelling of H3 receptors by [3H]A-349821. 5. Unlike assays utilizing [3H]NMH, addition of GDP had no effect on saturation parameters measured with [3H]A-349821, while displacement of [3H]A-349821 binding by the H3 receptor agonist histamine was sensitive to GDP. 6. In conclusion, [3H]A-349821 labels interconvertible high- and low-affinity states of the H3 receptor, and displays improved selectivity over imidazole-containing H3 receptor antagonist radioligands. [3H]A-349821 competition studies showed significant differences in the proportions and potencies of high- and low-affinity sites across species, providing new information about the fundamental pharmacological nature of H3 receptors.
1. The present study addressed the role of neuropeptide (NPY) Y2 receptors in neurogenic contraction of mesenteric resistance arteries from female spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Arteries were suspended in microvascular myographs, electrical field stimulation (EFS) was performed, and protein evaluated by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. 2. In vasopressin-activated endothelium-intact arteries, NPY and fragments with selectivity for Y1 receptors, [Leu31,Pro34]NPY, Y2 receptors, NPY(13-36), and rat pancreatic polypeptide evoked more pronounced contractions in segments from SHR than in Wistar Kyoto (WKY) arteries, even in the presence of the Y1 receptor antagonist, BIBP3226 (0.3 microM, (R)-N(2)-(diphenacetyl)-N-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)methyl]D-arginineamide). 3. In the presence of prazosin and during vasopressin activation, EFS-evoked contractions were larger in arteries from SHR compared to WKY. EFS contractions were enhanced by the Y2 receptor selective antagonist BIIE0246TF (0.5 microM, (S)-N2-[[1-[2-[4-[(R,S)-5,11-dihydro-6(6h)-oxodibenz[b,e]azepin-11-y1]-1-piperazinyl]-2-oxoethyl]cyclo-pentyl-N-[2-[1,2-dihydro-3,5 (4H)-dioxo-1,2-diphenyl-3H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl]ethyl]-argininamide), reduced by BIBP3226, and abolished by the combination of BIBP3226 and BIIE0246TF. 4. Immunoblotting showed NPY Y1 and Y2 receptor expression to be similar in arteries from WKY and SHR, although a specific Y2 receptor band at 80 kDa was detected only in arteries from WKY. 5. Immunoreaction for NPY was enhanced in arteries from SHR. In contrast to arteries from WKY, BIIE0246TF increased NPY immunoreactivity in EFS-stimulated arteries from SHR. 6. The present results suggest that postjunctional neuropeptide Y1 and Y2 receptors contribute to neurogenic contraction of mesenteric small arteries. Moreover, both enhanced NPY content and altered neuropeptide Y1 and Y2 receptor activation apparently contribute to the enhanced neurogenic contraction of arteries from SHR.
Depression affects many millions of people worldwide and much is still unknown with respect to the mode of action of antidepressant drugs. The hippocampus has been associated with many psychiatric disorders, including clinical depression. Recently, stem cells have also been shown to reside within discrete regions of the hippocampus and can differentiate under a variety of conditions into neural cells. In this issue, Chiou et al. have elegantly demonstrated that cells isolated from the rat hippocampus, and treated with the antidepressant moclobemide, may be differentiated in vitro into neural cells exhibiting features to those of serotoninergic neurons. They have also suggested that this process was mediated, in part, through the expression of specific antiapoptotic genes (Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL) and via activation of extracellular-regulated kinase. This work raises the attractive possibility that the use of antidepressants, such as moclobemide, may exert neuroprotective and potentially neurogenerative effects not just in vitro, but also in vivo, through the selected differentiation of stem cells into functional neurons. The exact mechanisms by which such antidepressants differentiate neural stem cells still remains to be fully elucidated.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has an increasing role in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Although, the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is the commonly chosen target, a number of groups have reported that the most effective contact lies dorsal/dorsomedial to the STN (region of the pallidofugal fibres and the rostral zona incerta) or at the junction between the dorsal border of the STN and the latter. We analysed our outcome data from Parkinson's disease patients treated with DBS between April 2002 and June 2004. During this period we moved our target from the STN to the region dorsomedial/medial to it and subsequently targeted the caudal part of the zona incerta nucleus (cZI). We present a comparison of the motor outcomes between these three groups of patients with optimal contacts within the STN (group 1), dorsomedial/medial to the STN (group 2) and in the cZI nucleus (group 3). Thirty-five patients with Parkinson's disease underwent MRI directed implantation of 64 DBS leads into the STN (17), dorsomedial/medial to STN (20) and cZI (27). The primary outcome measure was the contralateral Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score (off medication/off stimulation versus off medication/on stimulation) measured at follow-up (median time 6 months). The secondary outcome measures were the UPDRS III subscores of tremor, bradykinesia and rigidity. Dyskinesia score, L-dopa medication reduction and stimulation parameters were also recorded. The mean adjusted contralateral UPDRS III score with cZI stimulation was 3.1 (76% reduction) compared to 4.9 (61% reduction) in group 2 and 5.7 (55% reduction) in the STN (P-value for trend &lt;0.001). There was a 93% improvement in tremor with cZI stimulation versus 86% in group 2 versus 61% in group 1 (P-value = 0.01). Adjusted 'off-on' rigidity scores were 1.0 for the cZI group (76% reduction), 2.0 for group 2 (52% reduction) and 2.1 for group 1 (50% reduction) (P-value for trend = 0.002). Bradykinesia was more markedly improved in the cZI group (65%) compared to group 2 (56%) or STN group (59%) (P-value for trend = 0.17). There were no statistically significant differences in the dyskinesia scores, L-dopa medication reduction and stimulation parameters between the three groups. Stimulation related complications were seen in some group 2 patients. High frequency stimulation of the cZI results in greater improvement in contralateral motor scores in Parkinson's disease patients than stimulation of the STN. We discuss the implications of this finding and the potential role played by the ZI in Parkinson's disease.
The existence of several types of unconscious vision, or 'blindsight', has convincingly been demonstrated in numerous studies, and their neuronal correlates have been hypothesized according to the nature of the residual vision observed. We used diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) tractography to demonstrate an association between the presence of 'Type I'- blindsight or 'attention blindsight' and reconstructed superior colliculi (SC) fibre tracts in hemispherectomized subjects, in support of the hypothesis that this subcortical structure plays a pivotal role in this type of blindsight. Before the DTI study, 'Type I' blindsight was identified in two of four hemispherectomized subjects by using a spatial summation effect paradigm, an indirect behavioural method, in which subjects were unaware of a stimulus presented in their blind visual field and were required to respond to an identical stimulus presented simultaneously in their intact field. SC tracts were then reconstructed in six control subjects, the two hemispherectomized subjects with blindsight and the two hemispherectomized subjects without blindsight. Whereas control subjects demonstrated mainly ipsilateral connections to visual association areas, parietal cortex, prefrontal areas and to an area close to the frontal eye fields, hemispherectomized subjects with blindsight showed ipsi- and contralateral connections from the SC to visual association areas, primary visual areas, parietal areas, prefrontal areas and to the posterior part of the internal capsule. In contrast, no projections from the SC on the hemispherectomized side were observed in hemispherectomized subjects without blindsight, in support of a key role of this structure in 'Type-I' or 'attention blindsight'.
Recovery of motor function after subcortical stroke appears to be related to the integrity of descending connections from the ipsilesional cortical motor system, a view supported by the observation of greater than normal movement-related activation in ipsilesional motor regions in chronic subcortical stroke patients. This suggests that damage to the descending output fibres from one region of the cortical motor system may be compensated by activity in areas that retain corticofugal outputs. Though the trajectories of corticofugal fibres from each major component of the motor system through the corona radiata and internal capsule are well described in non-human primates, they have not been described fully in humans. Our study set out to map the trajectories of these connections in a group of healthy volunteers (8 male, 4 female; age range = 31-68 years, median = 48.5 years) and establish whether this knowledge can be used to assess stroke-induced disconnection of the cortical motor system and better interpret functional reorganization of the cortical motor system. We describe the trajectories of the connections from each major component of the motor system to the cerebral peduncle using diffusion-weighted imaging and probabilistic tractography in normal subjects. We observed good reproducibility of these connections over subjects. The comparative topography of these connections revealed many similarities between humans and other primates. We then inferred damage to corticofugal pathways in stroke patients (n = 3) by comparing the overlap between regions of subcortical white matter damage with the trajectories of the connections to each motor area. In a small series of case studies, we found that inferred disconnections could explain enhanced hand-grip-related responses, as assessed with functional MRI, in the ipsilesional motor system. These results confirm that selective disruption of motor corticofugal fibres influences functional reorganization and outcome in individual patients.
Parkinson's disease is a common incurable neurodegenerative disease whose molecular aetiology remains unclear. The identification of Mendelian genes causing rare familial forms of Parkinson's disease has revealed novel proteins and pathways that are likely to be relevant in the pathogenesis of sporadic Parkinson's disease. Recently, mutations in a novel gene, PINK1, encoding a 581 amino acid protein with both mitochondrial targeting and serine/threonine kinase domains, were identified as a cause of autosomal recessive parkinsonism. This provided important evidence for the role of the mitochondrial dysfunction and kinase pathways in neurodegeneration. In this study, we report the first characterization of the PINK1 protein in normal human and sporadic Parkinson's brains, in addition to Parkinson's cases with heterozygous PINK1 mutations. The possible role of the PINK1 protein was also assessed in a number of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by proteinaceous inclusions. For these studies, rabbit polyclonal antibodies were raised against two peptide sequences within the N-terminal hydrophilic loops of PINK1 protein. Using immunohistochemistry and western blotting we were able to demonstrate that PINK1 is a ubiquitous protein expressed throughout the human brain and it is found in all cell types showing a punctate cytoplasmic staining pattern consistent with mitochondrial localization. Fractionation studies of human and rat brain confirm that PINK1 is localized to the mitochondrial membranes. In addition, we show that PINK1 is detected in a proportion of Lewy bodies in cases of sporadic Parkinson's disease and Parkinson's disease associated with heterozygous mutations in the PINK1 gene, which are clinically and pathologically indistinguishable from the sporadic cases. PINK1 was absent in cortical Lewy bodies, in neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration, and in the glial and neuronal alpha-synuclein positive inclusions in multiple system atrophy. These studies provide for the first time in vivo morphological and biochemical evidence to support a mitochondrial localization of PINK1 and underpin the significance of mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of nigral cell degeneration in Parkinson's disease.
The pathophysiology of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in Parkinson's disease is not well understood. We have recorded local field potentials (LFP) from macroelectrodes implanted in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) of 14 patients with Parkinson's disease following surgical treatment with deep brain stimulation. Patients were studied in the 'Off' medication state and in the 'On' motor state after administration of levodopa-carbidopa (po) or apomorphine (sc) that elicited dyskinesias in 11 patients. The logarithm of the power spectrum of the LFP in selected frequency bands (4-10, 11-30 and 60-80 Hz) was compared between the 'Off' and 'On' medication states. A peak in the 11-30 Hz band was recorded in the 'Off' medication state and reduced by 45.2% (P &lt; 0.001) in the 'On' state. The 'On' was also associated with an increment of 77. 6% (P &lt; 0.001) in the 4-10 Hz band in all patients who showed dyskinesias and of 17.8% (P &lt; 0.001) in the 60-80 Hz band in the majority of patients. When dyskinesias were only present in one limb (n = 2), the 4-10 Hz peak was only recorded in the contralateral STN. These findings suggest that the 4-10 Hz oscillation is associated with the expression of LID in Parkinson's disease.
Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome (HSS) is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder of childhood. Thirteen patients with this syndrome seen over a period of 7 years were reviewed. Two distinct groups were identified. The early onset childhood group had uniform presentation with developmental delay, recurrent falls, gait abnormalities, cognitive deterioration and dystonia. This group was also characterised by familial incidence, retinal involvement and absence of behavioural problems. Late onset group, included patients with different presentations such as behavioural changes, optic atrophy and dystonia. Consanguinity was prominent in this study, being present in 61.5% patients. MRI (n=11) showed pallidal hyperintensity on T1-weighted images and hypointensity or 'eye of the tiger' sign on T2-weighted images. Two patients had acanthocytes in peripheral blood smear. This study emphasizes the phenotypic heterogeneity in HSS and as well brings out the common features shared by patients with early onset disease.
In addition to the findings of neuroscientific research on brain function, reviewed in the previous articles (Meissner, 2006a, 2006b), contemporary findings relevant to the mind-brain relation derive also from the study of the underlying patterns of brain dysfunction related to various forms of psychopathology. Other information derives from study of split-brain conditions and from research on dream processes and their relation to brain mechanisms. Review of these research findings casts further light on aspects of the mind-brain relation and further substantiates a unified theory of mind-brain integration.
Contrary to the long-held dogma, neurogenesis occurs throughout adulthood, and neural stem cells reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS) in mammals. The developmental process of the brain may thus never end, and the brain may be amenable to repair. Neurogenesis is modulated in a wide variety of physiological and pathological conditions, and is involved in processes such as learning and memory and depression. However, the relative contribution of newly generated neuronal cells to these processes, as well as to CNS plasticity, remains to be determined. Thus, not only neurogenesis contributes to reshaping the adult brain, it will ultimately lead us to redefine our knowledge and understanding of the nervous system.

To provide graduate students in pharmacology/toxicology exposure to, and cross-training in, a variety of relevant laboratory skills, the Duquesne University School of Pharmacy developed a &quot;methods&quot; course as part of the core curriculum. Because some of the participating departmental faculty are neuroscientists, this course often applied cutting-edge techniques to neuroscience-based systems, including experiments with brain G protein-coupled receptors. Techniques covered by the course include animal handling and behavioral testing, bacterial and mammalian cell culture, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, western blotting, receptor binding of radioligands, plasmid DNA amplification and purification, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, gel electrophoresis, and UV-visible and fluorescence spectroscopy. The course also encompasses research aspects such as experimental design and record keeping, statistical analysis, and scientific writing. Students were evaluated via laboratory reports and examinations, and students in turn evaluated the course using a detailed exit survey. This course introduces the graduate student to many more techniques and approaches than can be provided by the traditional graduate &quot;rotation&quot; format alone and should serve as a template for graduate programs in many basic research disciplines.
Undergraduate students may be attracted to science and retained in science by engaging in laboratory research. Experience as an apprentice in a scientist's laboratory can be effective in this regard, but the pool of willing scientists is sometimes limited and sustained contact between students and faculty is sometimes minimal. We report outcomes from two different models of a summer neuroscience research program: an Apprenticeship Model (AM) in which individual students joined established research laboratories, and a Collaborative Learning Model (CLM) in which teams of students worked through a guided curriculum and then conducted independent experimentation. Assessed outcomes included attitudes toward science, attitudes toward neuroscience, confidence with neuroscience concepts, and confidence with science skills, measured via pre-, mid-, and postprogram surveys. Both models elevated attitudes toward neuroscience, confidence with neuroscience concepts, and confidence with science skills, but neither model altered attitudes toward science. Consistent with the CLM design emphasizing independent experimentation, only CLM participants reported elevated ability to design experiments. The present data comprise the first of five yearly analyses on this cohort of participants; long-term follow-up will determine whether the two program models are equally effective routes to research or other science-related careers for novice undergraduate neuroscientists.
Science education reform initiatives emphasize 1) the value of concepts over facts; 2) the benefits of open-ended, inquiry-based problem-solving rather than protocols leading to a single correct answer; and 3) the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to teaching that is not confined by departmental boundaries. Neuroscientists should be at the forefront of this movement by the very nature of the discipline we study. Neuroscience is a relatively new field that integrates diverse subjects (anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, molecular biology, computer science, and psychology) and experimental advances are constantly changing and expanding our understanding of brain function. How can we convey this excitement in the classroom? The project described in this article uses nonscientific literature to introduce a scientific topic of study. In addition, the multitask assignment requires the acquisition of content knowledge and the development of critical thinking skills. As students explore the topic from multiple perspectives, they recognize the interconnectedness of science and society and confront ethical and moral issues related to science. A comparison of exam scores, essay responses, engagement level, as well as students' own reflections, demonstrates that inclusion of the project does not sacrifice content knowledge, rather it enhances the overall learning process.
Brains Rule! Neuroscience Expositions, funded through a National Institute on Drug Abuse Science Education Drug Abuse Partnership Award, has developed a successful model for informal neuroscience education. Each Exposition is a &quot;reverse science fair&quot; in which neuroscientists present short neuroscience teaching modules to students. This study focuses on results of assessments conducted with neuroscientist presenters during Expositions at two sites, Atlanta, Georgia and Corpus Christi, Texas. The effects of participating in the Expositions on presenters' perceptions of their own presentation and communication skills were evaluated, as was the potential for increased active participation by neuroscientists in future outreach programs. In four of the five Expositions studied, pre- versus post-event surveys demonstrated significant changes in presenters' perceptions of their own abilities to explain neuroscience concepts to children. Over the course of an Exposition, presenters learned to fit their approaches to conveying neuroscience concepts to fifth through eighth graders and learned to link information they presented about the brain and nervous system to children's past experiences to improve comprehension. The present data suggest that Brains Rule! Neuroscience Expositions are effective in improving communication and teaching skills among neuroscience professionals and contribute to professional stewardship by increasing motivation to participate in future informal education programs.
The Department of Neuroscience at the University of Minnesota and the Science Museum of Minnesota have developed and implemented a successful program for middle school (grades 5-8) science teachers and their students, called Brain Science on the Move. The overall goals have been to bring neuroscience education to underserved schools, excite students about science, improve their understanding of neuroscience, and foster partnerships between scientists and educators. The program includes BrainU, a teacher professional development institute; Explain Your Brain Assembly and Exhibit Stations, multimedia large-group presentation and hands-on activities designed to stimulate student thinking about the brain; Class Activities, in-depth inquiry-based investigations; and Brain Trunks, materials and resources related to class activities. Formal evaluation of the program indicated that teacher neuroscience knowledge, self-confidence, and use of inquiry-based strategies and neuroscience in their classrooms have increased. Participating teachers increased the time spent teaching neuroscience and devoted more time to &quot;inquiry-based&quot; teaching versus &quot;lecture-based teaching.&quot; Teachers appreciated in-depth discussions of pedagogy and science and opportunities for collegial interactions with world-class researchers. Student interest in the brain and in science increased. Since attending BrainU, participating teachers have reported increased enthusiasm about teaching and have become local neuroscience experts within their school communities.
Most of today's students are skilled in instant messaging, Web browsing, online games, and blogs. These have become part of the social landscape and have changed how we learn and where we learn. The question becomes how to harness the attractiveness and ubiquity of electronic venues toward the goal of teaching neuroscience. At the Rice University Center for Technology in Teaching and Learning, a central focus is the creation of innovative materials that appeal to middle school students. A recent project was undertaken through a Science Education Drug Abuse Partnership Award (R25 DA15063) from the National Institute on Drug Abuse to inform adolescents about the neurobiology of substance abuse and the current research dealing with a class of drugs known as club drugs. Problem-based learning, multimedia pedagogy, and the National Science Content Standards were integrated to produce The Reconstructors, an episodic series available via the World Wide Web at http://reconstructors.rice.edu. A field test of students from five schools assessed the retention of content after &quot;playing&quot; The Reconstructors series titled Nothing to Rave About. Gain scores indicated that middle school students' knowledge about club drugs and the basic neuroscience concepts that explain their effects improved significantly.
The National Science Education Standards recommend that science be taught using inquiry-based approaches. Inspired by the Dana Alliance for Brain Initiatives, we examined whether undergraduate students could learn how to conduct field research by teaching elementary school children basic neuroscience concepts in interactive workshops. In an inquiry-based learning experience of their own, undergraduate psychology students working under the close supervision of their instructor designed and provided free, interactive, hour-long workshops focusing on brain structure and function, brain damage and disorders, perception and illusions, and drugs and hormones to fifth-graders from diverse backgrounds, and we assessed the effectiveness of the workshops using a pretest-post-test design. The results suggest that the workshops enhanced the children's knowledge of neuroscience concepts as measured using pre- and post-open-ended assessments. The undergraduates also found their learning experience engaging and productive. The article includes detailed descriptions of the workshop activities, procedures, the course in which the undergraduates implemented the workshops, and guidance for future university-school collaborations aimed at enhancing science literacy.





Protocatechuic acid (PCA), chlorogenic acid (CA) and luteolin (LT) are plant phenols found in Chinese medicinal herbs such as Lonicera japonica. Cytotoxicity assays showed that PCA, CA and LT (at 100 micromol/L) effectively killed the HepG2 hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Among these three naturally occurring compounds, only PCA was capable of stimulating the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 subgroups of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. Coincidently, PCA-induced cell death was rescued by specific inhibitors for JNK and p38, while the cytotoxicities of CA and LT were partially eliminated by the antioxidant effect of N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC). Further investigation demonstrated that the aqueous extract of Lonicera japonica also triggered HepG2 cell death in a JNK-dependent manner, but the amount of PCA alone in this herbal extract was insufficient to contribute the subsequent cytotoxic effect. Collectively, our results suggest that PCA is a naturally occurring compound capable of inducing JNK-dependent hepatocellular carcinoma cell death.
Neural stem cells are multipotent cells which give rise to neurons and glia of the mammalian central nervous system. Recently, we found that differentiation of neural stem cells is altered in fragile X syndrome, a developmental brain disorder with disturbances in the molecular mechanisms that mediate learning and memory. The absence of fragile X mental retardation protein caused an increased number of new-born cells in the subventricular region of the embryonic mouse brain and substantial aberrances in the differentiation of both human and mouse neural stem cells in vitro. Here, alterations of neuronal cell differentiation in fragile X syndrome, the implications of our recent findings, and some open questions that need to be addressed, are discussed.
Cannabinoids represent one of the most widely used hallucinogenic drugs and induce profound alterations in sensory perception and emotional processing. Similarly, the dopamine (DA) neurotransmitter system is critical for the central processing of emotion and motivation. Functional disturbances in either of these neurotransmitter systems are well-established correlates of the psychopathological symptoms and behavioral manifestations observed in addiction and schizophrenia. Increasing evidence from the anatomical, pharmacological and behavioral neuroscience fields points to complex functional interactions between these receptor systems at the anatomical, pharmacological and neural systems levels. An important question relates to whether these systems act in an orchestrated manner to produce the emotional processing and sensory perception deficits underlying addiction and schizophrenia. This review describes evidence for functional neural interactions between cannabinoid and DA receptor systems and how disturbances in this neural circuitry may underlie the aberrant emotional learning and processing observed in disorders such as addiction and schizophrenia.
Bioactive lipid messengers are formed through phospholipase-mediated cleavage of specific phospholipids from membrane reservoirs. Effectors that activate the synthesis of lipid messengers, include ion channels, neurotransmitters, membrane depolarization, cytokines, and neurotrophic factors. In turn, lipid messengers regulate and interact with multiple pathways, participating in the development, differentiation, function (e.g., long-term potentiation and memory), protection, and repair of cells of the nervous system. Overall, bioactive lipids participate in the regulation of synaptic function and dysfunction. Platelet-activating factor (PAF) and COX-2-synthesized PGE(2) modulate synaptic plasticity and memory. Oxidative stress disrupts lipid signaling, fosters lipid peroxidation, and initiates and propagates neurodegeneration. Lipid messengers participate in the interactions among neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia, cells of the microvasculature, and other cells. A conglomerate of interrelated cells comprises the neurovascular unit. Signaling at the neurovascular unit is clearly altered in the early stages of cerebrovascular disease as well as in neurodegenerations. Here we will provide examples of how signaling by lipids regulates critical events essential for neuronal survival. We will highlight a newly identified, DHA-derived messenger, neuroprotectin D1, which attenuates oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. The specificity and potency of this novel docosanoid (neuroprotectin D1) indicate a potentially important target for therapeutic intervention.
1. Discoveries, insights, and concepts that Julius Axelrod introduced about the disposition and metabolism of catecholamines provided the scientific basis and spurred the development of clinical catecholamine neurochemistry. 2. Here, we provide examples of this aspect of Axelrod's scientific legacy.
1. In addition to his many fine contributions in furthering our understanding of the neurochemical action of ecosanoids, catchelomines, steroids, anandamines, cannabinoids, endorphins, and the many modifications made to these neural factors, twenty years ago Julius Axelrod published a noteworthy paper concerning the nature of neuropeptides and their potential for multiple neurophysiological effects (Redgate et al., 1986). 2. In that report, Axelrod and coworkers described the neurological actions of the then recently discovered leucine- and methionine-enkephalins, and their biological functions which were novel, atypical, and in possession of neurological effects that were significantly &quot;much more than additive.&quot; 3. In this short communication I would like to expand on this observation concerning the &quot;additive effects&quot; contained within the amino acid sequence of the atypical neurotransmitter peptides leucine- and methonine-enkephalin.

1. We investigate here for the first time in primate brain the combinatorial expression of the three major functionally relevant proteins for catecholaminergic neurotransmission tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), aromatic acid acid decarboxylase (AADC), and the brain-specific isoform of the vesicular monoamine transporter, VMAT2, using highly specific antibodies and immunofluorescence with confocal microscopy to visualize combinatorial expression of these proteins. 2. In addition to classical TH, AADC, and VMAT2-copositive catecholaminergic neurons, two unique kinds of TH-positive neurons were identified based on co-expression of AADC and VMAT2. 3. TH and AADC co-positive, but VMAT2-negative neurons, are termed &quot;nonexocytotic catecholaminergic TH neurons.&quot; These were found in striatum, olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, area postrema, nucleus tractus solitarius, and in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. 4. TH-positive neurons expressing neither AADC nor VMAT2 are termed &quot;dopaergic TH neurons.&quot; We identified these neurons in supraoptic, paraventricular and periventricular hypothalamic nuclei, thalamic paraventicular nucleus, habenula, parabrachial nucleus, cerebral cortex and spinal cord. We were unable to identify any dopaergic (TH-positive, AADC-negative) neurons that expressed VMAT2, suggesting that regulatory mechanisms exist for shutting off VMAT2 expression in neurons that fail to biosynthesize its substrates. 5. In several cases, the corresponding TH phenotypes were identified in the adult rat, suggesting that this rodent is an appropriate experimental model for further investigation of these TH-positive neuronal cell groups in the adult central nervous system. Thus, no examples of TH and VMAT2 co-positive neurons lacking AADC expression were found in rodent adult nervous system. 6. In conclusion, the adult mammalian nervous system contains in addition to classical catecholaminergic neurons, cells that can synthesize dopamine, but cannot transport and store it in synaptic vesicles, and neurons that can synthesize only L-dopa and lack VMAT2 expression. The presence of these additional populations of TH-positive neurons in the adult primate CNS has implications for functional catecholamine neurotransmission, its derangement in disease and drug abuse, and its rescue by gene therapeutic maneuvers in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease.


1. Selective protein-protein interactions between neurotransmitter transporters and their synaptic targets play important roles in regulating chemical neurotransmission. We screened a yeast two-hybrid library with bait containing the C-terminal amino acids of VGLUT1 and obtained clones that encode endophilin 1 and endophilin 3, proteins considered to play an integral role in glutamatergic vesicle formation. 2. Using a modified yeast plasmid vector to enable more cost-effective screens, we analyzed the selectivity and specificity of this interaction. Endophilins 1 and 3 selectively recognize only VGLUT1 as the C-terminus of VGLUT2 and VGLUT3 do not interact with either endophilin isoform. We mutagenized four conserved stretches of primary sequence in VGLUT1 that includes two polyproline motifs (Pro1, PPAPPP, and Pro2, PPRPPPP), found only in VGLUT1, and two conserved stretches (SEEK, SYGAT), found also in VGLUT2 and VGLUT3. The absence of the VGLUT conserved regions does not affect VGLUT1-endophilin association. Of the two polyproline stretches, only one (Pro2) is required for binding specificity to both endophilin 1 and endophilin 3. 3. We also show that endophilin 1 and endophilin 3 co-localize with VGLUT1 in synaptic terminals of differentiated rat neocortical neurons in primary culture. These results indicate that VGLUT1 and both endophilins are enriched in a class of excitatory synaptic terminals in cortical neurons and there, may interact to play an important role affecting the vesicular sequestration and synaptic release of glutamate.
1. Given the presence of morphine, its metabolites and precursors, e.g., norlaudanosoline, in mammalian and invertebrate tissues, it became important to determine if exposing normal excised ganglia to norlaudanosoline would result in increasing endogenous morphine levels. 2. Mytilus edulis pedal ganglia contain 2.2 +/- 0.41 ng/g wet weight morphine as determined by high pressure liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection and radioimmunoassay. 3. Incubation of M. edulis pedal ganglia with norlaudanosoline, a morphine precursor, resulted in a concentration- and time-dependent statistical increase in endogenous morphine levels (6.9 +/- 1.24 ng/g). 4. Injection of animals with nicotine also increased endogenous morphine levels in a manner that was antagonized by atropine, suggesting that nicotine addiction may be related to altering endogenous morphine levels in mammals. 5. We surmise that norlaudanosoline is being converted to morphine, demonstrating that invertebrate neural tissue can synthesize morphine.
1. The molecular and behavioral pharmacology of DOV 102,677 is characterized. 2. This characterization was performed using radioligand binding and neurotransmitter uptake assays targeting the monoamine neurotransmitter receptors. In addition, the effects of DOV 102,677 on extracellular neurotransmitter levels were investigated using in vivo microdialysis. Finally, the effects of DOV 102,677 in the forced swim test, locomotor function, and response to prepulse inhibition was investigated.3. DOV 102,677 is a novel, &quot;triple&quot; uptake inhibitor that suppresses [(3)H]dopamine (DA), [(3)H]norepinephrine (NE) and [(3)H]serotonin (5-HT) uptake by recombinant human transporters with IC(50) values of 129, 103 and 133 nM, respectively. Radioligand binding to the dopamine (DAT), norepinephrine (NET), and serotonin (SERT) transporters is inhibited with k (i) values of 222, 1030, and 740 nM, respectively. DOV 102,677 (20 mg/kg IP) increased extracellular levels of DA and 5-HT in the prefrontal cortex to 320 and 280% above baseline 100 min after administration. DA levels were stably increased for the duration (240 min) of the study, but serotonin levels declined to baseline by 200 min after administration. NE levels increased linearly to a maximum of 348% at 240 min post-dosing. Consistent with these increases in NE levels, the density of beta-adrenoceptors was selectively decreased in the cortex of rats treated with DOV 102,677 (20 mg/kg per day, PO, 35 days). 4. DOV 102,677 dose-dependently reduced the amount of time spent immobile by rats in the forced swim test, a model predictive of antidepressant activity, with a minimum effective dose (MED) of 20 mg/kg and a maximal efficacy comparable to imipramine. This decrease in immobility time did not appear to result from increased motor activity. Further, DOV 102,677 was as effective as methylphenidate in reducing the amplitude of the startle response in juvenile mice, without notably altering motor activity. 5. In summary, DOV 102,677 is an orally active, &quot;balanced&quot; inhibitor of DAT, NET and SERT with therapeutic versatility in treating neuropsychiatric disorders beyond depression.
1. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is an extremely abundant glycolytic enzyme, and exemplifies the class of proteins with multiple, seemingly unrelated functions. Recent studies indicate that it is a major intracellular messenger mediating apoptotic cell death. This paper reviews the GAPDH cell death cascade and discusses its clinical relevance. 2. A wide range of apoptotic stimuli activate NO formation, which S-nitrosylates GAPDH. The S-nitrosylation abolishes catalytic activity and confers upon GAPDH the ability to bind to Siah, an E3-ubiquitin-ligase, which translocates GAPDH to the nucleus. In the nucleus, GAPDH stabilizes the rapidly turning over Siah, enabling it to degrade selected target proteins and affect apoptosis. 3. The cytotoxicity of mutant Huntingtin (mHtt) requires nuclear translocation which appears to be mediated via a ternary complex of GAPDH-Siah-mHtt. The neuroprotective actions of the monoamine oxidase inhibitor R-(-)-deprenyl (deprenyl) reflect blockade of GAPDH-Siah binding. Thus, novel cytoprotective therapies may emerge from agents that prevent GAPDH-Siah binding.
Primary headaches are closely related to sleep. Modifications in the patterns of arousal during sleep have been reported in migraine, especially in the nights preceding a headache attack. We aimed at evaluating the pattern of arousal from sleep in a group of patients affected by sleep-related migraine. We enrolled 10 consecutive patients, three males and seven females, aged between 20 and 62 years, who presented frequent attacks of migraine without aura (more than five per month), closely related to sleep (more than one-half of the attacks occurred during sleep, causing an awakening). A control group was studied, matched for age and sex. Patients and controls underwent a full-night polysomnographic study, following adaptation; arousal pattern was studied by the scoring of the high-frequency EEG arousal and by the cyclic alternating pattern (CAP). Migraineurs showed a lower CAP rate in non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and, in particular, a lower number of A1 phases (low-frequency, high-amplitude EEG bursts) compared with the controls. Migraineurs also showed a lower index of high-frequency EEG arousals during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. The reduction in the CAP rate indicates a lower level of arousal fluctuation in NREM sleep. The reduced arousal index in REM suggests a dysfunction in neural structures involved in both the control of REM sleep and the pathophysiology of migraine, such as the hypothalamus and the brainstem.
We have previously shown decreased lipolysis in both phases of cluster headache (CH), as an indication of a sympathetic dysregulation. Reduced lipolysis could be a result of diminished beta-receptor sensitivity in adipose tissue. The aim of this study was to measure the lipolytic response to noradrenaline in 10 CH patients in remission and in 10 healthy subjects, to estimate beta-receptor function. Microdialysis technique was used to measure the increase of glycerol, the end-product of lipolysis, during infusion of noradrenaline into the adipose tissue. Noradrenaline infusion resulted in a distinct elevation of glycerol. The average glycerol increase was significantly higher in CH patients (121% +/- 48) than in healthy subjects (77% +/- 41) (P &lt; 0.05), which indicates increased beta-receptor response to noradrenaline in CH patients in remission. This may be due to up-regulated beta-receptor sensitivity, secondary to reduced sympathetic outflow and a primary autonomic disturbance in CH.
Information is sparse concerning the incidence and prognosis of headache in children from the general population, especially of tension-type headache. In this study, headache diagnoses and symptoms were reassessed in 122 out of 130 schoolchildren after 3 years. Nearly 80% of those with headache at first evaluation still reported headache at follow-up. Although the likelihood of experiencing the same headache diagnosis and symptoms was high, about one-fifth of children with tension-type headache developed migraine and vice versa. Female gender predicted migraine and frequent headache episodes predicted overall headache at follow-up. The estimated average annual incidence was 81 and 65 per 1000 children, for tension-type headache and migraine, respectively. We conclude that there is a considerable risk of developing and maintaining headache during childhood. Headache diagnoses should be reassessed regularly and treatment adjusted. Girls and children with frequent headache have a poorer prognosis and therefore intervention is particularly important in these groups.
The doublecortin (Dcx) and doublecortin-like kinase 1 (Dclk) genes are developmentally expressed neuronal microtubule-associated proteins. Humans with DCX mutations show a severe defect in hippocampal development, but targeted deletion in mouse shows only a defect in pyramidal neuron lamination. There is significant sequence overlap between Dcx and Dclk, suggesting functional redundancy. Here we show that the two genes display overlapping expression patterns in developing mouse hippocampus. Targeted deletion of Dclk shows no appreciable developmental defect in the hippocampus, but removal of both genes shows severe hippocampal lamination defects involving the entire cornu ammonis and dentate gyrus fields that mimic the human phenotype. These results suggest these genes are partially functionally redundant in the formation of the murine hippocampus.
Within the past 125 years, we have witnessed great strides in understanding development and evolution of the cerebral cortex, arguably the structure that makes us human. Among the distinguishing features of cortical development are discoveries that its constituent neurons are not generated locally and that after assuming their proper areal, radial, and laminar position, they serve the individual throughout the lifespan. Although the basic cellular events and all major developmental phenomena have been discovered by the use of classical methods, advents of new, evermore sophisticated experimental methods that range from neuroimaging to molecular genetics enable elucidation of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying evolutionary elaboration of the cortex and opens the possibility for the prevention and treatment of congenital disorders of the highest cognitive functions in humans.

The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is known to play a crucial role in the fast adaptations of behavior based on immediate reward values. What is less certain is whether the ACC is also involved in long-term adaptations to situations with uncertain outcomes. To study this issue, we placed macaque monkeys in a probabilistic context in which the appropriate strategy to maximize reward was to identify the stimulus with the highest reward value (optimal stimulus). Only knowledge of the theoretical average reward value associated with this stimulus--referred to as 'the task value'--was available. Remarkably, in each trial, ACC pre-reward activity correlated with the task value. Importantly, this neuronal activity was observed prior to the discovery of the optimal stimulus. We hypothesize that the received rewards and the task value, constructed a priori through learning, are used to guide behavior and identify the optimal stimulus. We tested this hypothesis by muscimol deactivation of the ACC. As predicted, this inactivation impaired the search for the optimal stimulus. We propose that ACC participates in long-term adaptation of voluntary reward-based behaviors by encoding general task values and received rewards.
Somatosensory and pain responses to direct intracerebral stimulations of the SII area were obtained in 14 patients referred for epilepsy surgery. Stimulations were delivered using transopercular electrodes exploring the parietal opercular cortex (SII area), the suprasylvian parietal cortex (SI area) and the insular cortex. SII responses were compared to those from adjacent SI and insular cortex. In the three areas we elicited mostly somatosensory responses, including paresthesiae, temperature and pain sensations. The rate of painful sensations (10%) was similar in SII and in the insula, while no painful sensation was evoked in SI. A few non-somatosensory responses were evoked by SII stimulation. Conversely various types of non-somatosensory responses (auditory, vegetative, vestibular, olfacto-gustatory, etc.) were evoked only by insular stimulation, confirming that SII, like SI, are mostly devoted to the processing of somatosensory inputs whereas the insular cortex is a polymodal area. We also found differences in size and lateralization of skin projection fields of evoked sensations between the three studied areas, showing a spatial resolution of the somatotopic map in SII intermediate between those found in SI and insula. This study shows the existence of three distinct somatosensory maps in the suprasylvian, opercular and insular regions, and separate pain representations in SII and insular cortex.
Amiloride, a sodium channel blocker, is known to suppress NaCl responses of the chorda tympani (CT) nerve in various mammalian species. In mice, the NaCl suppressing effect of amiloride is reported to differ among strains. In C57BL mice, amiloride inhibits NaCl responses to about 50% of control, whereas no such clear suppression was evident in prior studies with 129 mice. However, evidence from behavioral studies is not entirely consistent with this. Recently, it has been found that genetic backgrounds of 129 mice differ within substrains. 129X1/SvJ (formerly 129/SvJ) mice differ from the 129P3/J (formerly 129/J) strain by 25% of sequence length polymorphisms. Therefore, we examined possible substrain difference between 129P3/J and 129X1/SvJ mice in the amiloride sensitivity of electrophysiologically recorded NaCl responses. Amiloride significantly suppressed CT responses to NaCl without affecting responses to KCl both in 129P3/J and 129X1/SvJ mice. However, the magnitude of the amiloride inhibition was significantly larger (approximately 50% of control in response to 0.01-1.0 M NaCl by 100 microM amiloride) in 129X1/SvJ than in 129P3/J mice (approximately 20% of control in response to 0.03-0.3 M NaCl by 100 microM amiloride). Threshold amiloride concentration for suppression of responses to 0.3 M NaCl was 30 microM in 129P3/J mice, which was higher than that in 129X1/SvJ mice (10 microM). In 129X1/SvJ mice, the threshold amiloride concentration eliciting inhibition of NaCl responses and the magnitude of the inhibition were comparable with those in C57BL/6 mice. These results suggest that amiloride sensitivity of NaCl responses differs even among the 129 substrains, 129P3/J and 129 X1/SvJ, and the substrain difference of 129 mice in amiloride sensitivity is as large as that between two inbred strains (129P3/J and C57BL/6).

This essay argues for medical students' dissection of cadavers because this activity offers medical students opportunities to have certain experiences and reflect on them in ways facilitating their development of mature medical professionalism at the time they enter clinical practice. Issues central to professionalism as we envision it are (1) cognitive abilities identified as reflective judgment and principled ethical reasoning as they are exercised in four practice domains and (2) learning to learn in medical settings. We argue further that a key feature of such setting is practitioners' having to deal with ill-structured problems, and so we identify their features and relate their management to the sophisticated cognitive and learning abilities required of medical professionals.





A-85380 [3-(2(s)-azetidinylmethoxy) pyridine] is a neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonist that has been a useful tool in the investigation of the function of nAChRs in both preclinical and clinical studies. Amongst nAChR subtypes, A-85380 shows selectivity for the alpha(4)beta(2) vs. the alpha(7) or alpha(1)beta(1)deltagamma nAChRs. In functional in vitro cation flux assays, A-85380 is a potent and full agonist. A-85380 has a broad-spectrum analgesic profile with efficacy in acute, persistent, and neuropathic pain models. As demonstrated using selective nAChR antagonists or alpha(4) antisense, the alpha(4)beta(2) nAChR mediates the analgesic effects of A-85380. Interestingly, the site of action depends upon the type of pain as antinociception is mediated by descending inhibition into the spinal cord whereas anti-allodynia in neuropathic pain is mediated at both central and peripheral sites. Radiolabelled forms of A-85380 have been developed and shown to be safe for use in vivo in humans. In clinical studies using positron and photon emission tomography, marked decreases in alpha(4)beta(2) nAChRs have been seen in patients with Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Although not developed as a therapeutic agent, A-85380 has proven to be an important component in the development of novel nAChR ligands for the treatment of pain and other disorders.
The present paper focuses on the different lines of evidence indicating that cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonists, including the prototype rimonabant, reduce food intake and body weight in laboratory animals. Recent clinical surveys demonstrated that rimonabant significantly reduced body weight also in overweight/obese humans. Treatment with rimonabant was associated with a beneficial effect on different metabolic parameters and cardiovascular risk factors linked to overweight. The data reviewed in this paper suggest that cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonists may constitute a novel class of drugs potentially effective in the treatment of obesity-related disorders.
Does sensorimotor dysfunction underlie reading impairment? To investigate this question, a battery of literacy, phonology, auditory, visual, and motor tests were administered to age- and ability-matched groups of dyslexic, autistic, and control children. As in previous studies, only a subset of the dyslexic children had sensory and/or motor impairments, whilst some dyslexics were entirely spared, suggesting that sensorimotor impairments are not necessary to cause reading disability. A subset of autistic children was also found to have sensorimotor impairments; however, some of these children did not have reading problems, suggesting that sensorimotor impairments are not sufficient to cause reading disability. We conclude that sensorimotor and reading impairments are doubly dissociable. Sensorimotor impairments do not seem to be the cause of reading disability, but can be seen as nonspecific markers for developmental disorder.
For more than 35 years, researchers have debated whether face recognition is carried out by face-specific mechanisms or whether it involves more general mechanisms that are also used for objects. Prosopagnosic patients have furnished powerful evidence for face-specific mechanisms. Yet for each case that has been tested there have always been several untested alternative explanations that could account for the case. As such, each of these individuals has not been sufficiently tested to provide conclusive evidence for face-specific processes. Here we make a stronger argument with a single case of severe developmental prosopagnosia by exhaustively addressing all extant alternatives. We reject each in turn and thus eliminate all alternative accounts. Because this case is developmental in etiology the results also indicate that face recognition involves developmental mechanisms different from those producing other visual recognition mechanisms.

The genome for two species of Ciona is available making these tunicates excellent models for studies on the evolution of the chordates. In this review most of the data is from Ciona intestinalis, as the annotation of the C. savignyi genome is not yet available. The phylogenetic position of tunicates at the origin of the chordates and the nature of the genome before expansion in vertebrates allows tunicates to be used as a touchstone for understanding genes that either preceded or arose in vertebrates. A comparison of Ciona, a sea squirt, to other model organisms such as a nematode, fruit fly, zebrafish, frog, chicken and mouse shows that Ciona has many useful traits including accessibility for embryological, lineage tracing, forward genetics, and loss- or gain-of-function experiments. For neuroendocrine studies, these traits are important for determining gene function, whereas the availability of the genome is critical for identification of ligands, receptors, transcription factors and signaling pathways. Four major neurohormones and their receptors have been identified by cloning and to some extent by function in Ciona: gonadotropin-releasing hormone, insulin, insulin-like growth factor, and cionin, a member of the CCK/gastrin family. The simplicity of tunicates should be an advantage in searching for novel functions for these hormones. Other neuroendocrine components that have been annotated in the genome are a multitude of receptors, which are available for cloning, expression and functional studies.
Statistical analysis of medical images in experimental laboratories plays an important role in confirming scientific findings and in guiding potential clinical applications. In experimental neuroscience studies, autoradiographic images taken under differing physiological or pathological conditions from replicate animals are often compared in order to detect any significant change in glucose utilization or blood flow and to localize these changes. For these comparisons to be valid and informative, proper statistical procedures are in order. Conventional methods include statistic parametric mapping (SPM) analysis, non-parametric analysis and cluster-analysis. Each method of comparison has a specific purpose. This paper describes an approach that combines these conventional methods and presents a non-parametric statistical procedure based on cluster-analysis for localizing significant differences in autoradiographic data sets. By thresholding cluster sizes rather than pixel values to reject false positives, this approach enhances statistical power. By re-shuffling the data sets to produce the null distribution of a cluster size statistic, the test makes few assumptions as to the statistical properties of the SPM, and thus it is valid under a broad range of conditions. The designed method was tested on autoradiographic images of rats subjected to moderate traumatic brain injury (TBI). Different methods were also performed on the same data sets. Comparison among these methods shows that this method is suitable for the statistical analysis of autoradiographic images.
Traditionally, both the monkey and human posterior parietal cortex (PPC) have been considered to have a privileged role in spatial perception or action. Lesions to this region of the human brain, particularly of the right hemisphere, undoubtedly lead to spatially lateralised deficits such as visual extinction or neglect. However, although studies in monkeys have revealed much about the spatial functions of the parietal lobe, the monkey PPC may not be a good model system with which to understand fully the disorders of attention that follow damage to the human parietal cortex. Several lines of evidence, from functional imaging as well as investigations of patients with parietal damage, demonstrate that parts of the human inferior parietal lobe (IPL) have non-spatial functions. Here, we argue that it is important to distinguish spatially lateralised from spatial deficits. Both spatial and non-spatial impairments might, in principle, contribute to a spatially lateralised behavioural syndrome such as neglect. In this review, we discuss the evidence for such a proposal and suggest that a better understanding of human parietal syndromes may emerge from considering both the spatial and non-spatial functions of this region.
This review summarises research in patients with chronic lesions of parietal oculomotor cortex and compares their oculomotor performance to patients with lesions of the frontal eye field (FEF). The observations identify the oculomotor functions for which these regions are indispensable, and explore dynamic interactions within cortical and subcortical networks for oculomotor control. The experiments examined endogenously generated saccades, saccades to visual targets, antisaccades, saccade choice and saccade remapping for inhibitory spatial tagging. The findings suggest that the key function of parietal oculomotor cortex is the computation of sensorimotor transformations, rather than the initiation of either voluntary or reflexive saccades. They also reveal the re-organisation of cortico-subcortical networks after brain injury, and provide insight into their dynamic interactions: FEF lesions result in disinhibition of reflexive saccades toward the contralesional field and an impairment of reflexive saccades toward the ipsilesional field; whereas parietal lesion result in the opposite pattern.
In this issue of Cortex, Ishiai et al. (2006) report the eye movements of patients with left neglect during the bisection of lines of different lengths. This is the latest in a series of papers from Ishiai's group, which form an important corpus of data on the oculomotor behaviour of neglect patients during line bisection and related tasks. In this article, I argue that these data should critically constrain theoretical models of bisection errors in neglect, but that these constraints have been applied rarely in practice. First, I briefly introduce bisection behaviour in neglect and describe some of the models proposed to account for its character. I then consider the implications for these models of Ishiai and colleagues' observations. Finally, I outline a novel view of the bisection task that is more compatible with their observations.

We have pursued an interdisciplinary research program to develop novel behavioral assessment tools for evaluating specific memory impairments following damage to the medial temporal lobe, including the hippocampus and associated structures that show pathology early in the course of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our approach uses computational models to identify the functional consequences of hippocampal-region damage, leading to testable predictions in both rodents and humans. Our modeling argues that hippocampal-region dysfunction may selectively impair the ability to generalize when familiar information is presented in novel recombinations. Previous research has shown that specific reductions in hippocampal volume in non-demented elderly individuals correlate with future development of AD. In two previous studies, we tested non-demented elderly with and without mild hippocampal atrophy (HA) on stimulus-response learning tasks. Individuals with and without HA could learn the initial information, but the HA group was selectively impaired on transfer tests where familiar features and objects were recombined. This suggests that such generalization deficits may be behavioral markers of HA, and an early indicator of risk for subsequent cognitive decline. Converging support for the relevance of these tasks to aging and Alzheimer's disease comes from our recent fMRI studies of individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Activity in the hippocampus declines with progressive training on these tasks, suggesting that the hippocampus is important for learning new stimulus representations that support subsequent transfer. Individuals with HA may be able to learn, but in a more hippocampal-independent fashion that does not support later transfer. Ultimately, this line of research could lead to a novel battery of behavioral tests sensitive to very mild hippocampal atrophy and risk for decline to AD, allowing early diagnosis and also allowing researchers to test new Alzheimer's drugs that target individuals in the earliest stages of the disease - before significant cognitive decline. A new mouse version of one of our tasks shows promise for translating these paradigms into rodents, allowing for future studies of therapeutic interventions in transgenic mouse models of AD.
Lead compounds directed to the 5' leader of the Amyloid Precursor Protein transcript (i.e., paroxetine (SSRI), N-acetyl cysteine (antioxidant), and erythromycin (macrolide antibiotic)) were employed in a pilot study to evaluate their anti-amyloid efficacy in the TgCRND8 transgenic mouse model for Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The relative levels of Abeta peptide were reduced after exposure of mice to paroxetine (N=5), NAC (N=7), and erythromycin (N=7) relative to matched placebo counterparts. Paroxetine limited the levels of APP holoprotein and total Abeta peptide levels (measurements of Abeta were performed at two separate sites by quantitative western blotting and ELISA assay). The paroxetine data provided proof-of-concept for our strategy for further screening the APP 5'UTR target to identify novel drugs that exhibit anti-amyloid efficacy in vivo. Erythromycin and azithromycin were macrolide antibiotics that markedly changed the cleavage of the APP C-Terminal Fragment (CTF) in SH-SY5Y cells. Erythromycin provided orally to TgCRND8 mice consistently (100%) reduced brain Abeta(1-42) levels. These data demonstrated a highly statistically significant anti-amyloid trend for paroxetine, NAC and erythromycin. The potential for conducting further studies with these compounds using larger cohorts of TgCRND8 mice is discussed, particularly since erythromycin has recently been exposed to mice for a further 6 months (N=6). It will be possible to employ the chemical structures of paroxetine and erythromycin as starting points for drug design and development for AD therapeutics.
A major challenge not yet addressed by current therapeutic interventions for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the regeneration of lost neurons and neural circuitry to restore cognitive function. Therapies that lead to cessation of the degenerative process still leave the brain riddled with deteriorated neural circuits and reduced neuron number. The discovery of neurogenesis in the adult brain and the regenerative potential of neural stem cells holds the promise for restoration of neural populations and regeneration of neural circuits necessary for cerebral function. While the regenerative potential of neural stem cells is great, so too is the challenge of delivering neural stem cells to the brain. Basic science analyses and human trials indicate that constituents of microenvironments within the brain determine the neurogenic potential, phenotypic differentiation of neural stem cells and magnitude of the neural stem cell pool. Multiple analyses have documented that dentate neurogenesis is regulated by multiple growth factors which are abundant during development and which dramatically decline with age. While the cause(s) of age-associated decline in neurogenesis remains to be fully determined, loss in growth factors, FGF-2, IGF-1 and VEGF, in the microenvironment of the subgranular zone (SGZ) are prime contributors to the reduced neurogenic potential. The decline in dentate neurogenesis can be observed as early as middle age. In the aged and AD brain, both the pool of neural stem cells and their proliferative potential are markedly diminished. In parallel, the level of potential regenerative factors is diminished in the brains of Alzheimer's patients compared to age-matched controls. Our efforts have been directed towards discovery and development of small, blood brain barrier penetrant molecules to promote endogenous proliferation of neural stem cells within the brain. These endeavors have led to the discovery that the neurosteroid alloprognanolone (APalpha) is a potent and highly efficacious proliferative agent in vitro and in vivo of both rodent and human neural stem cells. Results of our in vitro studies coupled with our more recent analyses in the triple transgenic mouse model of AD suggest that APalpha is a promising strategy for promoting neurogenesis in the aged brain and potentially for restoration of neuronal populations in brains recovering from neurodegenerative disease or injury. A brief overview of issues impacting the therapeutic potential of neurogenesis and the factors used to promote neurogenesis in the aging and degenerating brain is presented. Also included is a review of our current research into the neurogenic potential of the small molecule, blood brain barrier penetrating, neurosteroid allopregnanolone (APalpha).
Identifying blood biomarkers may be of particular value in neurologic disorders such as stroke because of the difficulty in directly studying the brain and its blood vessels. Markers of brain injury, inflammation, excitotoxicity, and oxidative damage have been evaluated for their value in stroke diagnosis, treatment, and management, but none have proved to be sensitive or specific enough for routine clinical use. However, new cellular and molecular profiling approaches using the peripheral blood offer the potential for identifying panels of genes and proteins by increasing specificity while maintaining sensitivity. Furthermore, the first biomarker for predicting stroke risk associated with atherosclerosis (lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2) was recently approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration. The ultimate aim for stroke biomarkers is to develop rapid, easy to use, widely available, and inexpensive diagnostic tests that can be used in the clinic and in clinical trials.
The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is a neurotrophic lentivirus that enters and infects the central nervous system (CNS) of adults and children, giving rise to the clinical syndromes of AIDS-dementia complex (ADC) in adults and HIV-1-associated progressive encephalopathy (PE) in pediatric patients. The clinical presentation and progression of neuroAIDS in the developing brain of children is distinct from that seen in adult patients. Neuroimaging, and upon autopsy, neuropathological findings corresponding to clinical disease in pediatric patients include impaired brain growth, reactive gliosis, myelin pallor, calcifications of the basal ganglia, cortical and cerebral atrophy with neuronal loss and ventricular enlargement, and abnormalities of cerebral vasculature. Although there is some overlap with neuropathologic findings in adult patients, ADC in adults is more typically a late development, often complicated by opportunistic infections of the CNS. The neuropathogenesis of ADC and PE is incompletely understood. One population of CNS cells critical for brain development and response to injury and inflammation are neural progenitors cells, and it has therefore been suggested that these cells may be involved in the neuropathogenesis of ADC, and especially PE. This review examines the neurobiology of neural progenitor cells and the possibility that HIV-1 infection of neural progenitors, exposure of neural progenitors to virus, viral products, or progenitor exposure to HIV-1 associated neuroinflammatory substances and neurotoxins might contribute to the neuropathogenesis of AIDS in adults and children. That some of the clinical differences between ADC and PE might, in part, be explained by differences in neural progenitor involvement will also be considered.
Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) remain a persistent and even growing health problem worldwide. Besides its detrimental systemic effects on the immune system, HIV-1 seems to enter the brain very soon after peripheral infection and can induce severe and debilitating neurological problems that include behavioral abnormalities, motor dysfunction and frank dementia. Infected peripheral immune cells, in particular macrophages, appear to infiltrate the CNS and provoke a neuropathological response involving all cell types in the brain. Both viral and host factors, such as the viral strain and the response of the host's immune system, strongly influence the course of HIV-1 disease. Moreover, HIV-1-dependent disease processes in the periphery have a substantial effect on the pathology developing in the central nervous system (CNS), although the brain eventually harbors a distinctive viral population of its own. In the CNS, HIV-1 also initiates activation of chemokine receptors, inflammatory mediators, extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes and glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, all of which can activate numerous downstream signaling pathways and disturb neuronal and glial function. Although there have been substantial improvements in the control of viral infection in the periphery, an effective therapy for HIV-1 associated dementia (HAD) is still not in sight. This article will review recently identified injurious mechanisms potentially contributing to neuronal death in association with HIV-1 disease and discuss recent and prospective approaches for therapy and prevention of HAD.


Endothelin1 (Edn1) signaling promotes ventral character to the facial skeleton. In zebrafish edn1 mutants, the ventral jaw structures are severely reduced and fused to their dorsal counterparts, with a loss of joints that normally form at an intermediate dorsal-ventral position. Loss of function at another locus, sturgeon, also yields joint losses, but only mild reductions in the ventral jaw structures. We show that sturgeon encodes one of two orthologs of Furin present in zebrafish, and that both furin genes may function partially redundantly to activate Edn1 signaling. Supporting this hypothesis, early expression of edn1-dependent genes is downregulated in sturgeon (furinA) mutants. Later in development, expression of most of these genes recovers to near wild-type levels in furinA mutants but not in edn1 mutants. The recovery explains the less severe furinA mutant skeletal phenotype and suggests that late gene expression is dependent on a critical level of Edn1 signaling not present in the more severe edn1 mutants. However, expression defects in the intermediate joint-forming domains in both mutants persist, explaining the joint losses observed later in both mutants. We further show that in both mutants the arches fail to correctly undergo ventral elongation before skeletogenesis begins and propose a model in which this failure is largely responsible for the loss of an Edn1-dependent compartmentation of the arch into the intermediate and ventral domains.
Jose Campos-Ortega stands out as one of the pioneers of developmental-genetic studies of early neurogenesis. He also liked to reflect about the history of science: how one discovery leads to the next, and what role individuals play in the progress of science. He had indeed started to work on a book describing the history of developmental genetics during the last year of his life. His goal in this book was to &quot;explain how developmental genetics originated, how it transformed developmental biology and, while doing so, how it contributed to achieve the biological synthesis.&quot; In the following, I would like to reflect on the origin and growth of the field Campos-Ortega contributed so much. In doing so, it is of particular interest to consider his scientific roots, and the manner in which he entered the stage of developmental genetics. I believe that Campos-Ortega's unusual scientific background influenced in an important manner the way in which he shaped the study of early neurogenesis.
Ingestive behavior is a complex product of distributed central control systems that respond to a diverse array of internal and external sensory stimuli. Relatively little is known regarding the pathways and mechanisms by which relevant signals are conveyed to the neural circuits that ultimately control ingestive motor output. This report summarizes findings regarding the postnatal development of descending hypothalamic inputs to the hindbrain dorsal vagal complex (DVC). Evidence accumulated primarily in rats indicates that descending neural projections from the hypothalamus to the DVC are both structurally and functionally immature at birth. The progressive postnatal maturation of these projections occurs in parallel with newly emerging physiological and behavioral responsiveness to treatments and stimuli that affect food intake in adults. Thus, the postnatal emergence of new feeding controls may reflect the emerging access of these controls to DVC neural circuits.
The role of biobehavioral sciences is critically evaluated within the model for translational research proposed in the NIH Roadmap. Concern is expressed regarding the lack of specification and representation of intervening disciplines along the translational chain from assessment to treatment to outcome. The implications of this model on the future of developmental psychopathology are discussed. A new model is proposed that emphasizes the role of biobehavioral sciences in translational research focusing on psychiatric disorders.
A model of the development of hostile attributional style and its role in children's aggressive behavior is proposed, based on the translation of basic science in ethology, neuroscience, social psychology, personality psychology, and developmental psychology. Theory and findings from these domains are reviewed and synthesized in the proposed model, which posits that (a) aggressive behavior and hostile attributions are universal human characteristics, (b) socialization leads to the development of benign attributions, (c) individual differences in attributional style account for differences in aggressive behavior, and (d) interventions to change attributions have the potential to alter antisocial development. Challenges for future research are described.
Lowered intelligence relative to controls is evident by mid-childhood in children with sickle cell disease. There is consensus that brain infarct contributes to this deficit, but the subtle lowering of IQ in children with normal MRI scans might be accounted for by chronic systemic complications leading to insufficient oxygen delivery to the brain. We investigated the relationship between daytime oxyhaemoglobin saturation (SpO2), cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) and intellectual function (IQ) using path-analysis in 30 adolescents with sickle cell disease (mean age 17.4 years, SD 4.2). Initial analyses revealed that the association between SpO2 and Full Scale IQ (FSIQ) was fully mediated by increased CBFV, whereby SpO2 was negatively correlated with CBFV and CBFV was negatively correlated with FSIQ, i.e. decreases in oxygen saturation are associated with increases in velocity, and increased velocity is associated with lowered IQ scores. The mediated relationship suggests that lowered IQ may be a function of abnormal oxygen delivery to the brain. Further analyses showed that the association between CBFV and IQ was significant for verbal but not for performance IQ. The pathophysiology characteristic of SCD can interfere with brain function and constrain intellectual development, even in the absence of an infarct. This supports the hypothesis that lowered intellectual function is partly explained by chronic hypoxia, and has wider implications for our understanding of SCD pathophysiology.
Perinatal asphyxia occurs in approximately 1-6 per 1000 live full-term births. Different patterns of brain damage can result, though the relation of these patterns to long-term cognitive-behavioural outcome remains under investigation. The hippocampus is one brain region that can be damaged (typically not in isolation), and this site of damage has been implicated in two different long-term outcomes, cognitive memory impairment and the psychiatric disorder schizophrenia. Factors in addition to the acute episode of asphyxia likely contribute to these specific outcomes, making prediction difficult. Future studies that better document long-term cognitive-behavioural outcome, quantitatively identify patterns of brain injury over development and consider additional variables that may modulate the impact of asphyxia on cognitive and behavioural function will forward the goals of predicting long-term outcome and understanding the mechanisms by which it unfolds.
Hypoxia (H) and hypoxia-ischemia (HI) are major causes of foetal brain damage with long-lasting behavioral implications. The effect of hypoxia has been widely studied in human and a variety of animal models. In the present review, we summarize the latest studies testing the behavioral outcomes following prenatal hypoxia/hypoxia-ischemia in rodent models. Delayed development of sensory and motor reflexes during the first postnatal month of rodent life was observed by various groups. Impairment of motor function, learning and memory was evident in the adult animals. Activation of the signaling leading to cell death was detected as early as three hours following H/HI. An increase in the counts of apoptotic cells appeared approximately three days after the insult and peaked about seven days later. Around 14-20 days following the H/HI, the amount of cell death observed in the tissue returned to its basal levels and cell loss was apparent in the brain tissue. The study of the molecular mechanism leading to brain damage in animal models following prenatal hypoxia adds valuable insight to our knowledge of the central events that account for the morphological and functional outcomes. This understanding provides the starting point for the development and improvement of efficient treatment and intervention strategies.
Development of the facial skeleton depends on interactions between intrinsic factors in the skeletal precursors and extrinsic signals in the facial environment. Hox genes have been proposed to act cell-intrinsically in skeletogenic cranial neural crest cells (CNC) for skeletal pattern. However, Hox genes are also expressed in other facial tissues, such as the ectoderm and endoderm, suggesting that Hox genes could also regulate extrinsic signalling from non-CNC tissues. Here we study moz mutant zebrafish in which hoxa2b and hoxb2a expression is lost and the support skeleton of the second pharyngeal segment is transformed into a duplicate of the first-segment-derived jaw skeleton. By performing tissue mosaic experiments between moz(-) and wild-type embryos, we show that Moz and Hox genes function in CNC, but not in the ectoderm or endoderm, to specify the support skeleton. How then does Hox expression within CNC specify a support skeleton at the cellular level? Our fate map analysis of skeletal precursors reveals that Moz specifies a second-segment fate map in part by regulating the interaction of CNC with the first endodermal pouch (p1). Removal of p1, either by laser ablation or in the itga5(b926) mutant, reveals that p1 epithelium is required for development of the wild-type support but not the moz(-) duplicate jaw-like skeleton. We present a model in which Moz-dependent Hox expression in CNC shapes the normal support skeleton by instructing second-segment CNC to undergo skeletogenesis in response to local extrinsic signals.
Despite the critical importance of TBX5 in normal development and disease, relatively little is known about the mechanisms by which TBX5 functions in the embryonic heart. Our present studies demonstrate that TBX5 is necessary to control the length of the embryonic cardiac cell cycle, with depletion of TBX5 leading to cardiac cell cycle arrest in late G(1)- or early S-phase. Blocking cell cycle progression by TBX5 depletion leads to a decrease in cardiac cell number, an alteration in the timing of the cardiac differentiation program, defects in cardiac sarcomere formation, and ultimately, to cardiac programmed cell death. In these studies we have also established that terminally differentiated cardiomyocytes retain the capacity to undergo cell division. We further show that TBX5 is sufficient to determine the length of the embryonic cardiac cell cycle and the timing of the cardiac differentiation program. Thus, these studies establish a role for TBX5 in regulating the progression of the cardiac cell cycle.
Hepatic nuclear factor-4alpha (HNF-4alpha), a transcription factor involved in the regulation of serum lipid and glucose levels, has recently been associated with type 2 diabetes. The HNF-4alpha gene (HNF4A) resides on chromosome 20q12-q13.1, which, in addition to type 2 diabetes, has also previously been linked to high triglycerides in Finnish familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL) families. FCHL, characterized by elevated levels of serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, or both, is a common dyslipidemia observed in up to 20% of patients with premature coronary heart disease. Considering the clear phenotypic overlap between type 2 diabetes and FCHL, both predisposing to high serum triglycerides and glucose intolerance, we tested this gene for association in dyslipidemic families originating from two distinct populations, Finnish and Mexican, and comprising 1,447 subjects. Our data show that common HNF4A variants and haplotypes are associated with elevated serum lipid levels and the metabolic syndrome (P = 0.008-0.04), as well as with elevated glucose parameters (P = 0.008-0.03), using family-based association analysis. Importantly, both Finnish and Mexican families shared two common lipid-associated HNF4A haplotypes (P = 0.005 for total cholesterol and 0.006 for triglycerides). In conclusion, we show for the first time that common HNF4A variants are associated with high serum lipid levels and the metabolic syndrome.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) often coexist and may share a common pathophysiological mechanism. An association between GERD and asthma has been reported, and IBS patients have been shown to have an excess prevalence of bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Patients with overlapping IBS and dyspepsia have delayed gastric emptying rates as well as increased visceral hypersensitivity in both the colon and the stomach. Postinfectious occurrence of concomitant dyspepsia and IBS has also been reported, as has a familial association in functional gastrointestinal disorders. Although GERD, dyspepsia and IBS are highly prevalent conditions, overlapping symptoms should be not be attributed to their high prevalence but to a possible common disease process in a subset of patients.
The existence of links between Alzheimer's disease and diabetes is an important topic currently under active debate. Establishing such links if they exist and defining their common pathogenesis and pathophysiological mechanisms may lead to new concepts and research directions for the pharmacological treatment of Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. Alzheimer's disease is associated with peripheral and central insulin abnormalities. Cognitive capacities are often impaired in patients with diabetes. There are many mechanisms by which insulin-signaling abnormalities may affect clinical and pathological outcome of Alzheimer's disease. Insulin resistance and dysregulation of the degradation of neurotoxic amyloid and insulin appear at the core of the links between Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. Functions and expression of insulysin, an enzyme involved in the degradation of neurotoxic amyloid peptides and insulin, are usually impaired or reduced in Alzheimer's disease and diabetes. The increased occurrence of insulin resistance in Alzheimer's disease suggests that improving insulin effectiveness and insulysin activity may have therapeutic value in Alzheimer's disease patients and therefore is worth intensive investigation.
Clinical features have low predictive value for the outcome of eating disorders. This study focuses on the possible predictive value of gender ideals. Data was from adolescent girls thoroughly assessed both at presentation and at a three-year follow up. Few variables differed between the outcome groups. However, perceptions of gender ideals, as measured by the Three Questions of Ideals, were found to contribute to the prediction of outcome. A discriminant analysis showed that gender ideals, maturity fears, sexual debut, and vomiting were significant discriminators in a set of factors, which correctly classified the outcome for 75.3% of the sample.
With the advent of proteomics technologies it is possible to simultaneously demonstrate the expression of hundreds of proteins. The information offered by proteomics provides context-based understanding of cellular protein networks and has been proven to be a valuable approach in neuroscience studies. The mouse hippocampus has been a major target of analysis in the search for molecular correlates to neuronal information storage. Although human and rat hippocampal samples have been successfully subjected to proteomic profiling, no elaborate analysis providing the fundamental experimental basis for protein-expression studies in the mouse hippocampus has been carried out as yet. This led us to construct a master map generated from the individual hippocampal proteomes of five different mouse strains. A proteomic approach, based upon 2-DE coupled to MS (MALDI-TOF/TOF) has been chosen in an attempt to establish a comprehensive reference database of proteins expressed in the mouse hippocampus. 469 individual proteins, represented by 1156 spots displaying various functional states of the respective gene products were identified. Proteomic profiling of the hippocampus, a brain region with a pivotal role for neuronal information processing and storage may provide insight into the characteristics of proteins serving this highly sophisticated function.
The brain is unquestionably the most fascinating organ. Despite tremendous progress, current knowledge falls short of being able to explain its function. An emerging approach toward improved understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying brain function is neuroproteomics. Today's neuroscientists have access to a battery of versatile technologies both in transcriptomics and proteomics. The challenge is to choose the right strategy in order to generate new hypotheses on how the brain works. The goal of this review is therefore two-fold: first we recall the bewildering cellular, molecular, and functional complexity in the brain, as this knowledge is fundamental to any study design. In fact, an impressive complexity on the molecular level has recently re-emerged as a central theme in large-scale analyses. Then we review transcriptomics and proteomics technologies, as both are complementary. Finally, we comment on the most widely used proteomics techniques and their respective strengths and drawbacks. We conclude that for the time being, neuroproteomics should focus on its strengths, namely the identification of posttranslational modifications and protein-protein interactions, as well as the characterization of highly purified subproteomes. For global expression profiling, emphasis should be put on further development to significantly increase coverage.
DNA molecules of Vibrio cholerae and Aeromonas species were prepared by incubating immobilized cells for 4 and 2 h, respectively, with a nonenzymatic solution that contains chemical reagents only (NDSUPlus). This method gave results as reproducible as the enzymatic one that uses proteinase K, and rendered DNA molecules suitable for fingerprinting by mini-CHEF electrophoresis. As rapid DNA separations at high electric field are achieved in mini-CHEF chamber with low heat evolution, DNA restriction fragments were separated in 5 h at 10 V/cm in a single resolution window. Then, fragment separations in three resolution windows were done in 15 h. This time is shorter than the one needed by the large CHEF chamber for resolving fragments in a single resolution window. Three windows permitted to include larger numbers of restriction fragments in the calculation of isolate similarities. Both sample preparation and mini-CHEF electrophoresis may represent an alternative for performing massive epidemiological studies of V. cholerae and Aeromonas species.


Due to the limited efficacy and side effects of current antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), the search for new therapeutic agents is critical. Uridine, a possible endogenous antiepileptic modulator, has been demonstrated to have anticonvulsant effects in some models of epilepsy, but not others. In this study, we examined possible neuroprotective effects of uridine by administering the agent following lithium-pilocarpine induced status epilepticus. The effects of uridine were assessed on EEG patterns, visual-spatial memory in the water maze and histopathology. There was a trend for reduced EEG spike frequency, improved visual spatial memory and better histology score in rats receiving uridine. The antiepileptogenic and anticonvulsant effects of uridine were studied by administering uridine to rats undergoing rapid kindling or following full kindling. In the rapid kindling models, uridine had a moderate antiepileptogenic and anticonvulsant effect. These results suggest uridine may have potential to aid in the prevention and treatment of epilepsy.

The purpose was to investigate if shoulder muscle strength in post-rehabilitated persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) was affected by kayak ergometer training and to compare shoulder strength in persons with SCI and able-bodied persons. Ten persons with SCI (7 males and 3 females, injury levels T3-T12) performed 60 min kayak ergometer training three times a week for 10 weeks with progressively increased intensity. Maximal voluntary concentric contractions were performed during six shoulder movements: flexion and extension (range of motion 65 degrees ), abduction and adduction (65 degrees ), and external and internal rotation (60 degrees ), with an angular velocity of 30 degrees s(-1). Position specific strength was assessed at three shoulder angles (at the beginning, middle and end of the range of motion) in the respective movements. Test-retests were performed for all measurements before the training and the mean intraclass correlation coefficient was 0.941 (95% CI 0.928-0.954). There was a main effect of kayak ergometer training with increased shoulder muscle strength after training in persons with SCI. The improvements were independent of shoulder movement, and occurred in the beginning and middle positions. A tendency towards lower shoulder muscle strength was observed in the SCI group compared to a matched reference group of able-bodied persons. Thus, it appears that post-rehabilitated persons with SCI have not managed to fully regain/maintain their shoulder muscle strength on a similar level as that of able-bodied persons, and are able to improve their shoulder muscle strength after a period of kayak ergometer training.
Synaptic plasticity, the activity-dependent change in the strength of neuronal connections, is a proposed cellular mechanism of memory storage that is critically regulated by protein kinases such as cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Despite the fact that a neuron contains thousands of synapses, the expression of synaptic plasticity can be specific to subsets of synapses. This is surprising because signal transduction pathways underlying synaptic plasticity involve diffusible second messenger molecules such as cAMP and diffusible proteins such as the catalytic subunit of PKA. One way in which this specificity can be achieved is by the localization of signal transduction molecules to specific subcellular domains. Spatial compartmentalization of PKA signaling is achieved via binding to A kinase-anchoring proteins (AKAPs). We report here that pharmacological inhibition of PKA anchoring impairs synaptically activated late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP) in hippocampal slices. In contrast, potentiation that is induced by the pharmacological activation of the cAMP/PKA pathway, which can potentially affect all synapses within the neuron, is not impaired by inhibition of PKA anchoring. These results suggest that PKA anchoring may be particularly important for events that occur at the synapse during the induction of L-LTP, such as synaptic tagging and capture. Indeed, our results demonstrate that blocking PKA anchoring impairs synaptic tagging and capture. Thus our data highlight the idea that PKA anchoring may allow for specific populations of synapses to change in synaptic strength in the face of plasticity-related transcription that is cell-wide.
Human pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (hPASM cells) express PDE4A10, PDE4A11, PDE4B2, PDE4C and PDE4D5 isoforms. Hypoxia causes a transient up-regulation of PDE4B2 that reaches a maximum after 7 days and sustained up-regulation of PDE4A10/11 and PDE4D5 over 14 days in hypoxia. Seven days in hypoxia increases both intracellular cAMP levels, protein kinase A (PKA) activity and activated, phosphorylated extracellular signal regulated kinase (pERK) but does not alter either PKA isoform expression or total cAMP phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) activity or cAMP phosphodiesterase-3 (PDE3) activity. Both the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin and the ERK inhibitors, UO126 and PD980589 reverse the hypoxia-induced increase in intracellular cAMP levels back to those seen in normoxic hPASM cells. Challenge of normoxic hPASM cells with prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) elevates cAMP to levels comparable to those seen in hypoxic cells but fails to increase intracellular cAMP levels in hypoxic hPASM cells. The adenylyl cyclase activator, forskolin increases cAMP levels in both normoxic and hypoxic hPASM cells to comparable elevated levels. Challenge of hypoxic hPASM cells with indomethacin attenuates total PDE4 activity whilst challenge with UO126 increases total PDE4 activity. We propose that the hypoxia-induced activation of ERK initiates a phospholipase A(2)/COX-driven autocrine effect whereupon PGE(2) is generated, causing the activation of adenylyl cyclase and increase in intracellular cAMP. Despite the hypoxia-induced increases in the expression of PDE4A10/11, PDE4B2 and PDE4D5 and activation of certain of these long PDE4 isoforms through PKA phosphorylation, we suggest that the failure to see any overall increase in PDE4 activity is due to ERK-mediated phosphorylation and inhibition of particular PDE4 long isoforms. Such hypoxia-induced increase in expression of PDE4 isoforms known to interact with certain signalling scaffold proteins may result in alterations in compartmentalised cAMP signalling. The hypoxia-induced increase in cAMP may represent a compensatory protective mechanism against hypoxia-induced mitogens such as endothelin-1 and serotonin.
Previous data indicate that the release of somatodendritic dopamine in substantia nigra influences motor activity and coordination, but the relative importance of somatodendritic dopamine release vs. terminal striatal dopamine release remains to be determined. We utilized simultaneous measurement of dopamine neurotransmission by microdialysis and motor performance assessment by rotarod test to investigate the effects of local dopamine depletion in rats. The vesicular monoamine transporter inhibitor tetrabenazine (100 microm) was administered locally in substantia nigra as well as in striatum. Nigral tetrabenazine administration decreased nigral dopamine dialysate concentrations to 7% of baseline and whole-tissue dopamine content by 60%. Nigral dopamine depletion was associated with a reduction in motor performance to 73 +/- 6% of pretreatment value, but did not alter dialysate dopamine concentrations in the ipsilateral striatum. Striatal tetrabenazine administration decreased striatal dopamine dialysate concentrations to 5% of baseline and doubled the somatodendritic dopamine response to motor activity, but it was not associated with changes in motor performance or dopamine content in striatal tissue. Simultaneous treatment of substantia nigra and striatum reduced motor performance to 58 +/- 5% of the pretreatment value. The results of this study indicate that partial depletion of nigral dopamine stores can significantly impair motor functions, and that increased nigral dopamine release can counteract minor impairments of striatal dopamine transmission.
Mitochondrial damage induced by superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutants has been proposed to have a causative role in the selective degeneration of motoneurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In order to investigate the basis of the tissue specificity of mutant SOD1 we compared the effect of the continuous expression of wild-type or mutant (G93A) human SOD1 on mitochondrial morphology in the NSC-34 motoneuronal-like, the N18TG2 neuroblastoma and the non-neuronal Madin-Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cell lines. Morphological alterations of mitochondria were observed in NSC-34 expressing the G93A mutant (NSC-G93A) but not the wild-type SOD1, whereas a ten-fold greater level of total expression of the mutant had no effect on mitochondria of non-motoneuronal cell lines. Fragmented network, swelling and cristae remodelling but not vacuolization of mitochondria or other intracellular organelles were observed only in NSC-G93A cells. The mitochondrial alterations were not explained by a preferential localization of the mutant within NSC-G93A mitochondria, as a higher amount of the mutant SOD1 was found in mitochondria of MDCK-G93A cells. Our results suggest that mitochondrial vulnerability of motoneurons to G93ASOD1 is recapitulated in NSC-34 cells, and that peculiar features in network dynamics may account for the selective alterations of motoneuronal mitochondria.
Whereas the neuronal substrates underlying the acquisition of auditory fear conditioning have been widely studied, the substrates and mechanisms mediating the acquisition of fear extinction remain largely elusive. Previous reports indicate that consolidation of fear extinction depends on the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular-signal regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) signalling pathway and on protein synthesis in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Based on experiments using the fear-potentiated startle paradigm suggesting a role for neuronal plasticity in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) during fear extinction, we directly addressed whether MAPK/ERK signalling in the basolateral amygdala is necessary for the acquisition of fear extinction using conditioned freezing as a read-out. First, we investigated the regional and temporal pattern of MAPK/ERK activation in the BLA following extinction learning in C57Bl/6J mice. Our results indicate that acquisition of extinction is associated with an increase of phosphorylated MAPK/ERK in the BLA. Moreover, we found that inhibition of the MAPK/ERK signalling pathway by intrabasolateral amygdala infusion of the MEK inhibitor, U0126, completely blocks acquisition of extinction. Thus, our results indicate that the MAPK/ERK signalling pathway is required for extinction of auditory fear conditioning in the BLA, and support a role for neuronal plasticity in the BLA during the acquisition of fear extinction.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation (RSD) is known to impair learning and memory. Previous studies have demonstrated that RSD induces an impairment of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). In most of these studies, RSD was set up prior to LTP induction. In this work, we focused on RSD after LTP induction. We investigated the effect of RSD for 24-48 h after induction of LTP in the dentate gyrus on LTP maintenance and whether a REM rebound after 48 h RSD affected LTP. RSD rats were deprived of REM sleep by stroking their backs using a brush, whereas control rats were allowed to sleep freely. Another control group of rats was awoken during non-REM sleep (NRS) under the same conditions (NRS group). REM-deprived rats displayed a faster decay of population spike amplitudes compared with the control and NRS groups over a 24-h recording time. After 48 h RSD, there was no difference in the population spike amplitudes before or after 4 h of release from RSD. These results suggest that REM sleep after LTP induction in the dentate gyrus plays an essential role in LTP maintenance, whereas a REM rebound does not restore the RSD-induced impairment of LTP.
To investigate the neuronal mechanisms underlying the behavioural alterations that accompany repeated exposure to MDMA (ecstasy), we recorded the activity of &gt; 200 striatal units in response to multiple, intermittent, locomotor-activating doses (5.0 mg/kg) of MDMA. Rats were treated with once-daily injections of either saline or MDMA for 5 days when housed in their home cage, followed by a challenge injection 3-5 days later when housed in a recording chamber. Because contextual drug associations might be particularly important to the expression of behavioural sensitization to chronic MDMA, a separate group of rats received repeated injections of MDMA alternately in the recording chamber or home cage, according to the above timeline. A sensitized locomotor response was observed only in rats that had previously experienced MDMA in the context of the recording chamber, and only on the challenge day. These sensitized animals also showed a decreased basal firing rate in neurons that were subsequently excited by MDMA when compared with the same category of neurons earlier in the treatment regimen. This resulted in a greater percentage increase from the baseline firing rate on the challenge day compared with the first and fifth days of treatment, even though this trend was not evident with an analysis of absolute firing rate. These results strongly support a role for context in the expression of MDMA-induced locomotor sensitization, and implicate striatal involvement in the neurobehavioural changes associated with the repeated use of MDMA.
The majority of inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain is mediated by the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A (GABA(A)) receptor. The anticonvulsant loreclezole largely acts by potentiating GABA(A) receptors containing beta2 and beta3 subunits. We used a genetically modified mouse containing a loreclezole-insensitive beta2 subunit (beta2N265S) to determine the role of this subunit in mediating the sedative and anticonvulsive effects of loreclezole. Sedation was assessed by measuring spontaneous locomotor activity and beam walking performance, and anticonvulsant efficacy was determined by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) and amygdala kindling-induced seizures. The beta2N265S mice did not exhibit loreclezole-mediated sedation as shown by normal locomotor activity and beam walking performance. However, loreclezole also failed to provide significant protection against PTZ-induced seizures in the beta2N265S mice. Reduced efficacy against amygdala-kindled seizures, both acutely and over a 13-day chronic dosing study, was also observed in beta2N265S mice. These results suggest that the majority of the sedative effects and a significant proportion of the anticonvulsant efficacy of loreclezole are mediated via beta2-containing GABA(A) receptors.
Acutely, 3,4,-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) induces cerebrovascular dysfunction [Quate et al., (2004)Psychopharmacol., 173, 287-295]. In the longer term the same single dose results in depletion of 5-hydroxytrptamine (5-HT) nerve terminals. In this study we examined the cerebrovascular consequences of this persistent neurodegeneration, and the acute effects of subsequent MDMA exposure, upon the relationship that normally exists between local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) and local cerebral glucose utilization (LCMRglu). Dark agouti (DA) rats were pre-treated with 15 mg/kg i.p. MDMA or saline. Three weeks later, rats from each pre-treatment group were treated with an acute dose of MDMA (15 mg/kg i.p.) or saline. Quantitative autoradiographic imaging was used to measure LCBF or LCMRglu with [(14)C]-iodoantipyrine and [(14)C]-2-deoxyglucose, respectively. Serotonergic terminal depletion was assessed using radioligand binding with [(3)H]-paroxetine and immunohistochemistry. Three weeks after MDMA pre-treatment there were significant reductions in densities of 5-HT transporter (SERT)-positive fibres (-46%) and [(3)H]-paroxetine binding (-47%). In animals pre-treated with MDMA there were widespread significant decreases in LCMRglu, but no change in LCBF indicating a persistent loss of cerebrovascular constrictor tone. In both pre-treatment groups, acute MDMA produced significant increases in LCMRglu, while LCBF was significantly decreased. In 50% of MDMA-pre-treated rats, random areas of focal hyperaemia indicated a loss of autoregulatory capacity in response to MDMA-induced hypertension. These results suggest that cerebrovascular regulatory dysfunction resulting from acute exposure to MDMA is not diminished by previous exposure, despite a significant depletion in 5-HT terminals. However, there may be a sub-population, or individual circumstances, in which this dysfunction develops into a condition that might predispose to stroke.
This paper examines a possible role of microvillar cells in coordinating cell death and regeneration of olfactory epithelial neurons. The olfactory neuroepithelium of mammals is a highly dynamic organ. Olfactory neurons periodically degenerate by apoptosis and as a consequence of chemical or physical damage. To compensate for this loss of cells, the olfactory epithelium maintains a lifelong ability to regenerate from a pool of resident multipotent stem cells. To assure functional continuity and histological integrity of the olfactory epithelium over a period of many decades, apoptosis and regeneration require to be precisely coordinated. Among the factors that have been implicated in mediating this regulation is the neuropeptide Y (NPY). Knockout mice that lack functional expression of this neurogenic peptide show defects in embryonic development of the olfactory epithelium and in its ability to regenerate in the adult. Here we show that, in postnatal olfactory epithelia, NPY is exclusively expressed by a specific population of microvillar cells. We previously characterized these cells as a novel type of putative chemosensory cells, which are provided with a phosphatidyl-inositol-mediated signal transduction cascade. Our findings allow for the first time to suggest that microvillar cells are involved in connecting apoptosis to neuronal regeneration by stimulus-induced release of NPY.
We examined the importance of membrane cholesterol for the function and expression of TRPV1 (vanilloid receptor subtype 1) and P2X(3) in adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Cholesterol, an essential component of lipid rafts, was depleted using methyl beta-cyclodextrin (MCD). We found that MCD significantly reduced TRPV1-mediated capsaicin- and proton-activated currents. By contrast, inward currents activated by alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP), a non-hydrolysable ATP analogue, were not altered. Immunoreactivity for TRPV1, but not P2X(3), in the plasma membrane was markedly reduced by MCD. A reduction of TRPV1 protein in membrane fractions was found following cholesterol depletion. Our data show that the level of cholesterol determines the activity and the amount of membrane TRPV1, suggesting that TRPV1 might be localized in cholesterol-rich microdomains in nociceptors. The differential dependence on the membrane cholesterol of TRPV1 and P2X(3) may have physiological significance in nociception during inflammation.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) plays a critical role in the formation, retrieval and long-term storage of hippocampal-dependent memories. Consistent with this, there are direct hippocampal projections to the mPFC. Moreover, the mPFC sends robust projections to the perirhinal and entorhinal cortices, two interconnected cortical fields that funnel information into and out of the hippocampus. However, the significance of the latter projection remains unclear because no data are available regarding the rhinal targets of mPFC axons. This question was examined in the present study using a combination of anterograde tracing with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and pre-embedding gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunocytochemistry in guinea pigs. Following Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin injections in the mPFC, anterogradely labeled axons were seen in the perirhinal (mainly superficial layers) and lateral entorhinal (mainly deep layers) cortices. In the electron microscope, the synaptic articulation of anterogradely labeled mPFC axon terminals with perirhinal and entorhinal neurons was found to be nearly identical. In these two rhinal fields, mPFC axon terminals only formed asymmetric synapses, typically with GABA-immunonegative spines ( approximately 70%) but occasionally with dendritic profiles ( approximately 30%), half of which were GABA immunopositive. In the light of earlier observations, these findings indicate that mPFC inputs exert mainly excitatory effects in the rhinal cortices, prevalently on principal neurons. Thus, these results suggest that the mPFC may affect hippocampal-dependent memories by enhancing impulse traffic into and out of the hippocampus at the level of the rhinal cortices.
Blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier function and expansion of the ventricular system were investigated in embryonic rats (E12-18). Permeability markers (sucrose and inulin) were injected intraperitoneally and concentrations measured in plasma and CSF at two sites (lateral and 4th ventricles) after 1 h. Total protein concentrations were also measured. CSF/plasma concentration ratios for endogenous protein were stable at approximately 20% at E14-18 and subsequently declined. In contrast, ratios for sucrose (100%) and inulin (40%) were highest at the earliest ages studied (E13-14) and then decreased substantially. Between E13 and E16 the volume of the lateral ventricles increased over three-fold. Decreasing CSF/plasma concentration ratios for small, passively diffusing molecules during embryonic development may not reflect changes in permeability. Instead, increasing volume of distribution appears to be important in this decline. The intracellular presence of a small marker (3000 Da biotin-dextranamine) in plexus epithelial cells following intraperitoneal injection indicates a transcellular route of transfer. Ultrastructural evidence confirmed that choroid plexus tight junctions are impermeable to small molecules at least as early as E15, indicating the blood-CSF barrier is morphologically and functionally mature early in embryonic development. Comparison of two albumins (human and bovine) showed that transfer of human albumin (surrogate for endogenous protein) was 4-5 times greater than bovine, indicating selective blood-to-CSF transfer. The number of plexus epithelial cells immunopositive for endogenous plasma protein increased in parallel with increases in total protein content of the expanding ventricular system. Results suggest that different transcellular mechanisms for protein and small molecule transfer are operating across the embryonic blood-CSF interface.


The aim of this study was to validate melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH)-1 receptor antagonism as a potential treatment of mood disorders. We attempted to replicate the effects previously reported with SNAP-7941 and expanded the investigation to three other orally bioavailable MCH-1 receptor antagonists with good brain penetration. SNAP-7941 (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.) and T-226296 (5-60 mg/kg, p.o.) (+/- racemate), were evaluated in the rat forced swim and mouse tail suspension tests. (+)SNAP-7941 (3-10 mg/kg, p.o.) was also tested in a modified 5-min rat forced swim protocol as previously reported. A-665798 (3-30 mg/kg, p.o.) and A-777903 (3-30 mg/kg, p.o.) were tested in mouse tail suspension and rat Vogel tests. None of the compounds showed meaningful efficacy in the paradigms tested. The lack of efficacy with four structurally different MCH-1 receptor antagonists does not support a role for therapeutic treatment of depression/anxiety via this mechanism of action.
Dopamine potently increased calcium mobilization in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing human dopamine D2Long receptors (CHO-D2L cells), and increased guanosine-5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)-triphosphate binding to CHO-D2L cell and rat striatal membranes. These effects of dopamine were blocked by the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (-)raclopride. In contrast to the findings of a recent controversial study, phencyclidine, ketamine and dizocilpine (MK-801) lacked dopamine D2 receptor full agonist, partial agonist and antagonist activity in these assays, suggesting their psychotomimetic effects, and activity in rodent models of schizophrenia, are associated with N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor blockade rather than a direct interaction with dopamine D2 receptors.
One of the most prevalent anxiety conditions seen in primary care is generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). Numerous physical ailments frequently accompany the psychic symptoms of anxiety, which often drive patients to ask for help. In spite of the high incidence of GAD, only 30% of sufferers are diagnosed. Furthermore, very few patients are prescribed medication or referred to a psychiatrist. The key aim is to ensure the early detection and management of these patients. Developing physician education programs may improve the identification of GAD. The use of simple diagnostic tools would also aid the early detection of sufferers. Physicians require more long-term data, including that on the influence of ethnicity and genetics, to assist them to better understand and more effectively manage GAD. By achieving early diagnosis and treatment of GAD, physicians can ensure that a lesser burden is inflicted upon sufferers, thus improving their quality of life.
In the present study the effects of neonatal excitotoxic lesions of the amygdala or ventral hippocampus on local cerebral glucose utilisation in the adult rat were studied by means of the [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic method. Our hypothesis was that damage to the brain during early development leads to long-term functional activity changes in brain regions outside the primary lesioned area which might underlie the behavioural deficits observed in animals with neonatal brain damage. Cerebral glucose utilisation in animals with a neonatal amygdala lesion was significantly decreased in the amygdala itself and in several other brain regions. The neonatal ventral hippocampal lesion did not cause significant changes in cerebral glucose utilisation, except for a decrease in the primary damaged region (i.e. caudal ventral hippocampus). Behaviourally, animals lesioned in the amygdala displayed increased ambulatory activity both before and after puberty when exposed to a novel open field, while neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions did not affect adult exploratory behaviour as compared to sham controls. These results support our hypothesis that neonatal brain damage leads to long-term functional activity changes in brain regions outside the primary lesioned area. Moreover, they suggest that this long-term effect depends on the primary area lesioned since only damage to the amygdala, and not to the ventral hippocampus, affects the functional organisation of the brain of the animals later in life. Additionally, the findings may suggest that the functional changes in the brain may underlie the behavioural deficits observed after neonatal amygdala lesion in the rat.
The purpose of this study was to identify new indexes of body composition that characterize the normal weight obese (NWO) women. We measured body composition by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and resting metabolic rate (RMR) by indirect calorimetry in a cohort of seventy-five healthy Italian women, subdivided into three groups (nonobese/controls, NWO, preobese-obese women). Despite a normal body mass index (BMI), the NWO women have a higher body fat mass percentage (FAT %) (38.99 +/- 6.03) associated to a significant (p = 0.02) lower amount of lean mass of legs (12.24 +/- 1.31) and lean mass of left leg (6.07 +/- 0.64) with respect to the control group. The NWO group showed a significant (p = 0.043) lower RMR (1201.25 +/- 349.02) in comparison with nonobese and preobese-obese women. To classify NWO individuals among general population, we identified three significant body composition indexes: abdominal index, leg index and trunk index. The NWO women showed significant increased value in the three indexes (p &lt; 0.001). Our results suggest that, despite a normal BMI, the NWO women displayed a cluster of anthropometric characteristics (body fat mass percentage, leg indexes) not different to obese women ones. An appropriate diet-therapy and physical activity may be protecting NWO individuals from diabetes and cardiovascular diseases associated to preobese-obese women.
Many different corrective reactions can be used to regain balance during walking. However, the nervous system does not hesitate to decide which reaction will be used. A rule-based finite state control system that preselects appropriate reactions is a practical way to simplify this task. The proposed model suggests that much of this is achieved by groups of spinal interneurons.
Thirty-five young adult and 38 elderly cybernauts, matched for education, sex, alcohol consumption, and time/day of computer use were compared on a computerized simulation of professional activities of daily living (ADLs). The program quantified performance in terms of speed and accuracy on four major constructs: (1) planning (a 30-item office party script); (2) prospective memory (injections, sleep, phone); (3) working memory (PASAT, D2, and CES analogs); and (4) retrospective memory. Participants had to organize an office party, self inject insulin and go to bed at requisite times of day, do &quot;office work&quot; at unpredictable times of day, and answer the phone that blinked but did not ring (near threshold stimulus). The elderly were markedly and equally impaired on all four constructs (F = 24.3, p &lt; .000). The elderly were also equally and markedly impaired on slave and central executive systems (c.f. Baddeley's model) and on event-based and time-based prospective memory (c.f. McDaniel's model)-findings arguing against a &quot;frontal&quot; model of cognitive decline. This supports Salthouse's concept of a &quot;general factors&quot; decline in normal aging due to diffuse deterioration of the brain. On the other hand, as expected from previous findings, the balance of omissiveness/commissiveness was significantly increased in the elderly sample's error profile. Furthermore, the balance of speed and accuracy was significantly increased in the elderly. This defines limits of the &quot;general factors&quot; model. The elderly also markedly underused a clock icon which had to be clicked on to get the virtual time of day necessary for integrating all the required actions. Prospective memory explained 11% of the aging variance despite partialing out of the three other constructs, making it appear as a golden standard of sensititivity to normal aging-though perhaps provided it be implemented in a distracting, multitask, strategically demanding context.
This manuscript represents a presentation to the Annual Conference of the Association of Anatomy, Cell Biology and Neurobiology Chairpersons. The author is responding to the question, &quot;How can university administrations nurture both interdisciplinary and inter-institutional collaboration and cooperation?&quot; The presentation makes the point that university administrators must be cognizant of the changing dynamics of interdisciplinary and inter-institutional collaboration and cooperation due to the speed of the Internet and the speed of travel today. Those institutional leaders, and their universities, that recognize that the world has become flat will flourish, while those locked in a silo mentality will perish.
We have entered a new era in biomedical research in which large interdisciplinary teams are being established to answer important scientific questions. Scientists of multidisciplinary backgrounds within universities are combining forces and inter-institutional consortia that include alliances between academia and industry are springing up around the country to generate breakthrough advances. A number of driving forces are at work to establish these collaborative research approaches. By contrast, there also are barriers to be surmounted by institutions with silo mentalities for effective partnerships to be established. In order for this new era of research to reach maximal effectiveness, new approaches to education of the young and retraining of established administrators and scientists must take place. These issues were explored thoroughly at the 2006 annual meeting of the Association of Anatomy, Cell Biology and Neurobiology Chairpersons (AACBNC) that was held in Aruba from January 18 to 21. The theme of this historic meeting was the Future of Interdisciplinary Research and Training: Breaking Down the Barriers. In this introductory article, we discuss the formation of a trendsetting Institute of Biomedical Sciences and Technology, the concept of the AACBNC meeting, and the influence of the Institute on the content of the meeting. The proceedings of this meeting, including Nobel Laureate Papers and Nobel Round-Table Discussions on the future of interdisciplinary research and training, are contained in this special issue of Experimental Biology and Medicine, a journal dedicated to the publication of multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research in the biomedical sciences.
In cats, the postero-medial part of lateral suprasylvian cortex (PMLS) is generally considered a key area for motion processing. While behavioral studies have indeed supported the role of PMLS cortex in higher order motion integration (Cereb Cortex 6:814-822, 1996), there is no evidence that individual PMLS cells can perform such analysis (Vis Neurosci 5:463-468, 1990; J Neurophysiol 63:1529-1543, 1990). Given the fundamental importance of understanding the neural substrate subtending higher order motion processing, we investigated whether PMLS neurons can signal the direction of motion of complex random dot kinematograms (RDKs) wherein comprising elements do not provide any local coherent motion cues. Results indicated that most PMLS cells (82%) can integrate the displacement of individual elements into a global motion percept. Their large receptive fields allowed the integration of motion for elements separated by large spatial intervals (up to 4 degrees ). In most cases, the analysis of complex RDK motion necessitated the contribution of the area of the visual field beyond the classical receptive field. None of the complex RDK-sensitive cells were found to be pattern-motion selective when tested with plaid patterns. Our results provide the first evidence that receptive fields of PMLS neurons can perform global motion analysis and support the behavioral evidence that this area is implicated in complex motion processing (Cereb Cortex 6:814-822, 1996). It also further corroborates the findings that PMLS neurons cannot signal the true direction of a plaid pattern (Vis Neurosci 5:463-468, 1990; J Neurophysiol 63:1529-1543, 1990). Providing that these same neurons can signal the direction of complex RDKs, there may be distinct cortical mechanisms for processing different types of complex motion.
The sarcoglycans (SGs), transmembrane components of the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex, are stable and functional only when they assemble into a tetrameric complex in muscle cells. A defect in any one of the four SG members disrupts the entire SG complex (SGC) and causes limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. zeta-SG has been recently found as a transmembrane protein homologous to gamma-SG and delta-SG. To characterize zeta-SG in complex formation, we co-transfected expression vectors encoding all six SGs (alpha-, beta-, gamma-, delta-, epsilon- and zeta-SG) and dystroglycan into Chinese hamster ovary cells. Immunoprecipitation analysis showed that zeta-SG or gamma-SG formed a SGC with beta-SG and delta-SG plus alpha-SG or epsilon-SG, revealing that zeta-SG can form two types of SGCs (alpha-beta-zeta-delta or epsilon-beta-zeta-delta). This result indicates the functional resemblance of zeta-SG to gamma-SG rather than delta-SG, although phylogenetic analysis suggests that zeta-SG is evolutionally closer to delta-SG than to gamma-SG. Reverse transcription (RT)-PCR showed that the expression pattern of the transcript was almost the reciprocal of that of gamma-SG in various mouse tissues and that the zeta-SG transcript was especially abundant in the brain, suggesting that zeta-SG might play a particular role in the central nervous system.
Changes in genomic DNA methylation are recognized as important events in normal and pathological cellular processes, contributing both to normal development and differentiation as well as cancer and other diseases. Here, we report a novel method to estimate genome-wide DNA methylation, referred to as LUminometric Methylation Assay (LUMA). The method is based on combined DNA cleavage by methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes and polymerase extension assay by Pyrosequencing. The method is quantitative, highly reproducible and easy to scale up. Since no primary modification of genomic DNA, such as bisulfite treatment, is needed, the total assay time is only 6 h. In addition, the assay requires only 200-500 ng of genomic DNA and incorporates an internal control to eliminate the problem of varying amounts of starting DNA. The accuracy and linearity of LUMA were verified by in vitro methylated lambda DNA. In addition, DNA methylation levels were assessed by LUMA in DNA methyltransferase knock-out cell lines and after treatment with the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor (5-AzaCytidine). The LUMA assay may provide a useful method to analyze genome-wide DNA methylation for a variety of physiological and pathological conditions including etiologic, diagnostic and prognostic aspects of cancer.
Glutamate antagonists have recently been shown to limit tumor growth, providing potential new therapeutic targets and strategies against brain tumors. Here, we demonstrate that the glutamate NMDA receptor antagonist MK801, after a delay, adversely reverses functional recovery in rats with compressive mass lesions of the sensorimotor cortex. Our data suggest that the controlled focal cortical compression model may be a valuable pre-clinical tool to screen compounds for the treatment of brain tumors. It may be possible to use this model to develop interventions that maintain anti-cancer effects but with diminished harm to bystander tissue and brain plasticity.
Thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is the only pharmacotherapy available for cerebral ischemia. However, the use of tPA can increase the risk of hemorrhage due to blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown. Recent evidence suggests that increased activation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) may be involved in this breakdown. This study examines the temporal profile of MMP-2 and -9 following tPA administration to ischemic rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to one of four groups (Sham-tPA; Sham-Saline; Ischemia-tPA; Ischemia-Saline; group n = 6, total N = 120). Focal embolic ischemia was induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion through injection of an autologous clot. One hour post-surgery, tPA (10 mg/kg) or saline was delivered intravenously and animals were euthanized at 3, 6, 12, or 24 h after onset of ischemia. Infarct volume was measured by TTC staining; BBB components examined immunohistochemically; and MMP activation measured by gelatin zymography. Our results show that tPA significantly reduced infarct volumes (overall infarct volume-Sham-tPA: 5.80 +/- 4.55 [mean +/- SE]; Sham-Saline: 5.00 +/- 4.23; Ischemia-tPA: 186.1 +/- 73.45; Ischemia-Saline: 284.8 +/- 88.74; all P &lt; 0.05). Treatment with tPA was also associated with the activation of MMP-9 at 6, 12, and 24 h following ischemia. No temporal changes were observed in MMP-2 activation, although tPA administration increased its activity compared to saline treatment. Analyses of immunohistochemistry showed that destruction of components of the BBB followed MMP-9 activation. Thus, increased MMP-9 activation may, in part, be responsible for the increases in hemorrhagic transformation reported with use of tPA. Our study is the first to demonstrate the temporal profile of MMP activation following thrombolysis with tPA in a model of thrombotic focal cerebral ischemia.
Although formalin-induced activity in primary afferent fibers and spinal dorsal horn is well described, the forebrain neural basis underlying each phase of behavior in formalin test has not yet been clarified. The present study was designed to investigate the cortical and thalamic neuronal responses and interactions among forebrain areas during different phases after subcutaneous injection of formalin. Formalin-induced neuronal activities were simultaneously recorded from primary somatosensory cortex (SI), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and medial dorsal (MD) and ventral posterior (VP) thalamus during different phases (i.e., first phase, interphase, second phase and third recovery phase starting from 70 min after injection) of formalin test, using a multi-channel, single-unit recording technique. Our results showed that, (i) unlike the responses in primary afferent fibers and spinal dorsal horn, many forebrain neurons displayed monophasic excitatory responses in the first hour after formalin injection, except a small portion of neurons which exhibited biphasic responses; (ii) the response patterns of many cortical and thalamic neurons changed from excitatory to inhibitory at the end of the second phase; (iii) the direction of information flow also changed dramatically, i.e., from cortex to thalamus and from the medial to the lateral pathway in the first hour, but reversed in phase 3. These results indicate that the changes of activity pattern in forebrain networks may underlie the emerging and subsiding of central sensitization-induced pain behavior in the second phase of formalin test.
Patients with neuropathic pain frequently experience hypersensitivity to cold stimulation. However, the underlying mechanisms of this enhanced sensitivity to cold are not well understood. After partial nerve injury, the transient receptor potential ion channel TRPV1 increases in the intact small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in several neuropathic pain models. In the present study, we precisely examined the incidence of cold hyperalgesia and the changes of TRPA1 and TRPM8 expression in the L4 and L5 DRG following L5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL), because it is likely that the activation of two distinct populations of TRPA1- and TRPM8-expressing small neurons underlie the sensation of cold. We first confirmed that L5 SNL rats developed cold hyperalgesia for more than 14 days after surgery. In the nearby uninjured L4 DRG, TRPA1 mRNA expression increased in trkA-expressing small-to-medium diameter neurons from the 1st to 14th day after the L5 SNL. This upregulation corresponded well with the development and maintenance of nerve injury-induced cold hyperalgesia of the hind paw. In contrast, there was no change in the expression of the TRPM8 mRNA/protein in the L4 DRG throughout the 2-week time course of the experiment. In the injured L5 DRG, on the other hand, both TRPA1 and TRPM8 expression decreased over 2 weeks after ligation. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of TRPA1, but not TRPM8, antisense oligodeoxynucleotide suppressed the L5 SNL-induced cold hyperalgesia. Our data suggest that increased TRPA1 in uninjured primary afferent neurons may contribute to the exaggerated response to cold observed in the neuropathic pain model.
Cellular transplantation, including olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC) and olfactory nerve fibroblasts (ONF), after experimental spinal cord injury in the rat has previously resulted in regrowth of severed corticospinal (CS) axons across small lesion gaps and partial functional recovery. In order to stimulate CS axon regrowth across large lesion gaps, we used a multifactorial transplantation strategy to create an OEC/ONF continuum in spinal cords with a 2-mm-long dorsal hemisection lesion gap. This strategy involved the use of aligned OEC/ONF-poly(D,L)-lactide biomatrix bridges within the lesion gap and OEC/ONF injections at 1 mm rostral and caudal to the lesion gap. In order to test the effects of this complete strategy, control animals only received injections with culture medium rostral and caudal to the lesion gap. Anatomically, our multifactorial intervention resulted in an enhanced presence of injured CS axons directly rostral to the lesion gap (65.0 +/- 12.8% in transplanted animals versus 13.1 +/- 3.9% in control animals). No regrowth of these axons was observed through the lesion site, which may be related to a lack of OEC/ONF survival on the biomatrices. Furthermore, a 10-fold increase of neurofilament-positive axon ingrowth into the lesion site as compared to untreated control animals was observed. With the use of quantitative gait analysis, a modest recovery in stride length and swing speed of the hind limbs was observed. Although multifactorial strategies may be needed to stimulate repair of large spinal lesion gaps, we conclude that the combined use of OEC/ONF and poly(D,L)-lactide biomatrices is rather limited.
The expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was studied in adult mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and spinal cord by means of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. TH immunoreactivity and TH mRNA were present in 10-15% of lumbar DRG neurons, in most cases being small/medium-sized. Only very few of these neurons coexpressed calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and only around 6% bound isolectin B4 (IB4). Dopamine beta-hydroxylase-positive(+) or aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC)+ DRG neurons were rare and did not colocalize TH. No evidence for dopamine transporter expression was obtained. Axotomy of the sciatic nerve only showed a tendency towards reduction in the number of TH+ neurons. In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, moderately dense and widespread TH+ nerve terminals were observed, mainly in the gray matter and they did not show a typical primary afferent pattern. Also, dorsal rhizotomy or peripheral axotomy had no apparent effect on TH-LI in the dorsal horn. In the skin, along with an abundant TH+ innervation of blood vessels and sweat gland acini, a number of fibers was observed in close relation to the skin surface, some even penetrating into the epithelium. These results demonstrate presence, in normal adult mouse DRGs, of a subpopulation of TH+, essentially CGRP- and IB4-negative small/medium-sized neurons. No evidence for transport of TH into central afferents was obtained, but the enzyme may be present in some sensory fibers in the skin. The fact that neither AADC nor the dopamine transporter could be visualized suggests of non-dopaminergic transmitter phenotype, but the levels of these two dopaminergic markers may be too low to be detected with the present methodology. A further alternative is that L-DOPA after release is extracellularly converted to dopamine.
In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), there is increased expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and degradation of the extracellular matrix in postmortem spinal cord tissue. We used zymography and in situ zymography to analyze the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in spinal cord tissue from the G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Expression of MMP-9 was increased in the spinal cord of G93A mice. For functional analysis of the role of MMPs, we investigated the effects of oral administration of the MMP inhibitor Ro 28-2653 (100 mg/kg), starting at the age of 30 days (n = 19) and on disease onset (starting at the age of 90 days (n = 10)). Treatment with the MMP inhibitor Ro 28-2653 starting at 30 days of age improved motor performance and significantly (P &lt; 0.05) prolonged the survival time of the animals (136 +/- 12 versus 123 +/- 12 days, mean +/- SD), however, administration at disease onset did not significantly improve survival time. Our experiments show that MMPs are expressed in an animal model of ALS and may play a role in the complex pathophysiologic changes. Early pharmacologic inhibition with a synthetic MMP inhibitor extends survival of the animals which suggest a role of MMPs in the early phase of the disease.
Campylobacteriosis is frequently associated with Guillain-Barr syndrome. Poultry are frequently highly colonized with Campylobacter jejuni and are a major foodborne vehicle for campylobacteriosis. In this study, high titer anti-GM1 antibodies were found in the serum of a laboratory worker who developed campylobacteriosis. The microbiologically confirmed strain VLA2/18 (non-serotyped) was isolated from the worker and subsequently inoculated into chickens, resulting in high titers of serum antibodies to GM1. However, none of the immunized chickens in our study showed any noticeable neurological symptoms, such as paralysis or cramping. High titer anti-GM1 antibodies in chicken and human sera strongly inhibited spontaneous muscle action potential in an in vitro system of spinal cord and muscle cell co-culture. In addition, infection of chickens with C. jejuni strains 81116 (HS6) and 99/419 (HS21) or immunization with purified GM1, GM2, and GM3 resulted in elevation of serum anti-ganglioside antibodies with an inhibitory effect on spontaneous muscle action potential. Immunoabsorption studies demonstrated that this inhibitory activity is due to anti-ganglioside antibodies. On the other hand, anti-GM1 is the only specific human serum antibody to induce an inhibitory effect on neuromuscular junctions. Chicken anti-GM1 antibodies showed a strong inhibitory effect, but anti-GM2 and -GM3 had weaker activities. Taken together, our data suggest that campylobacteriosis in chickens may provide a strong link between infection and the development of anti-ganglioside antibody-mediated peripheral nerve dysfunctions.
In parotid glands of pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats, the incorporation of [3H]leucine into trichloroacetic acid-insoluble materials, reflecting protein synthesis, increased by 17% (compared to saline-treated rats) in response to infusion of pentagastrin (20 microg kg(-1), i.v. for 1 h) under muscarinic and alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade. Both the CCK-A receptor antagonist lorglumide (48 mg kg(-1), i.v.) and the CCK-B receptor antagonist itriglumide (5.5 mg kg(-1), i.v.), given separately, prevented the expected increase in pentagastrin and, in addition, reduced the glandular protein synthesis by 16 and 12%, respectively, below the level of saline-treated rats. In rats treated with saline only, the glandular protein synthesis was reduced by 22% by the CCK-A receptor antagonist and by 17% by the CCK-B receptor antagonist; combined, the two antagonists caused no further reduction (20%). There was no increase in the glandular protein synthesis of pentagastrin-treated rats compared to that of the saline-treated rats when both groups of rats were exposed to a combination of the two types of CCK receptor antagonists. In pentagastrin-treated rats, the protein synthesis in the parotid glands was 23% less in the presence of the non-selective nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor L-NAME (30 mg kg(-1), i.v.) than in its absence; the result was the same (23%) when the neuronal NO synthase inhibitor Nomega-propyl-L-arginine (N-PLA; 30 mg kg(-1), i.v.) replaced L-NAME. The protein synthesis in rats treated with saline only was not reduced by L-NAME; nor was the protein synthesis of saline-treated rats different from that of pentagastrin- and L-NAME-treated rats. Thus, under 'basal' conditions, a portion of the glandular protein synthesis, as well as the whole increase in synthesis in response to administration of pentagastrin, engaged both types of CCK receptors. Furthermore, NO generation, owing to neuronal NO synthase activity, was required for the increase to occur in response to pentagastrin, whereas a non-NO-dependent pathway was responsible for the protein synthesis under 'basal' conditions.
Primary glioblastoma multiforme is an aggressive brain tumor that has no cure. Current treatments include gross resection of the tumor, radiation and chemotherapy. Despite valiant efforts, prognosis remains dismal. A promising new technique involves the use of oncolytic viruses that can specifically replicate and lyse in cancers, without spreading to normal tissues. Currently, these are being tested in relevant preclinical models and clinical trials as a therapeutic modality for many types of cancer. Results from recent clinical trials with oncolytic viruses have revealed the safety of this approach, although evidence for efficacy remains elusive. Oncolytic viral strategies are summarized in this review, with a focus on therapies used in brain tumors.
Treating migraine attacks early with triptans may be more effective than late triptan administration. However, in published studies, the definition of 'early' varied (in terms of time, pain intensity or presence of allodynia) or was unclear. Therefore, clear clinical indications have not been established. Appropriately designed trials to address this issue remain a priority. Early triptan treatment may also have disadvantages, including inadvertent treatment of tension-type headaches and danger of medication overuse. At present, only those migraineurs with rapid pain worsening, high pain recurrence rate and clinical indications of allodynia should be encouraged to take triptans as quickly as possible. This recommendation implies a requirement for patient education and the need to carefully tailor treatment to individual needs.
Deleterious post-translational modifications (PTMs) to the neuronal cytoskeleton are a proposed mechanistic link between accumulation of amyloid (A) beta peptides and subsequent abnormalities of tau and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we tested the hypothesis that PTMs on neuronal tubulins selectively accumulate in a pathological protein fraction in AD. We used new software, P-MOD, to identify comprehensively and map PTMs using mass spectral data from soluble (normal) and detergent-insoluble (pathological) protein fractions from AD, as well as total extracts from controls, for selected proteins: Abeta, tau, apolipoprotein (apo) E, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), alpha-III tubulin, and beta-III tubulin. Our results confirmed direct observations of others by identifying methionine (M) sulfoxides at Abeta position 35 and numerous sites of tau phosphorylation in detergent-insoluble protein from AD, while no PTMs were enriched on primarily astrocyte-derived apoE or GFAP in this fraction. P-MOD mapped several abundant M sulfoxides to neuron-enriched beta-III tubulin but not its heterodimeric partner, neuron-enriched alpha-III tubulin, a result confirmed by selective suppression of CNBr-mediated cleavage of beta-III tubulin. These findings are the first comprehensive assessment of PTMs in AD and point to oxidative modification of beta-III tubulin as a potential contributor to the neuronal cytoskeletal disruption that is characteristic of AD.
Annexin A1 (ANXA1) has an important role in cell-cell communication in the host defense and neuroendocrine systems. In both systems, its actions are exerted extracellularly via membrane-bound receptors on adjacent sites after translocation of the protein from the cytoplasm to the cell surface of adjacent cells. This study used molecular, microscopic, and pharmacological approaches to explore the mechanisms underlying the cellular exportation of ANXA1 in TtT/GF (pituitary folliculo-stellate) cells. LPS caused serine-phosphorylation of ANXA1 (ANXA1-S27-PO4) and translocation of the phosphorylated protein to the cell membrane. The fundamental requirement of phosphorylation for membrane translocation was confirmed by immunofluorescence microscopy on cells transfected with wild-type or mutated (S27/A) ANXA1 constructs tagged with enhanced green fluorescence protein. The trafficking of ANXA1-S27-PO4 to the cell surface was dependent on PI3-kinase and MAP-kinase. It also required HMG-coenzyme A and myristoylation. The effects of HMG-coenzyme A blockade were overcome by mevalonic acid (the product of HMG-coenzyme A) and farnesyl-pyrophosphate but not by geranyl-geranylpyrophosphate or cholesterol. Together, these results suggest that serine-27 phosphorylation is essential for the translocation of ANXA1 across the cell membrane and also identify a role for isoprenyl lipids. Such lipids could target consensus sequences in ANXA1. Alternatively, they may target other proteins in the signal transduction cascade (e.g., transporters).
In this review we critically examine the data on functions of the estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) in both behavior and neuroendocrinology. The influence of estradiol via the ERbeta has been assessed using several methods: estrogen receptor knockout mice, specific ERbeta selective agonists, and phytoestrogens which preferentially bind to ERbeta rather than ERalpha. The behavior for which a solid database and consensus is forming is anxiety; activation of ERbeta reduces anxiety on a number of tasks and in several species. Moreover, the relationship between ERbeta and serotonin may be critical for the regulation of this behavior by estradiol. There have been very few studies on learning and memory but the little we know suggests that ERbeta is involved in visuospatial learning; in its absence learning is inhibited. Recent work has suggested a unique function for ERbeta in sexual differentiation; its activation in male neonates may promote defeminization of sexual behavior. Several neurotransmitter-containing neurons in the rat paraventricular nucleus coexpress ERbeta including; vasopressin, oxytocin, prolactin, and to a lesser extent corticotrophin releasing hormone. Given the potential for ERbeta to interact with these important neurotransmitters and its co-expression in gonadotropin releasing hormone neurons it is surprising how normal the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal and -gonadal axes appear to be in ERbeta knockout mice. Either this represents a species difference (the neuroanatomy has been conducted in the rat) or compensatory actions of ERalpha or other mechanisms. Exciting avenues for future research include; in vivo interactions between ERalpha and ERbeta, actions of non-estrogenic ligands with ERbeta, and the role of ERbeta in sexual differentiation.
Until just a few decades ago, it was very difficult to detect, non invasively, physiological signals from the brain. However, the discoveries in physics, the evolution of information technology, and the invention of non-invasive biomedical technologies in the last decades of the twentieth century transformed this scenario and created numerous opportunities for studying the brain in living subjects. The authors trace the extraordinary evolution of brain imaging techniques (magnetic resonance imaging, emission tomography, and ?functional neuroimaging?) in the second part of the twentieth century. Not only have these methods had a remarkable clinical impact, they have also been outstanding research tools in the field of the neurosciences. In their most recent applications, they are employed in the quest to uncover the neuronal substrate of the human mind.
In mammals complex interactions between various brain structures and neuropeptides such as corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and urocortin 1 (Ucn1) underlay the control of feeding by the brain. Recently, in the amphibian Xenopus laevis, CRF- and Ucn1-immunoreactivities were shown in the hypothalamic magnocellular nucleus (Mg) and evidence was obtained for their involvement in food intake. To gain a better understanding of the brain structures controlling feeding in X. laevis, the effects of 16 weeks starvation on neurones immunoreactive (ir) to Fos and neuropeptides in various brain structures were quantified. In the Mg, compared to controls, starved animals showed fewer neurones immunopositive for Fos (-55.9%), Ucn1 (-44.0%), cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) (-94.3%) and metenkephalin (ENK) (-65.0%), whereas CRF-ir neurones were 2.1 times more numerous. These differences were mainly apparent in the ventral part of the Mg, followed by the medial and dorsal part of the nucleus. In the neural lobe of the pituitary gland a 22.5% lower optical density of CART-ir was observed. In the four other brain structures investigated, starvation had different effects. The dorsomedial part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus showed 5.9 times more NPY-ir cells and in the ventromedial thalamic area a lower number of NPY-ir cells (-33.6%) was found, whereas the Edinger-Westphal nucleus contained fewer CART-ir cells (-42.2%); no effect of starvation was seen in the ventral hypothalamic nucleus. Our results support the hypothesis that in X. laevis, the Mg plays a pivotal role in feeding-related processes and, moreover, that starvation also has neuropeptide- and brain structure-specific effects in other parts of the brain and in the pituitary gland, suggesting particular roles of these structures and their neuropeptides in physiological adaptation to starvation.
Based on the procedure of Prusky et al. (2000, Vision Research, 40, 2201-2209), we used a computer-based, two-alternative swim task to evaluate visual detection, pattern discrimination and visual acuity in 14 strains of mice from priority groups A and B of the JAX phenome project (129S1/SvImJ, A/J, AKR/J, BALB/cByJ, BALB/cJ, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, CAST/Ei, DBA/2J, FVB/NJ, MOLF/Ei, SJL/J, SM/J and SPRET/Ei). Each mouse was tested for eight trials/day for 8 days on each of the three tests. There was a significant strain difference in visual ability in all three tests. Mice with reported normal vision (129S1/SvImJ, C57BL/6J and DBA/2J) and one albino strain (AKR/J) performed very well in these tasks. The other albino strains (A/J, BALB/cByJ and BALB/cJ) took longer to learn the tasks than mice with normal vision and did not reach the criterion of 70% correct. Mice with retinal degeneration (C3H/HeJ, FVB/NJ, MOLF/Ei and SJL/J) performed only at chance levels as did the three strains with unknown visual abilities (CAST/Ei, SM/J and SPRET/Ei). Because many behavioral tasks for rodents rely on visual cues, we suggest that the visual abilities of mice should be evaluated before they are tested in commonly used visuo-spatial learning and memory tasks.
Unbiased identification of susceptibility genes might provide new insights into pathogenic mechanisms that govern complex inflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis. In this study we fine mapped Eae18a, a region on rat chromosome 10 that regulates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis. We utilized two independent approaches: (1) in silico mapping based on sequence similarity between human multiple sclerosis susceptibility regions and rodent EAE quantitative trait loci and (2) linkage mapping in an F10 (DA x PVG.AV1) rat advanced intercrossed line. The linkage mapping defines Eae18a to a 5-Mb region, which overlaps one intergenomic consensus region identified in silico. The combined approach confirms experimentally, for the first time, the accuracy of the in silico method. Moreover, the shared intersection between the results of both mapping techniques defines a 1.06-Mb region containing 13 candidate genes for the regulation of neuroinflammation in humans, rats, and mice.
Geoffrey W. Harris, inspired by Francis H. Marshall, began the experimental studies in order to demonstrate a vascular connection between the hypothalamus and the adenohypophysis, with neuropeptides as messengers. This confirmed his theory that the mechanism consists in that the nerve fibers in the hypothalamus release hormonal substances in the capillaries of the primary plex in the medium eminence, and that these substances are carried by the vessels of the portal circulation to stimulate or inhibit the pars distalis cells of the hypophysis. This theory placed the hypothalamus as the fundamental structure to understand the link between the brain and the hypophysis. Later, it was known the structure of neurohormones, particularly the responsible for producing gonadotrophins. By this way, it was possible to go into the processes involved in reproduction. This was the origin of neuroendocrinology, gestated by investigations made in the reproduction of animals, including man. The purification, sequentiation and synthesis of the hormone that controls the FSH and LH production have allowed to study the physiology and disorders of the neuroendocrine circuit.

The vision of Hadassah Medical Organization and the Hebrew University in Jerusalem was to establish a University Hospital where clinical excellence and high academic level will be the hallmark of its departments. More than seventy years ago, guided by this spirit, the leaders of the two institutions attempted to establish a department of neurosurgery, which, at the time in only a few countries, was making its initial steps as an independent discipline. It was only during World War II that Hadassah could bring over a specialist in neurosurgery who worked for nearly three years in the Hadassah Hospital on Mount Scopus. This article describes the way Dr. Henry Wigderson was selected to be the first neurosurgeon in Eretz-Israel, his activities and the incorporation of the idea, in spite of the disappointment caused by his departure, that even at times of distress, neurosurgery is not a luxury but an indispensable part of an forward-looking medical institution.
We review physical signs and measurements from neurophysiological research, which may be considered biomarkers of migraine. Most studies show that information processing is abnormal in migraineurs. Studies of trigeminal nociception are in line with a central sensitization during the attack. The best documented abnormality is an interictal lack of habituation in migraineurs, with a normalization during the headache state, which has been shown using evoked and event-related potentials. Together with a diminished energy reserve found in MR-spectroscopy studies, these results suggest a possible role of increased energy consumption in attack generation. Importantly, to date, no neurophysiological marker has a high enough sensitivity and specificity to point out the single migraine patient. Therefore, these biomarkers are to be understood as tools for research and are not to be used for diagnostic purposes.
The therapeutic use of microglial cells has recently received some attention for the treatment of Alzheimer disease (AD), but few non-invasive techniques exist for monitoring the cells after administration. Here we present a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique for tracking microglia injected intra-arterially in vivo. We micro-injected Abeta42 into the left hippocampus and saline into the right hippocampus of rats. We then administered microglia, which were labeled with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene and Resovist, into the carotid artery. After monitoring exogenously administered microglia using MRI, we compared the MR images and the histochemical localization of administered microglia. MRI revealed clear signal changes attributable to Resovist-containing microglia in Abeta-injected areas. Histochemistry demonstrated that EGFP-positive microglia accumulated around Abeta deposits and internalized the peptide. This study demonstrates the usefulness of MRI for non-invasive monitoring of exogenous microglia, and suggests a promising future for microglia/macrophages as therapeutic tools for AD.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations cause heterogeneous disorders in humans. MtDNA exists in multiple copies per cell, and mutations need to accumulate beyond a critical threshold to cause disease, because coexisting wild-type mtDNA can complement the genetic defect. A better understanding of the molecular determinants of functional complementation among mtDNA molecules could help us shedding some light on the mechanisms modulating the phenotypic expression of mtDNA mutations in mitochondrial diseases. We studied mtDNA complementation in human cells by fusing two cell lines, one containing a homoplasmic mutation in a subunit of respiratory chain complex IV, COX I, and the other a distinct homoplasmic mutation in a subunit of complex III, cytochrome b. Upon cell fusion, respiration is recovered in hybrids cells, indicating that mitochondria fuse and exchange genetic and protein materials. Mitochondrial functional complementation occurs frequently, but with variable efficiency. We have investigated by native gel electrophoresis the molecular organization of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in complementing hybrid cells. We show that the recovery of mitochondrial respiration correlates with the presence of supramolecular structures (supercomplexes) containing complexes I, III and IV. We suggest that critical amounts of complexes III or IV are required in order for supercomplexes to form and provide mitochondrial functional complementation. From these findings, supercomplex assembly emerges as a necessary step for respiration, and its defect sets the threshold for respiratory impairment in mtDNA mutant cells.
In myotonic dystrophy (DM), expression of RNA containing expanded CUG or CCUG repeats leads to misregulated alternative splicing of pre-mRNA. The repeat-bearing transcripts accumulate in nuclear foci, together with proteins in the muscleblind family, MBNL1 and MBNL2. In transgenic mice that express expanded CUG repeats, we show that the splicing defect selectively targets a group of exons that share a common temporal pattern of developmental regulation. These exons undergo a synchronized splicing switch between post-natal day 2 and 20 in wild-type mice. During this post-natal interval, MBNL1 protein translocates from a predominantly cytoplasmic to nuclear distribution. In the absence of MBNL1, these physiological splicing transitions do not occur. The splicing defect induced by expanded CUG repeats in mature muscle fibers is closely reproduced by deficiency of MBNL1 but not by deficiency of MBNL2. A parallel situation exists in human DM type 1 and type 2. MBNL1 is depleted from the muscle nucleoplasm because of sequestration in nuclear foci, and the associated splicing defects are remarkably similar to those observed in MBNL1 knockout mice. These results indicate that MBNL1 participates in the post-natal remodeling of skeletal muscle by controlling a key set of developmentally regulated splicing switches. Sequestration of MBNL1, and failure to maintain these splicing transitions, has a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of muscle disease in DM.
Oxytocin (OT) is traditionally thought of as a &quot;female&quot; neurohypophysis hormone due to its role in parturition and milk ejection. However, OT is recognized as having endocrine and paracrine roles in male reproduction. At ejaculation, a burst of OT is released from the neurohypophysis into the systemic circulation and stimulates contractions of the reproductive tract aiding sperm release. There is conclusive evidence that OT is synthesized within the mammalian testis, epididymis and prostate and the presence of OT receptors (OTRs) through the reproductive tract supports a local action for this peptide. OT has a paracrine role in stimulating contractility of the seminiferous tubules, epididymis and the prostate gland. Interestingly, OT has also been shown to modulate androgen levels in these tissues via stimulation of the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestostone (DHT) by 5alpha-reductase. The elucidation of OT's role in male reproduction has suggested a number of potential therapeutic uses for this hormone. Exogenous administration of OT has, in some cases, been shown to increase the numbers of ejaculated sperm, possibly by stimulating contractions of the reproductive tract and thus aiding sperm passage. Within the prostate, OT has been shown to affect gland growth both directly and via its interaction with androgen metabolism. Prostate pathologies due to unregulated cell proliferation/growth, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia and cancer, are unfortunately very common and few effective treatments are available. Greater understanding of paracrine growth mediators, such as OT, is likely to provide new mechanisms for treating such pathologies.

Cupping and streak artifacts caused by the detection of scattered photons may severely degrade the quantitative accuracy of cone-beam X-ray computed tomography (CT) images. In order to overcome this problem, we propose and validate the following iterative scatter artifact reduction scheme. First, an initial image is reconstructed from the scatter-contaminated projections. Next, the scatter component of the projections is estimated from the initial reconstruction by a Monte Carlo (MC) simulation. The estimate obtained is then utilized during the reconstruction of a scatter-corrected image. The last two steps are repeated until an adequate correction is obtained. The estimation of the noise-free scatter projections in this scheme is accelerated in the following way: first, a rapid (i.e., based on a low number of simulated photon tracks) MC simulation is executed. The noisy result of this simulation is de-noised by a three-dimensional fitting of Gaussian basis functions. We demonstrate that, compared to plain MC, this method shortens the required simulation time by three to four orders of magnitude. Using simulated projections of a small animal phantom, we show that one cycle of the scatter correction scheme is sufficient to produce reconstructed images that barely differ from the reconstructions of scatter-free projections. The reconstructions of data acquired with a charge-coupled device based micro-CT scanner demonstrate a nearly complete removal of the scatter-induced cupping artifact. Quantitative errors in a water phantom are reduced from around 12% for reconstructions without the scatter correction to 1% after the proposed scatter correction has been applied. In conclusion, a general, accurate, and efficient scatter correction algorithm is developed that requires no mechanical modifications of the scanning equipment and results in only a moderate increase in the total reconstruction time.

Oligoastrocytomas (OAs) are WHO grade II or III tumors composed of a mixture of 2 neoplastic cell types morphologically resembling the cells in oligodendrogliomas and diffuse astrocytomas. Investigations on the genetic profile of OAs may yield important information for their classification and help for their clinical management. We have studied, in 94 OAs (46 WHO grade II and 48 WHO grade III), the patterns of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of 4 genomic regions: 1p, 19q, 17p and 10q. Results were as follows: LOH 1p was present in 46% of the tumors; LOH 19q in 45%; LOH 17p in 22%; LOH 10q in 16%. LOH 1p and 19q were associated in 32%, other LOH associations were rare (&lt;3%). Patients had a median follow-up of 30 months. Patients without LOH on 1p had shorter progression free survival than patients with LOH on 1p: 30 vs. 132 months, p &lt; 0.0001. MRI indicated that tumors without LOH on 1p were often temporal (p &lt; 0.02), and showed signal inhomogeneity on T1 and T2 images (p &lt; 0.02) and contrast enhancement (p &lt; 0.04). Thus, LOH on 1p identifies two subgroups of OAs. OAs without LOH on 1p behave like WHO grade II or III diffuse astrocytomas: they have shorter survival, MRI characteristics implying malignancy and genetic alterations associated with tumor progression. OAs with LOH on 1p, on the other hand, behave like WHO grade II or III oligodendrogliomas with 1p loss: they are associated with longer survival and do not have MRI or genetic alterations associated with malignancy. These findings suggest that the definition of OAs or mixed gliomas could be reshaped in agreement with the genetic information.

Serotonin (5-HT) has been intimately linked with global regulation of motor behavior, local control of motoneuron excitability, functional recovery of spinal motoneurons as well as neuronal maturation and aging. Selective degeneration of motoneurons is the pathological hallmark of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Motoneurons that are preferentially affected in ALS are also densely innervated by 5-HT neurons (e.g., trigeminal, facial, ambiguus, and hypoglossal brainstem nuclei as well as ventral horn and motor cortex). Conversely, motoneuron groups that appear more resistant to the process of neurodegeneration in ALS (e.g., oculomotor, trochlear, and abducens nuclei) as well as the cerebellum receive only sparse 5-HT input. The glutamate excitotoxicity theory maintains that in ALS degeneration of motoneurons is caused by excessive glutamate neurotransmission, which is neurotoxic. Because of its facilitatory effects on glutaminergic motoneuron excitation, 5-HT may be pivotal to the pathogenesis and therapy of ALS. 5-HT levels as well as the concentrations 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA), the major metabolite of 5-HT, are reduced in postmortem spinal cord tissue of ALS patients indicating decreased 5-HT release. Furthermore, cerebrospinal fluid levels of tryptophan, a precursor of 5-HT, are decreased in patients with ALS and plasma concentrations of tryptophan are also decreased with the lowest levels found in the most severely affected patients. In ALS progressive degeneration of 5-HT neurons would result in a compensatory increase in glutamate excitation of motoneurons. Additionally, because 5-HT, acting through presynaptic 5-HT1B receptors, inhibits glutamatergic synaptic transmission, lowered 5-HT activity would lead to increased synaptic glutamate release. Furthermore, 5-HT is a precursor of melatonin, which inhibits glutamate release and glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. Thus, progressive degeneration of 5-HT neurons affecting motoneuron activity constitutes the prime mover of the disease and its progression and treatment of ALS needs to be focused primarily on boosting 5-HT functions (e.g., pharmacologically via its precursors, reuptake inhibitors, selective 5-HT1A receptor agonists/5-HT2 receptor antagonists, and electrically through transcranial administration of AC pulsed picotesla electromagnetic fields) to prevent excessive glutamate activity in the motoneurons. In fact, 5HT1A and 5HT2 receptor agonists have been shown to prevent glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in primary cortical cell cultures and the 5-HT precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) improved locomotor function and survival of transgenic SOD1 G93A mice, an animal model of ALS.
Damage to the spinal cord/conus medullaris due to incorrect identification of the lumbar space is a known complication of lumbar puncture. However, damage to a low-lying cord using an appropriate interspace is extremely rare. We describe a 26-year-old woman who underwent emergency caesarean section under spinal anesthesia. She developed right foot drop immediately after surgery, which gradually recovered over the next 10 months. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a low lying cord with a fatty filum terminale and intramedullary T2 hyperintensity, suggestive of needle damage.
Previous studies have demonstrated that aging has an adverse effect on laboratory decision-making in some older adults, and such findings have important implications for real-world reasoning and judgment. Emotion, and its accompanying somatic responses, is thought to contribute significantly to decision-making. In the present study, we had two objectives: 1) to investigate decision-making in a new sample of elderly participants, using the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT); and 2) to investigate psychophysiological correlates of decision-making, focusing on anticipatory skin conductance responses (SCRs) that participants produce immediately prior to their behavioral response. We hypothesized that the previous behavioral findings would be replicated, and further, that the older adult participants with IGT impairments would show a lack of discriminatory anticipatory SCRs during the IGT. The results supported both predictions. First, a subgroup of the new elderly sample demonstrated impaired decision-making on the IGT, replicating our previous findings. Second, the participants with impaired IGT performance failed to demonstrate discriminatory anticipatory SCRs for advantageous versus disadvantageous choices, whereas participants with normal IGT performance did demonstrate such discrimination; in the latter case, however, SCR magnitude was higher for advantageous decisions (unlike the pattern in young normal adults). Our data lead to the suggestion that strong decision-making abilities among older adults may be a function of positive somatic markers, whereas poor decision-making abilities may arise from an abnormal somatic response generated in anticipation of a future event.
The intersection of psychophysiology and cognitive neuroscience has proved to be fertile ground for advancing our understanding of the neurobiological basis of behavior. The eight original empirical articles in this special issue contribute a variety of new evidence for how various bodily processes interrelate with brain processes, especially in the service of emotions and feelings. The findings are rich in their own right, and they also underscore the value of psychophysiological approaches in the investigation of brain-behavior relationships. This type of work is helping to shape a new field of &quot;affective neuroscience.&quot;
The airway sensations stimulated by smoking are an important source of hedonic impact (pleasure) for dependent smokers. The learning process by which these sensations become pleasurable is not well understood. The classical conditioning model predicts that airway sensory stimulation will elicit sympathetic arousal that is positively correlated with the hedonic impact that is elicited by airway sensory stimulation. To test this prediction, we measured skin conductance responses (SCRs) and subjective hedonic impact elicited by a series of individual puffs from nicotinized, denicotinized and unlit cigarettes. Nicotinized puffs elicited more subjective hedonic impact than denicotinized and unlit puffs partly as a result of the fact that they provided a greater level of airway sensory stimulation. We found that SCRs were not larger for nicotinized puffs than for denicotinized puffs, but that they were larger for both nicotinized and denicotinized puffs than for unlit puffs. We also found that the average SCR of a subject to denicotinized puffs was positively correlated with the average hedonic impact that a subject obtained from denicotinized puffs. Together, this suggests that SCR magnitude does not reflect within-subject variations in hedonic impact that are due to variations in the level of airway sensory stimulation, but that it does reflect individual differences in the amount of hedonic impact that is derived from a given level of airway sensory stimulation. The results of a post hoc correlation analysis suggest that these individual differences may have been due to variations in the prevailing urge to smoke. The implications of these findings for the classical conditioning model, as well as for other learning models, are discussed.
Autonomic nervous system parameters such as electrodermal activity, heart rate, and facial EMG have been utilized extensively as measures of emotional arousal. One measure that has rarely been employed in this setting is gastric myoelectrical activity, despite the fact that &quot;gut feelings&quot; have an obvious and even profound role in everyday emotional life. It has been shown that the gastrointestinal system changes wall tonus and contraction rate during stressful tasks. However, the effects of emotionally salient stimuli on gastrointestinal motility have scarcely been studied. In the current study, emotional film clips designed to elicit happiness, disgust, fear, sadness, or no emotion (neutral) were presented to 16 normal participants. Electrogastrogram (EGG), skin conductance, and heart rate were measured while the participants viewed the film clips, and participants rated subjective arousal intensity and pleasantness of the film clips. We found that emotional film clips reliably induced the intended subjective feeling states. Also, EGG peak amplitudes in fear, disgust, sadness and happiness were higher than in the no emotion condition. There was a strong positive correlation (r=0.64) between EGG peak amplitude and subjective ratings of arousal. This is the first evidence that gastric myoelectrical activity is strongly correlated with arousal ratings to emotionally salient stimuli, and it suggests that EGG may add useful information about how the body contributes to the phenomenology of emotion and feeling.
The management of symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid stenosis has been a hotly debated topic for decades. The publication of four randomized controlled trials of carotid endarterectomy has clarified many of the issues. Patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis &gt;70% benefit most with an absolute risk reduction of 17% over 2 years with numbers needed to treat of 3-6, whereas in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis &gt;60%, the absolute risk reduction is 1% per annum (numbers needed to treat = 14-17). There is doubt about the benefit in women &gt;70 years of age with asymptomatic stenosis. Carotid angioplasty and stenting is in its infancy and may one day supplant carotid endarterectomy as the treatment of choice; however, currently indications for this procedure include participation in randomized controlled trials, surgically inaccessible stenosis, in patients with combined symptomatic carotid and symptomatic coronary artery disease or in patients with severe co-morbidities that preclude formal carotid endarterectomy.


There is substantial evidence of morphological, biochemical and molecular abnormalities in mitochondria in various tissues of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the precise role of mitochondria in the neurodegenerative cascade leading to AD is still unclear, leaving the answer to the question &quot;what's first: the chicken or the egg?&quot; pending. Here we focus our attention on the progress made in this field in the past few years, which indicates a key role of this fossil organelle and of its specific DNA in contributing to the disease.
Mitochondria are uniquely poised to play a pivotal role in neuronal cell survival or death because they are regulators of both energy metabolism and apoptotic pathways. This review is mainly focused in the discussion of evidence suggesting a clear association between amyloid-beta toxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and neuronal damage/death in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology. The knowledge that mitochondrial dysfunction has a preponderant role in Alzheimer's disease opened a window for new therapeutic strategies aimed to preserve/ameliorate mitochondrial function. Based on recent developments in mitochondrial research, increased pharmacological and pharmaceutical efforts have lead to the emergence of 'Mitochondrial Medicine' as a whole new field of biomedical research being this topic discussed in the last section of this review.
The goal of Freud's Project was to place all psychological functioning on a neurological foundation; however, the resources of his time were inadequate for the task. This article attempts to link basic psychoanalytic and behavioral constructs to current neuroscience, specifically the memory paradigm of multiple trace theory. We propose that Freud's theory of early cognitive development, in which primary process is succeeded by secondary process, corresponds to the progression from a noncontextual taxon-based memory system to a locale system (mediated by hippocampal and cortical structures) in which memories are formed within space/time contexts. The effects of trauma within these models is then examined by noting how Freud's views of repression and regression parallel neuropsychological hypotheses about the ways in which traumatic experience impacts specific brain areas. Finally, the treatment implications of this theoretical synthesis are explored. We posit that transference resembles the learning theory construct of generalization, and the non-contextualized coding of the taxon system. In conclusion, we suggest that orthodox psychoanalytic approaches may have overestimated the efficacy of words and intellectual vectors in effecting therapeutic change. Nonverbal strategies may be required to reach material that is stored in early developing brain areas that may be inaccessible to words.
The present study described an open source application, ResourceLog, that allows website administrators to record and analyze the usage of online resources. The application includes four components: logging, data mining, administrative interface, and back-end database. The logging component is embedded in the host website. It extracts and streamlines information about the Web visitors, the scripts, and dynamic parameters from each page request. The data mining component runs as a set of scheduled tasks that identify visitors of interest, such as those who have heavily used the resources. The identified visitors will be automatically subjected to a voluntary user survey. The usage of the website content can be monitored through the administrative interface and subjected to statistical analyses. As a pilot project, ResourceLog has been implemented in SenseLab, a Web-based neuroscience database system. ResourceLog provides a robust and useful tool to aid system evaluation of a resource-driven Web application, with a focus on determining the effectiveness of data sharing in the field and with the general public.
Why should psychoanalysts learn about neighboring disciplines? It is often argued that, although information from neuroscience, neuropsychology, evolutionary psychology, and other fields may be of interest to analysts, it has no real effect on their practice: on the way they listen, the way they react, or the way they treat their patients. A corollary of this position is that there is no reason to include such information in a psychoanalytic curriculum, since it does not help candidates become better analysts. Against this view, two reasons are advanced for the importance of interdisciplinary study. The more general reason is that it grounds psychoanalysis in the broader scientific world, reducing its isolation and inbred parochialism. This can help justify the discipline intellectually, possibly in advance of and independently of supportive research from within the field (e.g., outcome studies). The second reason is that our own minds, and particularly those of the generation now entering training, have been altered by changes in the scientific zeitgeist and we need to have some grasp of these changes. Finally, six examples of findings from other disciplines are presented that even now may be contributing to thinking about psychoanalytic practice.
Electrical stimulation (1-ms pulses, 100 Hz) produces more torque than expected from motor axon activation (extra contractions). This experiment investigates the most effective method of delivering this stimulation for neuromuscular electrical stimulation. Surface stimulation (1-ms pulses; 20 Hz for 2 s, 100 Hz for 2 s, 20 Hz for 3 s) was delivered to triceps surae and wrist flexors (muscle stimulation) and to median and tibial nerves (nerve stimulation) at two intensities. Contractions were evaluated for amplitude, consistency, and stability. Surface electromyograph was collected to assess how H-reflexes and M-waves contribute. In the triceps surae, muscle stimulation produced the largest absolute contractions (23% maximal voluntary contraction), evoked the largest extra contractions as torque increased by 412% after the 100-Hz stimulation, and was more consistent and stable compared with tibial nerve stimulation. Absolute and extra contraction amplitude, consistency, and stability of evoked wrist flexor torques were similar between stimulation types: torques reached 11% maximal voluntary contraction, and extra contractions increased torque by 161%. Extra contractions were 10 times larger in plantar flexors compared with wrist flexors with muscle stimulation but were similar with nerve stimulation. For triceps surae, H reflexes were 3.4 times larger than M waves during nerve stimulation, yet M waves were 15 times larger than H reflexes during muscle stimulation. M waves in the wrist flexors were larger than H reflexes during nerve (8.5 times) and muscle (18.5 times) stimulation. This is an initial step toward utilizing extra contractions for neuromuscular electrical stimulation and the first to demonstrate their presence in the wrist flexors.
Electroacupuncture (EA) applied to the abdomen and hindlimb modulates the ovarian blood flow (OBF) response. The present study aimed to further elucidate the role of the site and the frequency of short-term EA stimulation and the influence of the estrous cycle on the OBF response using anesthetized rats. EA stimulation was applied to the abdominal or the hindlimb muscles at three different frequencies (2, 10, and 80 Hz) during the estrus or diestrus phase. Involvement of spinal and supraspinal reflexes in OBF responses to EA stimulation was investigated by spinal cord transection. Abdominal EA stimulation at 10 Hz increased the OBF response, whereas hindlimb EA stimulation at 10 Hz and abdominal and hindlimb stimulation at 80 Hz decreased the OBF response; 2-Hz EA caused no OBF response. The OBF response to abdominal EA was more pronounced in the estrus than the diestrus phase. The OBF response to abdominal and hindlimb EA stimulation at both 10 and 80 Hz was almost abolished, both after severance of the sympathetic nerves and after spinal cord transection. In conclusion, the OBF response to both abdominal and hindlimb EA stimulation was mediated as a reflex response via the ovarian sympathetic nerves, and the response was controlled via supraspinal pathways. Furthermore, the OBF response to segmental abdominal EA stimulation was frequency dependent and amplified in the estrous phase.
Few studies have investigated personality and psychopathological profiles associated to the choice of university education. Our study examined students from four faculties of Turin University, in Turin, Italy (Medicine, Engineering, Education, Law), comparing sociodemographic features, personality characteristics and psychiatric symptoms. A heterogeneous group of 1,323 students were assessed using a semistructured interview, the Personality Diagnostic Questionnaire-Revised (PDQ-R), and the Symptoms Checklist 90 (SCL-90). Statistical analysis included four logistic regression models, each fitted for one faculty, considering the other three as a control group. Associations were found in Medical and Engineering students concerning type of high school, school final score, and father?s socioeducational level. Factors associated with students of Law and Education included socioeducational characteristics, but stronger correlations were seen with PDQ-R personality scales and SCL-90 symptom clusters. In conclusion, four different profiles were identified. Medicine was not significantly related to personality and psychiatric factors. Engineering was related to male gender, choice of technical high school and father?s social level. Law was related to female gender and narcissistic personality profile. These data may be useful for counseling activities addressed to high school and university students.
Vascular endothelial cells receive proangiogenic or antiangiogenic signals from components of extracellular matrix (ECM) depending upon the situation and many molecular signals can have opposite effects in different vascular beds. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 is antiangiogenic in several tissues, but promotes retinal neovascularization. When cleaved from native collagens, several of the non-collagenous domains (NC1) of basement membrane collagens have antiangiogenic effects in some tissues, but this is context dependent for the NC1 of the alpha 1 chain of collagen IV. It is critical to examine effects in several well-defined model systems before assuming that an ECM component is universally antiangiogenic. In this study, we examined the effects of a recombinant fragment of NC1 of the alpha 2 chain of type IV collagen (alpha2(IV)NC1) in a well-characterized model of ocular neovascularization. Intravitreous or periocular injections of alpha2(IV)NC1 caused selective apoptosis of endothelial cells participating in neovascularization resulting in suppression of neovascularization when the peptide was given prior to onset of new vessel sprouting. Importantly, when the peptide was given after neovascularization had already developed, it caused the new vessels to regress. This suggests that alpha2(IV)NC1, which has previously been shown to suppress tumor angiogenesis in xenograft models, is also a strong antiangiogenic agent in the choroid and is a therapeutic candidate for treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and myelin-based inhibitors are the most studied inhibitory molecules in the adult central nervous system. Unlike myelin-based inhibitors, few studies have reported ways to overcome the inhibitory effect of CSPGs. Here, by using regenerating adult dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, we show that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans inhibit axon assembly by a different mechanism from myelin-based inhibitors. Furthermore, we show that neither Rho inhibition nor cAMP elevation rescues extracellular factor-induced axon assembly inhibited by CSPGs. Instead, our data suggest that CSPGs block axon assembly by interfering with integrin signaling. Surprisingly, we find that nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes robust axon growth of regenerating DRG neurons over CSPGs. We have found that, unlike naive neurons that require simultaneous activation of neurotrophin and integrin pathways for axon assembly, either neurotrophin or integrin signaling alone is sufficient to induce axon assembly of regenerating neurons. Thus, our results suggest that the ability of NGF to overcome CSPG inhibition in regenerating neurons is probably due to the ability of regenerating neurons to assemble axons using an integrin-independent pathway. Finally, our data show that the GSK-3beta-APC pathway, previously shown to mediate developing axon growth, is also necessary for axon regeneration.
We sought to investigate whether carotid endarterectomy (CEA) can achieve long-term cerebral hemodynamic improvement and reduce recurrence of cerebral ischemic events in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with severe (&gt;70%) carotid artery stenosis contralateral to carotid occlusion (CO). Thirty-nine patients with severe carotid lesion contralateral to CO were studied before (1 day) and after CEA (at 7 days, 1, 3 and 6 months, and then yearly thereafter). Collateral flow and cerebral vasomotor reactivity (VMR) were assessed by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD). A total of 32 unoperated patients with severe carotid lesion contralateral to CO, who were comparable with respect to age and sex, served as a control group. The average period of TCD follow-up was 10 years and was obtained in all patients; during this period, major clinical events (stroke, acute myocardial infarction and death) were also recorded. The proportion of patients with collateral flow via the anterior communicating artery increased significantly from 61.5% before to 89.7% after CEA (P = 0.01). Cerebral VMR ipsilateral to CO improved in 85.7% of patients (30 of 35) within 30 days of CEA, and in all patients within 90 days. No significant spontaneous VMR recovery was recorded in the control group. After the initial recovery, no significant change in VMR was observed in the surgical group or the control group during the follow-up. In conclusion, in patients with severe carotid stenosis, CEA contralateral to symptomatic and asymptomatic CO determines a durable cerebral hemodynamic improvement not only on the side of the CEA but also on the contralateral side, with no difference between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients.




Executive function mediated by prefrontally driven distributed networks is frequently impaired by traumatic brain injury (TBI) as a result of diffuse axonal injury and focal lesions. In addition to executive cognitive functions such as planning and working memory, the effects of TBI impact social cognition and motivation processes. To encourage application of cognitive neuroscience methods to studying recovery from TBI, associated reorganization of function, and development of interventions, this article reviews the pathophysiology of TBI, critiques currently employed methods of assessing executive function, and evaluates promising interventions that reflect advances in cognitive neuroscience. Brain imaging to identify neural mechanisms mediating executive dysfunction and response to interventions following TBI is also discussed.
The canonical description of the role of the medial temporal lobes (MTLs) in memory is that short-term forms of memory (e.g., working memory [WM]) are spared when the MTL is damaged, but longer term forms of memory are impaired. Tests used to assess this have typically had a heavy verbal component, potentially allowing explicit rehearsal strategies to maintain the WM trace over the memory delay period. Here we test the hypothesis that the MTL is necessary for visual WM when verbal rehearsal strategies are difficult to implement. In three patients with MTL damage we found impairments in spatial, face, and color WM, at delays as short as 4 sec. Impaired memory could not be attributed to memory load or perceptual problems. These findings suggest that the MTLs are critical for accurate visual WM.
Barrel hollows in the posteromedial barrel subfield of adult rat somatosensory cortex typically encompass two or three metabolically and structurally distinct regions, termed subbarrels. We used immunohistochemical staining for vesicular glutamate transporter 2 and the neuronal serotonin transporter, in conjunction with cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry, to investigate the distribution of thalamocortical (TC) axon terminals in relation to subbarrel domains. We found, first, that CO-dark subbarrels are more intensely immunoreactive for thalamocortical terminals than the CO-light clefts that separate them. Second, during the first postnatal week, immunoreactivity for markers of TC terminals is relatively homogeneous throughout the barrel hollow; subbarrel patterns of distribution only become recognizable between P-8 and P-10. These observations extend previous findings that subbarrels denote barrel regions enriched in synaptic contacts. The data also indicate that allocation of TC terminals into subbarrel domains does not occur immediately upon thalamic axon ingrowth. Instead, refinement of TC arbors into subbarrels is a gradual process, the outcome of which is not manifest until the second week of postnatal life.
Despite extensive investigation of the motor cortex of primates, little is known about the organization of motor cortex in tree shrews, one of their closest living relatives. We investigated the organization of frontoparietal cortex in Belanger's tree shrews (Tupaia belangeri) by using intracortical microstimulation (ICMS), corticospinal tracing, and detailed histological analysis. The results provide evidence for the subdivision of tree shrew frontoparietal cortex into seven distinct areas (five are newly identified), including two motor fields (M1 and M2) and five somatosensory fields (3a, 3b, S2, PV, and SC). The types of movements evoked in M1 and M2 were similar, but M2 required higher currents to elicit movements and had few connections to the cervical spinal cord and distinctive cyto- and immunoarchitecture. The borders between M1 and the anterior somatosensory regions (3a and 3b) were identified primarily from histological analysis, because thresholds were similar between these regions, and differences in corticospinal neuron distribution were subtle. The caudal (SC) and lateral (S2 and PV) somatosensory fields were identified based on differences in architecture and distribution of corticospinal neurons. Myelin-dense modules were identified in lateral cortex, in the expected location of the oral, forelimb, and hindlimb representations of S2, and possibly PV. Evidence for a complex primate-like array of motor fields is lacking in tree shrews, but their motor cortex shares a number of basic features with that of primates, which are not found in more distantly related species, such as rats.
Neural precursors persist throughout life in the rodent forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ) and hippocampal dentate gyrus. The regulation of persistent neural stem cells is poorly understood, in part because of the lack of neural progenitor markers. The Sox B1 subfamily of HMG-box transcription factors (Sox1-3) is expressed by precursors in the embryonic nervous system, where these factors maintain neural progenitors in an undifferentiated state while suppressing neuronal differentiation. Sox2 expression persists in germinative zones of the adult rodent brain, but Sox3 expression in the postnatal brain remains largely unexplored. Here we examine Sox3 expression in the neonatal and adult mouse brain to gain insight into its potential involvement in regulating persistent neural stem cells and neurogenesis. We also investigate Sox3 expression during expansion and neural differentiation of postnatal mouse SVZ neural stem cell and human embryonic stem cell (hESC) cultures. We find that Sox3 is expressed transiently by proliferating and differentiating neural progenitors in the SVZ-olfactory bulb pathway and dentate gyrus. Sox3 immunoreactivity also persists in specific postmitotic neuronal populations. In vitro, high Sox3 protein expression levels in undifferentiated, SVZ-derived neurospheres decline markedly with differentiation. Sox3 immunoreactivity in hESCs appears upon differentiation to neural progenitors and then decreases as cells differentiate further into neurons. These findings suggest that Sox3 labels specific stages of hESC-derived and murine neonatal and adult neural progenitors and are consistent with a role for Sox3 in neural stem cell maintenance. Persistent Sox3 expression in some mature neuronal populations suggests additional undefined roles for Sox3 in neuronal function.
Crickets use acoustic communication for pair formation. Males sing with rhythmical movements of their wings and the mute females approach the singing males by phonotaxis. Females walking on a trackball rapidly steer towards single sound pulses when exposed to split-song paradigms. Their walking path emerges from consecutive reactive steering responses, which show no temporal selectivity. Temporal pattern recognition is tuned to the species-specific syllable rate and gradually changes the gain of auditory steering. If pattern recognition is based on instantaneous discharge rate coding, then the tuning to the species-specific song pattern may already be present at the level of thoracic interneurons. During the processing of song patterns, changes in cytosolic Ca(2+ )concentrations occur in phase with the chirp rhythm in the local auditory interneurone. Male singing behaviour is controlled by command neurons descending from the brain. The neuropil controlling singing behaviour is located in the anterior protocerebrum next to the mushroom bodies. Singing behaviour is released by injection of cholinergic agonists and inhibited by gamma-butyric acid (GABA). During singing, the sensitivity of the peripheral auditory system remains unchanged but a corollary discharge inhibits auditory processing in afferents and interneurons within the prothoracic auditory neuropil and prevents the auditory neurons from desensitisation.
Osteosclerotic myeloma is a rare plasma cell disorder often associated with a polyneuropathy. We describe a young patient with progressive polyneuropathy associated with vertebral bone marrow lesions and unusual meningeal infiltration at cauda level. The diagnosis of osteosclerotic myeloma was confirmed by bone marrow biopsy findings including the chromosome 13q14 deletion in 37% of the cells. Leptomeningeal involvement was demonstrated by spine magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium administration and fat-suppression technique.
A number of non-coding RNA are known to contain functionally important or conserved pseudoknots. However, pseudoknotted structures are more complex than orthodox, and most methods for analyzing secondary structures do not handle them. I present here a way to decompose and represent general secondary structures which extends the tree representation of the stem-loop structure, and use this to analyze the frequency of pseudoknots in known and in random secondary structures. This comparison shows that, though a number of pseudoknots exist, they are still relatively rare and mostly of the simpler kinds. In contrast, random secondary structures tend to be heavily knotted, and the number of available structures increases dramatically when allowing pseudoknots. Therefore, methods for structure prediction and non-coding RNA identification that allow pseudoknots are likely to be much less powerful than those that do not, unless they penalize pseudoknots appropriately.
Seven- and eight-year-old deaf children and hearing children of equivalent reading age were presented with a number of tasks designed to assess reading, spelling, productive vocabulary, speechreading, phonological awareness, short-term memory, and nonverbal intelligence. The two groups were compared for similarities and differences in the levels of performance and in the predictors of literacy. Multiple regressions showed that both productive vocabulary and speechreading were significant predictors of reading for the deaf children after hearing loss and nonverbal intelligence had been accounted for. However, spelling ability was not associated with any of the other measures apart from reading. For hearing children, age was the main determinant of reading and spelling ability (due to selection criterion). Possible explanations for the role of speechreading and productive vocabulary in deaf children's reading and the differences between the correlates of literacy for deaf and hearing children are discussed.
The adipocyte-derived hormone leptin plays a pivotal role in the regulation of body weight and energy homeostasis. Many studies have indicated that the circulating levels of leptin show a 24-h rhythm, but the exact cause and nature of this rhythm is still unclear. In the present study, we remotely collected blood samples every hour from young and old, male and female rhesus monkeys, and examined their 24-h plasma leptin profiles. In both the young males (10-11 years) and females (7-13 years), a clear 24-h plasma leptin rhythm was evident with a peak occurring approximately 4 h into the night and a nadir occurring approximately 1 h into the day (lights on from 0700 to 1900 h). A 24-h plasma leptin rhythm was also observed in the old males (23-30 years), even when they were maintained under constant lighting conditions (continuous dim illumination of approximately 100 lx). In marked contrast, plasma leptin concentrations were relatively constant across the day and night in old peri- and post-menopausal females (17-24 years), regardless of the lighting schedule. These data establish that rhesus monkeys, like humans, show a daily nocturnal rise in plasma leptin, and the magnitude of this rhythm undergoes a sex-specific aging-dependent attenuation. Furthermore, they suggest that the underlying endocrine mechanism may be driven in part by a circadian clock mechanism.
The great writer and polyglot, W Somerset Maugham said, 'I'll give you my opinion of the human race in a nutshell...their heart's in the right place, but their head is a thoroughly inefficient organ.' If his words are applied to trafficking of the human pituitary gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor, it turns out that he was more right than he knew. Paradoxically, the inefficiency of receptor trafficking to the plasma membrane can bring regulatory advantages to cells. Understanding the mechanism by which cells recognize correctly folded proteins in health and disease opens doors to new therapeutic approaches and provides a more accurate view of mechanisms of normal cell function than is presently available.
The authors administered a series of object displacement tasks to 24 great apes and 24 30-month-old children (Homo sapiens). Objects were placed under 1 or 2 of 3 cups by visible or invisible displacements. The series included 6 tasks: delayed response, inhibition test, A not B, rotations, transpositions, and object permanence. Apes and children solved most tasks performing at comparable levels except in the transposition task, in which apes performed better than children. Ape species performed at comparable levels in all tasks except in single transpositions, in which chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and bonobos (Pan paniscus) performed better than gorillas (Gorilla gorilla) and orangutans (Pongo pygmeaus). All species found nonadjacent trials and rotations especially difficult. The number of elements that changed locations, the type of displacement, and having to inhibit predominant reaching responses were factors that negatively affected the subjects' performance.
Three divided visual field experiments tested current hypotheses about the types of visual shape representation tasks that recruit the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying face recognition. Experiment 1 found a right hemisphere advantage for subordinate but not basic-level face recognition. Experiment 2 found a right hemisphere advantage for basic but not superordinate-level animal recognition. Experiment 3 found that inverting animals eliminates the right hemisphere advantage for basic-level animal recognition. This pattern of results suggests that the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying face recognition are recruited when computational demands of a shape representation task are best served through the use of coordinate (rather than categorical) spatial relations.
Short tandem repeat (STR) analysis is a valuable tool in identifying the source of biological stains, particularly from the investigation of sexual assault crimes. Difficulties in analysis arise primarily in the interpretation of mixed genotypes when cell separation of the sexual assailant's sperm from the victim's cells is incomplete. The forensic community continues to seek improvements in cell separation methods from mixtures for DNA typing. The feasibility of applying laser microdissection (LMD) technology to precisely separate sexual assault cell mixtures by visual inspection coupled with laser dissection was assessed through three experiments. First, various histological stains were evaluated for use with LMD and DNA analysis. Second, different DNA isolation methods were evaluated on LMD-collected cells. Finally, STR analysis was performed on LMD-separated sperm cells from mixtures of semen and female buccal epithelial cells. The results indicated (a) hematoxylin/eosin staining performed best in its ability to differentiate sperm and epithelial cells while exhibiting the least negative effect on further downstream analysis; (b) both QIAamp and Lyse-N-Go methods were useful for recovery of DNA from LMD-collected sperm cells; and (c) LMD separation provided clear STR profiles of the male donor with the absence of any additional alleles from the female donor. This report describes an efficient, low-manipulation LMD method for the efficient separation of spermatozoa from two-donor sperm/epithelial cell mixtures.
Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the leading cause of paediatric respiratory disease and is the focus of antiviral- and vaccine-development programmes. These goals have been aided by an understanding of the virus genome architecture and the mechanisms by which it is expressed and replicated. RSV is a member of the order Mononegavirales and, as such, has a genome consisting of a single strand of negative-sense RNA. At first glance, transcription and genome replication appear straightforward, requiring self-contained promoter regions at the 3' ends of the genome and antigenome RNAs, short cis-acting elements flanking each of the genes and one polymerase. However, from these minimal elements, the virus is able to generate an array of capped, methylated and polyadenylated mRNAs and encapsidated antigenome and genome RNAs, all in the appropriate ratios to facilitate virus replication. The apparent simplicity of genome expression and replication is a consequence of considerable complexity in the polymerase structure and its cognate cis-acting sequences; here, our understanding of mechanisms by which the RSV polymerase proteins interact with signals in the RNA template to produce different RNA products is reviewed.


Muscle atrophy in many conditions share a common mechanism in the upregulation of the muscle-specific ubiquitin E3-ligases atrophy gene-1/muscle atrophy F-box (Atrogin-1/MAFbx) and muscle ring-finger protein 1 (MuRF1). E3-ligases are part of the ubiquitin proteasome pathway utilized for protein degradation during muscle atrophy. In this study, we provide new data to show that this is not the case in age-related loss of muscle mass (sarcopenia). On the contrary, Atrogin-1/MAFbx and MuRF1 are downregulated in skeletal muscle of 30-month-old rats, and our results suggest that AKT (protein kinase B)-mediated inactivation of forkhead box O 4 (FOXO4) underlies this suppression. The data also suggest that activation of AKT is mediated through the insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptor, signaling via ShcA-Grb2-GAB. Using dietary restriction, we find that it impedes sarcopenia as well as the effects of aging on AKT phosphorylation, FOXO4 phosphorylation, and Atrogin-1/MAFbx and MuRF1 transcript regulation. We conclude that sarcopenia is mechanistically different from acute atrophies induced by disuse, disease, and denervation.
This multimethod study explored women's information seeking behaviour and decision making regarding menopause, hormone replacement therapy (HRT), and use of complementary and alternative medicines (CAM) during menopause. This research was underway during the mass media release of the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) estrogen-progestin trial results, allowing an examination of the impact of this news on women's decisions. There were two studies: first, 20 women who currently were or previously had used HRT were interviewed about their experiences with menopause and HRT-related information seeking and decision making. Following this, 285 demographically representative Canadian women aged 45-65 who were current or former HRT users completed a questionnaire. Results indicate that women's information behaviour differed according to which decision they were making (starting versus stopping HRT, considering CAM), as did the sources they consulted. In general, there has been a paucity of good information to help women who are deciding to stop HRT. The types and sources of CAM information often are found to be less than credible and helpful. When information is lacking, women rely on informal sources, and on their own judgement, to make decisions. The results are discussed in the context of information behaviour and help-seeking theory.
Current hypotheses that use visually guided reaching and grasping to explain orbital convergence, visual specialization, and brain expansion in primates are open to question now that neurological evidence reveals no correlation between orbital convergence and the visual pathway in the brain that is associated with reaching and grasping. An alternative hypothesis proposed here posits that snakes were ultimately responsible for these defining primate characteristics. Snakes have a long, shared evolutionary existence with crown-group placental mammals and were likely to have been their first predators. Mammals are conservative in the structures of the brain that are involved in vigilance, fear, and learning and memory associated with fearful stimuli, e.g., predators. Some of these areas have expanded in primates and are more strongly connected to visual systems. However, primates vary in the extent of brain expansion. This variation is coincident with variation in evolutionary co-existence with the more recently evolved venomous snakes. Malagasy prosimians have never co-existed with venomous snakes, New World monkeys (platyrrhines) have had interrupted co-existence with venomous snakes, and Old World monkeys and apes (catarrhines) have had continuous co-existence with venomous snakes. The koniocellular visual pathway, arising from the retina and connecting to the lateral geniculate nucleus, the superior colliculus, and the pulvinar, has expanded along with the parvocellular pathway, a visual pathway that is involved with color and object recognition. I suggest that expansion of these pathways co-occurred, with the koniocellular pathway being crucially involved (among other tasks) in pre-attentional visual detection of fearful stimuli, including snakes, and the parvocellular pathway being involved (among other tasks) in protecting the brain from increasingly greater metabolic demands to evolve the neural capacity to detect such stimuli quickly. A diet that included fruits or nectar (though not to the exclusion of arthropods), which provided sugars as a neuroprotectant, may have been a required preadaptation for the expansion of such metabolically active brains. Taxonomic differences in evolutionary exposure to venomous snakes are associated with similar taxonomic differences in rates of evolution in cytochrome oxidase genes and in the metabolic activity of cytochrome oxidase proteins in at least some visual areas in the brains of primates. Raptors that specialize in eating snakes have larger eyes and greater binocularity than more generalized raptors, and provide non-mammalian models for snakes as a selective pressure on primate visual systems. These models, along with evidence from paleobiogeography, neuroscience, ecology, behavior, and immunology, suggest that the evolutionary arms race begun by constrictors early in mammalian evolution continued with venomous snakes. Whereas other mammals responded by evolving physiological resistance to snake venoms, anthropoids responded by enhancing their ability to detect snakes visually before the strike.

The HIV-1 gene products Tat and gp120 are toxic to neurons and can activate cells of myeloid origin, properties that are thought to contribute to the clinical manifestations of HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD). To investigate the intracellular signaling mechanisms involved in these events, the effect of Tat and gp120 on mixed lineage kinase (MLK) 3 activation was examined. Tat and gp120 were shown to induce autophosphorylation of MLK3 in primary rat neurons; this was abolished by the addition of an inhibitor of MLK3 (CEP1347). CEP1347 also enhanced survival of both rat and human neurons and inhibited the activation of human monocytes after exposure to Tat and gp120. Furthermore, overexpression of wild-type MLK3 led to the induction of neuronal death, whereas expression of a dominant negative MLK3 mutant protected neurons from the toxic effects of Tat. MLK3-dependent downstream signaling events were implicated in the neuroprotective and monocyte-deactivating pathways triggered by CEP1347. Thus, the inhibition of p38 MAPK and JNK protected neurons from Tat-induced apoptosis, whereas the inhibition of p38 MAPK, but not of JNK, was sufficient to prevent Tat- and gp120-mediated activation of monocytes. These results suggest that the normal function of MLK3 is compromised by HIV-1 neurotoxins (Tat, gp120), resulting in the activation of downstream signaling events that result in neuronal death and monocyte activation (with release of inflammatory cytokines). In aggregate, our data define MLK3 as a promising therapeutic target for intervention in HAD.
D6, a promiscuous nonsignaling chemokine binding molecule expressed on the lymphatic endothelium, internalizes and degrades CC chemokines, and D6(-/-) mice demonstrated increased cutaneous inflammation following topical phorbol ester or CFA injection. We report that D6(-/-) mice were unexpectedly resistant to the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis due to impaired encephalitogenic responses. Following induction with myelin oligodendroglial glycoprotein (MOG) peptide 35-55 in CFA, D6(-/-) mice showed reduced spinal cord inflammation and demyelination with lower incidence and severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis attacks as compared with D6(+/+) littermates. In adoptive transfer studies, MOG-primed D6(+/-) T cells equally mediated disease in D6(+/+) or D6(-/-) mice, whereas cells from D6(-/-) mice transferred disease poorly to D6(+/-) recipients. Lymph node cells from MOG-primed D6(-/-) mice showed weak proliferative responses and made reduced IFN-gamma but normal IL-5. CD11c(+) dendritic cells accumulated abnormally in cutaneous immunization sites of D6(-/-) mice. Surprisingly, D6, a &quot;silent&quot; chemokine receptor, supports immune response generation.
The aim of this study was to explore multitasking skills in a Chinese sample of 22 children with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) compared with 22 healthy controls matched by gender, age, and IQ. All of the participants completed the children's version of the Six Elements Test (C-SET) and neuropsychological tests that captured specific domains of attention, memory, and executive function. Children with ADHD performed significantly worse than the healthy controls in all domains except the number of rules broken in the C-SET. The majority of the C-SET domain scores correlated significantly with measures of executive function. The ADHD group also demonstrated deficits in various neurocognitive test performances compared with the healthy group. This preliminary study suggests that the C-SET is sensitive to multitasking behavior in Chinese children with ADHD. The main impairments of multitasking behavior in this clinical group involve the inhibition of goal-directed planning, flexible strategy generation, and self-monitoring.
Cognitive impairment occurs in roughly 50% of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). It is well known that processing speed and episodic memory deficits are the most common neuropsychological (NP) sequelae in this illness. Consensus has emerged about the specific tests that prove most helpful for routine monitoring of MS associated cognitive impairment. The purpose of this study was to examine the validity of the Minimal Assessment of Cognitive Function in MS (MACFIMS), a recommended battery based on the findings of an international conference held in 2001. We tested 291 MS patients and 56 healthy controls. Frequencies of impairment paralleled those reported in previous work for both individual cognitive domains and general impairment. All tests were impaired in the MS group, and distinguished relapsing-remitting (RR) from secondary progressive (SP) course. Principle components analysis showed a distinct episodic memory component. Most of the MACFIMS tests discriminated disabled from employed patients. However, in regression models accounting for all NP tests, those emphasizing verbal memory and executive function were most predictive of vocational status. We conclude that the MACFIMS is a valid approach to routine NP assessment of MS patients. Future work is planned to determine its psychometric properties in a longitudinal study.
Cadherin-like proteins have been identified as putative receptors for the Bacillus thuringiensis Cry1A proteins in Heliothis virescens and Manduca sexta. Immunohistochemistry showed the cadherin-like proteins are present in the insect midgut apical membrane, which is the target site of Cry toxins. This subcellular localization is distinct from that of classical cadherins, which are usually present in cell-cell junctions. Immunoreactivity of the cadherin-like protein in the insect midgut was enhanced by Cry1Ac ingestion. We also generated a stable cell line Flp-InT-REX-293/Full-CAD (CAD/293) that expressed the H. virescens cadherin. As expected, the cadherin-like protein was mainly localized in the cell membrane. Interestingly, toxin treatment of CAD/293 cells caused this protein to relocalize to cell membrane subdomains. In addition, expression of H. virescens cadherin-like protein affects cell-cell contact and cell membrane integrity when the cells are exposed to activated Cry1Ab/Cry1Ac.
Studies performed with animals suggest neurosteroid involvement in neuroprotection. However in humans, the role of neurosteroidogenesis in the regulation of degenerative processes is unknown. To determine whether cellular factors intervening in degenerative mechanisms may interfere with the process of neurosteroidogenesis in humans, we combined pulse-chase experiments with HPLC and continuous flow scintillation detection to compare neurosteroid production in normal and transfected SH-SY5Y cells with key proteins involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Microscope analyses revealed that cell morphology was unchanged in stably transfected SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing human native tau (hTau40), mutant tau (P301L), and wild-type amyloid precursor protein (APPwt) compared to controls. Biochemical investigations showed that hTau40 enhanced progesterone (PROG), 17OHPROG, testosterone, and 3alpha-androstanediol neosynthesis from pregnenolone. In contrast, tau with the pathogenic P301L mutation was devoid of action on neurosteroidogenesis. Overexpression of APPwt inhibited PROG formation, did not affect 17OHPROG and testosterone, but increased 3alpha-androstanediol and estradiol synthesis. Extracellular treatment of control cells with aggregated amyloid peptide mimicked the action of APPwt expression on PROG but not on 3alpha-androstanediol and estradiol production. Moreover, PROG biosynthesis in APPwt cells was up-regulated in the presence of a gamma-secretase inhibitor. Our results provide the first evidence for the regulation of neurosteroid biosynthesis by key proteins involved in the etiology of AD. The data suggest that pathogenic factors may induce neurodegeneration in humans through the reduction of the synthesis of endogenous neuroprotective neurosteroids in nerve cells.
CNS synapses are produced rapidly upon pre- and post-synaptic recruitment. However, their composition is known to change during development and we reasoned that this may be reflected in the gross biochemical properties of synapses. We found synaptic structure in adult cortical synaptosomes to be resistant to digestion with trypsin in the presence and absence of calcium ions, contrasting with previous observations. We evaluated the divalent cation dependence and trypsin sensitivities of synapses using synaptosomes from different developmental stages. In contrast to adult synapses, at postnatal day (P) 10 EDTA treatment eliminated approximately 60% of the synapses, and trypsin and EDTA, together, eliminated all junctions. Trypsinization in the presence of calcium eliminated approximately 60% of the junctions at P10. By P35, all synapses were calcium independent, whereas full trypsin resistance was not attained until P49. To compare the calcium dependence and trypsin sensitivity of synapses in another region of the adult brain, we examined synapses from adult (P50) hippocampus. Adult hippocampus maintained a population of synapses that resembled that of P35 cortex. Our results show that synapses are modified over a long time period in the developing cortex. We propose a model in which the addition of synergistic calcium-dependent and -independent adhesive systems stabilize synapses.
We investigated the polyol pathway activity and the gene expression profiles in immortalized adult mouse Schwann cells (IMS32) under normal (5.6 mM) and high (30 and 56 mM) glucose conditions for 7-14 days in culture. Messenger RNA and the protein expression of aldose reductase (AR) and the intracellular sorbitol and fructose contents were up-regulated in IMS32 under high glucose conditions compared with normal glucose conditions. By employing DNA microarray and subsequent RT-PCR/northern blot analyses, we observed significant up-regulation of the mRNA expressions for serum amyloid A3 (SAA3), angiopoietin-like 4 (ANGPTL4) and ecotropic viral integration site 3 (Evi3), and the down-regulation of aldehyde reductase (AKR1A4) mRNA expression in the cells under high glucose (30 mM) conditions. The application of an AR inhibitor, SNK-860, to the high glucose medium ameliorated the increased sorbitol and fructose contents and the reduced AKR1A4 mRNA expression, while it had no effect on mRNA expressions for SAA3, ANGPTL4 or Evi3. Considering that the exposure to the high glucose (&gt;or= 30 mM) conditions mimicking hyperglycaemia in vivo accelerated the polyol pathway in IMS32, but not in other previously reported Schwann cells, the culture system of IMS32 under those conditions may provide novel findings about the polyol pathway-related abnormalities in diabetic neuropathy.
Although endogenous cannabinoid systems have been implicated in the modulation of the rewarding effects of abused drugs and food, little is known about the direct effects of endogenous ligands for cannabinoid receptors on brain reward processes. Here we show for the first time that the intravenous administration of anandamide, an endogenous ligand for cannabinoid receptors, and its longer-lasting synthetic analog methanandamide, increase the extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens shell of awake, freely moving rats, an effect characteristic of most drugs abused by humans. Anandamide produced two distinctly different effects on dopamine levels: (1) a rapid, transient increase that was blocked by the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant, but not by the vanilloid VR1 receptor antagonist capsazepine, and was magnified and prolonged by the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) enzyme inhibitor, URB597; (2) a smaller delayed and long-lasting increase, not sensitive to CB1, VR1 or FAAH blockade. Both effects were blocked by infusing either tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 microm) or calcium-free Ringer's solution through the microdialysis probe, demonstrating that they were dependent on the physiologic activation of dopaminergic neurotransmission. Thus, these results indicate that anandamide, through the activation of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, participates in the signaling of brain reward processes.
Following our identification of PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) gene mutations in PARK6-linked Parkinson's disease (PD), we have recently reported that PINK1 protein localizes to Lewy bodies (LBs) in PD brains. We have used a cellular model system of LBs, namely induction of aggresomes, to determine how a mitochondrial protein, such as PINK1, can localize to aggregates. Using specific polyclonal antibodies, we firstly demonstrated that human PINK1 was cleaved and localized to mitochondria. We demonstrated that, on proteasome inhibition with MG-132, PINK1 and other mitochondrial proteins localized to aggresomes. Ultrastructural studies revealed that the mechanism was linked to the recruitment of intact mitochondria to the aggresome. Fractionation studies of lysates showed that PINK1 cleavage was enhanced by proteasomal stress in vitro and correlated with increased expression of the processed PINK1 protein in PD brain. These observations provide valuable insights into the mechanisms of LB formation in PD that should lead to a better understanding of PD pathogenesis.
We present evidence that the 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) (5-HT(1A)) receptor antagonist, N-{2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]-ethyl}-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide (WAY-100635), can induce receptor internalization in a human (h)5-HT(1A) receptor Chinese hamster ovary (CHO-K1) cell system. Exposure of h5-HT(1A) CHO cells to WAY-100635 decreased the cell-surface h5-HT(1A) receptor density in a way that was both time (24-72 h) and concentration (1-100 nm) dependent.[(3)H]WAY-100635 and [(3)H]8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin ([(3)H]8-OH-DPAT) saturation analyses demonstrated a significant reduction (50-60%) in total h5-HT(1A) receptor number in the WAY-100635-treated (100 nm; 72 h) compared with control cells. In WAY-100635-treated cells, the 8-OH-DPAT-mediated inhibition of forskolin (FSK)-stimulated cAMP accumulation was right-shifted and the maximal inhibitory response of 8-OH-DPAT was impaired compared with control cells. Similar results were obtained for 8-OH-DPAT-mediated Ca(2+) mobilization after WAY-100635 treatment. h5-HT(1A) receptors labeled with [(3)H]WAY-100635, as well as [(3)H]4-(2'-Methoxy)-phenyl-1-[2'-(N-2''-pyridinyl)-p-fluorobenzamido]ethyl-piperazine (MPPF), exhibited a time-dependent rate of cellular internalization that was blocked by endocytotic suppressors and was pertussis-toxin insensitive. In contrast, quantitative autoradiographic studies demonstrated that chronic treatment of rats with WAY-100635 for two weeks produced a region-specific increase in the 5-HT(1A) receptor density. In conclusion, prolonged exposure of an h5-HT(1A) cell-based system to the 5-HT(1A) antagonist, WAY-100635, induced a paradoxical internalization of cell surface receptor resulting in depressed functional activity. This suggests that an antagonist can influence 5-HT(1A) receptor recycling in vitro differently to in vivo regulatory conditions.
Establishment of a Parkinson's disease (PD) neuron model was attempted with mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. ES cell lines over-expressing mouse nuclear receptor-related 1 (Nurr1), together with human wild-type and alanine 30 --&gt; proline (A30P) and alanine 53 --&gt; threonine (A53T) mutant alpha-synuclein were established and subjected to differentiation into dopaminergic neurons. The ES cell-derived dopaminergic neurons expressing wild-type or mutant alpha-synuclein exhibited the fundamental characteristics consistent with dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. The ES cell-derived PD model neurons exhibited increased susceptibility to oxidative stress, proteasome inhibition, and mitochondrial inhibition. Cell viability of PD model neurons and the control neurons was similar until 28 days after differentiation. Nonetheless, after that time, PD model neurons gradually began to undergo neuronal death over the course of 1 month, showing cytoplasmic aggregate formation and an increase of insoluble alpha-synuclein protein. Such delayed neuronal death was observed in a mutant alpha-synuclein protein level-dependent manner, which was slightly inhibited by a c-jun N-terminal kinase inhibitor and a caspase inhibitor. Such cell death was not observed when the same ES cell lines were differentiated into oligodendrocytes. The ES cell-derived PD model neurons are considered as prospective candidates for a new prototype modelling PD that would allow better investigation of the underlying neurodegenerative pathophysiology.

Developing oligodendrocytes (OL precursors, pre-OLs) express alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) subtype glutamate receptors (AMPARs) and are highly vulnerable to hypoxic-ischemic or oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)-induced excitotoxic injury, yet the mechanisms of injury remain unclear. Here we investigated the role of glutamate accumulation and mitochondrial function in OGD-induced pre-OL toxicity in vitro. Bulk glutamate concentration in the culture medium did not increase during OGD and OGD-conditioned medium did not transfer toxicity to nave cells. Facilitation of glutamate diffusion by constant agitation of the culture reduced, while inhibition of glutamate diffusion by increasing medium viscosity with dextran enhanced, OGD-induced pre-OL injury. Depletion of extracellular glutamate by the glutamate scavenging system, glutamate-pyruvate transaminase plus pyruvate, attenuated pre-OL injury during OGD. Together these data suggest that local glutamate accumulation is critical for OGD toxicity. Interestingly, under normoxic conditions, addition of glutamate to pre-OLs did not cause receptor-mediated toxicity, but the toxicity could be unmasked by mitochondrial impairment with mitochondrial toxins. Furthermore, OGD caused mitochondrial potential collapse that was independent of AMPAR activation, and OGD toxicity was enhanced by mitochondrial toxins. These data demonstrate that pre-OL excitotoxicity is exacerbated by mitochondrial dysfunction during OGD. Overall, our results indicate that OGD-induced pre-OL injury is a novel form of excitotoxicity caused by the combination of local glutamate accumulation that occurs without an increase in bulk glutamate concentration and mitochondrial dysfunction. Therapeutic strategies targeting local glutamate concentration and mitochondrial injury during hypoxia-ischemia may be relevant to human disorders associated with pre-OL excitotoxicity.
Berthold's classic study of domesticated roosters in 1849 demonstrated that testicular secretions are necessary for the normal expression of aggressive behaviour. Although this conclusion is undoubtedly correct, field studies of wild songbirds have yielded important modifications and limitations of Berthold's original hypothesis. For example, studies of the North American song sparrow (Melospiza melodia) during the breeding season reveal that not only does testosterone increase aggression, but aggressive interactions also increase plasma testosterone levels. Furthermore, in winter, nonbreeding song sparrows have low plasma testosterone levels but are very aggressive, and castration of nonbreeding song sparrows does not decrease aggression. Interestingly, an aromatase inhibitor (fadrozole) does decrease male aggression in the nonbreeding season, and the effects of fadrozole can be rescued with oestradiol. In winter, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) from the periphery can be metabolised within the brain to supply oestradiol to specific neural circuits. Additionally, oestradiol might be synthesised de novo from cholesterol entirely within the brain. These mechanisms may have evolved to avoid the 'costs' of circulating testosterone in the nonbreeding season. Recent studies in tropical birds, hamsters, and humans suggest that these neuroendocrine mechanisms are important for the control of aggression in many vertebrate species.
Basal activity of the rat hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is highly dynamic and displays both circadian and ultradian rhythmicity in corticosterone secretion. This study investigated the relationship between basal corticosterone pulsatility and the corticosterone response to noise during the early light phase when there are no endogenous corticosterone pulses and during the early dark phase when there are hourly pulses of corticosterone. An automated blood sampling system was used to collect blood in conscious male rats at 5-min intervals before, during and after exposure to 10-min periods of white noise (104 dB). Behavioural responses to noise were also monitored during these periods. During the early light phase (morning), there was a consistent corticosteroid response to noise with corticosterone concentrations rising rapidly and reaching peak values 10-15 min after the noise had ceased, following which circulating concentrations declined at a rate comparable to the hormones half-life. A second noise stress, 80 min later, resulted in adaptation of the corticosterone response. During the early dark phase (evening), the corticosterone response to the noise was similar to that seen in the morning, although there was no adaptation to a second stimulus. During the evening, the inhibition of endogenous HPA activity after the sound was limited to 40 min following stress.
The secretory activity of melanotroph cells from Xenopus laevis is regulated by multiple neurotransmitters that act through adenylyl cyclase. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), acting on protein kinase A (PKA), stimulates the frequency of intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations and the secretory activity of the melanotroph cell. Anchoring of PKA near target proteins is essential for many PKA-regulated processes, and the family of A kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs) is involved in the compartmentalisation of PKA type II (PKA II) regulatory subunits. In the present study, we determined to what degree cAMP signalling in Xenopus melanotrophs depends on compartmentalised PKA II. For this purpose, a membrane-permeable stearated form of Ht31 (St-Ht31), which dislodges PKA II from AKAP (thus disrupting PKA II signalling), was used. The effect of St-Ht31 on both secretion of radiolabelled peptides and intracellular Ca(2+) signalling by superfused Xenopus melanotrophs was assessed. St-Ht31 stimulated secretion but had no effect on Ca(2+) signalling. We conclude Xenopus melanotrophs possess a St-Ht31-sensitive PKA II that is associated with the exocytosis machinery and, furthermore, that Ca(2+) signalling is regulated by an AKAP-independent signalling system. Moreover, our results support a recent proposal that AKAP participates in regulating PKA activity independently from cAMP.
Endovascular stent-supported angioplasty is a treatment option for atherosclerotic disease of the cervical internal carotid artery in high-risk patients. The traditional transfemoral approach is not suitable for patients who suffer from common femoral artery or abdominal aorta atheropathy. We report a case of carotid stent deployment using the radial route in a 68-year-old man with type B aortic dissection, having severe right internal carotid artery origin stenosis, presenting with ipsilateral retinal ischemic events. Technical aspects of carotid stenting via the radial approach are described and the related literature is discussed.
Following inflammatory demyelination in multiple sclerosis (MS), partial remyelination occurs. Studies in rodents have indicated that oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are responsible for this remyelination. Rodent OPCs are identified in situ with antibodies against platelet-derived growth factor alpha receptor (PDGFalphaR) and NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. In human CNS tissue, studies of NG2 and PDGFalphaR expression are limited and controversy exists as to whether these molecules are specific OPC markers. This study has investigated whether PDGFalphaR and NG2 are co-expressed on OPCs in human CNS, and whether OPCs are associated with remyelination in MS. MS brain tissue was examined for PDGFalphaR and NG2 immunoreactivity and for expression of NG2 mRNA by in situ hybridisation. Putative OPCs, expressing both NG2 and PDGFalphaR, were present within normal-appearing white matter and within areas of active demyelination in MS, but not in chronic silent lesions. They were also seen in association with remyelination in MS tissue and with developmental myelination in human spinal cord. NG2+ cells that did not express PDGFalphaR were also detected. Given their lack of reactivity with microglial or astrocyte markers, these NG2+/PDGFalphaR- cells probably represented more mature OPCs that had lost PDGFalphaR expression. The distribution of OPCs observed in this study strongly suggests these cells are potential sources of remyelinating oligodendrocytes in active lesions in MS.
HIV-1 infection of the central nervous system (CNS) is associated with dysregulation of several important cytokines and chemokines, which are involved in inflammatory process. Earlier studies ascribed a critical role for Tat, a potent viral transcription activator, in this process by enhancing the expression of several immunomodulators including TGFbeta and MCP-1. Investigation of signaling pathways which are controlled by these cytokines led to identification of MH2 domain of Smad3, the downstream activator of TGFbeta pathway, as a modulator of MCP-1 promoter activity. The level of MCP-1 is increased in AIDS patients with neurologic problems, through recruitment of inflammatory cells, which can contribute to neuropathogenesis of AIDS. Therefore, we attempted to investigate the effect of MH2 on expression of MCP-1 and other immunolmodulators in CNS cells. By employing an adenovirus expression vector, we demonstrated that MH2 can decrease the levels of Tat-induced activation of MCP-1 and several other cytokines and chemokines in astrocytic cells. In addition, we showed that MH2 significantly reduced the activity of cytokines produced by cultures of adenovirus-MH2 transduced cells as measured by the transmigration of human PBMC cells. Thus, MH2 domain of Smad3 is a potential agent that may be developed as an inhibitor for the cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses in the brain and may have the potential to prevent transmigration of HIV-1-infected monocytes across the blood brain barrier in AIDS patients.
EAE development in SJL/J mice is age and sex dependent: young males are EAE resistant; females and adult males are EAE susceptible. By studying splenocytes' IFNgamma and NO production and the induction or the suppression of actively induced EAE by manipulating NO systemic levels, we provide evidence that the failure of young male SJL/J mice to develop EAE lies in the activation of the innate immune system by the immunising stimulus.



The main form of locomotion in the lamprey (a lower vertebrate, cyclostome) is forward swimming (FS) based on periodical waves of lateral body flexion propagating from head to tail. The lamprey is also capable of backward swimming (BS). Here we describe the kinematical and electromyographic (EMG) pattern of BS, as well as the effects on this pattern exerted by different lesions of the spinal cord. The BS was evoked by tactile stimulation of a large area in the anterior part of the body. Swimming was attributed to the waves of lateral body undulations propagating from tail to head. The EMG bursts on the two sides alternated, and the EMG in more caudal segments led in phase the EMG in more rostral segments. Main kinematical characteristics of BS strongly differed from those of FS: the amplitude of undulations was much larger and their frequency lower. Also, the maintenance of the dorsal-side-up body orientation ascribed to vestibular postural reflexes (typical for FS) was not observed during BS. A complete transection of the spinal cord did not abolish the generation of forward-propagating waves rostral to the lesion. After a lateral hemisection of the spinal cord, the BS pattern persisted on both sides rostral to the lesion; caudal to the lesion, it was present on the intact side and reduced or abolished on the lesioned side. The role of the spinal cord in generation of different forms of undulatory locomotion (FS and BS) is discussed.
Previous single-unit studies of visual cortex have reported that spatial attention modulates responses to different orientations and directions proportionally, such that it does not change the width of tuning functions for these properties. Other studies have suggested that spatial attention causes a leftward shift in contrast response functions, such that its effects on responses to stimuli of different contrasts are not proportional. We have further explored the effects of attention on stimulus-response functions by measuring the responses of 131 individual V4 neurons in two monkeys while they did a task that controlled their spatial attention. Each neuron was tested with a set of stimuli that spanned complete ranges of orientation and contrast during different states of attention. Consistent with earlier reports, attention scaled responses to preferred and nonpreferred orientations proportionally. However, we did not find compelling evidence that the effects were best described by a leftward shift of the contrast response function. The modulation of neuronal responses by attention was well described by either a leftward shift or proportional scaling of the contrast response function. Consideration of differences in experimental design and analysis that may have contributed to this discrepancy suggests that it was premature to exclude a proportional scaling of responses to different contrasts by attention in favor of a leftward shift of contrast response functions. The current results reopen the possibility that the effects of attention on stimulus-response functions are well described by a single proportional increase in a neuron's response to all stimuli.
Cortical circuitry reconfigures in response to chronic (1-3 days) changes in activity levels. To understand this process, we must know the role played by inhibitory neurons because they crucially influence network properties by controlling action potential generation and synaptic integration. Using pharmacological blockade of activity in neocortical organotypic slice cultures, we examined the activity-dependent regulation of membrane excitability in a specific inhibitory neuron subtype: the somatostatin-positive (SOM+) neuron. Chronic action potential blockade (TTX, 2.5 days) resulted in increased excitability in SOM+ neurons. This result is consistent with a homeostatic process to maintain the average firing rate of SOM+ neurons at a particular level. Excitability changes were not ascribed to changing cell size or alterations in voltage-dependent sodium current. Instead, the excitability increase was largely the result of a decrease in the density of two subthreshold currents: a passive leak current (ILeak) and H-current (IH). The downregulation of these currents increased excitability mostly through a decrease in membrane input conductance. The coadaptation of ILeak and IH enabled a change in input conductance while helping to preserve membrane potential. Evidence indicated that ILeak was probably mainly mediated by K+. At earlier culture ages, this adaptation was superimposed on developmental changes, whereas at older ages, the same types of induced alterations occurred but with no developmental component. Together with other studies, these data indicate that both inhibitory and excitatory neurons increase membrane excitability with chronic reduction in activity, but through different mechanisms.
Whether the motor cortex regulates voluntary movements by generating the motor pattern directly or by acting through subcortical central pattern generators (CPGs) remains a central question in motor control. Using the rat whisker system, an important model system of mammalian motor control, we develop an anesthetized preparation to investigate the interaction between the motor cortex and a whisking CPG. Using this model we investigate the involvement of a serotonergic component of the whisking CPG in determining whisking kinematics and the mechanisms through which drive from the CPG is converted into movements by vibrissa motor units. Consistent with an action of the vibrissa motor cortex (vMCx) on a subcortical CPG, the frequency of whisking evoked by intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) of vMCx differed significantly from the stimulation frequency, whereas whisking onset latencies correlated negatively with stimulation intensity. Further, ICMS-evoked whisking was suppressed by a serotonin receptor antagonist, supporting previous findings that the whisking CPG contains a significant serotonergic component. The amplitude of ICMS-evoked whisking was correlated with the number of active motor units-isolated from vibrissal EMGs or recorded directly from vibrissa motoneurons-and their activity level. In addition, whisking frequency was correlated with the firing rate of these motoneurons. These findings support the hypothesis that vMCx regulates whisking through its actions on a subcortical CPG.
In this study we investigate the haptic perception of object size. We report the results from four psychophysical experiments. In the first, we ask subjects to discriminate the size of objects that vary in surface curvature and compliance while changing contact force. We show that objects exhibit size constancy such that perception of object size using haptics does not change with changes in contact force. Based on these results, we hypothesize that size perception depends on the degree of spread between the digits at initial contact with objects. In the second experiment, we test this hypothesis by having subjects continuously contact an object that changes dynamically in size. We show that size perception takes into account the compliance of the object. In the third and fourth experiments we attempt to separate the individual contributions of proprioceptive and cutaneous input. In the third, we test the ability of subjects to perceive object size after altering the sensitivity of cutaneous receptors with adapting vibratory stimuli. The results from this experiment suggest that initial contact is signaled by the cutaneous slowly adapting type 1 afferents (SA1) and/or the rapidly adapting afferents (RA). In the last experiment, we block cutaneous input at the site of contact by anesthetizing the digital nerves and show that proprioceptive information alone provides only a rough estimate of object size. We conclude that the perception of object size depends on inputs from SA1 and possibly RA afferents, combined with inputs from proprioceptive afferents that signal the spread between digits.
Interactions between ethanol and synaptic transmission mediated by gamma -amino-N-butyric acid (GABA) have been suggested to contribute to alcohol intoxication. Ethanol effects on postsynaptic GABAA receptors have been the major focus of this line of research. There is increasing evidence that ethanol potentiation of GABAergic transmission involves increased GABA release from presynaptic terminals. In the present study, a mechanically isolated neuron/bouton preparation from the basolateral amygdala was used to examine the effects of ethanol on spontaneous GABAergic synaptic currents elicited by GABA release from the presynaptic terminals. We found that ethanol application produced a rapid increase in the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic synaptic currents. An acute tolerance to ethanol was also observed, and this tolerance involved GABAB receptor activation. The ethanol-induced potentiation did not involve alterations in the function of postsynaptic GABAA receptors and was independent of presynaptic action potential firing. These findings indicate that ethanol potentiates GABA release, most likely via a direct action on presynaptic boutons.
Starburst amacrine cells in the mammalian retina respond asymmetrically to movement along their dendrites; centrifugal movement elicits stronger responses in each dendrite than centripetal movement. It has been suggested that the asymmetrical response can be attributed to intrinsic properties of the processes themselves. But starburst cells are known to release and have receptors for both GABA and acetylcholine. We tested whether interactions within the starburst cell network can contribute to their directional response properties. In a computational model of interacting starburst amacrine cells, we simulated the response of individual dendrites to moving light stimuli. By setting the model parameters for &quot;synaptic connection strength&quot; (cs) to positive or negative values, overlapping starburst dendrites could either excite or inhibit each other. For some values of cs, we observed a very robust inward/outward asymmetry of the starburst dendrites consistent with the reported physiological findings. This is the case, for example, if a starburst cell receives inhibition from other starburst cells located in its surround. For other values of cs, individual dendrites can respond best either to inward movement or respond symmetrically. A properly wired network of starburst cells can therefore account for the experimentally observed asymmetry of their response to movement, independent of any internal biophysical or biochemical properties of starburst cell dendrites.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells of mormyrid fish differ in some morphological as well as physiological parameters from their counterparts in mammals. Morphologically, Purkinje cells of mormyrids have larger dendrites that are characterized by a lower degree of branching in the molecular layer. Physiologically, there are differences in electrophysiological response patterns that are related to sodium channel activity: first, sodium spikes in mormyrid Purkinje cells have low amplitudes, typically not exceeding 30 mV. Second, the response to climbing fiber stimulation in mormyrid Purkinje cells does not consist of a complex spike (with an initial fast sodium spike) as in mammals, but instead it consists of an all-or-none excitatory postsynaptic potential, the so-called climbing fiber response. Because of these unique properties, we have begun to characterize mormyrid Purkinje cells electrophysiologically. In this study, we provide a description of voltage-gated Na+ channels and conductances in Purkinje cells of the mormyrid fish Gnathonemus petersii. Various types of Na+ channel alpha-subunits, i.e., Nav1.1, Nav1.2, and Nav1.6, have been described in rodent Purkinje cells. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we found that these subunits are present in Purkinje cells of mormyrids. To test whether these Na+ channel subunits can mediate fast inactivating and resurgent Na+ currents in Gnathonemus Purkinje cells, we conducted patch-clamp recordings in acutely dissociated cells and in cerebellar slices. Both types of Na+ currents could be measured in rat and fish Purkinje cells. These data show that, despite prominent differences in electrophysiological response characteristics, Purkinje cells of rats and mormyrids share the same voltage-gated Na+ conductances.
Understanding how single cortical neurons discriminate between sensory stimuli is fundamental to providing a link between cortical neural responses and perception. The discrimination of sensory stimuli by cortical neurons has been intensively investigated in the visual and somatosensory systems. However, relatively little is known about discrimination of sounds by auditory cortical neurons. Auditory cortex plays a particularly important role in the discrimination of complex sounds, e.g., vocal communication sounds. The rich dynamic structure of such complex sounds on multiple time scales motivates two questions regarding cortical discrimination. How does discrimination depend on the temporal resolution of the cortical response? How does discrimination accuracy evolve over time? Here we investigate these questions in field L, the analogue of primary auditory cortex in zebra finches, analyzing temporal resolution and temporal integration in the discrimination of conspecific songs (songs of the bird's own species) for both anesthetized and awake subjects. We demonstrate the existence of distinct time scales for temporal resolution and temporal integration and explain how they arise from cortical neural responses to complex dynamic sounds.
Complex representations in sensory cortices rely on the integration of inputs that overlap temporally and spatially, particularly in supragranular layers, yet the spatiotemporal dynamics of this synaptic integration are largely unknown. The rodent somatosensory system offers an excellent opportunity to study these dynamics because of the overlapping functional representations of single-whisker inputs. We recorded responses in mouse primary somatosensory (barrel) cortex to single and paired whisker deflections using high-speed voltage-sensitive dye imaging. Responses to paired deflections at intervals of 0 and 10 ms summed sublinearly, producing a single transient smaller in amplitude than the sum of the component responses. At longer intervals of 50 and 100 ms, the response to the second deflection was reduced in amplitude and limited spatially relative to control. Between 100 and 200 ms, the response to the second deflection recovered and often showed areas of facilitation. With increasing interstimulus interval from 50 to 200 ms, recovery of the second response occurred from the second stimulated whisker's barrel column outward. In contrast to results with paired-whisker stimulation, when a whisker deflection was preceded by a weak electrical stimulus applied to the neighboring cortex, the summation of evoked responses was predominantly linear at all intervals tested. Thus under our conditions, the linearity of response summation in cortex was not predicted by the amplitudes of the component responses on a column-by-column basis, but rather by the timing and nature of the inputs.
We measured spatial resolution for discriminating targets that differed from nearby distractors in either color or orientation or their conjunction. In the fovea of normal human observers, whenever both attributes are big enough to be individually visible, their conjunction is also visible. In the periphery, the two attributes may be visible, but their conjunction may be invisible. We found a similar impairment in resolving conjunctions for the fovea of deprived eyes of humans with abnormal visual development (amblyopia). These results are quantitatively explained by a model of primary visual cortex (V1) in which orientation and color maps are imperfectly co-registered topographically. Our results in persons with amblyopia indicate that the ability of the fovea to compensate for this poor co-registration is consolidated by visual experience during postnatal development.
The relationship between epilepsy and psychosis is not well defined. Sensory gating is a possible endophenotype for psychosis, and has not been fully examined in epileptic patients. The authors examined 29 patients with focal epilepsy who were on antiepileptic medications, and 29 age-matched healthy comparison subjects, using a paired-stimulus (S1-S2) paradigm. P50 and N100 amplitudes or gating did not differ between the groups. The P200 was significantly smaller and did not gate as well in epileptic patients. Though alteration of sensory gating can be demonstrated in epileptic patients, it seems to be qualitatively different from alterations reported in association with schizophrenia.
In this study we have developed and validated a novel approach of transgene regulation in the brain. By using lentiviral vectors that incorporate promoters of genes that are up-regulated during different pathological states, we were able to regulate transgene expression in accordance with the disease process. When using a glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter, efficient disease regulation in glial cells was achieved after an excitotoxic lesion or a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion. Transgene expression was physiologically regulated and displayed a dose-dependent increase depending on the severity of lesion. Efficient regulation was also achieved in neurons when using a preproenkephlin promoter in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, allowing combined regulation and targeting. This disease-regulated approach allows control of transgene expression in the brain without the use of inducer molecules and without overexpression of transactivator proteins.
The inflammatory responses in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and prion-related encephalopathies (PRE) are dominated by microglia activation. Several studies have reported that the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, which are associated with AD, and the pathogenic isoform of prion protein (PrPSc) have a crucial role in neuronal death and gliosis that occur in both of these disorders. In this study, we investigate whether Abeta and PrPSc cause microglia activation per se and whether these amyloidogenic peptides differentially affect these immunoeffector cells. In addition, we also determined whether substances released by Abeta- and PrP-activated microglia induce neuronal death. Cultures of rat brain microglia cells were treated with the synthetic peptides Abeta1-40, Abeta1-42 and PrP106-126 for different time periods. The lipopolysaccharide was used as a positive control of microglia activation. Our results show that Abeta1-40 and PrP106-126 caused similar morphological changes in microglia and increased the production of nitric oxide and hydroperoxides. An increase on inducible nitric oxide synthase expression was also observed in microglia treated with Abeta1-40 or PrP106. However, these peptides affected in a different manner the secretion of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion. In cocultures of microglia-neurons, it was observed that microglia treated with Abeta1-40 or PrP106-126 induced a comparable extent of neuronal death. The neutralizing antibody for IL-6 significantly reduced the neuronal death induced by Abeta- or PrP-activated microglia. Taken together, the data indicate that Abeta and PrP peptides caused microglia activation and differentially affected cytokine secretion. The IL-6 released by reactive microglia caused neuronal injury.
Microglia are key mediators of the immune response in the central nervous system (CNS). They are closely related to macrophages and undergo dramatic morphological and functional changes after CNS trauma or excitotoxic lesions. Microglia can be directly stimulated by excitatory neurotransmitters and are known to express many neurotransmitter receptors. The role of these receptors, however, is not clear. This study describes the microglial response to the glutamate receptor agonist kainate (KA) and shows via immunochemistry that the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)-type glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 is present on cultured microglia. In the presence of 100 microM or 1 mM KA, cultured microglia underwent dramatic morphological and cytoskeletal changes as observed by time-lapse photography and quantitative confocal analysis of phalloidin labeling. KA-stimulated microglia showed condensation of cytoplasmic actin filaments, rapid de- and repolymerization, and cytoplasmic redistribution of condensed actin bundles. Rearrangement of actin filaments-thought to be involved in locomotion and phagocytosis and to indicate an increased level of activation (for reviews see Greenberg [ 1995] Trends Cell Biol. 5:93-99; Imai and Kohsaka [ 2002] Glia 40:164-174)-was significantly increased in treated vs. control cultures. Morphological plasticity and membrane ruffling were also seen. These findings suggest direct microglial excitation via glutamate receptor pathways. Thus, neurotransmitter release after brain or spinal cord injury might directly modulate the inflammatory response.
In vivo and in vitro studies have shown that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)-receptor-mediated excitotoxicity causes cytoskeletal damage to axons. AMPA/kainate receptors are present on oligodendrocytes and myelin, but currently there is no evidence to suggest that axon cylinders contain AMPA receptors. Proteolipid protein (PLP) and DM20 are integral membrane proteins expressed by CNS oligodendrocytes and located in compact myelin. Humans and mice lacking normal PLP/DM20 develop axonal swellings and degeneration, suggesting that local interactions between axons and the oligodendrocyte/myelin unit are important for the normal functioning of axons and that PLP/DM20 is involved in this process. To determine whether perturbed glial-axonal interaction affects AMPA-receptor-mediated axonal damage, AMPA (1.5 nmol) was injected into the caudate nucleus of anesthetized Plp knockout and wild-type male mice (n = 13). Twenty-four hours later, axonal damage was detected by using neurofilament 200 (NF 200) immunohistochemistry and neuronal damage detected via histology. AMPA-induced axonal damage, assessed with NF 200 immunohistochemistry, was significantly reduced in Plp knockout mice compared with wild-type mice (P = 0.015). There was no significant difference in the levels of neuronal perikaryal damage between the Plp knockout and wild-type mice. In addition, there was no significant difference in the levels of glutamate receptor subunits GluR1-4 or KA2 in Plp knockout compared with wild-type littermates. The present study suggests that PLP-mediated interactions among oligodendrocytes, myelin, and axons may be involved in AMPA-mediated axonal damage.
Three genetic mouse models were examined to define effects of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling on gene expression in normal and injured adult brain. CaMKII-Cre eliminated the BMP receptor Acvr1 (Alk2) and the common TGFbeta superfamily signal mediator Smad4 or activated a constitutively active Acvr1 in postnatal forebrain neurons. All mutants followed mendelian ratios, with no overt phenotypic changes. In situ hybridization demonstrated normal patterns of the dendritic marker MAP2 (Mtap2) throughout cortex despite neuron-specific losses of Acvr1 or Smad4. However, strong up-regulation of Mtap2 transcript in these mice was found by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR), indicating that Mtap2 is normally suppressed by BMP. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) resulted in increases of histone-associated DNA fragments in both control and Smad4-deficient cortex. Several cell-type-specific transcripts known to be involved in injury-related responses were measured by qRT-PCR. Gfap mRNA was strongly up-regulated in controls as well as in the loss-of-BMP-signalling mutants. Notably, activated Acvr1 signalling gave significantly lower TBI-induced up-regulations of Gfap and Phox2a mRNA levels, indicating reductions in astroglial and neuronal reactions to injury. Strong impairment in injury-induced Timp1 transcript up-regulation was also seen in these mice. In contrast, osteopontin (Spp1) transcript levels in activated microglia were not reduced by Acvr1 signalling. Altogether, the data suggest that BMP signalling is dispensable in adult cortical neurons but that augmented BMP signalling affects molecular changes associated with neuronal lesions.

Spectral Entropy (SpEn) is an alternative tool to the bispectral index (BIS) for monitoring depth of hypnosis. SpEn measures response entropy (RE) and state entropy (SE). This open-label prospective study was designed to evaluate SpEn and BIS in 20 patients undergoing elective supratentorial neurosurgery with craniotomy and resection of brain tumors. SpEn and BIS were obtained continuously by Datex Ohmeda M-entropy module S/5 (Helsinki, Finland) and Aspect Medical System BIS (Newton), respectively. Total intravenous anesthesia was performed in all patients by Fresenius Vial infusion system (Brezins, France) to maintain a plasma concentration of propofol of 2.5 to 5 microg mL(-1) and sufentanil of 0.2 to 0.4 etag mL(-1). SpEn, BIS, the estimated propofol effect-site concentrations (Ce), the mean arterial pressure (MAP), and the heart rate (HR) were recorded during 12 specific events: induction of anesthesia, patient stop counting, loss of blinking reflex, intubation, mayfield pinning, craniotomy, termination of propofol infusion, recovery of blinking reflex, coughing, limb movement, order execution, and extubation. Stated that prediction probability or P(K) represents an indicator probability to predict correctly the rank order of an arbitrary pair of distinct observed indices of depth of hypnosis (ie, clinical settings and SpEn indices, or BIS, Ce, MAP, HR), PK of BIS, SE, RE, and Ce provided a better depth of hypnosis than MAP and HR; RE being the best for rapidity, SE for sensitivity, and BIS for specificity. There is good correlation between the 3 hypnosis indices and Ce. This study demonstrates that SpEn provides a reproducible hypnosis index for patients undergoing supratentorial neurosurgical procedures.
Cerebral pathology may alter the cerebrovascular reactivity to carbon dioxide (CO2). In the present study, in patients with brain tumors, we examined the cerebral vascular reactivity to CO2 in the cerebral hemispheres with and without tumors under intravenous and inhalational anesthesia. Twenty-nine patients undergoing craniotomy for frontotemporal gliomas were randomized to receive intravenous anesthesia with propofol or inhalational anesthesia with isoflurane. Cerebral blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (VMCA) and pulsatality index were measured under normocapnia and hypocapnia in the normal cerebral hemisphere and the hemisphere with tumor. Hypocapnia significantly decreased the VMCA in both the cerebral hemispheres under both the anesthetic techniques (P &lt; 0.006). The percentage change in VMCA was similar between the hemispheres with and without tumor both under isoflurane (3.45 +/- 4.11% on the normal side and 2.91 +/- 2.40% on the tumor side; mean difference 0.54 +/- 1.31%; 95% CI -2.18 to +3.27) and propofol anesthesia (2.32 +/- 2.64% on the normal side and 1.69 +/- 4.04% on the tumor side; mean difference 0.63 +/- 1.2%; 95% CI -1.83 to +3.10). The changes in pulsatality index also were not significantly different between the hemispheres. In conclusion, cerebrovascular response to hypocapnia is similar between the normal and the abnormal cerebral hemispheres both under intravenous and inhalational anesthesia.
Heart allograft outcome is unpredictable and acute rejection episodes still occur despite the improvement of immunosuppressive regimens. We therefore investigated whether the immunopathological profile of endomyocardial biopsies might underlie the variations in the clinical course of a graft. Biopsies from transplanted patients were analysed by histology, immunohistochemistry (associated with digital image analysis), confocal and electron microscopy to determine the type and the functional state of leukocytes infiltrating the myocardium, together with their ultrastructural features and those of the graft itself. In comparison with biopsies with grade 0R or grade 1R rejection, those from patients with grade 2R rejection displayed significant infiltration of macrophages, T lymphocytes, and CD83+ and DC-SIGN+ dendritic cells. Fifty-seven per cent were invaded by CD20+B lymphocytes, most of which expressed CD69 activation marker and cooperated in interleukin-12 production, and by CD69+CD94+NK cells expressing interferon-gamma. Ultrastructural signs of myocyte degeneration and microvessel rupture by NK cells were frequent. These patients developed recurrent episodes of acute allograft rejection. Endomyocardial B and NK infiltrates are involved in the dynamics of allograft rejection and are associated with a high risk of its recurrence. Immunopathological assessment of endomyocardial biopsies may thus serve to forecast the probable outcome of a heart allograft.

The 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a metabolic and stress sensor that has been functionally conserved throughout eukaryotic evolution. Activation of the AMPK system by various physiological or pathological stimuli that deplete cellular energy levels promotes activation of energy restorative processes and inhibits energy consumptive processes. AMPK has a prominent role not only as a peripheral sensor of energy balance, but also in the CNS as a multifunctional metabolic sensor. Recent work suggests that AMPK plays an important role in maintaining whole body energy balance by coordinating feeding behaviour through the hypothalamus in conjunction with peripheral energy expenditure. In addition, brain AMPK is activated by energy-poor conditions induced by hypoxia, starvation, and ischaemic stroke. Under these conditions, AMPK is activated as a protective response in an attempt to restore cellular homeostasis. However in vivo, it appears that the overall consequence of activation of AMPK is more complex than previously imagined, in that over-activation may be deleterious rather than neuroprotective. This review discusses recent findings that support the role of AMPK in brain as a multidimensional energy sensor and the consequences of its activation or inhibition under physiological and pathological states.
Spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP) by definition requires the temporal association of pre- and postsynaptic action potentials (APs). Yet, in cortical pyramidal neurons pairing unitary EPSPs with single APs at low frequencies is ineffective at generating plasticity. Using recordings from synaptically coupled layer 5 pyramidal neurons, we show here that high-frequency (200 Hz) postsynaptic AP bursts, rather than single APs, are required for both long-term potentiation (LTP) induction and NMDA channel activation during EPSP-AP pairing at low frequencies. Furthermore, we find that AP bursts can lead to LTP induction and NMDA channel activation during EPSP-AP pairing at both positive and negative times. High-frequency AP bursts generated supralinear calcium signals in basal dendrites suggesting the generation of dendritic calcium spikes, as has been observed previously in apical dendrites during AP burst firing at frequencies greater than 100 Hz. Consistent with a role of these dendritic calcium spikes in LTP induction, pairing EPSPs with low frequency (50 Hz) AP bursts was ineffective in generating LTP. Furthermore, supralinear calcium signals in basal dendrites during AP bursts were blocked by low concentrations of the T- and R-type calcium channel antagonist nickel, which also blocked LTP and NMDA channel activation. These data suggest an important role of dendritic calcium spikes during AP bursts in determining both the efficacy and time window for STDP induction.
Neurons in the visual cortex receive input from the lateral geniculate nucleus (feed-forward), higher order visual areas (feedback) and local neurons in the surroundings (lateral interactions). Here we first briefly review the approximate timing and proportion of these three types of influences on the membrane potentials in visual areas 17, 18 and 19. Then we present original results from an independent component analysis of multiunit spike trains in the same visual areas to resolve the contribution from these three sources. We stimulated the visual cortex of the ferret with a small transient contrast square stimulus and recorded the multiunit activity in areas 17, 18 and 19 with single or multiple electrodes. The spike trains had three reproducible components having their maxima at 40, 55 and 105ms after the start of the presentation of the stimulus. The time course of the third component was significantly correlated with the population membrane potential in the supragranular layers of areas 17, 18 and 19. The first spike train component was interpreted as a feed-forward response, the second spike train component as driving the laterally spreading depolarization and the third spike train component as the firing caused by the lateral spreading- and the feedback depolarization.
By formulating Helmholtz's ideas about perception, in terms of modern-day theories, one arrives at a model of perceptual inference and learning that can explain a remarkable range of neurobiological facts: using constructs from statistical physics, the problems of inferring the causes of sensory input and learning the causal structure of their generation can be resolved using exactly the same principles. Furthermore, inference and learning can proceed in a biologically plausible fashion. The ensuing scheme rests on Empirical Bayes and hierarchical models of how sensory input is caused. The use of hierarchical models enables the brain to construct prior expectations in a dynamic and context-sensitive fashion. This scheme provides a principled way to understand many aspects of cortical organisation and responses. In this paper, we show these perceptual processes are just one aspect of emergent behaviours of systems that conform to a free energy principle. The free energy considered here measures the difference between the probability distribution of environmental quantities that act on the system and an arbitrary distribution encoded by its configuration. The system can minimise free energy by changing its configuration to affect the way it samples the environment or change the distribution it encodes. These changes correspond to action and perception respectively and lead to an adaptive exchange with the environment that is characteristic of biological systems. This treatment assumes that the system's state and structure encode an implicit and probabilistic model of the environment. We will look at the models entailed by the brain and how minimisation of its free energy can explain its dynamics and structure.
Sounds provide us with useful information about our environment which complements that provided by other senses, but also poses specific processing problems. How does the auditory system distentangle sounds from different sound sources? And what is it that allows intermittent sound events from the same source to be associated with each other? Here we review findings from a wide range of studies using the auditory streaming paradigm in order to formulate a unified account of the processes underlying auditory perceptual organization. We present new computational modelling results which replicate responses in primary auditory cortex [Fishman, Y.I., Arezzo, J.C., Steinschneider, M., 2004. Auditory stream segregation in monkey auditory cortex: effects of frequency separation, presentation rate, and tone duration. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 116, 1656-1670; Fishman, Y. I., Reser, D. H., Arezzo, J.C., Steinschneider, M., 2001. Neural correlates of auditory stream segregation in primary auditory cortex of the awake monkey. Hear. Res. 151, 167-187] to tone sequences. We also present the results of a perceptual experiment which confirm the bi-stable nature of auditory streaming, and the proposal that the gradual build-up of streaming may be an artefact of averaging across many subjects [Pressnitzer, D., Hup, J. M., 2006. Temporal dynamics of auditory and visual bi-stability reveal common principles of perceptual organization. Curr. Biol. 16(13), 1351-1357.]. Finally we argue that in order to account for all of the experimental findings, computational models of auditory stream segregation require four basic processing elements; segregation, predictive modelling, competition and adaptation, and that it is the formation of effective predictive models which allows the system to keep track of different sound sources in a complex auditory environment.
This paper demonstrates how associative neural networks as standard models for Hebbian cell assemblies can be extended to implement language processes in large-scale brain simulations. To this end the classical auto- and hetero-associative paradigms of attractor nets and synfire chains (SFCs) are combined and complemented by conditioned associations as a third principle which allows for the implementation of complex graph-like transition structures between assemblies. We show example simulations of a multiple area network for object-naming, which categorises objects in a visual hierarchy and generates different specific syntactic motor sequences (&quot;words&quot;) in response. The formation of cell assemblies due to ongoing plasticity in a multiple area network for word learning is studied afterwards. Simulations show how assemblies can form by means of percolating activity across auditory and motor-related language areas, a process supported by rhythmic, synchronized propagating waves through the network. Simulations further reproduce differences in own EEG&amp;MEG experiments between responses to word- versus non-word stimuli in human subjects.
How are invariant representations of objects formed in the visual cortex? We describe a neurophysiological and computational approach which focusses on a feature hierarchy model in which invariant representations can be built by self-organizing learning based on the statistics of the visual input. The model can use temporal continuity in an associative synaptic learning rule with a short term memory trace, and/or it can use spatial continuity in Continuous Transformation learning. The model of visual processing in the ventral cortical stream can build representations of objects that are invariant with respect to translation, view, size, and in this paper we show also lighting. The model has been extended to provide an account of invariant representations in the dorsal visual system of the global motion produced by objects such as looming, rotation, and object-based movement. The model has been extended to incorporate top-down feedback connections to model the control of attention by biased competition in for example spatial and object search tasks. The model has also been extended to account for how the visual system can select single objects in complex visual scenes, and how multiple objects can be represented in a scene.
Previously, it was suggested that feedback connections from higher- to lower-level areas carry predictions of lower-level neural activities, whereas feedforward connections carry the residual error between the predictions and the actual lower-level activities [Rao, R.P.N., Ballard, D.H., 1999. Nature Neuroscience 2, 79-87.]. A computational model implementing the hypothesis learned simple cell receptive fields when exposed to natural images. Here, we use predictive feedback to explain tuning properties in medial superior temporal area (MST). We implement the hypothesis using a new, biologically plausible, algorithm based on matching pursuit, which retains all the features of the previous implementation, including its ability to efficiently encode input. When presented with natural images, the model developed receptive field properties as found in primary visual cortex. In addition, when exposed to visual motion input resulting from movements through space, the model learned receptive field properties resembling those in MST. These results corroborate the idea that predictive feedback is a general principle used by the visual system to efficiently encode natural input.

The mechanisms underlying weight gain resulting from antipsychotic drugs are not fully understood, although antagonism of the 5-HT2C receptor is likely to contribute. Animal studies indicate that the drugs most likely to cause weight gain, clozapine and olanzapine, have direct effects on the NPY-containing neurons of the hypothalamus; these neurons mediate the effects of the circulating anorexigenic hormone leptin on the control of food intake. The substantial differences between individuals in the extent of antipsychotic-induced weight gain suggest that genetic factors may be important. We have been studying pharmacogenetic correlates and find that a common 5-HT2C receptor promoter region polymorphisms demonstrates strong associations with weight gain in two first episode psychotic samples. In both series, we have found further association of antipsychotic drug-induced weight gain with a common and functional polymorphism of the gene for leptin. Along with initial BMI, these two pharmacogenetic factors account for almost 30% of the variance in drug-induced weight gain. Interestingly, the 5-HT2C polymorphism appears to determine levels of circulating leptin, providing a potential mechanism underlying the genetic association of the 5-HT2C receptor with weight gain. We have undertaken functional studies of haplotypes of the 5-HT2C promoter region and find the allele associated with protection from weight gain results in reduced promoter activity. These findings demonstrate the value of pharmacogenetics in determining liability to a major side effect of antipsychotic treatment, and indicate both the molecular and physiological mechanisms underlying this side effect.
Many atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as clozapine, can induce significant weight gain which can have serious implications for drug compliance and morbidity. Food intake and weight gain are regulated primarily by the hypothalamus; the arcuate nucleus (ARC) of the hypothalamus is the region initially mediating the effects of circulating hormones on food intake. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is an important hypothalamic peptide involved in body weight regulation. Immunohistochemical staining of NPY in the ARC was carried out in male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or clozapine (25 mg/kg, i.p.) for 3 weeks. Clozapine, but not haloperidol, produced an increase in NPY immunoreactivity in the ARC, suggesting that effects on NPY may be involved in increases in body weight following clozapine treatment.
Decreased vagal function is associated with vascular dysfunction. In this study, we compared vascular indices and correlated heart rate and QT variability measures with vascular indices in patients with anxiety disorders and normal controls. We compared age- and sex-matched controls (n=23) and patients with anxiety (n=25) using the Vascular Profiler (VP-1000; Colin Medical Instruments, Japan), approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. Using this machine, we obtained ankle and brachial blood pressure (BP) in both arms (brachial), both legs (ankle), and carotid artery, and lead I electrocardiogram (ECG) and phonocardiogram. Using these signals, pulse-wave velocity (PWV), and arterial stiffness index % and preejection period can be calculated. We also obtained ECG sampled at 1000 Hz in lead II configuration in supine posture to obtain beat-to-beat interbeat interval (R-R) and QT interval variability for 256 s. Patients with anxiety had significantly higher carotid mean arterial pressure (MAP) %, brachial-ankle PWV (BAPWV), arterial stiffness index %, MAP, and diastolic BP of the extremities compared to controls. We found significant negative correlations (r values from .4 to .65; P&lt;.05 to .007) between R-R interval high-frequency (0.15-0.5 Hz) power (which is an indicator of cardiac vagal function), and increased BAPWV and systolic BP of the extremities only in patients. We were unable to find such correlations in controls. We also found significant positive correlations between QT variability index (a probable indicator of cardiac sympathetic function) and MAP of the extremities and BAPWV only in the patient group. These findings suggest an important association between decreased vagal and increased sympathetic function, and decreased arterial compliance and possible atherosclerotic changes and increased BP in patients with anxiety.
Despite replicating to very high titers, coxsackieviruses do not elicit strong CD8 T-cell responses, perhaps because antigen presentation is inhibited by virus-induced disruption of host protein trafficking. Herein, we evaluated the effects of three viral nonstructural proteins (2B, 2BC, and 3A) on intracellular trafficking. All three of these proteins inhibited secretion, to various degrees, and directly associated with the Golgi complex, causing trafficking proteins to accumulate in this compartment. The 3A protein almost completely ablated trafficking and secretion, by moving rapidly to the Golgi, and causing its disruption. Using an alanine-scanning 3A mutant, we show that Golgi targeting and disruption can be uncoupled. Thus, coxsackieviruses rely on the combined effects of several gene products that target a single cellular organelle to successfully block protein secretion during an infection. These findings have implications for viral pathogenesis.
Defects of mitochondrial metabolism cause a wide range of human diseases that include examples from all medical subspecialties. This review updates the topic of mitochondrial diseases by reviewing the most important recent advances in this area. The factors influencing inheritance, maintenance and replication of mtDNA are reviewed and the genotype-phenotype of mtDNA disorders has been expanded, with new insights into epidemiology, pathogenesis and its role in ageing. Recently identified nuclear gene mutations of mitochondrial proteins include mutations of frataxin causing Friedreich's ataxia, PINK1, DJ1 causing Parkinson's disease and POLG causing infantile mtDNA depletion syndrome, ophthalmoplegia, parkinsonism, male subfertility and, in a transgenic mouse model, premature senescence. Mitochondrial defects in neurodegenerative diseases include Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease. Improved understanding of mtDNA inheritance and mutation penetrance patterns, and novel techniques for mtDNA modification offer significant prospects for more accurate genetic counselling and effective future therapies.
Following initial encoding, memories undergo a prolonged period of reorganization. While such reorganization may occur in many different memory systems, its purpose is not clear. Previously, we have shown that recall of recent contextual fear memories engages the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC). In contrast, recall of remote contextual fear memories engages a number of different cortical regions, including the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). To examine whether this reorganization leads to greater memory stability, we examined reconsolidation of 1 d-old (recent) and 36 d-old (remote) contextual fear memory in mice. We infused the protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin (ANI), into either the dHPC or ACC immediately following retrieval of either a recent or remote contextual fear memory. In the dHPC, ANI infusions disrupted subsequent expression of recent, but not remote, contextual fear memory. Similar infusions into the ACC had no effect on either recent or remote contextual fear memories, whereas systemically applied ANI blocked subsequent remote memory expression when long re-exposure durations were used. Together, these data suggest that as memories mature they become increasingly stable. Furthermore, the dissociation between the effects of systemically and centrally administered ANI on remote memory suggests that stability is due, in part, to the distributed nature of remote contextual fear memories.
Psychostimulant exposure has been shown to cause molecular and cellular changes in prefrontal cortex. It has been hypothesized that these drug-induced changes might affect the operation of prefrontal-limbic circuits, disrupting their normal role in controlling behavior and thereby leading to compulsive drug-seeking. To test this hypothesis, we tested cocaine-treated rats in a fear conditioning, inflation, and extinction task, known to depend on medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala. Cocaine-treated rats conditioned and inflated similar to saline controls but displayed slower extinction learning. These results support the hypothesis that control processes in the medial prefrontal cortex are impaired by cocaine exposure.
We examined the relationship between stress hormone (cortisol) release and acquisition and consolidation of conditioned fear learning in healthy adults. Participants underwent acquisition of differential fear conditioning, and consolidation was assessed in a 24-h delayed extinction test. The acquisition phase was immediately followed by an 11-min psychosocial stress period (arithmetic test combined with a public speech). Salivary cortisol was sampled at various time points before and after acquisition and retention of fear conditioning. Results showed two effects of endogenous cortisol. Post-acquisition cortisol correlated with fear acquisition in male but not female participants. In addition, post-acquisition cortisol correlated with consolidation of fear but only in those participants with high cortisol levels. We conclude that in the short term, a robust and sexually dimorphic relationship exists between fear learning and stress hormone levels. For those participants whose fear learning is accompanied by high stress hormone levels, a long-term relationship exists between cortisol release and memory consolidation. These short-term and long-term effects may relate to the differential involvement of mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor subtypes, respectively. The findings have implications for understanding the role of stress, sex, and hormones in different stages of fear learning and memory.
Nerve conduction study is essential in the diagnosis of focal neuropathies and diffuse polyneuropathies. Age, height and body mass index (BMI) can affect nerve velocities as reported by previous studies. We studied the effect of these factors on median, ulnar, common peroneal and sural nerves among healthy Malay subjects. We observed slowing of nerve conduction velocities (NCVs) with increasing age and BMI (except ulnar sensory velocities). No demonstrable trend can be seen across different height groups except in common peroneal nerve.
Normal aging is typically accompanied by deficits in behavioral performance, independent of overt pathology. In contrast, some behaviors remain relatively unchanged with age, but the reason(s) they remain intact are not known. Here we compare the relative impact of age on a battery of standard behavioral tests using the model genetic organism Drosophila melanogaster. Consistent with previous reports, learning, locomotion, geotaxis and phototaxis show a dramatic and progressive decline beginning at 1-2 weeks of age. In contrast, using two independent behavioral assays, we observe little or no decline in the flies' ability to escape potentially threatening stimuli. Using the assay with the most rapid decline, geotaxis, we observe a delay in functional aging in a long-lived mutant of the Ecdysone Receptor. We discuss the use of Drosophila genetics to investigate the differential decline in behavioral capacity.
Studying the most extreme outcomes of intergroup hatred--murder, mass killings and genocides--has long been part of historical and social research. Neuroscientists and psychologists have also been interested in interpersonal and intergroup violence. This article considers the question of how atrocities arise from a neuroscientific perspective, focusing on war as the context in which they most often occur. It describes relevant aspects of brain function, relates them to social psychological research on intergroup hostility and applies the resulting framework to a case study: the US prison camp at Guantanamo Bay.
Readers rely on fiction as a source of information, even when fiction contradicts relatively well-known facts about the world (Marsh, Meade, and Roediger, 2003). Of interest was whether readers could monitor fiction for errors, in order to reduce suggestibility. In Experiment 1, warnings about errors in fiction did not reduce students' reliance on stories. In Experiment 2, all subjects were warned before reading stories written at 6th- or 12th-grade reading levels. Even though 6th-grade stories freed resources for monitoring, suggestibility was not reduced. In Experiment 3, suggestibility was reduced but not eliminated when subjects pressed a key each time they detected an error during story reading. Readers do not appear to spontaneously monitor fiction for its veracity, but can do so if reminded on a trial-by-trial basis.

NMDA receptors are linked to neuronal loss in stroke and neurodegeneration because their activation can trigger excitotoxic Ca(2+) dysregulation. Accordingly, NMDA receptor antagonists are neuroprotective, providing a rationale for their clinical application. However, side effects often outweigh benefits. Herein we highlight structural properties in receptors that are used in drug development.
In order to gain insight into the biological role of receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase gamma (RPTPgamma), we have generated RPTPgamma-null mice. RPTPgamma was disrupted by insertion of the beta-galactosidase gene under the control of the RPTPgamma promoter. As the RPTPgamma-null mice did not exhibit any obvious phenotype, we made use of these mice to study RPTPgamma expression and thus shed light on potential biological functions of this phosphatase. Inspection of mouse embryos shows that RPTPgamma is expressed in a variety of tissues during embryogenesis. RPTPgamma is expressed in both embryonic and adult brains. Specifically, we detected RPTPgamma expression in cortical layers II and V and in the stratum pyramidale of the hippocampus, indicating that RPTPgamma is a marker for pyramidal neurons. Mixed primary culture of glial cells showed a lack of expression of RPTPgamma in astrocytes and a low expression of RPTPgamma in oligodendrocytes and in microglia. Interestingly, RPTPgamma expression was detected in all sensory organs, including the ear, nose, tongue, eye, and vibrissa follicles, suggesting a potential role of RPTPgamma in sensory neurons. An initial behavioral analysis showed minor changes in the RPTPgamma-null mice.
In order to shed light on transcriptional networks involved in adult peripheral nerve repair program, we propose for the first time an organization of the transcriptional dynamics of the mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG) following a sciatic nerve lesion. This was done by a non-hierarchical bioinformatical clustering of four Serial Analysis of Gene Expression libraries performed on DRG at embryonic day E13, neonatal day P0, adult and adult 3 days post-sciatic nerve section. Grouping genes according to their expression profiles shows that a combination of down-regulation of genes expressed at the adult stages, re-expression of embryonic genes and induction of a set of de novo genes takes place in injured neurons. Focusing on this latter event highlights Ddit3, Timm8b and Oazin as potential new injury-induced molecular actors involved in a stress response pathway. Their association with the traumatic state was confirmed by real-time PCR and in situ hybridization investigations. Clustering analysis allows us to distinguish developmental re-programming events from nerve-injury-induced processes and thus provides a basis for molecular understanding of transcriptional alterations taking place in the DRG after a sciatic nerve lesion.
Divalent cations promote activation of several nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subtypes, presumably by lowering the energetic barrier between open and closed conformations. In wild-type alpha7 AChRs, binding of calcium to a particular part of the extracellular domain is required for potentiating activation. McLaughlin et al. (p. 16) tested the hypothesis that movements involved in agonist activation and calcium modulation involve a nearby beta sheet by linking strands within this sheet through disulfide bonds formed by replacing adjacent amino acids with cysteines to alter its mobility. These studies are helping to reveal how movements initiated by agonist binding to ACh binding sites are propagated through the extracellular domain of AChRs to regulate opening of the cation channel through the membrane.
Neuroprotective effects of estrogens have been shown in various in vitro and in vivo models, but the mechanisms underlying protection by estrogen are not clear. Mounting evidence suggests antioxidant effects contribute to the neuroprotective effects of estrogens. In the present study, we assessed the protective effects of estrogens against H2O2-induced toxicity in human neuroblastoma cells and the potential mechanisms involved in this protection. We demonstrate that 17beta-estradiol (17beta-E2) increases cell survival against H2O2 toxicity in human neuroblastoma cells. 17beta-E2 effectively reduced lipid peroxidation induced by 5-min H2O2 exposure. Furthermore, 17beta-E2 exerts the protective effects by maintaining intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis, attenuating ATP depletion, ablating mitochondrial calcium overloading, and preserving mitochondrial membrane potential. Two nonfeminizing estrogens, 17alpha- and ent-estradiol, were as effective as 17beta-E2 in increasing cell survival, alleviating lipid peroxidation, preserving mitochondrial function, and maintaining intracellular glutathione levels and Ca2+ homeostasis against H2O2 insult. Moreover, the estrogen receptor antagonist fulvestrant (ICI 182,780) did not block effects of 17beta-E2, but increased cell survival and blunted intracellular Ca2+ increases. However, these estrogens failed to reduce cytosolic reactive oxygen species, even at concentrations as high as 10 microM. In conclusion, estrogens exert protective effects against oxidative stress by inhibiting lipid peroxidation and subsequently preserving Ca2+ homeostasis, mitochondrial membrane potential, and ATP levels.
alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are recognized as the principal nicotine binding site in brain. Recombinant alpha4beta2 nAChR demonstrate biphasic concentration-response relationships with low- and high-EC50 components. This study shows that untranslated regions (UTR) can influence expression of high-sensitivity subforms of alpha4beta2 and alpha3beta2 nAChR. Oocytes injected with alpha4 and beta2 RNA lacking UTR expressed biphasic concentration-response relationships for acetylcholine with high-sensitivity EC50 values of 0.5 to 2.5 microM (14-24% of the population) and low-sensitivity EC50 values of 110 to 180 microM (76-86%). In contrast, message with UTR expressed exclusively the high-sensitivity alpha4beta2 nAChR subform with an acetylcholine EC50 value of 2.2 microM. Additional studies revealed pharmacological differences between high- and low-sensitivity alpha4beta2 subforms. Whereas the antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine (IC50 of 3-6 nM) and methyllycaconitine (IC50 of 40-135 nM) were not selective between high- and low-sensitivity alpha4beta2, chlorisondamine, mecamylamine, and d-tubocurarine were, respectively, 100-, 8-, and 5-fold selective for the alpha4beta2 subform with low sensitivity to acetylcholine. Conversely, agonists that selectively activated the high-sensitivity alpha4beta2 subform with respect to efficacy as well as potency were identified. Furthermore, two of these agonists were shown to activate mouse brain alpha4beta2 as well as the ferret high-sensitivity alpha4beta2 expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. With the use of UTR-containing RNA, exclusive expression of a novel high-sensitivity alpha3beta2 nAChR was also achieved. These studies 1) provide further evidence for the existence of multiple subforms of alpha4beta2 nAChR, 2) extend that to alpha3beta2 nAChR, 3) demonstrate UTR influence on beta2-containing nAChR properties, and 4) reveal compounds that interact with alpha4beta2 in a subform-selective manner.
Previous studies have suggested that genetic variations in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene may be associated with several neuropsychiatric diseases including bipolar disorder. The present study examined a microsatellite polymorphism located approximately 1.0 kb upstream of the translation initiation site of the BDNF gene for novel sequence variations, association with bipolar disorder, and effects on transcriptional activity. Detailed sequencing analysis revealed that this polymorphism is not a simple dinucleotide repeat, but it is highly polymorphic with a complex structure containing three types of dinucleotide repeats, insertion/deletion, and nucleotide substitutions that gives rise to a total of 23 novel allelic variants. We obtained evidence supporting the association between this polymorphic region (designated as BDNF-linked complex polymorphic region (BDNF-LCPR)) and bipolar disorder. One of the major alleles ('A1' allele) was significantly more common in patients than in controls (odds ratio 2.8, 95% confidential interval 1.5-5.3, P=0.001). Furthermore, a luciferase reporter gene assay in rat primary cultured neurons suggests that this risk allele (A1) has a lower-transcription activity, compared to the other alleles. Our results suggest that the BDNF-LCPR is a functional variation that confers susceptibility to bipolar disorder and affects transcriptional activity of the BDNF gene.
The aim of this research was to quantify sleep problems in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease by means of the new Parkinson's Disease Sleep Scale (PDSS) and to correlate such problems with the possible influence of current drug treatment. A total of 70 patients (36 men and 34 women) with a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease were enrolled. Their mean age was 69.7 +/- 8.2 years, and duration of disease was 7.4 +/- 4.8 years. All patients completed the PDSS and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS Parts I-IV). Drug consumption and doses were registered. The mean score on the PDSS scale was 109.23 +/- 19.75 and on the UPDRS III scale was 25.24 +/- 11.35. The lowest scores were obtained in Item 3 (sleep fragmentation): 5.53 (2.46); and in Item 8 (nocturia): 5.75 (2.91). There was a weak correlation between the PDSS and UPDRS III (cc = -0.355, P = 0.003), PDSS and UPDRS I (cc = -0.272, P = 0.02), and PDSS and UPDRS IV (cc = -0.416, P &lt; 0.001). Motor conditions, mental state, and drug complications influence sleep quality. Although this effect was significant, it was not of a great magnitude. Dopaminergic drugs did not increase daytime sleepiness. As a whole, sleep quality in patients who took dopaminergic agonists did not differ from that of patients who took levodopa in monotherapy.
Movement disorders have only rarely been reported in association with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). In such cases, chorea is the most common disorder observed, with occasional reports of hemidystonia, Parkinsonism, and hemiballism. We report here on 3 cases of APS (3 women ages 16, 46, and 56 years) who presented with movement disorders, including tics, tremor, myoclonus, and a corticobasal syndrome, never or rarely reported in association with this disease. Mild executive dysfunction was observed in all 3 patients. We also report the successful treatment of two of these patients with mild oral anticoagulation (INR 2-3). Movement disorders in APS seem more clinically heterogeneous than previously thought. Oral anticoagulation should be considered in the treatment of movement disorders associated with APS.
The objective of this study was to describe the firing characteristics of the zona incerta (ZI) in Parkinson's disease patients. The ZI constitutes a band of gray matter lying dorsal to the subthalamic nucleus, whose firing properties have not been well defined in humans yet. ZI proved to become hyperactive in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats as compared to normal rats, and regarding these noticeable changes in the discharge patterns it was suggested that ZI could be a putative target for the surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease. Twelve patients who underwent microrecording-guided subthalamic surgery consented to the study. Neurons from different tracts were classified as belonging to the ZI according to their firing features, background extracellular activity, anatomical mapping of trajectories, and atlas confirmation. Fifty-nine neurons were classified as belonging to ZI. The mean firing rate proved to be 29.5 Hz, with a broad dispersion band, even covering subthalamic nucleus (STN) frequency ranges. Pattern analysis showed heterogeneous neuronal signals ranging from tonic to burst and paused neurons. A decrease in extracellular background activity in the defined ZI was also observed. Five of the recorded neurons showed rhythmical spike trains with oscillations of 8 to 14 Hz, and two units were found to discharge trains at 4 Hz. None of the recorded ZI neurons responded to proprioceptive maneuvers. ZI presented firing activities with a broad spectrum in terms of frequency and tonicity. It is differentiated from STN recordings in Parkinson's disease patients mainly because of absent proprioceptive-related units and diminished extracellular background activity.

In rodents, after spinal lesion, neutralizing the neurite growth inhibitor Nogo-A promotes axonal sprouting and functional recovery. To evaluate this treatment in primates, 12 monkeys were subjected to cervical lesion. Recovery of manual dexterity and sprouting of corticospinal axons were enhanced in monkeys treated with Nogo-A-specific antibody as compared to monkeys treated with control antibody.

Sensory environments are known to shape nervous system organization. Here we show that passive long-term exposure to a spectrally enhanced acoustic environment (EAE) causes reorganization of the tonotopic map in juvenile cat auditory cortex without inducing any hearing loss. The EAE consisted of tone pips of 32 different frequencies (5-20 kHz), presented in random order at an average rate of 96 Hz. The EAE caused a strong reduction of the representation of EAE frequencies and an over-representation of frequencies neighboring those of the EAE. This is in sharp contrast with earlier developmental studies showing an enlargement of the cortical representation of EAEs consisting of a narrow frequency band. We observed fewer than normal appropriately tuned short-latency responses to EAE frequencies, together with more common long-latency responses tuned to EAE-neighboring frequencies.
Momentary lapses in attention frequently impair goal-directed behavior, sometimes with serious consequences. Nevertheless, we lack an integrated view of the brain mechanisms underlying such lapses. By investigating trial-by-trial relationships between brain activity and response time in humans, we determined that attentional lapses begin with reduced prestimulus activity in anterior cingulate and right prefrontal regions involved in controlling attention. Less efficient stimulus processing during attentional lapses was also characterized by less deactivation of a 'default-mode' network, reduced stimulus-evoked sensory activity, and increased activity in widespread regions of frontal and parietal cortex. Finally, consistent with a mechanism for recovering from attentional lapses, increased stimulus-evoked activity in the right inferior frontal gyrus and the right temporal-parietal junction predicted better performance on the next trial. Our findings provide a new, system-wide understanding of the patterns of brain activity that are associated with brief attentional lapses, which informs both theoretical and clinical models of goal-directed behavior.
The supplementary eye field registers the occurrence of conflict, errors and reward in macaque monkeys performing a saccade-countermanding task. Using intracortical microstimulation, we determined whether the supplementary eye field only monitors or can actually influence performance. Weak microstimulation of many sites in the supplementary eye field improved monkeys' performance on a 'stop signal' task by delaying saccade initiation. This effect depended on the context of the task because simple visually guided saccades were not delayed by the same stimulation. These results demonstrate that the supplementary eye field can exert contextual executive control over saccade generation.
Microglia, the resident inflammatory cells of the CNS, are the only CNS cells that express the fractalkine receptor (CX3CR1). Using three different in vivo models, we show that CX3CR1 deficiency dysregulates microglial responses, resulting in neurotoxicity. Following peripheral lipopolysaccharide injections, Cx3cr1-/- mice showed cell-autonomous microglial neurotoxicity. In a toxic model of Parkinson disease and a transgenic model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Cx3cr1-/- mice showed more extensive neuronal cell loss than Cx3cr1+ littermate controls. Augmenting CX3CR1 signaling may protect against microglial neurotoxicity, whereas CNS penetration by pharmaceutical CX3CR1 antagonists could increase neuronal vulnerability.
Gene-environment interaction research in psychiatry is new, and is a natural ally of neuroscience. Mental disorders have known environmental causes, but there is heterogeneity in the response to each causal factor, which gene-environment findings attribute to genetic differences at the DNA sequence level. Such findings come from epidemiology, an ideal branch of science for showing that a gene-environment interactions exist in nature and affect a significant fraction of disease cases. The complementary discipline of epidemiology, experimental neuroscience, fuels gene-environment hypotheses and investigates underlying neural mechanisms. This article discusses opportunities and challenges in the collaboration between psychiatry, epidemiology and neuroscience in studying gene-environment interactions.
Long-term memory and its putative synaptic correlates the late phases of both long-term potentiation and long-term depression require enhanced protein synthesis. On the basis of recent data on translation-dependent synaptic plasticity and on the supralinear effect of activation of nearby synapses on action potential generation, we propose a model for the formation of long-term memory engrams at the single neuron level. In this model, which we call clustered plasticity, local translational enhancement, along with synaptic tagging and capture, facilitates the formation of long-term memory engrams through bidirectional synaptic weight changes among synapses within a dendritic branch.
Voltage-gated ion channels have to be at the right place in the right number to endow individual neurons with their specific character. Their biophysical properties together with their spatial distribution define the signalling characteristics of a neuron. Improper channel localization could cause communication defects in a neuronal network. This review covers recent studies of mechanisms for targeting voltage-gated ion channels to axons and dendrites, including trafficking, retention and endocytosis pathways for the preferential localization of particular ion channels. We also discuss how the spatial localization of these channels might contribute to the electrical excitability of neurons, and consider the need for future work in this emerging field.
Evidence has been accumulating that the primate cerebellum contributes not only to motor control, but also to higher 'cognitive' function. However, there is no consensus about how the cerebellum processes such information. The answer to this puzzle can be found in the nature of cerebellar connections to areas of the cerebral cortex (particularly the prefrontal cortex) and in the uniformity of its intrinsic cellular organization, which implies uniformity in information processing regardless of the area of origin in the cerebral cortex. With this in mind, the relatively well-developed models of how the cerebellum processes information from the motor cortex might be extended to explain how it could also process information from the prefrontal cortex.

Although the responses of dopamine neurons in the primate midbrain are well characterized as carrying a temporal difference (TD) error signal for reward prediction, existing theories do not offer a credible account of how the brain keeps track of past sensory events that may be relevant to predicting future reward. Empirically, these shortcomings of previous theories are particularly evident in their account of experiments in which animals were exposed to variation in the timing of events. The original theories mispredicted the results of such experiments due to their use of a representational device called a tapped delay line. Here we propose that a richer understanding of history representation and a better account of these experiments can be given by considering TD algorithms for a formal setting that incorporates two features not originally considered in theories of the dopaminergic response: partial observability (a distinction between the animal's sensory experience and the true underlying state of the world) and semi-Markov dynamics (an explicit account of variation in the intervals between events). The new theory situates the dopaminergic system in a richer functional and anatomical context, since it assumes (in accord with recent computational theories of cortex) that problems of partial observability and stimulus history are solved in sensory cortex using statistical modeling and inference and that the TD system predicts reward using the results of this inference rather than raw sensory data. It also accounts for a range of experimental data, including the experiments involving programmed temporal variability and other previously unmodeled dopaminergic response phenomena, which we suggest are related to subjective noise in animals' interval timing. Finally, it offers new experimental predictions and a rich theoretical framework for designing future experiments.
Various forms of the self-organizing map (SOM) have been proposed as models of cortical development [Choe Y., Miikkulainen R., (2004). Contour integration and segmentation with self-organized lateral connections. Biological Cybernetics, 90, 75-88; Kohonen T., (2001). Self-organizing maps (3rd ed.). Springer; Sirosh J., Miikkulainen R., (1997). Topographic receptive fields and patterned lateral interaction in a self-organizing model of the primary visual cortex. Neural Computation, 9(3), 577-594]. Typically, these models use weight normalization to contain the weight growth associated with Hebbian learning. A more plausible mechanism for controlling the Hebbian process has recently emerged. Turrigiano and Nelson [Turrigiano G.G., Nelson S.B., (2004). Homeostatic plasticity in the developing nervous system. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 5, 97-107] have shown that neurons in the cortex actively maintain an average firing rate by scaling their incoming weights. In this work, it is shown that this type of homeostatic synaptic scaling can replace the common, but unsupported, standard weight normalization. Organized maps still form and the output neurons are able to maintain an unsaturated firing rate, even in the face of large-scale cell proliferation or die-off. In addition, it is shown that in some cases synaptic scaling leads to networks that more accurately reflect the probability distribution of the input data.
Mitochondrial dysfunctions have been implicated in the pathophysiology of several age-related diseases including age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting primarily the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). The aims of our electron microscopic and morphometric studies were to reveal qualitative and quantitative alterations of mitochondria in human RPE from AMD and from age- and sex-matched controls. With increasing age a significant decrease in number and area of mitochondria, as well as loss of cristae and matrix density were found in both AMD and control specimens. These decreases were significantly greater in AMD than in normal aging. Alterations of mitochondria were accompanied by proliferation of peroxisomes and lipofuscin granules in both AMD and control specimens, although the difference between groups was significant only for peroxisomes. Unexpectedly, morphometric data showed that the RPE alterations seen in AMD may also develop in normal aging, 10-15 years after appearing in AMD patients. These findings suggest that (i) the severity of mitochondrial and peroxisomal alterations are different between AMD and normal aging, and (ii) the timing of damage to RPE may be critical for the development of AMD. We conclude that besides the well-documented age-related changes in mitochondrial DNA, alterations of mitochondrial membranes may also play a role in the pathogenesis of AMD. These membranes could be a new target for treatment of AMD and other age-related diseases.
Chronic alcohol abuse is a ubiquitous health and societal problem, with a growing prevalence in the older population. Alcoholism is a source of substantial deterioration in brain tissue and has been consistently observed in vivo and postmortem in white matter. To quantify the potential compounded effect of age and alcoholism, we used conventional structural MRI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to examine the macrostructural and microstructural integrity of the corpus callosum, one of the most prominent white matter structures of the brain, in 131 adults, age 27-75 years. Compared with the 74 controls, the 40 alcoholic men and 17 alcoholic women, who were abstinent from alcohol for an average of 3 months, showed similar patterns and extents of callosal shrinkage, which was greatest in the genu and body and less prominent in the splenium. Microstructural integrity was measured with DTI as fractional anisotropy, an index of intravoxel orientational coherence of white matter fibers, and bulk mean diffusivity, an index of the amount of intravoxel water motility. The macrostructural shrinkage was accompanied by abnormalities in anisotropy and diffusivity of the microstructural environment of these callosal regions, indicative of disruption of structural constituents of local brain white matter. Correlational analyses revealed an age-alcohol interaction, where older alcoholics had smaller genu and splenium and higher diffusivity in these regions than younger alcoholics. Significant correlations between regional MRI and DTI measures and performance on working memory, visuospatial ability, and gait and balance provided evidence for the functional ramifications of the callosal abnormalities in the alcoholics. Thus, despite abstinence from alcohol, the interaction of age and recent alcoholism history exerted a compounded untoward effect on callosal macrostructure and microstructure.
Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons degenerate in diabetic neuropathy (DN) and exhibit mitochondrial damage. We studied mitochondria of cultured DRG neurons exposed to high glucose as an in vitro model of DN. High glucose sequentially increases the expression, activation and localization of the pro-apoptotic proteins Bim and Bax and the mitochondrial fission protein dynamin-regulated protein 1 (Drp1). High glucose causes association of Drp1/Bax, similar to other apoptotic stimuli. Collectively, these events promote mitochondrial fragmentation and reduce mitochondrial number, suggestive of apoptotic mitochondrial fission. Drp1 is also upregulated in DRG from experimentally diabetic rats, suggesting a role for mitochondrial fission in DN. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) protects high glucose-treated DRG neurons by preventing mitochondrial accumulation of Bim and Bax but does not modulate Drp1 expression or localization. We propose that mitochondria are compromised by convergence of Bim/Bax proteins with Drp1, which contributes to high glucose-induced injury in DRG neurons.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage are implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease. Mice deficient in the mitochondrial form of superoxide dismutase (SOD2) die during embryonic or early postnatal development, precluding analysis of a pathological role for superoxide in adult tissue. Here, we generated postnatal motor neuron-specific SOD2 knockouts by crossing mice with floxed SOD2 alleles to VAChT-Cre transgenic mice in which Cre expression is restricted to postnatal somatomotor neurons. SOD2 immunoreactivity was specifically lost in a subset of somatomotor neurons resulting in enhanced superoxide production. Yet extensive histological examination revealed no signs of oxidative damage in animals up to 1 year after birth. However, disorganization of distal nerve axons following injury was accelerated in SOD2-deficient motor neurons. These data demonstrate that postnatal motor neurons are surprisingly resistant to oxidative damage from mitochondrial-derived superoxide radicals, but that such damage may sensitize axons to disorganization following nerve injury.
Oxidative stress, resulting from the imbalance between reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation and antioxidant defenses, plays a major role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the contribution of levodopa (LD) therapy to oxidative damage is still debated. We investigated oxidative stress in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from LD-treated PD patients and healthy subjects. Increased ROS production associated with unaltered glutathione reductase activity was detected in PBMC from PD patients. LD daily dosage appeared to be inversely correlated with ROS levels and positively associated with GR activity, suggesting a protective role for LD on PBMCs redox status. Our data support the view of systemic oxidative stress involvement in PD and give further rationale for using PBMCs as an easily accessible ex-vivo dopaminergic model for exploring the biological effects of LD therapy.
Partial and generalized status epilepticus (pSE and gSE) trigger the same level of progenitor cell proliferation in adult dentate gyrus, but survival of new neurons is poor after gSE. Here, we show markedly elevated levels of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in rat hippocampal formation at 7 days following pSE but not gSE. Administration of the cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor flurbiprofen for 1 week, starting at day 8 post-SE, abated PGE2 and decreased BDNF levels, but did not affect survival of new neurons 4 weeks later. Thus, high PGE2 and BDNF levels induced by pSE are probably not of major importance for survival of new neurons during the first days after formation. We propose that they modulate other aspects of synaptic and cellular plasticity, and thereby may influence epileptogenesis.
Nitric oxide (NO), being a double-edged sword depending on its concentration in the microenvironment, is involved in both physiological and pathological processes of many organ systems including brain and spinal cord. It is now well-documented that once inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is expressed in CNS in a signal-dependent fashion, NO in excess of physiological thresholds is produced and this excess NO then plays a role in the pathogenesis of stroke, demyelination and other neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, a keen interest has been generated in recent years in comprehending the regulation of this enzyme in brain cells. The present review summarizes our current understanding of signaling mechanisms leading to transcription of the iNOS gene in activated astrocytes. We attempt this comprehension with a hope to identify potential targets to intervene NO-mediated CNS disorders.
The present study investigated oxidative damage and neuroprotective effect of the antiparkinsonian drug, L-deprenyl in neuronal death produced by intranigral infusion of a potent mitochondrial complex-I inhibitor, rotenone in rats. Unilateral stereotaxic intranigral infusion of rotenone caused significant decrease of striatal dopamine levels as measured employing HPLC-electrochemistry, and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the perikarya of ipsilateral substantia nigra (SN) neurons and their terminals in the striatum. Rotenone-induced increases in the salicylate hydroxylation products, 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid indicators of hydroxyl radials in mitochondrial P2 fraction were dose-dependently attenuated by L-deprenyl. L-deprenyl (0.1-10mg/kg; i.p.) treatment dose-dependently attenuated rotenone-induced reductions in complex-I activity and glutathione (GSH) levels in the SN, tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum or SN as well as striatal dopamine. Amphetamine-induced stereotypic rotations in these rats were also significantly inhibited by deprenyl administration. The rotenone-induced elevated activities of cytosolic antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase showed further significant increase following L-deprenyl. Our findings suggest that unilateral intranigral infusion of rotenone reproduces neurochemical, neuropathological and behavioral features of PD in rats and L-deprenyl can rescue the dopaminergic neurons from rotenone-mediated neurodegeneration in them. These results not only establish oxidative stress as one of the major causative factors underlying dopaminergic neurodegeneration as observed in Parkinson's disease, but also support the view that deprenyl is a potent free radical scavenger and an antioxidant.
In the present study, we investigated chronological changes of mu-calpain, m-calpain and cleaved spectrin alphaII immunoreactivity in the ventral horn after transient spinal cord ischemia to investigate relationship between calpains and vulnerability to ischemia using abdominal aorta occlusion model in rabbits. Spinal cord sections at the level of L(7) were immunostained with calpains and cleaved spectrin alphaII monoclonal antibodies. mu-Calpain and m-calpain immunoreactivity was significantly increased in the ischemic ventral horn at 30 min and 1 h after ischemia/reperfusion, respectively. Thereafter, they were decreased with time after ischemia/reperfusion: at 48 h after ischemia, their immunoreactivities nearly disappeared in the ischemic ventral horn. Cleaved spectrin alphaII immunoreactivity was significantly increased in the ventral horn of spinal cord at 12 h after ischemia/reperfusion, and thereafter, its immunoreactivity was decreased with time after ischemia/reperfusion. In addition, spectrin alphaII protein level (280 kDa) was decreased from 12 h after ischemia/reperfusion; in contrast, cleaved spectrin alphaII protein level (150 kDa) was significantly increased at 12 h after ischemia/reperfusion. In conclusion, our observations in this study indicate that calpain is associated with neuronal degeneration in the ventral horn at early time after transient spinal cord ischemia via the proteolysis of spectrin alphaII.
The pelvic floor is a dome-shaped striated muscular sheet that encloses the bladder, uterus, and rectum, and, together with the anal sphincters, has an important role in regulating storage and evacuation of urine and stool. This article reviews the anatomy, nerve supply, pharmacology, and functions of the anal sphincters and the pelvic floor. The internal and external anal sphincters are primarily responsible for maintaining faecal continence at rest and when continence is threatened, respectively. Defecation is a somato-visceral reflex regulated by dual nerve supply (i.e. somatic and autonomic) to the anorectum. The net effects of sympathetic and cholinergic stimulation are to increase and reduce anal resting pressure, respectively. Faecal incontinence and functional defecatory disorders may result from structural changes and/or functional disturbances in the mechanisms of faecal continence and defecation.
A practical approach to the management of chronic abdominal pain is needed, given the high prevalence and impact of this problem. This article describes an approach that has evolved based on clinical experience and review of the literature: identifying predominant bloaters and abdominal wall pain; exclusion of organic disease, including consideration of laparoscopy for diagnosis; consideration of chronic functional abdominal pain and the first and second line pharmacotherapies; and seeking specialist care in a pain clinic, psychiatry, or behavioural therapy.
When a single brief visual flash is accompanied by two auditory bleeps, it is frequently perceived incorrectly as two flashes. Here, we used high field functional MRI in humans to examine the neural basis of this multisensory perceptual illusion. We show that activity in retinotopic visual cortex is increased by the presence of concurrent auditory stimulation, irrespective of any illusory perception. However, when concurrent auditory stimulation gave rise to illusory visual perception, activity in V1 was enhanced, despite auditory and visual stimulation being unchanged. These findings confirm that responses in human V1 can be altered by sound and show that they reflect subjective perception rather than the physically present visual stimulus. Moreover, as the right superior temporal sulcus and superior colliculus were also activated by illusory visual perception, together with V1, they provide a potential neural substrate for the generation of this multisensory illusion.
A fundamental challenge for the cognitive neuroscience of language is to capture the spatio-temporal patterns of brain activity that underlie critical functional components of the language comprehension process. We combine here psycholinguistic analysis, whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG), the Mismatch Negativity (MMN) paradigm, and state-of-the-art source localization techniques (Equivalent Current Dipole and L1 Minimum-Norm Current Estimates) to locate the process of spoken word recognition at a specific moment in space and time. The magnetic MMN to words presented as rare &quot;deviant stimuli&quot; in an oddball paradigm among repetitive &quot;standard&quot; speech stimuli, peaked 100-150 ms after the information in the acoustic input, was sufficient for word recognition. The latency with which words were recognized corresponded to that of an MMN source in the left superior temporal cortex. There was a significant correlation (r = 0.7) of latency measures of word recognition in individual study participants with the latency of the activity peak of the superior temporal source. These results demonstrate a correspondence between the behaviorally determined recognition point for spoken words and the cortical activation in left posterior superior temporal areas. Both the MMN calculated in the classic manner, obtained by subtracting standard from deviant stimulus response recorded in the same experiment, and the identity MMN (iMMN), defined as the difference between the neuromagnetic responses to the same stimulus presented as standard and deviant stimulus, showed the same significant correlation with word recognition processes.
This 3-T fMRI study investigates brain regions similarly and differentially involved with listening and covert production of singing relative to speech. Given the greater use of auditory-motor self-monitoring and imagery with respect to consonance in singing, brain regions involved with these processes are predicted to be differentially active for singing more than for speech. The stimuli consisted of six Japanese songs. A block design was employed in which the tasks for the subject were to listen passively to singing of the song lyrics, passively listen to speaking of the song lyrics, covertly sing the song lyrics visually presented, covertly speak the song lyrics visually presented, and to rest. The conjunction of passive listening and covert production tasks used in this study allow for general neural processes underlying both perception and production to be discerned that are not exclusively a result of stimulus induced auditory processing nor to low level articulatory motor control. Brain regions involved with both perception and production for singing as well as speech were found to include the left planum temporale/superior temporal parietal region, as well as left and right premotor cortex, lateral aspect of the VI lobule of posterior cerebellum, anterior superior temporal gyrus, and planum polare. Greater activity for the singing over the speech condition for both the listening and covert production tasks was found in the right planum temporale. Greater activity in brain regions involved with consonance, orbitofrontal cortex (listening task), subcallosal cingulate (covert production task) were also present for singing over speech. The results are consistent with the PT mediating representational transformation across auditory and motor domains in response to consonance for singing over that of speech. Hemispheric laterality was assessed by paired t tests between active voxels in the contrast of interest relative to the left-right flipped contrast of interest calculated from images normalized to the left-right reflected template. Consistent with some hypotheses regarding hemispheric specialization, a pattern of differential laterality for speech over singing (both covert production and listening tasks) occurs in the left temporal lobe, whereas, singing over speech (listening task only) occurs in right temporal lobe.
In this functional magnetic resonance imaging study, we investigated human brain mechanisms that are involved in the analysis of voices as sound sources and in the pre-semantic analysis of voice information. The source of the voice was altered by changing the speaker, and the salience of the voice was altered by changing the amount of spectrotemporal detail. We identified a mechanism for detecting a change in the source of the voice in the posterior superior temporal lobe and anatomically distinct mechanisms for the detailed analysis of voice information in a bilateral network extending from the posterior to the anterior superior temporal lobe surrounding the superior temporal sulcus. The findings are consistent with a processing hierarchy in which general source attributes are analyzed in the posterior superior temporal lobe, abstraction of voice identity features occurs in posterior superior temporal sulcus, and further analysis of voice information occurs in anterior superior temporal sulcus and higher order cortices in the middle and anterior temporal lobe.
Research on action simulation identifies brain areas that are active while imagining or performing simple overlearned actions. Are areas engaged during imagined movement sensitive to the amount of actual physical practice? In the present study, participants were expert dancers who learned and rehearsed novel, complex whole-body dance sequences 5 h a week across 5 weeks. Brain activity was recorded weekly by fMRI as dancers observed and imagined performing different movement sequences. Half these sequences were rehearsed and half were unpracticed control movements. After each trial, participants rated how well they could perform the movement. We hypothesized that activity in premotor areas would increase as participants observed and simulated movements that they had learnt outside the scanner. Dancers' ratings of their ability to perform rehearsed sequences, but not the control sequences, increased with training. When dancers observed and simulated another dancer's movements, brain regions classically associated with both action simulation and action observation were active, including inferior parietal lobule, cingulate and supplementary motor areas, ventral premotor cortex, superior temporal sulcus and primary motor cortex. Critically, inferior parietal lobule and ventral premotor activity was modulated as a function of dancers' ratings of their own ability to perform the observed movements and their motor experience. These data demonstrate that a complex motor resonance can be built de novo over 5 weeks of rehearsal. Furthermore, activity in premotor and parietal areas during action simulation is enhanced by the ability to execute a learned action irrespective of stimulus familiarity or semantic label.
Modern neuroscience has elucidated general mechanisms underlying the functional plasticity of the adult mammalian brain after limb deafferentation. However, little is known about possible structural alterations following amputation and chronic loss of afferent input in humans. Using voxel-based morphometry (VBM), based on high-resolution magnetic resonance images, we investigated the brain structure of 28 volunteers with unilateral limb amputation and compared them to healthy controls. Subjects with limb amputation exhibited a decrease in gray matter of the posterolateral thalamus contralateral to the side of the amputation. The thalamic gray matter differences were positively correlated with the time span after the amputation but not with the frequency or magnitude of coexisting phantom pain. Phantom limb pain was unrelated to thalamic structural variations, but was positively correlated to a decrease in brain areas related to the processing of pain. No gray matter increase was detected. The unilateral thalamic differences may reflect a structural correlate of the loss of afferent input as a secondary change following deafferentation.

Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging can detect various patterns in chronic subdural hematomas. These patterns were compared to the computed tomography (CT) appearances and chemical analysis of the content in 60 hematomas from 44 patients. The hematomas could be classified into five types on both T(1)- and T(2)-weighted images: low, high, and mixed intensity, isointensity, and layered. Combining the T(1)- and T(2)-weighted images of all 60 hematomas revealed a total of 14 different imaging patterns. Combining the CT and MR imaging findings of 55 hematomas identified 25 different patterns. Analysis of the hematoma contents showed that hemolysis-related parameters, such as potassium, glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase, bilirubin, lactate dehydrogenase, and protein concentration, were markedly higher than in the peripheral blood, and there were significant correlations between these parameters. Mixed intensity hematomas were significantly thicker than the other types, and showed markedly higher values of hemolysis-related parameters. Factors affecting the CT and MR imaging findings, such as fresh bleeding, hemolysis, and hemoglobin changes, coexist in a hematoma to varying degrees, and these factors may interact with the age of the hematoma to produce the different patterns that are observed.

Tramadol is a centrally-acting analgesic endowed with opioid, noradrenergic and serotonergic properties. Various data suggest that, in addition to its analgesic effect, tramadol may have antidepressant and anxiolytic-like effects. This study investigates, through single-unit extracellular recording techniques, the in vivo effects of tramadol on locus coeruleus (LC) neurons and its possible effects on alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, opioid receptors and the 5-HT system. Tramadol produced a dose-dependent and complete inhibition of LC activity (ED(50)=2.1mg/kg). This inhibitory effect was prevented and reversed by the selective alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, idazoxan, but not by the opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone. The inhibition of the synthesis of 5-HT by p-chlorophenylalanine and the pre-administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT at 40microg/kg, caused a significant potentiation of the tramadol effect decreasing the ED(50) by 53% and 67% respectively. Lower doses of 8-OH-DPAT, of 1 and 4microg/kg, did not significantly modify the tramadol effect. In summary, the results indicate that tramadol elicits an inhibitory effect on LC neurons in vivo through alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. Moreover, this effect is modulated by the 5-HT system and particularly by 5-HT(1A) receptors.
In the present study, the occupancy of flumazenil (Ro 15-1788; 1-30mg/kg p.o.) at the benzodiazepine site of rat brain GABA(A) receptors was compared using in vivo and ex vivo binding methodologies with [(3)H]flumazenil as the radioligand. Animals either received tracer quantities of [(3)H]flumazenil 3min before being killed for the in vivo binding, or were killed and brain homogenates incubated with 1.8nM [(3)H]flumazenil. The flumazenil dose required to inhibit in vivo binding of [(3)H]flumazenil by 50% (ID(50)) was 2.0mg/kg, which represents the most accurate measure of benzodiazepine site occupancy by flumazenil in vivo. Occupancy measured in crude brain homogenates using the ex vivo method was time dependent with a 3mg/kg dose giving occupancies of 77% and 12% using 0.5 or 60min ex vivo incubations times, respectively, presumably due to dissociation from the binding site during the ex vivo incubation. When incubation time was minimised (0.5min), and despite being under non-equilibrium conditions, the ex vivo method gave an ID(50) of 1.5mg/kg which was not too dissimilar from that observed using in vivo binding (2.0mg/kg). As expected, ex vivo binding can give an underestimation of receptor occupancy but this can be minimised by careful attention to the kinetics of unlabelled drug and radioligand.
Using a fear conditioning preparation, [Carnicella, S., Pain, L., Oberling, P., 2005a. Cholinergic effects on fear conditioning I: The degraded contingency effect is disrupted by atropine but reinstated by physostigmine. Psychopharmacology 178, 524-532] showed that the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine disrupted the degraded contingency effect (DCE) in the rat, that is, the processes by which contextual memory competes with cued memory for the control over conditioned responding. Here, we investigated neural substrates involved in the expression of normal and atropine-disrupted DCE, using the protein Fos as a marker of neuronal activity. Compared to contingent conditioning, the DCE was associated with a decrease of the amount of Fos immunoreactive neurons within the auditory system and the amygdala and an increase within the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Compared to the normal DCE, atropine-induced disruption of the DCE was associated with an increase of the amount of Fos immunoreactive neurons within the central nucleus of the amygdala. When atropine-induced suppression of the DCE, Fos pattern was modified in the mPFC with a change in Fos immunoreactivity, but no longer associated with the DCE. However, the mPFC was the unique structure studied in which the amount of Fos immunoreactive neurons was differentially affected according to both the conditioning procedure and the pharmacological treatment. These results are discussed in the framework of the cholinergic modulation of context processing in the rat and are put in parallel with an emerging set of studies in humans regarding the role of the PFC in such processing.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is clinically heterogeneous. The authors examined how specific OCD symptom dimensions were related to neuropsychological functions using multiple regression analyses. A total of 39 OCD patients and 40 controls completed the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT; A. Bechara, A. R. Damasio, H. Damasio, &amp; S. W. Anderson, 1994), which is a test of decision making, and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (R. K. Heaton, 1981), which is a test of set shifting. OCD patients and controls showed comparable decision making. However, patients with prominent hoarding symptoms showed impaired decision making on the IGT as well as reduced skin conductance responses. OCD patients had poorer set shifting abilities than controls, and symmetry/ordering symptoms were negatively associated with set shifting. These results help explain previous inconsistent findings in neuropsychological research in OCD and support recent neuroimaging data showing dissociable neural mechanisms involved in mediating the different OCD symptom dimensions.
Random number generation (RNG) is a functionally complex process that is highly controlled and therefore dependent on Baddeley's central executive. This study addresses this issue by investigating whether key predictions from this framework are compatible with empirical data. In Experiment 1, the effect of increasing task demands by increasing the rate of the paced generation was comprehensively examined. As expected, faster rates affected performance negatively because central resources were increasingly depleted. Next, the effects of participants' exposure were manipulated in Experiment 2 by providing increasing amounts of practice on the task. There was no improvement over 10 practice trials, suggesting that the high level of strategic control required by the task was constant and not amenable to any automatization gain with repeated exposure. Together, the results demonstrate that RNG performance is a highly controlled and demanding process sensitive to additional demands on central resources (Experiment 1) and is unaffected by repeated performance or practice (Experiment 2). These features render the easily administered RNG task an ideal and robust index of executive function that is highly suitable for repeated clinical use.
Currently available therapeutic interventions for treatment-resistant depression, including switch, combination, and augmentation strategies, are less than ideal. Observations of mood elevation during vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) therapy for pharmacoresistant epilepsy suggested a role for VNS therapy in refractory major depression and prompted clinical investigation of this neurostimulation modality. The VNS Therapy System has been available for treatment of pharmacoresistant epilepsy since 1997 and was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for treatment-resistant depression in July, 2005. The physiology of the vagus nerve, mechanics of the VNS Therapy System, and efficacy and safety in pharmacoresistant epilepsy are reviewed. Promising results of VNS therapy for treatment-resistant depression have been forthcoming from both acute and long-term studies, evidenced in part by progressive improvements in depression rating scale scores during the 1st year of treatment with maintenance of response thereafter. VNS therapy is well tolerated in patients with either pharmacoresistant epilepsy or treatment-resistant depression. As in epilepsy, the mechanisms of VNS therapy of treatment-resistant depression are incompletely understood. However, evidence from neuroimaging and other studies suggests that VNS therapy acts via innervation of the nucleus tractus solitarius, with secondary projections to limbic and cortical structures that are involved in mood regulation, including brainstem regions that contain serotonergic (raphe nucleus) and noradrenergic (locus ceruleus) perikarya that project to the forebrain. Mechanisms that mediate the beneficial effects of VNS therapy for treatment-resistant depression remain obscure. Suggestions for future research directions are described.
Schizophrenic patients typically exhibit impairment of sensorimotor gating, which can be modeled in animal models such as the test of prepulse inhibition of startle response (PPI) in rodents. It has been found that antipsychotics enhanced PPI in DBA mice and reversed the PPI deficit induced by neonatal ventral hippocampal (NVH) lesions in rats. However, the relative involvement of D(3) and D(2) receptors in these effects is unknown since all antipsychotics are D(2)/D(3) antagonists with limited binding preference at D(2) receptors. Therefore, in the current study, we investigated the influence of several dopamine antagonists with higher selectivity at D(3) vs D(2) receptors on PPI in DBA/2J mice and in NVH-lesioned rats. The PPI in DBA/2J mice was enhanced by the nonselective D(2)/D(3) antagonists, haloperidol at 0.3-3 mg/kg, or risperidone at 0.3-1 mg/kg, while PPI-enhancing effects were observed after the administration of higher doses of the preferential D(3)/D(2) antagonist, BP 897 at 8 mg/kg, and the selective D(3) antagonists, SB 277011 at 30 mg/kg and A-437203 at 30 mg/kg. No effect was observed following the treatment with the selective D(3) antagonist, AVE 5997 up to 30 mg/kg. The PPI deficits induced by NVH lesions were reversed by haloperidol but not by the more selective D(3) antagonists, A-437203 and AVE 5997. BP 897 enhanced PPI nonselectivity, that is, in both lesioned and nonlesioned rats. In summary, the present study indicates that PPI-enhancing effects induced by antipsychotics in DBA/2J mice and in NVH-lesioned rats are unlikely to be mediated by D(3) receptors.
Aberrant dopamine (DA) signaling has been advanced as a contributing factor to the pathophysiology of a number of psychiatric conditions including schizophrenia; however, the many factors involved in regulating DA system responsivity have not been completely delineated to date. We have shown previously that DA neuron activity states are independently regulated by distinct afferent pathways. We now provide evidence that these pathways interact to control the population of neurons that are phasically activated. As shown previously, infusions of NMDA into the ventral subiculum (vSub) increases the number of spontaneously active DA neurons (population activity), while having no effect on firing rate or average bursting activity. In contrast, NMDA activation of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg) results in a significant increase in DA neuron burst firing without significantly affecting population activity. However, simultaneous excitation of the vSub and PPTg induces a significant increase in both DA neuron population activity and burst firing resulting in a approximately 4-fold increase in the number of high-bursting neurons observed per electrode track. These data suggest that DA neuron population activity is not simply associated with the tonic release of DA in forebrain regions, but rather represents a recruitable pool of DA neurons that can be further modulated by excitatory inputs to induce a graded phasic response. Taken as a whole, we propose that the synchronous activity of distinct afferent inputs to the VTA phasically activates selective populations of DA neurons, and hence may be a site of pathological regulation underlying aberrant DA signaling.
Rapid tryptophan (Trp) depletion (RTD) has been reported to cause deterioration in the quality of decision making and impaired reversal learning, while leaving attentional set shifting relatively unimpaired. These findings have been attributed to a more powerful neuromodulatory effect of reduced 5-HT on ventral prefrontal cortex (PFC) than on dorsolateral PFC. In view of the limited number of reports, the aim of this study was to independently replicate these findings using the same test paradigms. Healthy human subjects without a personal or family history of affective disorder were assessed using a computerized decision making/gambling task and the CANTAB ID/ED attentional set-shifting task under Trp-depleted (n=17; nine males and eight females) or control (n=15; seven males and eight females) conditions, in a double-blind, randomized, parallel-group design. There was no significant effect of RTD on set shifting, reversal learning, risk taking, impulsivity, or subjective mood. However, RTD significantly altered decision making such that depleted subjects chose the more likely of two possible outcomes significantly more often than controls. This is in direct contrast to the previous report that subjects chose the more likely outcome significantly less often following RTD. In the terminology of that report, our result may be interpreted as improvement in the quality of decision making following RTD. This contrast between studies highlights the variability in the cognitive effects of RTD between apparently similar groups of healthy subjects, and suggests the need for future RTD studies to control for a range of personality, family history, and genetic factors that may be associated with 5-HT function.
